November 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Diya Naidu’s live performance, Ceremony Of Longing, takes place today||The feelings of longing and yearning are all too familiar for all us, especially now, during the pandemic, when norms of social distancing have kept us away from people, places and a lot of other things. So, it is no wonder that performing artiste Diya Naidu has chosen to tap into these two feelings for her latest work - Ceremony Of Longing. Diya, who has choreographed the performance, shares that it is a performative ceremony, to be conducted on November 20, as her first live performance in months. "The piece has been performed by four dancers - Maitreyee Joshi, Snigdha Prabhakar, Paridhi Bihani and me. We had an Open House at Ranga Shankara recently, where we put out a call for stories and chose four to be performed in a ritualistic way. We wanted to work on a piece that brought forth aspirations, given the current situation all of us are in. Through this performance, we wanted to uncover the longing, and the yearning and what we want in our lives," says Diya, adding, "There is a lot of dance, chanting and storytelling that has been woven into the performance." Why is it called a performative ceremony, though? "A lot of people reject spiritual and inner work due to various reasons and religion has often been misused, but there is something in all of us that connects with the divine energy. All of us are communicating with something that's larger than life. The ceremony is that manifestation point of a journey that was taken. So, through this performance, we look at the journey of the past five weeks, that has gone into making this performance happen and the stories that have made this journey possible," she says, adding "All of this will come together as a ceremony, which will be witnessed by the audience. We will have an installation towards the end. Audiences will be able to see all our longing woven together in a physical form when we reveal it to them."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/diya-naidus-live-performance-ceremony-of-longing-takes-place-today/articleshow/79308551.cms||Sandra Marina Fernandes
November 20, 2020||Goa||Colaco scales new cycling heights||Panaji:Prince Ralph Colaco, a member of the Margao-based Xaxti Riders cycling club, became the first Goan to complete the Half-Everesting Challenge by riding the Chandreshwar Hill 18 times non-stop early this week. “The concept is extremely simple but brutally tough. It requires a sportsperson to run or cycle up and down a hill until they reach the total or half vertical elevation equivalent to the height of Mt Everest (8,848 metres) in a single activity,” the club said in a statement. Colaco cycled for 12 hours continuously, going up and down to record 5,108 metres. “I initially planned to do 15 loops but then decided to push a bit and complete the challenge,” said the Velim resident. Colaco began cycling a few years ago to keep fit. “As I got fitter, I began doing longer and tougher rides,” he said. The 38-year-old rides around 40kms every day and longer distances on weekends. “I admire Goa's Dr Belinda Viegas-Mueller, the only Indian woman to finish three 1,200 km cycling rides in a single calendar year,” says Colaco, also all praise for Sameer Nadkarni, president of Xaxti Riders. The club said Colaco’s name has now been included in Everesting’s Hall of Fame, alongside the best climbers in the world.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/colaco-scales-new-cycling-heights/articleshow/79310978.cms||---
November 20, 2020||India||Govt to amend law, end manual sewer-cleaning||NEW DELHI: The government on Thursday announced two major decisions to end the hazardous practice of manual cleaning of sewer lines and septic tanks. While the social justice ministry will amend law to make machine cleaning mandatory, the urban affairs ministry launched a “Safaimitra Suraksha Challenge” to ensure that no person needs to enter a sewer or septic tank. Though existing regulations and several Supreme Court judgements have prohibited manual cleaning of sewer lines and septic tanks without taking enough safety precautions, nearly 800 cleaners have died in the past five years. Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri launched the challenge among 243 major cities on the occasion of World Toilet Day. Speaking at the event, social justice and empowerment secretary R Subramanyam said the fundamental change in the existing Prohibition of Employment of Manual Scavengers and Their Rehabilitation Act will be that mechanised cleaning will be made mandatory. “It should not be just a best practice, but it has to be the only practice,” he said. Subramanyam said the ministry will provide funds to sanitation workers and not to contractors or municipalities to purchase machinery. “We want the workers to own these machines so that these can be used by the municipalities when there is a requirement,” he said. Times ViewOver the years, NGOs like Safari Karamchari Andolan have diligently collated statistics on deaths in the sewers. Undeniably, they are death traps and no one should have to step into them. Similarly, despite laws, the abhorrent practice of manual scavenging continues in some pockets. In the past too, there has been talk of 100% mechanisation to end these practices. One only hopes the government walks the talk this time.Urban affairs secretary D S Mishra appealed to the states and city administrations to substitute the term “manhole” with “machine hole” to bring a paradigm shift in which this entire issue is approached. State governments took the pledge to mechanise all sewer and septic tank cleaning operations by April 31, 2021. Cities will be awarded in three sub-categories — with a population of more than 10 lakh, 3-10 lakh and up to three lakh, with total prize money of Rs 52 crore to be given to winning cities across all categories.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-to-amend-law-end-manual-sewer-cleaning/articleshow/79311009.cms||Dipak K Dash
November 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Relevance of art and literature in the digital era discussed||Panjab university's alumni association in collaboration with department of English and cultural studies recently organised a web lecture on 'Art and Literature in the Age of Technology'. The event also saw the new batch MA (English) students taking part. Prof Deepti Gupta, dean (alumni relations and the department chairperson) talked about the syllabus, specialisations, career choices, assessments and the department library. Former IAS officer Rajan Kashyap, who served as chief secretary in Punjab, discussed how various writers and philosophers like Yuval Noah Harari in Homo Deus and Aldous Huxley in Brave New World predicted the speed of technology and its application to every aspect of human activity. He quoted one of India’s great philosophers, Prof Sarvapalli Radhakrishnan and said 'In spite of the fact that the great scientific inventions have liberated us from servitude to nature, we seem to suffer from a type of neurosis, from cultural disintegration. Science has relieved us of grinding poverty, mitigated the tortures of physical pain. Yet we suffer from an inward loneliness.' Later, Prof Gurdeepak Singh discussed the impact of the changing environment, driven by technology, on creativity and vice versa. He discussed the digitisation of arts and how technology has made available new tools for expression. The webinar aimed to consider the place of art and literature in the technology driven world of today.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/relevance-of-art-and-literature-in-the-digital-era-discussed/articleshow/79311011.cms||---
November 20, 2020||India||Edible oil prices rise by up to 30%, set off alarm bells||NEW DELHI: Rising edible oil prices has become a cause of concern for the government. The average prices of all edible oils - groundnut, mustard, vanaspati, soybean, sunflower and palm - have increased, with the spike in the case of palm, soybean and sunflower oils by up to 20-30% in the last one year. Sources said this was flagged at a presentation before a Group of Ministers headed by home minister Amit Shah early this week. They added while prices of onion have reduced due to import of nearly 30,000 tonnes and potato prices have stabilised, edible oil prices have been increasing constantly. Data accessed from the consumer affairs ministry's price monitoring cell show that the average price of mustard oil was 120 per litre on Thursday compared to 100 a year back. In the case of vanaspati, prices have increased to 102.5 per kg against 75.25 a year back. The modal price of soybean oil was selling at 110 per litre while average price on October 18 in 2019 was 90. Similar has been the trend in the case of sunflower and palm oil. Sources said the reduction in palm oil production in Malaysia in the past six months has been one of the reasons behind increase in prices of other edible oils. Nearly 70% of the palm oil in the country is used by the processed food industry, which is the biggest bulk consumer. Industry sources now said it's up to the government to take a call whether to reduce the import duty on palm oil considering that the increase in palm oil prices directly impacts prices of other edible oils. Watch Edible oil prices in India shoot by upto 30%||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/edible-oil-prices-rise-by-up-to-30-set-off-alarm-bells/articleshow/79311145.cms||Dipak K Dash
November 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Faculty development programme in PU||A special faculty development programme on the theme of enhancing visibility and quality of research output and ethics started in PU recently. The event will go on for seven days and will cover various topics. Prof Tankeshwar Kumar, the VC of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology (GJU), Hisar, during the inaugural session said that research ethics and publishing in quality journals is a very important and useful topic for all researchers and academicians. Later, Prof SK Tomar, the honorary director of HRDC, PU, talked about the programme and its focus on certain aspects of research and publication. Dr Neeraj Kumar Singh, deputy librarian, also the course coordinator informed that the FDP is being attended by 35 participants including faculty members, librarians, and research scholars from various states such as Kerala, Himachal Pradesh, New Delhi, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Punjab and Chandigarh. Various aspects of research and publishing will be covered during the programme's remaining days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/faculty-development-programme-in-pu/articleshow/79311054.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Special online Gandhi Katha organised||The department of Gandhian and Peace Studies, Panjab University, recently organised a special online Gandhi Katha to mark the commencement of the new academic session. PU VC Prof Raj Kumar, talked about how the new academic session, new positive vibrations will bring positivity for everyone. He also said that in the present times the relevance of Gandhian philosophy is very much relevant. He also redefined the concept of ‘Satyagraha’ and its difference with the ‘Passive -Resistance’. In her narration of Gandhi Katha, Shobhana Radhakrishna, who contributed a lot to literature, social service, etc, talked about Gandhian way of life and serving humanity. The basic idea of the Gandhi Katha was to reintroduce the Gandhi’s vision and its relevance and an attempt to provide some principles, ideas and alternatives. The katha session saw various faculty members of the department as well as the new enrolled students and faculty members taking part.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/special-online-gandhi-katha-organised/articleshow/79311367.cms||---
November 20, 2020||India||Half of women officers selected for permanent commission: Army||NEW DELHI: Almost half of the women officers considered for permanent commission (PC) in the Army have made the grade in the first-ever special selection board held for them in the 13-lakh strong force. The Army on Thursday “declassified” the results of the 'Special No 5 Selection Board' constituted to screen short-service commission (SSC) women officers, with almost 300 of the total 615 candidates being selected for PC, said a senior officer. The women not selected included those who did not opt for PC as well as the ones who did not meet the selection criteria or pass the medical test. They will retire after completing 20 years of service, which will make them eligible for pension. The Army in September has finally begun the screening of women officers who could be granted PC in 10 of its branches, in accordance with the Supreme Court directive in February to end gender bias in the force, as was earlier reported by TOI. The special board, headed by a Lt-General, included a woman officer of brigadier-rank. Women officers were also permitted to witness the proceedings as observers in order to add transparency to the entire process. The defence ministry in July had issued the formal order to grant PC to women officers in eight more branches of the Army, in addition to the existing ones of the legal and education wings. The eight branches are Army Air Defence (AAD), Signals, Engineers, Army Aviation, Electronics and Mechanical Engineers (EME), Army Service Corps (ASC), Army Ordnance Corps (AOC), and Intelligence Corps. Women number just over 1,600 in the 43,000-strong officer cadre in the Army. The military brass for long opposed PC and command roles for women due to “operational, practical and cultural problems”. Women officers, of course, are still not allowed to join main combat arms like infantry, mechanized infantry, artillery and armoured corps in the Army. They also cannot serve on board warships and submarines in the Navy. But the IAF, which already had women transport aircraft and helicopter pilots, has commissioned 10 women as fighter pilots since 2016 to break yet another glass ceiling. Watch Army selects 300 women officers for permanent commission||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/half-of-women-officers-selected-for-permanent-commission-army/articleshow/79311454.cms||Rajat Pandit
November 20, 2020||Delhi||From postponing weddings to hosting extra functions: How Delhiites are adapting to the reduced wedding guest limit of 50||Delhi was all set for a record number of weddings in the coming weeks, but on Tuesday, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced that the Delhi government has decided to withdraw the order allowing 200 guests at a wedding, and no more than 50 people can be invited now as the cases of COVID-19 continue to soar in the city. A day after that, LG Anil Baijal approved the Delhi government’s proposal. On the same day, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) also issued orders reverting to the earlier cap on the number of wedding guests. After the announcement, those who had planned their wedding in the coming weeks with 200 guests are either planning to postpone it or figuring out ways to cut down the guest list to 50 people without offending people who had already been invited. ‘Planning extra function now’Sudha Sharma, a resident of Shahdara, says that her wedding was postponed from April to December and everything seemed on track until Tuesday. Her family spent the entire night working out a second guest list with only 50 people. “We first divided our initial guest list of 200 people into ‘must be invited’ and ‘can be avoided’. In the latter category were our friends, who would now be sent a virtual link to attend the wedding. Also, we decided to call and explain the situation to those relatives who are in Delhi and are well aware of the rising number of COVID cases and the latest change in rules. We have decided to have a dinner with them, which will be an extra function now. This is an additional expense, but my parents think that despite knowing everything, some relatives will not like being uninvited just 12 days before the wedding,” says Sudha. ‘Parents would rather postpone the wedding than offend relatives’RK Puram resident Anupam Rao’s family is contemplating postponing the wedding (which, as of now, is supposed to be held on November 29) as they feel “it’s rude to ask relatives and friends to not come after the invites have been sent out”. He says, “My fiancée and I tried explaining to our parents that we can have a wedding ceremony at our home in presence of our parents and not have any guests at all. We thought inviting some and asking others to not come when the invitation cards have been sent out will be very odd. But our parents are not agreeing to the idea. They are saying that it is better to postpone the wedding. It will be a loss of lakhs for us as we have already paid advance for venue, to caterers, etc, but our parents are willing to bear this loss than have relatives miffed. Now that the final decision has come from the government, we will take our decision soon,” he says. ‘Might have the wedding with just family present, and no guests’Rajesh Singh, a resident of Uttam Nagar, had finalised his daughter’s wedding in April this year. But he decided to postpone it because of the lockdown. “Earlier, we postponed the wedding because of the lockdown. Now since we were in the Unlock phase, we decided to invite 200 people and had finalised a date in the last week of November with 100 people from the groom’s side and 100 from our side. But now we are confused. We might just do the wedding with only family members present now,” he shares.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/from-postponing-weddings-to-hosting-extra-functions-how-delhiites-are-adapting-to-the-reduced-wedding-guest-limit-of-50/articleshow/79304689.cms||Divya Kaushik
November 20, 2020||Lucknow||It’s a historic moment for all of us: LU VC on centenary celebrations||The University of Lucknow, as part of their centenary celebrations, organised a Heritage Walk inside the campus on Thursday morning. Prof Alok Kumar Rai, LU, VC, Nawab Jafar Mir Abdullah, Nishi Pandey and few other faculty members participated in the walk. “It is a historical moment for all of us. Lucknow University is not only known for its education but also for its architecture. This is providing an opportunity for all the people coming from outside to get exposed to the architectural marvel!,” said Prof AK Rai. — Vishnu Jaiswal (L) Nawab Jafar Mir Abdullah (R) Prashant Chaudhary (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)(L) Nawab Jafar Mir Abdullah (R) Prashant Chaudhary (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) Dr Dinesh Sharma (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)Dr Dinesh Sharma (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) (L) Prof Alok Kumar Rai (R) Dr Anupama Srivastava (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)(L) Prof Alok Kumar Rai (R) Dr Anupama Srivastava (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/its-a-historic-moment-for-all-of-us-lu-vc-on-centenary-celebrations/articleshow/79307696.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Business||Cash still king, average withdrawal from ATM hits record high of Rs 5,000||NEW DELHI: Cash withdrawals have hit a record high, with Indians withdrawing nearly Rs 5,000 at one go. The average ticket size of transactions went up to Rs 4,959 per ATM withdrawal from debit cards in August as cash in circulation hit a record high of Rs 26 lakh crore (12% of GDP). While cash withdrawals have rose around 10% since last November, UPI payments have shot up by close to 20% during the period to an average ticket size of Rs 1,850. ATM players said there was a temporary lull in the first few months of the lockdown, but withdrawals later shot past pre-Covid levels. Despite the growth in digital payments, and UPI transactions hitting a milestone of 2 billion, cash is still king. "Cash is an integral part of the Indian economy and ATMs remain an important touch point that facilitates easy access to cash for the populace at large. With the lockdown measures across the country, a drastic dip in transactions were observed in end-March, April and May. The situation slowly improved from the month of June onwards," said Hitachi Payment Services MD and CEO Rustom Irani. Although data for the last three months is currently unavailable, ATM and point of sale machine terminals operator BTI Payments CEO K Srinivas said cash withdrawals were far higher than last Diwali as people stepped up purchase of gifts and sweets. "We believe that people generally tend to hoard cash for contingencies in an emergency situation like the ongoing pandemic. This coupled with the steady opening up of economic activities and the ongoing festive season have resulted in an increase in average ATM transaction size," Hitachi's Irani added. Another trend noted by ATM players is that people are no longer withdrawing for small values of Rs 100-300. "With the rapid adoption of UPI, small ticket transactions have shifted almost entirely to digital. Now, people withdraw higher amounts; also, with the pandemic no one wants to step out of the house or office more often than required. So, people tend to withdraw their needs for a week," said BTI Payments' Srinivas. Watch Cash withdrawals from ATM hit record high of Rs 5,000||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cash-still-king-average-withdrawal-from-atm-hits-record-high-of-rs-5000/articleshow/79311957.cms||Rachel Chitra
November 20, 2020||Mumbai||Testing in Mumbai back to pre-Diwali numbers, Covid positivity rate stable||MUMBAI: No signs of a post-Diwali surge yet. The Covid-19 positivity rate among Mumbaikars stayed at 7% despite a 30% increase in daily tests from Wednesday, said civic officials. However, BMC officials admitted it cannot be considered a trend. Only sustained testing over the next 10 days would reveal a surge, if any, in Covid-19. Officials said they are trying to maximize testing to control the spread. Officials anticipate that the number of cases may show an increase post-Diwali due to shopping and festivities, but the first day after the festival showed a stable number. On Wednesday, 15,368 tests (RT-PCR and antigen) were conducted across the city, of which 1,149 (7 %) were found positive. Of the total tested by BMC and private labs, 7,439 were by RT-PCR, the gold standard for Covid tests. Of these, 921 (or 12 %) came positive. And of 7,929 tested through antigens, 228 (3%) were found positive. The positivity rate among those tested by RT-PCR was higher. Officials explained that they mostly test symptomatic people through RT-PCR so chances of positivity are higher, whereas antigens test are conducted randomly. Earlier, during Diwali week, daily testing had dropped to 8,000, mainly because of people’s reluctance to get themselves tested and the fact that some private labs operated with less staff or were closed for a day or two. But since Monday number of tests have risen, and on Wednesday it touched pre-Diwali testing numbers. BMC anticipates in coming days more will get themselves tested. It intends to target various sections like shopkeepers, BEST staff and security guards for tests to make an accurate assessment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/testing-in-city-back-to-pre-diwali-numbers-positivity-rate-stable/articleshow/79312012.cms||Vijay V Singh
November 20, 2020||Pune||​St Mira’s College for Girls organises a webinar on expedition to Mount Everest||The Department of Physical Education and Sports St Mira’s College for Girls, Pune had organised a webinar on “Reminiscing Everest” November 2. Under the program of Physical Fitness at home and Fit India Movement. Umesh Zirpe was the resource person for the webinar. He is a recipient of the Shiv Chhatrapati Award and also the Founder Director of Girepremi Institute of Mountaineering. On behalf of St Mira’s College for Girls, Suvarna Deolankar gave a brief introduction of the program and introduced Umesh Zirpe. The aim of this webinar was to create awareness among the students about adventure sports. Umesh Zirpe had participated in more than 40 Himalayan expeditions during his career. He is known for leading successful expeditions on seven of the top fourteen, 8000 metres peaks in the world including Mount Everest and Mount Kanchenjunga. He is the first and the only Indian mountaineer to achieve this feat. To commemorate his achievements, the Government of Maharashtra has honoured him with Shiv Chhatrapati Award, the highest award for sports in the Maharashtra state. He has shared his experience with the students of St. Mira’s College for Girls in yesterday’s webinar. Umesh Zirpe shared first-hand information on mountaineering. He gave an impetus to all. He also related climbing the Mount Everest to each one’s Everest, the goal we want to achieve. It’s only through sheer determination; hard work and confidence one can achieve our goals. The webinar gave a boost to all to achieve their goal in life. It was indeed a great learning experience for all the students and faculty members who attended. He also said that mountaineering is a sport where one’s physical as well as mental strengths are challenged. Here you set in pursuit of making possible out of what an ordinary person may find impossible. We are challenged at multiple levels such as decision making in tough situations, team spirit, optimistic outlook, caring attitude, ability to anticipate risks and dangers and make ways through them with determination etc. Here we can practically learn lessons of management during every mountaineering expedition. He also explained that it is not necessarily everyone should aspire to become a mountaineer, but along with studies, everyone can do some adventure in his/her life and gain immensely valuable personality developments. To be honest, to start doing mountaineering, you need not have any age limit. You can start it at the age of 10, in your college times, in your 40s or for that matter, even as late as in your 70s. This webinar was organized under the able guidance of the Principal Dr Gulshan Gidwani. Vote of thanks was given by Suvarna Deolankar. Coordination of the webinar was done by Ekta Jadhav, Director of Physical Education. Maharashtra State Jijamata Awardee Gurabans Kaur and all other staff members were present for the webinar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/st-miras-college-for-girls-organises-a-webinar-on-expedition-to-mount-everest/articleshow/79312277.cms||---
November 20, 2020||India||India’s Covid count hits 9 million, rise slowest since 1st||NEW DELHI: India has become the second country in the world after the US to record nine million Covid-19 cases. On the brighter side, it took 22 days for the tally to increase from the eight-million mark, making it the second slowest rise of one million infections in the country and reflecting the slowdown in the pandemic in recent weeks. The grim milestone was reached on Thursday, when India recorded 46,260 cases, taking the total to 90,03,800. This was the highest daily tally in 8 days, in part due to a rise in testing that had fallen sharply in recent days. The day's death toll, at 589, was highest in 14 days. The last one-million rise in 22 days means the spread in the country has halved since the pandemic's peak in mid-September, when it took just 11 days for cases to go from four million to five million. Only the first one million cases took more days than the last million. Despite the steady fall in numbers since then, India still recorded the second highest number of new cases in the world in November. The country has reported a little over 8.2 lakh in the month so far, second to only the US’s November case count of 24.8 lakh. France had the third highest tally at 7.3 lakh, followed by Italy (6.2 lakh), the UK (4.4 lakh), Poland (4.3 lakh) and Brazil (4.3 lakh). At 9,937, India’s death toll from the virus in November so far was the third highest in the world. The US recorded 20,829 fatalities, followed by 10,133 in France, with Italy (8,896) and Iran (8,563) in the fourth and fifth spots, respectively. The 46,260 new cases detected on Thursday came out mainly from 10.3 lakh tests conducted in the country the previous day. This was the first time in six days that the testing numbers had crossed 10 lakh. Testing had fallen sharply in the country due to Diwali and other festivals on top of the usual dip on weekends. The number of fresh cases rose in most states, with Delhi again reporting the highest numbers (7,546) in the country. The capital also recorded more than 90 deaths for the eighth day running. Gujarat reported 1,340 new cases, the highest daily number in the state since October 3. Maharashtra too witnessed a considerable jump in fresh infections. Maharashtra added 5,535 cases to take its overall tally to 17,63,055. Kerala was one of the very few major states where Thursday’s cases saw a dip from the previous day. Watch Covid-19: India records 9 million cases, becomes second country in world after US||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indias-covid-count-hits-9-million-rise-slowest-since-1st/articleshow/79312302.cms||Amit Bhattacharya
November 20, 2020||Business||Airlines & airports get ready for 'Operation Covid Vaccine'||NEW DELHI: Indian airlines and airport operators have started preparing for the mammoth task of taking Covid vaccines across the country. While meeting Pfizer’s minus 70 degrees Celsius requirement for its vaccines will be “difficult”, they are gearing up to set up cold chain storage for the jab job that needs to be done on an unprecedented scale of several crore shots to even begin with. The GMR Group, which operates Delhi and Hyderabad airports, says the air cargo units of both these places are getting ready to “play a pivotal role in the distribution of vaccines through state of the art time and temperature-sensitive distribution system” with cool chambers ranging from +25°C to -20°C. Budget carrier SpiceJet’s cargo arm, SpiceXpress, has tied up with global cold chain solution providers to perform seamless cold chain operations and offers cargo shipment with controlled ambient temperature between +25 degrees Celsius to -40 degrees Celsius. Coronavirus outbreak: Live updatesMany other airports and airlines are also learnt to be preparing for vaccine transportation — possibly the largest ever air cargo opportunity so far, — comments from them were awaited till the time of going to press. Delhi Airport has two cargo terminals that can handle over 1.5 lakh metric tonne (1 MT is 1,000 kg) and has “temperature-controlled zones with separate cool chambers ranging from +25°C to -20°C, which would be extremely conducive for distribution of Covid 19 vaccines,” said a spokesperson. “There are cool dollies at the airside that ensure unbroken cool chain during temperature-sensitive cargo movement between terminal and aircraft. The terminals have separate gates for fast movement of vehicles carrying vaccines in and out of the airport. Delhi Airport has set up a dedicated ‘transshipment excellence centre’ on airside that will help in fast movement of vaccines through transshipment,” he added. A Hyderabad airport spokesperson said the “GMR Hyderabad air cargo (GHAC) is located in epicentre of India’s vaccine production region”. “GHAC has India’s first pharma zone with certified temperature-controlled facility for handling temperature-sensitive cargo. The terminal is equipped with various temperature zones from -20 to +25 degrees Celsius … The freighter parking stands are just 50 metre away from the terminal, thereby minimising ramp exposure timing … we recently launched latest cool dollies — mobile refrigeration unit for airside transportation designed to eliminate any temperature excursions and to maintain the unbroken cool chain,” he said. GHAC claims to have “one of India’s largest storage facility for cool containers … (We are) also upgrading infrastructure to double the capacity on both landside and airside to handle the upcoming surge in volumes,” he added. A SpiceJet official official said: “SpiceXpress offers cargo shipment with controlled ambient temperature between +25 degrees Celsius to -40 degrees Celsius. The service is suitable for sensitive drugs, vaccines and blood samples ... To suit the need of the cargo, containers can (be given) extra protection of thermal blankets if required. (There are) transit points with chillers to replace the gel packs and ensure real-time temperature monitoring with alarm system to ensure stability.” He added that SpiceXpress’ cold chain management are synchronized with end to end logistics and that shipment of cargo is completely temperature controlled right from the warehouse to the aircraft hold area. The budget airline, which has operated over 10,000 flights carrying more than 80,000 tonnes of cargo from march 25 till date, says it has “sufficient capacity to cater to the rise in demand for the Covid-19 vaccine shipments. We have been transporting vaccine shipments to various international as well as domestic destinations. A lot of things that we carry like blood samples need a temperature controlled environment and today we have that facility both in our planes and our ground support vehicles.” Watch Operation Covid Vaccine: Airlines & airports get ready to take vaccine across country||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/airlines-airports-get-ready-for-operation-covid-vaccine/articleshow/79312466.cms||Saurabh Sinha
November 20, 2020||India||12% India Covid cases among those under 20: Unicef||NEW DELHI: Nearly 12% of Covid-19 infections in India are among children and adolescents under 20 years whereas globally, they accounted for 11% of infections, a new report by Unicef analysing data from 87 countries showed, underlining that the pandemic may have impacted the health of children and young people more directly than originally anticipated. Besides, disruptions to essential services such as education, healthcare, nutrition and child protection interventions were also harming children, the report said. "The impact of the pandemic will affect children's lives for years to come, even if a breakthrough vaccine becomes available soon. How the world responds now to the myriad risks that the pandemic poses to children and adolescents will determine their future," the Unicef report titled 'Averting a Lost Covid Generation' said. In India, 1.5 million school closures have impacted 247 million children enrolled in elementary and secondary education and 28 million children who were attending pre-school education in anganwadi centres. Globally, 90% of children were impacted due to school closure because of Covid-19, including 743 million girls. More than 111 million of them are in the least developed countries. Experts said school closures, travel curbs and other Covid control measures and their economic impacts would lead to many cases of childhood malnutrition, while India is already struggling to combat issues like wasting, stunting and child deaths. "We know that health systems are strained by the Covid-19 pandemic. However, we must not allow our fight against one deadly disease to come at the expense of our fight against other preventable diseases. This means ensuring the continuity of immunisation services to prevent all vaccine-preventable diseases, even as we address the growing Covid pandemic," Unicef India representative, Dr Yasmin Ali Haque, said. The report estimated that around two million additional child deaths under five years and two lakh additional stillbirths around the world could occur over a 12-month period with worst-case interruptions to services and malnutrition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/12-india-covid-cases-among-those-under-20-unicef/articleshow/79312641.cms||Sushmi Dey
November 20, 2020||India||Birju Maharaj, Jatin Das & 25 other artists told to vacate govt houses by December 31||NEW DELHI: Several eminent artists, including Padma Shri awardees, have been asked to vacate government accommodations allotted to them in posh localities of the capital by December 31. A statement issued on behalf of the artists has termed as "inhuman" the government's decision to send eviction notices during the pandemic while giving just about a month's time to them to vacate before the termination of the allotment. The list of 27 artists includes Pandit Birju Maharaj, Jatin Das, Guru Jayarama Rao, Bharati Shivaji, Dr Sunil Kothari, Kamalini Asthana, Kanaka Srinivasan and Wasifuddin Dagar. An assessment carried out by the housing and urban affairs ministry in June 2015 had found that these artists were overstaying in the government accommodation, in some cases for more than 30 years, paying a nominal licence fee against the limit of stay for six years. These accommodations are in posh colonies, including Lodhi Colony, Asian Games Village, Shahajan Road, Kaka Nagar, Gulmohar Park, Pandara Road and R K Puram. Times ViewThe government is well within its rights to ask anyone to vacate sarkari accommodation. But these are extraordinary times. With the virus outbreak at its peak in the city, they should be granted a more reasonable time frame to vacate their premises.The eviction notice by the housing and urban affairs ministry says if the allottees don't vacate their accommodations by December 31, eviction proceedings would be initiated as per Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Act. The Cabinet panel on accommodation had approved the eviction. Sources said the panel decided to waive all punitive charges from 2014 to September 30, 2020. "The government is stating they have waived off close to Rs 30 crore in damages, but the artists were never informed of any such damage. They are asking each artist, with the eviction to pay arrears in rent, but no intimation of any rent increase was informed to the artist," the statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/birju-maharaj-jatin-das-25-other-artists-told-to-vacate-govt-houses-by-december-31/articleshow/79312827.cms||---
November 20, 2020||India||Why weren’t Kamra’s tweets on SC taken down? House panel to Twitter||NEW DELHI: The joint committee of Parliament examining the bill on data privacy pulled up Twitter representatives and asked why the social media platform had not acted against stand-up comic Kunal Kamra’s handle for his “offensive” tweets against Chief Justice of India S A Bobde and the Supreme Court. The panel’s grilling of Twitter also triggered a war of words between BJP and Congress with former minister Shashi Tharoor questioning its mandate and committee chair Meenakshi Lekhi responding that Congress members were also part of the deliberations. The panel directed Twitter to submit an affidavit in a week on why it took no action against the “offensive” tweets. Even as Twitter said it would respond to the panel’s queries, Tharoor, who chairs the standing committee on information technology, asked who authorised the panel to take up a matter not related to its mandate. “Dear @M_Lekhi, as far as I am aware, your committee was formed for consultations on the Data Protection Bill and its mandate is to report on the statutory provisions continued in the draft bill. Could you clarify if you have taken on additional responsibilities and on whose authority?” Tharoor asked on Twitter. “I expected better from a person heading the standing committee on IT. His own colleague (Congress MP Vivek Tankha) was present in the meeting and concurred with me on a public platform. Tharoor should check with him before displaying his lack of understanding. In any case, they must understand that national interest matters most. I am not interested in playing ping-ball between Congress and BJP over such issues,” Lekhi told TOI. Tharoor’s question was echoed by Congress MPs Karti Chidambaram and Jairam Ramesh, both of whom said the joint committee had “no jurisdiction” over the matter. Lekhi, however, shot back that “national interest” trumped all else. Lekhi said such public squabbling “suits the agenda of the likes of Twitter” which would prefer to escape scrutiny. According to parliamentary tradition, committees firm up the subjects they will take up after they are constituted each year and don’t deviate from them. The issue of data privacy, however, has been taken up both by the standing committee on IT and the joint committee. Watch Court’s order needed to remove Kunal Kamra’s tweet: Meenakashi Lekhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/why-werent-kamras-tweets-on-sc-taken-down-house-panel-to-twitter/articleshow/79312870.cms||Swati Mathur
November 20, 2020||India||Troubling trend: India test numbers fall, RAT share remains high||Analysis of Covid data shows that the number of daily tests has been falling of late in several states and most are depending mainly on the rapid antigen test (RAT) rather than on the more accurate RT-PCR tests. Widespread use of RAT, in some cases up to 90% of all tests, has raised fears that a large number of positive cases could be missed. As per the ICMR protocol, every positive report from RAT can be treated as confirmed, but samples that test negative are to be retested using RTPCR. It is unclear how many states are rigorously following the retesting protocol. The reason for many states preferring the RAT is that it not only gives results within 30 minutes, it also can be done outside a laboratory setting. However, RTPCR tests results, which are supposed to be available in eight hours but have often ended up taking days because of backlogs, are considered to be the gold standard. India is currently doing more than 9 lakh tests per day, down from the 11 lakh plus tests which were being done till about a week back. The daily positivity rate or the percentage of samples testing positive has also been coming down steadily since the last week of October. It is currently just 4.2% compared to 9.1% on October 22. However, even some states that have not seen positivity rates fall have reduced tests. A high positivity rate indicates the need for more testing as more tests could pick up more cases. Among large states, Rajasthan and Delhi have the highest positivity rate of roughly 13%. Delhi has pushed up testing to reach between 2,300 and 2,700 tests per million population, but about 70% of tests are RAT. Rajasthan has the lowest tests per million in the country, just 211. The state was doing over 25,000 to 28,000 tests per day in October, when its positivity rate was 5.5%-6.5%. The number has now fallen to around 16,500 tests per day though the number of cases too is going up. Rajasthan is using only RTPCR tests, which might explain the difficulty in rapidly expanding testing. In Haryana too, the positivity rate has been going up and has touched 11.5%, the highest in the last two months, though the number of daily cases dipped over the last few days after steadily rising from the last week of October. In Haryana, 70% of tests are RTPCR. Kerala is another state with a very high positivity rate of 10%, though this is lower than the peak in the middle of October when it had touched 16%. With the number of tests being done almost the same, the number of cases have been declining since the end of October. After Delhi, Kerala and Karnataka have the highest testing rates in the country of about 1,500 tests per million, but over 60% of the tests being used in Kerala are the rapid antigen tests. In Karnataka, RAT constitutes only around 32% of the total number of tests. In Maharashtra, though the positivity rate of 8.5% is high relative to most states, it is much lower than in October when it had reached over 25%. From doing almost one lakh tests daily, the number of tests per day is now around 40,000. Daily cases too have come down from 22,000 plus around the middle of October to less than 4,000 since the beginning of this week. Questions have been raised about the possibility of this reduction being due to increased use of RAT. had reported that in 14 of the state's 36 districts, 50% of the testing was through RAT. In four of them, 72-83% of the tests were RAT. States like Bihar, Gujarat and Telangana too are depending almost solely on RAT for their covid testing. While official data was not available in all cases, government sources in each of these states confirmed that around 90% of tests were RAT.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/troubling-trend-india-test-numbers-fall-rat-share-remains-high/articleshow/79312936.cms||Atul Thakur
November 20, 2020||Business||YouTube to run more ads on content without sharing revenue with creators||Chennai: YouTube is adding more advertisements to the content on its platform but will not be sharing that income with the content creators. In an update to its terms of service on Wednesday, Google-owned YouTube said it now has the right to play ads on content of smaller creators not part of its YoutTube Partner Program (YPP), and such creators will not be eligible for a cut of the ad revenue. Prior to this, YouTube played ads only on content coming under YPP and only such large creators (who meet set thresholds of subscriber count and views) are entitled to a share of the revenue. “Starting today we’ll begin slowly rolling out ads on a limited number of videos from channels not in YPP. This means as a creator that’s not in YPP, you may see ads on some of your videos. Since you’re not currently in YPP, you won’t receive a share of the revenue from these ads,” Google said in a blog post.The revised terms are effective November 18 in the US, but will go live in India only in 2021.YouTube did not respond to TOIs queries on the nature of the new content it plans to advertise on. Additionally, YouTube also updated its terms to say payments from YouTube to creators will be considered “royalties” from a US taxation perspective. It did not specify the impact of this change for content creators outside the US.“Creators outside of the US will be asked to provide US tax information in Google AdSense sometime in 2021 to determine whether any US withholding taxes will apply to their payments,” a spokesperson for Google told TOI. “Google may begin withholding taxes on payments made to creators starting sometime in 2021 if any withholding taxes apply. More details will be provided to creators outside the US closer to the roll-out in mid 2021.”“This seems to be a part of YouTube's strategies to further monetise its platform, and may act as a bit of discouragement to content creators who are just starting off and are not part of the YPP,” Prantik Mazumdar, managing partner of digital marketing agency Happy Marketer, said. While this won’t have a negative impact on the earnings of smaller creators (since they weren’t receiving any ad revenue to begin with) it will impact overall viewing experience for followers. The change in policy will also affect advertisers who advertise on Youtube, Dhiraj Gupta, CTO of fraud detection company mFilterIt said. “By going back on its own policy which it placed a couple of years ago, Google is effectively making advertisers pay for ads that will run on ‘long tail’ low-quality videos,” he said. The decision was met with discontent from US YouTubers on Twitter, who were disappointed that the tech giant was choosing to make money from their content without sharing revenue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/youtube-to-run-more-ads-on-content-without-sharing-revenue-with-creators/articleshow/79310267.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
November 20, 2020||Surat||Ex-employee executed Rs 3 crore armed loot at gold loan firm in Gujarat||SURAT/BHARUCH: Four persons were arrested on Wednesday from Surat for their alleged involvement in the sensational daylight robbery of gold jewellery and cash worth Rs 3.33 crore from the office of India Infoline Finance Limited (IIFL) in Ankleshwar town of Bharuch on November 9. Sources said that the kingpin identified as Mohsin Imtiyaz Gulam Mustufa Malek (33) was working at Vapi branch of IIFL gold loan as recovery manager in 2011. The accused worked there for about a year and was aware of daily operations of the branch. The other accused included Mohammad Ali Nakuda (29), Mohsin Khalifa (28) and Salim Khan (29). All accused are residents of Surat. Masked robbers had entered the branch office of IIFL on the first floor of Ashish Shopping Centre and spent about 30 minutes inside the office holding the staffers hostage at gun-point and knife-point. The accused had escaped with 6,680 grams of gold jewellery and cash in their car. Footage of the CCTV installed inside the shopping complex showed the four robbers escaping in a Swift car. Talking with TOI, JN Zala, police inspector of Bharuch crime branch said, “We have nabbed the four accused involved in robbery at IIFL office in Ankleshwar. We had sought the help of the Valsad and Mumbai police in cracking the case as they had nabbed gang members involved in targeting the gold finance offices in Mumbai and Gujarat.” One of the accused Salim was earlier booked in a case of prohibition and mobile phone theft. Both Mohsin Malek and Salim were the mastermind of the robbery. They had involved other two in a gang and decided a role of each during the execution. Salim was responsible for creating panic among staff with a revolver, while Mohammad Ali ensured that no one entered the office. Mohsin Khalifa tied up employees with a rope and Mohsin Malek collected the gold and cash from the strong room.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/ex-employee-mastermind-of-rs-3cr-armed-robbery-at-gold-loan-firm/articleshow/79311877.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Meerut||Absconding murder suspect of Meerut jeweller held in Rajasthan||Meerut: Kapil Gurjar, a suspect involved in the murder-cum-robbery at a jewellery store in the city in September — was arrested in Rajasthan’s Karauli district by a special task force (STF) team. Aman Jain (32) was shot dead by armed robbers at his shop in busy Jagriti Vihar area in the morning of September 8. Three accused in this connection have already been arrested, while a bounty of Rs 50,000 was announced on Kapil and one of his accomplices. DSP, STF, Brijesh Singh said, “Acting on a tip-off, an STF team arrested Kapil who was lying low after committing the crime at a relative’s place in Balaghat area of Rajasthan’s Karauli district.” Kapil was, later, handed over to the local medical police station in the city. He tried to flee from the custody when he was being brought back by police after the recovery of silver coins he had looted during the robbery on September 8. According to local police, Kapil tried to flee after snatching a sub-inspector’s pistol when the police vehicle they were travelling in had stopped to give way to stray cattle crossing the road. “He was, however, overpowered after a brief encounter in which he sustained a bullet injury in one of his legs,” said a senior police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/absconding-murder-suspect-of-meerut-jeweller-held-in-rajasthan/articleshow/79307539.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Rajkot||Cop seeks Rs 15K from IPL betting accused, held||Rajkot: A head constable with Khambhalia police station and his aide were arrested for taking Rs 15,000 bribe on Wednesday night. Police said Dev Joshi was caught accepting Rs 15,000 bribe on behalf of head constable Yogendrasinh Rathod. After Joshi said that he was sent by Rathod, he too, was nabbed. “Rathod had allegedly demanded the bribe from the complainant in order not to book him for betting on IPL cricket series. Rathod had asked the complainant to pay the money after the completion of the IPL series,” said A D Parmar, inspector with Devbhoomi Dwarka anti-corruption bureau.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/cop-seeks-rs-15k-from-ipl-betting-accused-held/articleshow/79200717.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Business||Sensex hits new high, ends 580 pts in red||Mumbai: The sensex closed 580 points lower at 43,600 on Thursday, reversing a four-day rally that took it to a record high above the 44,000 mark. Financials led the selloff on Dalal Street even as a weakness in major global markets weighed on domestic investor sentiment, brokers and dealers said. After opening flat and remaining in a narrow range, the day’s selloff started in the closing session. As a result, the day’s low was at 43,518 points, down over 650 points from the previous close. However, the sensex scaled a new lifetime high at 44,230 points before paring the gains. HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank, HDFC and Axis Bank contributed the most to the sensex’s slide, while ITC and TCS witnessed buying. Increasing virus infections raised fears of additional restrictions and, considering its impact on economic activity, global market sentiments turned negative, according to Geojit Financial Services research head Vinod Nair. “This was in spite of the optimism surrounding the advanced stages of vaccine development. Indian markets also witnessed profit-booking from recent highs, as investors turned cautious. Financials led the losses, while defensive sectors such as FMCG and pharma fared better,” Nair said in a note.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-hits-new-high-ends-580-pts-in-red/articleshow/79311945.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Business||Merge with a PSB, not DBS Bank: Bank Employees Federation of India||Chennai: The Bank Employees Federation of India (BEFI), Tamil Nadu unit, has written to the RBI objecting to the proposed merger of LVB with DBS Bank India Ltd. Instead, BEFI demanded that LVB be merged with a public sector bank. In a statement, it said, “DBS Bank, with just 33 branches in India, will not be in a position to protect interest of customers. Moreover, many branches of LVB may be closed. The job security of 4,000 employees is also at stake. Merging LVB with a public sector bank will be an appropriate solution to the present crisis.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/merge-with-a-psb-not-dbs-bank-bank-employees-federation-of-india/articleshow/79310355.cms||Mamtha Asokan
November 20, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 1,100 NDRF, SDRF personnel deployed for Chhath||PATNA: More than 1,100 National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) personnel, including expert divers, have been deployed at different ghats and water bodies in the state to meet any exigency during Chhath. Over 250 inflatable motorboats, 2,500 life jackets, public address systems, search lights, oxygen cylinders, medical and other equipment have been provided to these personnel to carry out relief and rescue operations. On several occasions, these personnel have rescued drowning devotees or those falling ill while performing Chhath rituals. SDRF battalion’s second-in-command K K Jha said 17 teams of the force comprising more than 700 personnel have been deployed at 73 locations in 23 districts across the state. “Some SDRF teams have permanent presence in flood-prone north Bihar districts. At several locations, fishermen have been trained to carry out rescue operations. They have also been provided life jackets,” he added. NDRF’s 9th battalion assistant commandant Vinay Kumar said 14 teams of the force comprising 400 personnel have been deployed in several districts like Patna, Buxar, Supaul, Darbhanga, Bhojpur and Saran. “Battalion commandant Vijay Sinha is monitoring the deployment of NDRF personnel,” he added. Kumar said seven teams have been deployed in Patna alone on the banks of the Ganga between Danapur and Bakhtiyarpur. “Three special river ambulances with medical teams have also been deployed in the Ganga. These ambulances will move between Danapur pontoon bridge and Bhattha Ghat near Bhaktiyarpur,” he added. Kumar said the NDRF has also set up medical camps at Digha Ghat and Gandhi Ghat in Patna. “The NDRF personnel will ask devotees to adhere to Covid safety protocols at different ghats and water bodies,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/1100-ndrf-sdrf-personnel-deployed-in-state-for-chhath/articleshow/79309335.cms||Debashish Karmakar
November 20, 2020||Kolkata||Woman’s body found in sack on Kolkata's Kidderpore road||KOLKATA: The body of a 20-year-old woman was on Thursday morning found stuffed inside a cement sack on MM Ali Road near Babubazar in Kidderpore. Police said that the body of the woman — Saba Khatoon alias Naina — was left in front of a house around 2.30am. After some time, a few locals noticed the bag and, upon close inspection, saw one of her legs sticking out and called the cops. “We suspected her to be a local. So we enquired around the area and managed to establish her identity in a few hours,” said an investigating officer. Cops said Khatoon lived with her grandmother on Bengali Shah Warsi Lane in the Watgunge area, but had recently shifted to a paying guest accommodation with another girl named Reshma. Her family said that she had become a drug addict of late and would meet new people all the time in order to try and raise money. “We have not found enough evidence yet to call this a murder. In fact, we found that the body had non-continuous ligature marks on her neck that are a strong indicator of suicide (as opposed to continuous ligature marks that point towards murder),” an officer from the detective department said. “It is possible that she committed suicide and the person who saw the body tried to get rid of it under pressure. However, unless we get the post-mortem and forensic reports, we are not ruling out murder,” he added. Joint CP (crime) Murlidhar Sharma said Khatoon’s maternal uncle Zakir Hussain told cops that she had been living with them after her mother’s death. “We had even put her in a rehab centre for a few months. She recently moved out of the house,” Hussain said. Cops said Khatoon left the PG after receiving a call on her mobile phone on Wednesday evening. The police are trying to trace her phone, which is still missing. This is reportedly the third unnatural death in the Ekbalpore police station area in the past two months. Four persons have died so far, of whom three were murdered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/womans-body-found-in-sack-on-kidderpore-road/articleshow/79310719.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 20, 2020||Patna||CM Nitish Kumar to inaugurate AIIMS-Digha elevated road||PATNA: The much-awaited AIIMS-Digha elevated road has been opened for small vehicles as part of a trial run from Wednesday. State road construction minister Mangal Pandey said a trial run on the newly constructed Koilwar bridge and Exhibition Road link bridge has also begun and soon all these three projects will be inaugurated. “The chief minister will inaugurate the AIIMS-Digha elevated road soon,” said RCD minister, adding, “Traffic will get faster with these newly constructed bridges. These are the gifts from a new government.” Officials said AIIMS-Digha is expected to be inaugurated in the next two weeks, while the Koilwar bridge will be inaugurated by Union road construction minister Nitin Gadkari on December 10. Giving details of the AIIMS-Digha elevated road, transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said the entire stretch is of nearly 12 km, of which 3.5km starting from AIIMS is without elevation. “Of the total length, 8.5km is elevated which is the longest elevated road in Bihar and also rare in the country. It will fall near Digha-Patipul side and from here to Digha bridge, the distance is nearly one kilometre,” Agarwal said. A Bihar State Road Construction Development Corporation official said this path will provide easy connectivity from North Bihar to AIIMS. “Without touching the busy capital road, one can reach Phulwarishharif or Danapur from Digha or even those coming from across Ganga. It will take nearly 20 minutes from AIIMS to cross the river Ganga and move over to the northern part of the state,” said the official. He praised the rail overbridge built near the Danapur railway station as a part of this project and said it is a first-of-its-kind structure in the country with 106m stretch made using 1,500 metric tonnes of steel. The length of this project is 12.27km and it took seven years to complete. It has been made by Gammon India Limited on an engineering procurement model, in which the contractor has the flexibility to choose the design. It is a four-lane project and administrative approval of Rs 1,289 crore had been given.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cm-to-inaugurate-aiims-digha-elevated-road/articleshow/79309452.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 20, 2020||Vadodara||11 killed in accident on NH-48 cremated||VADODARA/SURAT: Eleven persons including five women, who were killed in the gruesome accident near Waghodiya Chowkdi on national highway-48 here on Wednesday morning were cremated on Thursday. While, bodies of nine victims were taken to their native places in Saurashtra, that of two others were taken to Surat by their kin. The incident took place when the truck carrying the victims, all residents of Surat, rammed into a container truck around 3 am on Wednesday. They were on their way to Pavagadh and further to Dakor and Vadtal. The pilgrims had hired a truck on failing to find a suitable vehicle. They had started at 11.30 pm on Tuesday from Sita Nagar crossroads in Surat. The impact of the accident was such that firemen had to be called to rescue the injured persons. Nine of the travellers had died on the spot while two others succumbed during treatment at SSG Hospital. An offence of culpable homicide not amounting to murder and rash driving was registered against the driver of the pilgrims’ truck. He too is undergoing treatment for injuries. “Bodies of two deceased were taken to Surat and nine others were taken to their respective villages in different districts in Saurashtra,” said inspector V S Kolcha of Panigate police station. The deceased included four men, five women and two children. Sixteen injured persons continued to remain under treatment at SSG Hospital and a private hospital on Thursday. The victims hail from villages of Amreli, Gir Somnath and Bhavnagar districts of Saurashtra and had settled in Surat city for the past few years for employment. Batuk Jinjala, who does job work on sarees, his younger brother Haresh, a diamond artisan, their cousin Suresh, a diamond artisan, all residents of Asha Nagar in Punagam area had planned the trip with families of relatives living in neighbouring localities. Apart from Jinjala, family members of three other families had joined the trip.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/11-killed-in-accident-on-nh-48-cremated/articleshow/79309315.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Patna||Patna: Sigh of relief for commuters as setu jam eases||PATNA: Commuters travelling from Patna to Hajipur in north Bihar through Gandhi Setu heaved a sigh of relief on Thursday following the deployment of police personnel and magistrates on some strategic locations. To control the heavy flow of vehicles, the authorities in Patna and Vaishali districts have decided to divert empty trucks coming from north Bihar via J P Setu. Only loaded vehicles will be allowed to cross the Gandhi Setu, a source said. Hajipur Sadar sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) Raghav Dayal said the flow of vehicles on Gandhi Setu was less on Thursday. “Only heavy vehicles will now cross the Setu while empty trucks coming to Patna from Hajipur side have been diverted from Ramashish Chowk towards JP Setu to prevent jam,” he said. Magistrates aided by an adequate number of cops are ensuring a smooth flow of vehicles on the two bridges over the Ganga for the Chhath festival. SHOs of the affected areas will monitor the situation round the clock for three days. From Patna end, additional police forces have been deployed at different locations identified as centres of bottleneck like Zero Mile Chowk, Dhanuki Mor, Gaighat toll plaza and the entrance of the bridge. Sources said trucks carrying sand have been banned for three days. Cars and other light vehicles are crossing the river by the pontoon bridge connecting Patna to Hajipur. Vehicles have been allowed on the bridge till midnight. However, a long queue of vehicles was spotted near Bhadra Ghat in Patna due to traffic congestion on Thursday evening. Amar Kant Choudhary, a resident of Sarairanjan in Samastipur district, said, “It took about an hour to cross the Gandhi Setu today. Earlier, it was taking three-four hours to cover the distance of 10-km between Patna Zero Mile and Hajipur railway station.” Kabir Das, a resident of Tariyani in Sheohar district, echoed similar views. “I felt relaxed after reaching Hajipur from Patna in about an hour. Two days ago, people had to wait for hours together to cross the Gandhi Setu due to traffic jam,” he told this newspaper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sigh-of-relief-for-commuters-as-setu-jam-eases/articleshow/79309411.cms||Ramashankar
November 20, 2020||Business||Irate Lakshmi Vilas Bank shareholders seek fair value for bank||CHENNAI: Individual shareholders of Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) are objecting to the RBI’s merger proposal of the bank with DBS Bank India. They point out that, when the bank needed it, they contributed capital and must now have the benefit of an upside when it turns around. The shareholders have sharply criticised the merger proposal, alleging lack of transparency in the entire process. “LVB has been given away on a platter to DBS, based on the book value. Unlike other banks where branches are leased, 150 branches of LVB (out of over 450) are in their own premises. There are 60 apartments (staff quarters in Mumbai alone) and 11 acres of prime property in Karur. Valuing these at book value is not transparency. A reduction in share value or capital and leaving something for the shareholders on the table is the correct approach. We have sent our views to the RBI,” said M A A Annamalai, of Akshya & Co, who holds over 30,000 shares of the bank. “We believe the valuation has been done based on the book value, there is no information on how it was arrived at. The best part is, the auditors who valued these assets on LVB’s books were ousted when they sought reappointment in last AGM, showing shareholder distrust,” M Murugan, another shareholder, alleged. More than 60 individual shareholders of LVB met in Trichy district on Thursday to sign a letter of objection addressed to the RBI. The letter said that the amalgamation process failed to value the existing goodwill and properties of the bank and devalued existing share value to zero. They added equity shareholders had to take the hit as per legal norms. Annamalai’s petition said, “It is difficult to comprehend RBI’s different yardsticks for the resolution process of different stressed banks. As the bank is extremely stressed and not performing, a capital reduction like in the case of Yes Bank would have been an appropriate resolution.” In the case of Yes Bank, the share capital was not completely written down, unlike in the case of LVB. While AT1 bonds were completely written down, whereas it was not written down for LVB. A former LVB employee and shareholder-cum-depositor M R Subramanian asked, “Is it fair to throw all the purported loss on the small shareholders who had been with the bank all these years?” Others felt the effort of bringing in foreign capital for LVB should not be at the cost of 96,380 retail domestic investors who constitute nearly 24% of equity holders. Domestic insurance companies hold about 6.4% of the bank’s equity. The Karur-based bank was started to address the financial needs of farmers, artisans, weavers, and small traders, when no bank was interested in financing these micro sectors or the mercantile community, helping them from the clutch of money lenders and indigenous bankers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/irate-lvb-shareholders-seek-fair-value-for-bank/articleshow/79310317.cms||Mamtha Asokan
November 20, 2020||Patna||A festival that promotes communal harmony||PATNA: Observed principally by Hindus, the four-day Chhath festival is a great social leveller. It not only strengthens social fabric, but also helps promote communal harmony. The festive fervour overrides differences of caste and community and brings together devotees of all sections to the same ghats for worshipping the Sun. The edibles for ‘nahay-khay’ and the ‘kharna prasad’ are cooked only on earthen stoves most of which are prepared by Muslim women. They take all the precautions in maintaining purity and cleanliness at all levels. In fact, for them, Chhath is as pious as the Ramzan. “The earthen stoves are in high demand during Chhath as offerings are traditionally cooked on it. We get not only money, but respect from devotees,” said Aneema, a vendor of Dujra locality. She sells a piece of earthen stove in the price range of Rs 100 to 150 near Panchmukhi Mandir on Boring Canal Road. The stoves are made with special care, as they are used during the pious Chhath puja. “I give up eating garlic and onion and take bath before beginning work,” said Ayesha, another vendor. Scores of Muslims in Bihar also celebrate Chhath with utmost devotion. They observe certain rituals and worship the setting and rising Sun by offering ‘arghya’. “Many Muslim families of Vaishali, Samastipur, Sitamarhi and Patna districts have been celebrating Chhath with utmost devotion for the last several years,” said J K Khan, a retired Magadh University teacher. “Most Muslim women perform Chhath rituals for the fulfilment of their long-cherished desire (mannat). There are several instances when they have been blessed with a son after performing the Chhath for some years,” Khan added. Several Muslim youths have also joined the Hindu volunteers in cleaning the ghats, ponds and roads of the city. The offerings made to the setting and rising Sun are arranged in ‘soops’ (baskets made of bamboo strips) made mostly by Dalits (scavengers) who are still considered “untouchable” by a section of upper caste population. Vishal, a scavenger living in a settlement of Dalits in Yarpur locality, said, “My family members have been making ‘soops’ for the past three decades now. Every Chhath devotee uses ‘soops’ made by our community during Chhath. They hardly discriminate.” The Chhath puja has enabled the Dalits to improve their socio-economic conditions. “We have been working as scavengers and sweepers for generations. It has given us a somewhat negative social image. But thanks to Chhath, we are trying to get a certain kind of respect and status in society. Besides, the ‘soop’ business also generates considerable income for us,” said Gudiya, a sweeper residing in Digha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/a-festival-that-promotes-communal-harmony/articleshow/79309394.cms||B K Mishra
November 20, 2020||Patna||Ghats cleaned, medical teams roped in||PATNA: Despite strict instructions from the district administration to perform Chhath rituals at home due to the Covid-19 pandemic, a large number of devotees are expected to visit ghats and ponds in Phulwari block on Friday and Saturday. The authorities concerned have, therefore, made elaborate arrangements by maintaining cleanliness and ensuring people’s safety. “A large number of workers have been roped in to sprinkle bleaching powder on the ghats in Phulwari and put several bags of alum in the water where devotees will offer ‘arghya’ to the sun. They have also barricaded the ghats that are slippery and installed watchtowers with adequate lights,” Phulwari Nagar Parishad’s executive officer Manoj Kumar told this newspaper on Thursday and added that temporary changing rooms had been set up at the ghats. There are several ghats in Phulwari where devotees are likely to perform Chhath rituals while following social distancing norms. “Adequate safety arrangements have been made and divers deputed near the ghats so that they act swiftly in case of an emergency. A control room has also been set up and dirty water drained out,” Manoj said. According to Phulwari block community health centre in charge Dr R K Choudhary, medical assistance booths have been installed at nine ghats identified as “sensitive” to tackle emergencies. “Medical teams will carry life-saving medicines and ambulances will be kept in readiness in Phulwari block. It is, however, better for people above the age of 60 years and children below 10 to avoid visiting ghats,” Dr Choudhary said. Several volunteers are also helping the authorities to clean up the ghats, roads and bylanes. MP visits ghat: BJP MP Ram Kripal Yadav visited the Khagaul Canal Ghat on Wednesday and asked the authorities to ensure cleanliness and provide adequate safety measures to the devotees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ghats-cleaned-medical-teams-roped-in/articleshow/79309355.cms||Kumod Verma
November 20, 2020||Patna||Manjhi sworn in as pro-tem speaker||PATNA: Former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi was on Thursday sworn in as the pro-tem speaker of the state assembly by governor Phagu Chauhan for two days, beginning November 23, until a new speaker is elected. Manjhi will administer the oath of membership of the House to the rest 242 newly-elected MLAs on November 23 and 24. The new speaker will also be elected on November 24, after which the role of Manjhi as pro-tem speaker will automatically end. The five-day session of the new assembly will be held from November 23 and the two-day session of the legislative council from November 26. The governor will address the joint session of the two Houses in the central hall on November 25. Sources said the state assembly would hold its sittings in the central hall of the new legislature building. The legislative council, on the other hand, will hold its sittings in the state assembly hall as a precautionary measure against Covid-19 pandemic. While 243 members of the state assembly would be easily accommodated in the central hall located in the legislature building adhering to the social distancing norms, the legislative council has less than 65 members, who will hold sittings in the assembly hall. Further, the state assembly will hold its discussion on the motion of thanks on the governor’s address to be moved by the government on November 26 and 27, including the government’s reply to it, in the central hall. The state assembly will also pass the second supplementary budget on November 27, the concluding day of the session. Besides, the legislative council will have its two-day session on November 26 and 27 in the assembly hall. Meanwhile, as per the order of the legislative council acting chairman Awadhesh Narayan Singh, former deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi has been made chairman of the ‘sadachar (ethics)’ committee of the elder House. Former minister Sanjay Kumar Jha has been made the chairman of the ‘yachika (demand)’ committee to comply with the norms of the upper House.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/manjhi-sworn-in-as-pro-tem-speaker/articleshow/79309682.cms||Abhay Singh
November 20, 2020||Patna||Weatherman predicts light rain in parts of Bihar today||PATNA: A sudden nip in the air and fall in day temperature in the city and other parts of Bihar took people by surprise on the second day of Chhath on Thursday. Thin fog was also witnessed at isolated places in Patna and other places during the morning hours. Due to cloudy weather in most parts of the state, the maximum temperature dropped from 28.5 degrees Celsius on Wednesday to 24.8 degrees Celsius on Thursday. The maximum temperature has slipped by around four degrees than the normal departed temperature, while there was no change in minimum temperature. According to the daily bulletin of Patna Metrological (MeT), the change in day temperature was the effect of western disturbances, which have led to snowfall and thunderstorm in western Himalayan region and plain areas in northern India. A weatherman at Patna Meteorological Centre, Shailendra Kumar Patel, said partly cloudy weather conditions would be witnessed in several parts of the state over the next 24 hours and light spell of rain would occur at some places places in south Bihar and districts adjoining Jharkhand on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/weatherman-predicts-light-rain-in-parts-of-state-today/articleshow/79309369.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 20, 2020||Patna||Eight more succumb to coronavirus in Bihar||PATNA: The number of Covid-19 cases in the state went up to 2,29,474 on Thursday with 794 more people testing positive for the virus in the last 24 hours. The virus claimed eight more lives in the last 24 hours, taking the state’s toll to 1,209. However, with 2,22,492 people recovering from the virus so far, active cases in the state stood at 5,571 on Thursday. According to the health department, Patna and Saran districts accounted for two deaths each on Thursday and Nalanda, Saharsa and Vaishali districts one death each. Two more Covid patients – a 46-year-old woman from Daya Chapra in Siwan and a 55-year-old man from Rulahi Majhar in East Champaran – have died at AIIMS-Patna. The hospital’s nodal incharge for Covid-19, Dr Sanjev Kumar, said 14 patients were admitted and 12 discharged on Thursday. “Altogether 154 Covid patients are undergoing treatment at the hospital. A senior doctor of Pawapuri Medical College and patients from different localities of Patna like Bhattacharya Road, Kesri Nagar and Barh were admitted to the hospital on Thursday,” he added. Dr Sanjeev said the condition of JD(U) MP Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lallan Singh, who is undergoing treatment at the hospital for Covid-19, was stable. Nalanda Medical College and Hospital reported one death on Thursday and the deceased was a 49-year-old man from Pandeypur in Saran. Of 794 new Covid-19 cases registered in the state in the last 24 hours, Patna alone accounted for 245. With this, the district’s Covid tally has risen to 40,080. However, with 38,012 recoveries and 307 deaths, there are 1,716 active cases in the district. Among other districts, Muzaffarpur registered 46 cases on Thursday, West Champaran 31, Bhagalpur 33, Vaishali 28, Aurangabad 27, Gopalganj 26 and Begusarai 23. Health minister Mangal Pandey tweeted on Thursday that 681 people recovered from the virus in the state in the last 24 hours, taking the state’s recovery rate to 96.96%. “Samples of 1,17,709 people were tested in the last 24 hours. So far, over 1.33 crore samples have been tested in the state since the outbreak of the virus in March this year,” the minister tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/eight-more-succumb-to-coronavirus-in-bihar/articleshow/79309423.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Patna||Health minister takes charge, says govt hospitals ‘priority’||PATNA: Three more ministers assumed charge on Thursday amid controversy over resignation of education minister Mewalal Choudhary within hours of assuming charge of the department for his alleged involvement in a corruption case. Mangal Pandey, who assumed office as health minister, said, “Improving condition of government hospitals and completing the pending and incomplete works of the previous government will be my priorities.” On Wednesday, the BJP leader had taken charge of the road construction department. Speaking to media persons after assuming charge, Pandey said, “Roads that were badly damaged due to floods are being repaired. Conversion of some state highways into national ones is also under process.” He claimed that the condition of roads has improved a lot since 2005.” A number of bridges and culverts have been constructed people reach their destinations at the earliest. “We are also working on improving the quality of roads,” he added. JD(U)’s Ashok Choudhary assumed charge of the building construction department, Vijay Kumar Chaudhary took over the charge of rural development department. Ashok Choudhary, who is also the working president of JD(U), has been given additional charge of social welfare and education departments. Vijay Kumar Chaudhary, the JD(U) MLA from Sarairanjan and former Speaker of the state assembly, has been given additional charge of water resources department, rural works department, IPRD and parliamentary affairs. Earlier, revenue and land reforms department minister Ram Surat Kumar told a group of people at Sonepur in Saran district that the famous Sonepur fair might not be held this year due to Covid-19 pandemic. He, however, clarified that a final decision in this regard would be taken after the meeting of the cabinet chaired by CM Nitish Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/health-minister-takes-charge-says-govt-hospitals-priority/articleshow/79309656.cms||Ramashankar
November 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Yo! Adaab: Hyderabad boys add a dash of hip hop to Sufi music||HYDERABAD: Forget qawwali. Hip hop is the in thing in Sufi music. With the new generation gradually not into the centuries-old tradition of rendering Sufi songs through qawwali, two Hyderabadi youths have taken to Islamic hip hop in Urdu to spread the message of Sufism and Ganga-Jamuni tehzeeb. ‘Thugs Unit’, an Islamic hip hop group in Urdu, is releasing ‘Resurrection 040’, a mystical blend of Eastern and Western music introducing hip hop to Sufism, on Apple Music on Friday. The group comprises city rappers Mudassir Ahmed and Syed Irshad with stage names ‘Mo Boucher’ and ‘Irish Boi’ respectively. “The relevance of Sufism is now increasingly felt the world over. Its message of love and tolerance is universal. Qawwali has been taking care of Sufi music so far. But the new generation is more interested in modern music like hip-hop. Our album, Resurrection 040, where 040 is the STD code of Hyderabad, gives a new dimension to Sufi music,” said Mudassir Ahmed. The 12-track album features expressive lyrics in Urdu and English in Jamaican style. Hyderabadi Urdu is also part of the lyrics that attempt to establish a direct contact between man and God. The album revolves around self-reflection, inspired by Sufism, community evils and voice against power establishments. Hip hop shifting mindsetsThe music for the album is produced by Grammy-nominated and multiplatinum producers, including Buck Wild. “We see hip-hop as a tool for spreading knowledge and shifting mindsets. Essentially, hip-hop is a genre for representing the voice of people, and we use it as tool to voice against oppression in all forms. When we see something wrong in our community, we speak about it in our music,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/yo-adaab-hyderabad-boys-add-a-dash-of-hip-hop-to-sufi-music/articleshow/79312554.cms||Syed Akbar
November 20, 2020||Patna||Chhath: Thousands throng ghats, cook kharna ‘prasad’||PATNA: Thousands of devotees assembled at different city ghats on kharna, Day 2 of Chhath Puja, on Thursday. Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, they took a dip in the Ganga, sought the blessings of the Sun God and prepared ‘prasad’ that comprised ‘roti’ or ‘pudi’ and ‘kheer’. Many of them used dried mango wood to cook their meals and maintain the festival’s sanctity. The Chhath ‘vratis’ will break their 36-hour fast after the second ‘arghya’ on Saturday morning. Sexagenarian Guraiya Devi, who has been celebrating Chhath for 16 years, prayed for the safety of the world on Thursday. “Nobody in my family has contracted the virus yet and I hope they are safe in future too. Observing fast and performing Chhath rituals are a way to thank the Sun God for my family’s well-being,” she told this reporter. Saidpur resident Anuradha Kumari prepared ‘thekua’, ‘kheer’ and ‘pudi’. Chhath, to her, “is not only a festival, but a belief that the Sun God can rid the world of all impurities... even the coronavirus”. 66-year-old Manjhari Devi claimed that the pandemic could not dampen the spirit of Chhath Puja that “stands for joy, love, devotion and holiness”. Several people were seen washing the feet of Chhath ‘vratis’ at the ghats that reverberated with devotional songs like ‘Kelwa ke paat par’, ‘Pahile pahil Chhathi maiya’ and ‘Kaanch hi baans ke’. At Gandhi Ghat, 33-year-old Renuka Sharma helped mother-in-law Jyoti Devi cook ‘prasad’ and perform Chhath rituals. The Pragati Path resident said, “It is a festival when the entire family comes together.” Quadragenarian Pritam Kumar Sinha took part in the rituals and carried fruit baskets, ‘soops’ and other puja materials for his wife Sumeeta. Meanwhile, a section of people has also decided to celebrate Chhath at home due to the pandemic. They have created artificial water bodies like tanks in their houses to pay obeisance to the Sun God. According to Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal, ‘Gangajal’ has already been supplied to the Chhath ‘vratis’ in all the wards. Although Gola Road resident Preeti Kumari missed all the fun she used to have with her family and friends at the ghats, she said, “Celebrating Chhath at home is a better option amid Covid-19.” Rajendra Nagar resident Seemant Kumar Ranjan thanked the district administration for supplying clean ‘Gangajal’ on his doorstep. “We used it for preparing ‘prasad’ during the festivities,” he said. 42-year-old Anita Singh also celebrated the festival at home because her parents-in-law are above 65 years of age. She pointed out that it was risky for them to visit crowded ghats. Another ‘vrati’, Sandhya Aggarwal, echoed similar views. She said, “Going out is quite risky. I hope the situation gets better and we can celebrate Chhath at the ghats next year.” Nidhi Sinha, a resident of Boring Canal Road, and Aniket Verma, who lives in Indrapuri, also avoided visiting the ghats this year. To them, the “safety and well-being of family” come first. Devotees flout Covid safety norms: Throwing caution to the winds, a large number of devotees moved around the ghats without masks and flouted social distancing norms. Elderly people and kids were also present at the ghats. An officer on duty at one of the ghats, Surendra Mehta, said, “Despite our strict instructions, a lot of people are violating social distancing norms and not wearing masks. It is quite difficult to ensure that everyone follows safety protocols.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/chhath-thousands-throng-ghats-cook-kharna-prasad/articleshow/79309318.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 20, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Observe Chhath at local ponds, ward coordinators urge devotees||KOLKATA: The apex court’s verdict on Rabindra Sarobar on Thursday compelled a section of Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) ward coordinators to request members of the Bihari community in their wards to undertake the Chhath rituals at a water body other than the Dhakuria lake. While the coordinators had actively led residents to Rabindra Sarobar till last year, they acknowledged the reality had changed this year following the court orders and showcased the alternative water bodies, some natural and some artificial, that KMC and KMDA had provided for the festival. Ratan De, former KMC member, mayor-in-council, and a ward coordinator representing Jodhpur Park, on Thursday inspected the last-minute preparedness at three water bodies, one of which was created artificially. De said he had appealed to the Chhath devotees to make use of three water bodies as together they could accommodate over 10,000 people on Chhath day. “We have a sizeable population in my ward that used to go to Rabindra Sarobar on Chhath for the past few years. This year they can observe it right here,” De said. Sudarshana Mukherjee, the ward coordinator in a Ballygunge neighbourhood, had to make extra efforts to ensure completion of an artificial pond in a park that will be opened to Chhath devotees from Friday morning. Mukherjee said over 600 families from different slums will use this makeshift pond on Chhath day. Mukherjee decided to create the pond after she had an inkling that the NGT order would be followed at Rabindra Sarobar. “I have campaigned in the ward in favour of protecting Sarobar and I had to dig an artificial water reservoir in my ward for the chat devotees,” she said. Jui Biswas the ward coordinator representing New Alipore and its adjacent areas on Thursday said an pond was created opposite Jhaldar Mmath slum to cater to at least 3,000 Chhath devotees. “We are vigilant against violation of the court order,” Biswas said. Biaswanor Chatterjee, a ward coordinator who represents the Lake area, had campaigned among members of the Bihari community to take advantage of several natural and artificial ponds. “We have created an adequate number of ponds and members of the Bihari community should make best use of these on Chhath,” Chatterjee said. Subrata Ghosh, a BJP ward coordinator representing a part of the Lake, on Thursday said he had requested the members of the Bihari community not to flout the court order but still observe their religious rites with festive fervour. “I will stand by the religious rights of the Chhat devotees, but I don’t want them to dishonour the court order,” Ghosh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/observe-chhath-at-local-ponds-ward-coordinators-urge-devotees/articleshow/79311036.cms||Saikat Ray
November 20, 2020||Surat||Surat: Colostomy bag gone, Dindoli survivor wants to join school||SURAT: This Diwali was perceptively better for seven-year-old Dindoli rape survivor Sunita (name changed) who stepped into the New Year with hopes of erasing the horrid past from her small slate of life. Living in a nondescript one room house in Limbayat, the family too basked in their daughter’s joy after the girl, who had to live all this while tying a colostomy bag around her waist, finally got rid of the bag and its woes.Daughter of a labourer in a textile unit, Sunita now hopes to rejoin school, like all her friends and lead a normal life again. “I want to go to school now. I could not earlier as it was uncomfortable with the bag. The school authorities also asked my parents to send me only after I recovered fully,” an ebullient Sunita told TOI. Brutally raped by then 19-year-old convict Roshan alias Kalu Bhumihar on September 29, 2018 the entire family of the minor is living a painful life. Bhumihar was sentenced to life imprisonment in November 2019 but the agonies of the family did not end. On October 25, Dussehra day, Sunita was operated upon once again, this time to remove the colostomy bag now that she is able to control her rectum muscles. The minor went under the knife six times to reconstruct severely ruptured private parts and will need a few more major surgeries as she grows older. The entire family was tied down by that one ‘colostomy bag’, which brought out their worst fear of being ostracised by natives if they visited their village in Bihar with their daughter. Since 2018 we didn’t go to our native. But now we are preparing to go around next month,” said mother Anita (name changed) who looked wistfully at her daughter, hoping it all goes well. Former member of Juvenile Justice Board and lawyer, Pratibha Desai who is assisting the girl every step of the way, said: “Hopefully she will now move around freely.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/colostomy-bag-gone-dindoli-survivor-wants-to-join-school/articleshow/79311817.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
November 20, 2020||Surat||Two associates of BJP leader Sarma arrested||SURAT: Police arrested two associates of BJP leader and former I-T officer PVS Sarma on Wednesday for allegedly aiding the fraud for which the accused was booked on November 14. The Police arrested Sitaram Adukiya (69), partner of Sarma, and Mukhtar Saeed Beg (56), an employee in Sarma’s firm.The police are likely to arrest Sarma after he recovers and gets discharged from the hospital. Sarma is currently under treatment at a private hospital after an injury due to the alleged suicide attempt. Sarma attempted suicide at a friend’s place in Navsari district by hanging self on November 15 a day after he was booked in Umra police station. He was rescued by his driver and shifted to the hospital. Cops in Navsari rural police started investigation into the incident. “Sarma’s condition is stable at present. We are keeping a close watch on his health,” said a police official. Along with Sarma, Adukiya was named as an accused in the offence registered against him under various sections of Indian Penal Code including 465 (forgery), 468 (forgery for cheating), 471 (use of forged documents), 420 (cheating), and others. The role of Beg was found during investigation and he too was arrested. The complaint was lodged by Pammayya K D, the Income Tax deputy director . Sarma was the vice-president in the city BJP unit that was dissolved recently after the appointment of new city BJP president. Earlier, Sarma’s home, office and the premises of his associates were raided on October 21 by 12 teams of I-T following the information about his disproportionate assets. During the raid, the I-T sleuths gathered various documents related to the Gujarati and English newspapers that Sarma and Adukiya run as the directors. The I-T officials found that the accused claimed a high number of published copies of the newspapers to get advertisements from Directorate of Advertisement and Visual Publicity, and private parties as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/2-associates-of-bjp-leader-sarma-arrested/articleshow/79311936.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Patna||Desari case: Police failed to act under govt pressure, says RJD||PATNA: RJD on Thursday alleged that the police failed to act promptly in the Desari immolation case due to government pressure as it would have adversely affected the ruling parties in the recently concluded assembly election. A 20-year-old girl Gulnaz Khatoon was allegedly set on fire by three men after pouring kerosene on her for resisting molestation outside her residence at Rasulpur Habib village under Desari police station area in Vaishali district on October 30. The girl died during treatment at the Patna Medical College and Hospital on November 15. The police recorded her statement within hours of the incident on October 30, but the FIR was registered only on November 2. The uproar from the opposition parties led to the Chandpura outpost in-charge, Vishnu Dev Dubey, getting suspended on November 17 for dereliction of duty. The state police headquarters is now monitoring the case. The first accused, Chandan Kumar (19), was arrested on Tuesday while the second accused Satish Kumar (19) surrendered before the police on Wednesday. Chandan’s father Vijay Rai is still evading arrest. RJD spokesperson Chittaranjan Gagan said, “The girl could have been saved if she received good treatment and attention. Police acted after she died. The accused should have been arrested much earlier, but it didn’t happen due to pressure on the police. The matter was hushed up due to pressure from the ruling parties as the incident could have damaged them in the election.” BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand said their government has an unquestionable record of delivering justice. “The police and administration would ensure justice to the victim in this case too,” he added. Earlier, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav had attacked the NDA government in the state over the incident. State police ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar told TOI the delay in registration of FIR is under investigation. “This is a lapse on which action would be taken against the erring officers once found guilty,” the ADG said. Kumar further said the promptness with which this case needed to be dealt with was not shown by the outpost in-charge, which is why he was suspended. “Also, he did not periodically update his seniors about the incident,” Kumar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/desari-case-police-failed-to-act-under-govt-pressure-says-rjd/articleshow/79309781.cms||Debashish Karmakar
November 20, 2020||Patna||Tejashwi holds Nitish responsible as education minister quits||PATNA: JD(U) legislator and education minister Mewalal Choudhary’s resignation on Thursday came as an embarrassment for the Nitish Kumar government as the RJD-led opposition had mounted a sustained attack on the issue for the past few days. Not surprisingly, RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Thursday posted a couple of tweets holding the CM responsible for Choudhary’s appointment. “You had knowingly made a corrupt person a minister. Despite public outrage, you allowed him to take charge as minister and now a drama is being enacted,” Tejashwi said in his tweet. He added, “The responsibility lies with you. Why did you make him a minister? Double standards and ‘nautanki’ will not be allowed to pass.” However, JD(U) did not take Tejashwi’s attack lying down. “You talk of ethics and morality only for show. Our CM has once again shown that he does not tolerate corruption. He takes action in such cases immediately and does not flinch,” state JD(U) chief spokesman Sanjay Singh said, adding Tejashwi should first look into his corruption issues, and then look at others. JD(U)’s rebuttal of Tejashwi led to more attack from the other opposition parties. “It is under public pressure and also under the mounting pressure from the opposition parties that the CM has asked Mewalal Choudhary to resign,” state CPI(ML) secretary Kunal said on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejashwi-holds-nitish-responsible-as-education-minister-quits/articleshow/79309824.cms||Abhay Singh
November 20, 2020||Kolkata||Premier clubs in Lake area shut today||KOLKATA: All the premier clubs in the Lake area will be closed on Friday due to Chhat puja following a KMDA directive. However, most will go back to their normal routines from Sat-urday evening. Some vintage clubs in the area, like Anderson Club and Calcutta Sports Club, are yet to open doors for members since the first phase of lockdown due to restrictions at the Lake. They will remain close for some more time. Others, like Calcutta Rowing Club, Bengal Rowing Club and Lake Club, had reopened from September, in various phases of unlocking. “Our club will be closed on Friday. We have spoken to BRC and they, too, will not allow any member in on Friday. We will resume operation from Saturday evening,” said secretary of CRC Chandan Roychowdhury said. Lake Club secretary Subrata Guha said that they are yet to see the KMDA order but would abide by it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/premier-clubs-in-lake-area-shut-today/articleshow/79311041.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Kolkata||Prominent cinemas to down shutters today in Kolkata, wait for new releases to reopen||KOLKATA: Diwali is over and cinemas in the city are to ground zero. Priya, Menoka, Ajanta, Asoka, Prachi, Jaya and Rupasi will shut down on Friday. The move comes despite four Soumitra Chatterjee movies — ‘Belaseshe’, ‘Sanjhbati’, ‘Praktan’ and ‘Posto’ — re-releasing as a tribute to the legend who passed away on Sunday. According to exhibitors, the footfall will not be enough for great business. They want to reopen as soon as a big Hindi movie is released. Arijit Dutta, owner of Priya, told TOI that the low footfall was costing him more to keep his cinema open than shut. According to Pranab Kumar Roy, owner of Menoka, the footfall had been so low that it was difficult to run the facility. Satadeep Saha, co-owner of Ajanta Cinema, said people were just not ready for cinemas yet. Rituparna Sengupta, whose ‘Praktan’ is re-releasing this week, was upset over prominent theatres shutting down at a time when homage is being paid to the legendary Chatterjee. “Over six decades, Soumitra Chatterjee has given so much to the industry. Apart from previous hits, his recent movies like ‘Belaseshe’ and ‘Praktan’ were huge hits. Can’t the exhibitors have a little patience to keep the cinemas open when his movies are re-releasing? The situation is unprecedented. We have all suffered losses. But shutting down is not the way out,” Sengupta said. What has rattled her further is the argument that Bengali cinemas can’t survive without big Hindi releases. “Our industry has seen Bengali cinema making money. In the absence of Hindi films at a time like this, we need to support each other and try to make our industry self-dependent. Theatre owners had been cribbing about halls being shut during lockdown and requesting everyone to open up. Now, why can’t they be a little patient and wait for the business to pick up?” she wondered. However, Dev, whose ‘Sanjhbati’ is also re-releasing, doesn’t blame the theatre owners for shutting down. “It is a Catch-22 situation. I went to watch ‘Switzerland’ on Wednesday. It is a sweet film, but there were so few people in the theatres. How can an exhibitor survive this way? I have big films ready, but can’t release them at this moment. The permitted occupancy is just 50% of the capacity. Couples and families have to sit far from each other. All these factors are impacting the footfall.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/prominent-cinemas-to-down-shutters-today-wait-for-new-releases-to-reopen/articleshow/79310721.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
November 20, 2020||Meerut||NSA extended on three accused of cow slaughter lodged in jail||Meerut: The stringent National Security Act (NSA) slapped on three criminals lodged in jail in connection with multiple cases lodged against them under the Prohibition of Cow Slaughter Act was extended further. The accused — also booked under the Gangster Act — have been identified as Furkaan, Shoib and Tahir. “They are notorious criminals whose names would often come up in cow slaughter cases. We have extended the NSA slapped on them further,” said Avinash Pandey, superintendent of police (rural). The Uttar Pradesh Police has been monitoring cases of cow slaughter strictly. Earlier this month, Badaun district authorities had recommended slapping of NSA on 11 people arrested in connection with cow slaughter cases. According to senior police officials, of the 1,324 cases of cow slaughter registered in 2020 by June-end, police got NSA invoked against 44 of them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/nsa-extended-on-three-accused-of-cow-slaughter-lodged-in-jail/articleshow/79307553.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Thane||At 1.7km, Thane set to get urban Maharashtra’s longest road tunnel: MP||THANE: The six-lane Airoli-Katai freeway, being constructed by MMRDA, will have nearly-1.7 km twin tunnels, possibly the longest in urban Maharashtra. “The tunnel will start from the hills beyond Kalyan Phata and open up behind Bharat Bijlee plant at Airoli. On completion, it will be the longest tunnel to be constructed in the urban segments of Maharashtra. The project will drastically reduce travel time between Thane suburbs of Kalyan-Dombivli, Badlapur and Mumbai,” said Shiv Sena MP Shrikant Shinde after a survey with MMRDA officials of the elevated road project on Thursday. He said the first phase from Katai junction (Kalyan-Shil road) to Belapur highway, including the tunnel, would be completed by September 2021. The second phase, connecting Belapur highway to Airoli, would be taken up after relevant approvals from the state. The six-lane highway, which will be largely elevated, will start ahead of the Katai naka on the Kalyan-Shil road and run over the Panvel Mumbra highway and join the Thane-Belapur highway after boring through the Parsik hills. The twin tunnels, informed Shinde, will have independent tubes of three lanes each and an emergency lane. The twin tubes, at a distance of 10m from each other, will be connected at regular intervals for emergency exits. “Work on boring the tunnels on either ends has started, while the one on the Airoli-Mumbra lane at the Shil end will start soon,” he said. The cost of the first phase of the 3.5-km road work, including the tunnels, is Rs382cr. Regular commuters and traffic officials said travel between Thane suburbs and Mumbai is plagued with massive delays and it takes nearly three hours to reach the Thane-Mumbai fringes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/at-1-7km-thane-set-to-get-urban-mahas-longest-road-tunnel-mp/articleshow/79312567.cms||Manoj Badgeri
November 20, 2020||Kolkata||Hospitals mull Covid bed cut as non-Covid cases rise in Kolkata||KOLKATA: A spurt in the number of non-Covid patients — which is expected to rise further as winter sets in — since late-October has left private hospitals in Kolkata filled to capacity. At least three hospitals are now mulling ‘rationalization’ of beds to conduct more planned surgeries and emergency non-Covid treatment that were held back as the pandemic raged and Covid units were expanded. Over the last three weeks, hospitals have seen occupancy of non-Covid beds rise from 60% to full capacity on an average. All the 166 non-Covid beds at Peerless Hospital are occupied while 5% of non-critical Covid beds remain vacant. “Surgeries that had been deferred have now turned urgent. Ailments like cardiac diseases and lung infections see a spurt in winter. Moreover, hundreds of patients from the suburbs, who couldn’t get treatment during the lockdown are now desperate to get treated. These factors have pushed up the demand for non-Covid beds. The only option now is to reduce the number of Covid beds,” said Peerless Hospital CEO Sudipta Mitra. Medica Superspecialty Hospital’s 160-bed non-Covid unit has been full since last week. With the queue of patients waiting for admission getting longer, a reduction in the number of Covid beds could just be a matter of time, felt the authorities. “While all our critical care Covid beds remain occupied, vacancies are now frequent at the general ward. Demand for non-Covid beds, on the other hand, have doubled. We can have more beds only by squeezing a unit,” said chairperson Alok Roy. Out of AMRI Hospitals’s 350 non-Covid beds across its three units, 320 are occupied. The hospital authorities expect the vacancies to be filled in two-three days. “There has been a sharp rise in the number of planned surgeries and admissions that were deferred due to the lockdown,” said AMRI CEO Rupak Barua. He added that while the possibility of a reduction in Covid beds is not being ruled out, it will not be done immediately. Another private hospital said it was keen to reduce its Covid beds now that the flow of non-critical patients has ebbed. RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences has 25% vacancy at its 130-bed Covid unit. “We have more than 300 non-Covid patients at the hospital. This is severely straining treatment of non-Covid patients. However, we have no plans on reducing Covid beds until we have clearance from the authorities,” said zonal director R Venkatesh. Number of Covid patients has dropped at ILS Hospital, said group vice-president Debasish Dhar. “We wish to observe the trend for some time before taking a call on reduction of Covid beds,” said Dhar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hosps-mull-cov-bed-cut-as-non-cov-cases-rise/articleshow/79310723.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
November 20, 2020||Goa||Goa to embark on hiring spree to fill over 10,000 jobs from December||PANAJI: With green-shoots in Goa’s economy improving the state’s finances, chief minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday said that the freeze on government recruitment will be lifted and the process to recruit over 10,000 people — one of the largest recruitment drive — will begin from December 1. Sawant also said that departments would be asked to take up infrastructure projects, particularly the ones initiated earlier.  Currently, Goa has approximately 65,000 state government employees, including those in autonomous and semi-autonomous bodies. “There was even a ban on contractual recruitment,” he said, adding that departments wanting to take up work had to take special permission. Over the last two to three months, the economy has started recovering, the chief minister said. “Following the finance department’s review, it was decided to speed up work. We have asked the departments to take up new projects from December 1,” Sawant told reporters. If one takes GST collections as a barometer for economic recovery, October saw GST collections nearly match the Rs 311 crore collected a year ago. However, despite the improvement, Goa’s GST mop-up remains lower than the national average. The revival of tourism, along with the periodic release of funds to meet the GST compensation gap has buoyed the state’s coffers and given Sawant some breathing space. An office memorandum issued by then finance secretary Daulat Hawaldar, in March, had stated, “defer recruitment in all the government departments, autonomous bodies/state PSUs/local bodies receiving grants from the state up to December 2020”. The memorandum had stated that the government will stop granting expenditure approvals for infrastructure projects till December even if the project has received administrative approval. This had a bearing on projects initiated by government departments, as well as corporations, state undertakings and panchayats and municipalities, except projects partly or wholly funded by Centre or deposit works. Sawant said that there are 1,200 vacancies in police and 1,400 in accounts. Posts of nurses in the health department and LDCs will also be filled, he said. “If we have to do planning for the future then we have to fill these posts and the procedure to fill the posts will have to start now. The process will be completed within the next two months. Soon, departments will issue advertisements,” he said. The chief minister said that the government will decide whether to recruit through the staff selection committee or not as the state is coming out from the pandemic. “The staff selection committee may give no objection certificates (NOCs) to the departments to fill the vacancies directly,” he said. Sawant said that if required at a time 10,000 people can appear for staff selection committee exams, but we will finalise the criteria so that technical posts can be taken out from the ambit of the staff selection committee. On the mining petition in the Supreme Court, Sawant said that due to Covid-19, the case has not come up for hearing and the state government is following the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-to-embark-on-hiring-spree-to-fill-over-10000-jobs-from-dec/articleshow/79312308.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Ludhiana||Power cuts have become routine, complain Ludhianvis||LUDHIANA: The government’s tall claims promising uninterrupted electricity to the residents have fallen flat, as residents in various localities said they are facing long power cuts. A businessman on Gill Road, Satish Bhatia, said, “Most of the time there are power cuts in the industrial areas, which are leading to losses. Production is affected badly because of this.” With Covid-19, the problem is felt even more acutely as work from home and online education have become the norm. “Power cuts are the biggest problem in our city. Lots of people suffer because of it. I had my college presentation yesterday, which I have to cancel just because my laptop was not charged and my phone’s battery was also almost dead,” said Dhrone Makker, a student from Rishi Nagar. Paramjeet Kaur, a house wife who lives in New Model Town, said, “Power cuts used to be frequent in summers. It was not the case during winters usually. But now everything is changed. There are power cuts every now and then, which is making it a lot difficult to do the daily chores even. All work come to a stop till the power comes. The power stays only for few hours.” Superintendent engineer, east, Mandeep Singh said in some areas due to the change in weather some problems occurred. “But we have resolved them as soon as we got the complaints,” he added. "We are preparing for the next summer. Essential work like pruning trees and new wiring are being done in different areas of Ludhiana. Due to that we have scheduled power cuts and inform the public through newspapers so that people can be prepared,” said superintendent engineer, west, Sanjeev Prabhakar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/power-cuts-have-become-routine-complain-ludhianvis/articleshow/79311983.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Firefighter's lives still don't matter||LUDHIANA: Three years have gone by since the fire accident in Amarsons Polymers in Suffian Chowk in which a building collapsed, killing 16 people, including nine fire fighters. But for the families of those brave fire fighters, the tragic incident is still fresh in their minds. After much prodding, the gallantry were announced in 2019 and finally given in January. But the families are yet to see other benefits, including monthly allowance, discount at rail and air travel and concession in school admission, to name a few. Even for the promised jobs for the next of kin, three are still in files. The nine firemen who lost their lives included Rajinder Sharma (sub fire officer) Samaon Gill (sub fire officer), Rajkumar (sub fire officer), Puran Singh (leading fireman), Rajan Singh (fireman), Vishal Kumar (fireman), Manohar Lal (leading fireman), Manpreet Singh (fireman) and Sukhdev Singh (fireman). Wife of Rajkumar, Manjit Kaur said, “We were given the compensation and ex gratia announced at the time of the incident and job was also given to my younger son, but we were not given the benefits like rebate in education for children, free travel in train and a fixed sum every month to the family.” She said they do not know who they should contact. Meanwhile, Malkit Singh, father of Manpreet, who was a contractual employee, said, “I had lost my only son and for job we had recommended the name of my daughter, but till date file is moving from one office to another. We were told to wait as local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra is to sign the letter but we were told that due to coronavirus he is not attending the office. Covid-19 was spread in March, but our case was pending for three years.” He said officials tell him that since his son was recruited through PESCO, it is taking long time to get job on compassionate grounds. Asha Rani, mother of Vishal Kumar, said, “Vishal had left two sons behind and his wife had died earlier. So, now I am taking care of both kids. During lockdown, it became difficult to handle the situation. We wanted the job on compassionate ground for Vishal’s brother, but nothing has been done till date.” She said even after getting gallantry award they did not get any benefits from the government. “At least for education, they should have been given the benefits,” she added. Municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “We have sent reminders for the benefits as well as the jobs for the contractual employees and I have to check whether we got any reply from officials concerned.” Inquiry report never made public At the time of the incident, chief minister Amarinder Singh while visiting the spot had marked an inquiry about incident, but till date inquiry report was never made public. The families of departed souls have been asking the government to make the report public so that they would know exact cause of the tragic incident. No memorial in memory of departed souls After the death of nine firemen, the municipal corporation officials had planned to develop a memorial by dedicating a wall in a park in Kidwai Nagar where graffiti could be done with a simple message about fire brigade contribution. This park is located near the incident site. The proposal was made in January 2018, but it did not materialise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/yet-to-get-benefits-announced-after-3-yrs-firemens-kin/articleshow/79311982.cms||Nidhi Bhardwaj
November 20, 2020||India||Nagrota: Yet another success of new border grid||NEW DELHI: The interception and killing of four Jaish e Mohammad terrorists in Nagrota, Jammu & Kashmir is being seen as as yet another success of the border grid in J&K that was strengthened this year by combining strict surveillance by Army and BSF troops at the LoC/international border with Pakistan, with good presence and higher alertness levels of J&K police in border districts to intercept and neutralise terrorists who manage to sneak in, before they can strike. It is thanks to this robust anti-infiltration strategy, J&K police sources claim, that cross-border movement of terrorists from Pakistan till October this year was down to 38% of the levels witnessed in the corresponding period of 2019. According to J&K infiltration data accessed by TOI, 77 terrorists attempted to sneak into J&K from Pakistan till October this year, of which 17 were killed and 24 returned to Pakistan or Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK), while the remaining 36 succeeded in entering J&K. In the corresponding period of 2019, around 200 terrorists had attempted to infiltrate from Pakistan/PoK, of which 4 were killed, 62 returned and 135 managed to sneak into J&K. Interestingly, while 27 of the 46 infiltration attempts into Kashmir till October this year were successful, just 9 of the total 31 terrorists who tried to infiltrate from across the LoC/IB in Jammu region, could succeed. In 2019 too, 76% of the infiltration attempts into Kashmir region were successful, while the success rate in Jammu region was contained at 7%. A look at month-on-month infiltration figures suggests that infiltration attempts peaked in September this year with 20 attempts -- 10 each into Jammu region and Kashmir region -- though this was only half of the figure recorded in September last year. October, another traditional high-infiltration month as Pakistani outfits try to sneak in as many terrorists as possible before snow blocks the mountain passes, has recorded only 4 attempts this year, though none was successful. In October 2019, 26 terrorists had tried to infiltrate, 21 into Kashmir and 5 into Jammu region, of which 12 were successful. Incidentally, infiltration had picked up soon after the abrogation of Article 370 in J&K on August 5, 2019, with 112 terrorists attempting to cross over between August and October last year, including 80 of them successfully. During the same period this year, 26 terrorists tried to sneak in, though only 8 managed to get to the Indian side. Region wise, 46 infiltration attempts, including 27 successful ones, were made into Kashmir region till October this year, as against 176 (135 successful) in entire 2019. Infiltration attempts into Jammu stood at 31 till October this year, of which 9 were successful, as against 40 through 2019, of which only 3 were successful. Watch J&K: 4 terrorists killed by ISF in Nagrota||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nagrota-yet-another-success-of-new-border-grid/articleshow/79312957.cms||Bharti Jain
November 20, 2020||Goa||Layoffs inevitable, Goa needs economic re-imagination for revival: CII||PANAJI: Over three fourth of Goa’s private sector expects a significant decline in their turnover in 2020-21, while 67% of respondents in a survey carried out by the Confederation of Indian Industry – Goa said that they will be forced to lay off employees. Showing concern over the data, CII stated that in order to attract fresh investment and revive the state’s economy, Goa needs to urgently re-imagine itself. CII stated that government intervention such as online services, simplification of the investment processes and lower compliance costs can help industrial revival in the state. CII, in its report, urged the state government to set up a task force consisting of industry representatives, private legal experts and consultants to identify and eliminate redundant and conflicting processes and compliances.  “Goa is in urgent need for economic re-imagination,” stated the CII Young Indians report titled ‘Accelerating The Goan Economy’. The CII report stated that just six new MSME units with investment of over Rs 5 crore, employing more than 25 people, have come up in the last ten years in Goa. At the same time, the report said that Goa’s ranking on the ease of doing business index and investment potential index is poor. “For a state with a manageable size and a highly educated population there is much scope for improvement. This document has attempted to study pain points of the Goan economy and suggests actionable interventions from the state government,” said the report. Chief minister Pramod Sawant released the report and has assured CII representatives that he will study the challenges identified and the recommendations. The CII report also stated that the cost of doing business and complying with government norms is exorbitantly high in Goa. “It is necessary to audit cost of doing business in terms of cost of various compliances and fees to be paid,” the report stated. CII has urged the government to focus on agriculture, particularly high value crops that provide adequate returns. The state should consider building a Mega Food Park (MFP) with assistance from Pradhan Mantri Kisan Sampada Yojana (PMKSY), the report read. CII also stated that a single window platform for all government services should be implemented and the functioning of the platform should be monitored by a task force and the chief minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cii-layoffs-inevitable-goa-needs-economic-re-imagination-for-revival/articleshow/79312407.cms||Newton Sequeira
November 20, 2020||Hyderabad||No deal with MIM, TRS will win 10 seats in Old City: KT Rama Rao||HYDERABAD: TRS working president, KT Rama Rao, said on Thursday that his party had no understanding with Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections. He also said that like in 2016 they would contest in all 150 wards in the city. The comment came at a time when BJP has claimed TRS and AIMIM have a secret understanding where they put up weak candidates in select seats and that TRS may even give the mayor’s seats to AIMIM. KTR has ridiculed both claims. “We will defeat AIMIM and get at least 10 seats in the Old City,” he said at a ‘meet the press’ event. “In 2016, TRS won IS Sadan, Moosarambagh, Jiyaguda and Gudi Malkapur and Mangalhat and lost Jambagh with just five votes. This time we will double the seats.” He was also certain that his party’s candidate would become mayor. He insisted that AIMIM’s support was purely issue-based. “Our party supported NDA on GST in Parliament. This does not mean we have an understanding,” he said. “TRS is not any other party’s B-team.” KTR: Party winning elections with efforts of leaders, workersKTR also refused to accept the argument that BJP was growing in Telangana because TRS weakened the Congress by making many of their MLAs join them. “The Congress weakened because of its internal issues and organisational problems,” he said. “Congress and BJP have to decide which of the two want to play the role of the main opposition for TRS in the elections.” On whether he would take on a bigger role after the polls, KTR said he was happy in his present position. “Under the able leadership of KCR, the state is progressing. The party is winning elections with the efforts of leaders and party workers,” he said. Blaming the BJP, the minister said opposition parties were trying to politicise the flood relief issue. “Telangana CM had asked for Rs 650 crore relief for flood damages in the city. The Centre had released the amount to Karnataka and other states like Gujarat while there was no response to the Telangana government’s request even six weeks after CM wrote to them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-deal-with-mim-trs-will-win-10-seats-in-old-city-ktr/articleshow/79312570.cms||Koride Mahesh
November 20, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Special drive for opening of Sukanya Samridhi accounts||LUDHIANA: A special drive for opening Sukanya Samridhi accounts for girl child till 10 years old has been started in Ludhiana city division, which will run up to November 28. Under this scheme, accounts can be opened with initial deposit of Rs 250 by parents or legal guardian of girl child for maximum of two children. Only one account can be opened for a girl child in whole of India. A maximum of Rs 1,50,000 can be deposited in one financial year under this scheme, which is tax free under Section 80C. With this scheme offering a rate of interest fixed at 7.6 % in the current financial year, income tax rebate under Section 80C and tax free maturity amount, people can enjoy the bundle of advantages it offers by opening an account of their daughters from 0 to 10 years of age. Sukanya Samridhi accounts can be opened in any post office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/special-drive-for-opening-of-sukanya-samridhi-accounts/articleshow/79311986.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: NTSE online lecture from November 23 to 28||Ludhiana: The school education department has arranged special lectures for the students appearing in the National Talent search Examination (NTSE, Stage-1). The department has drawn up a programme of motivational lectures for the students appearing in the NTS Examination. The online lecture will be held daily from November 23 to November 28, between 12.30pm and 1.30pm. The lecture and webinar will be on the YouTube channel. The lecture will be given by Gulshan Sharma, a corporate trainer. NTSE is a talent-based an evaluation system for students of Class X whose exam is scheduled on December 13, it is based on the central and state syllabus and can be quite intensive. As a result, many students tend to fear the examination and do not take part in it. After clearing the NTSE, successful candidates get a sum of Rs 1,250 per month for pursuing higher secondary studies and Rs 2,000 per month for undergraduate and postgraduate courses. So far 32,000 students of Class X of government schools all over Punjab have registered for the examination and over 3,000 from Ludhiana district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ntse-online-lecture-from-nov-23-to-28/articleshow/79311984.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Meerut||Two groups clash in Shamli, one arrested||Muzaffarnagar: A video of two groups lobbing bricks and hitting one another with lathis in Shamli’s Kalendershah colony on Thursday morning went viral on social media as it was captured on camera by bystanders. Police rushed to the spot. So far, one person has been arrested and a hunt is on to nab the others. An FIR has been filed in the matter and a probe has been set up. The two groups were from the same caste and belonged to the same neighbourhood. An old enmity is said to be the reason for the clash but the immediate provocation was a minor dispute, police said. The video showed the mob using lathis and belts for hitting one another and throwing bricks. Several people were injured and were e taken to hospital, sources said. Satpal Singh, station house officer, Shamli police station (Sadar), said, "A case has been registered in the matter and further investigation is on. Action will be taken accordingly."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/two-groups-clash-in-shamli-one-arrested/articleshow/79307567.cms||Mohd Dilshad
November 20, 2020||Kochi||Kochi ranked 10 among smart cities, work gains momentum||KOCHI: Smart City project which was progressing at snail’s pace for the past five years, has finally gained some momentum, it seems. As per Centre’s latest Smart City ranking, Kochi is now in 10th position. Delay in project implementation had pushed Smart City Kochi’s rank to 65.  “In the past few months we worked hard and made improvements in project implementation. Now, we are in the 10th position as we steadily increased the weekly ranking,” said Jafar Malik, chief executive officer, Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML). “We have either started or awarded work of around 75% projects. Many could be completed by December 31, 2020, while some other works would be completed by March 31, 2021,” he said. As per the original schedule, all projects under CSML should have been completed by March, 2020. “We have got extension till March 2021. Going by the fact that many cities are yet to achieve the targets, chances are high for the deadline extending to March, 2022,” an official with CSML said. According to CSML officials, work on projects like Dutch Palace entry area in Fort Kochi, open air theatre in Fort Kochi, Marine Drive walkway renovation along Tata canal-Kettuvallam bridge, upgradation of Abraham Madamackal Road into a smart road, renovation of 25 roads in Ernakulam and 15 in Fort Kochi would be completed by December 31. Upgradation of D H Road and Park Avenue Road into smart roads, renovation of 15 roads in Ernakulam and 48 in Fort Kochi area, renovation of Fort Kochi taluk hospital, renovation of Mattanchery taluk hospital, development of open spaces and freedom struggle museum, integrated city surveillance system and renovation of remaining stretch of Marine Drive walkway are the projects which would be completed by March 31, 2021. On Marine Drive, CSML authorities are planning to construct two public toilets which will be made using containers. A public toilet will be constructed near Vasco Da Gama Square as well. CSML authorities had started a project to convert P T Usha Road into a night shopping area. As per the plan, traffic will be blocked during night and one side of the road would be used for parking vehicles of those coming for shopping. On the other side, there will be various shops and eateries. The movable shops will be shifted from the spot in the next morning. There is also a plan to use an auditorium in the nearby area for enriching the night life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kochi-ranked-10-among-smart-cities-work-gains-momentum/articleshow/79309640.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Nagpur||Std XII pass out, 8 others dupe 15,000 investors of Rs70 cr||Nagpur: Vijay Gurnule, 39, who has passed Standard XII, allegedly masterminded a Rs70 crore fraud along with his accomplices and duped around 15,000 investors across at least 10 states. He kept promising investors lucrative returns from various schemes of real estate, crypto-currency, stock market and multi-level marketing. Avinash Mahadole, a government employee, has also been arrested for his role in the racket.Rana Pratap Nagar police team were involved in a dramatic chase of over 25km to nab Gurnule, who also tried to jump out of the car and flee into the bushes, in the early hours of Thursday. Police also arrested his aide Devendra Gajbhiye later in the day. Gurnule, who had floated three different schemes to dupe depositors since 2015, has been remanded to police custody for 14 days after he was produced before the court.Zonal DCP Noorul Hassan, while addressing the media along with Addl CPs Dilip Zalke, Navinchandra Reddy and senior inspector Bhimrao Khandale of Rana Pratap Nagar police station, said so far nine persons have been arrested while more could be taken into custody. “Gurnule and the racket had so far floated three companies, Metro Vision Buildcon India Limited, Real Trade (since April this year), and Metro Coin (October this year) to dupe gullible investors by floating various schemes offering lucrative returns,” said Hassan.The DCP and Addl CP Reddy were instrumental in registering the offence and also picking up the key racketeers. “From the cash flow and payouts in various documents, we can state that the racketeers had duped people of Rs70 crore, and this figure could go up to Rs100 crore,” said the DCP.Hassan said a special team comprising two sub-inspectors of Rana Pratap Nagar police station would be formed to probe the case. “We would request an officer of the inspector rank from the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) to be part of the team. Professionals like chartered accountants, company secretaries and so on would also hired,” said the DCP.Hassan said Gurnule and others had floated the first scheme of Metro Vision Buildcon India Limited, where he had offered depositors investment in a real estate scheme from where lucrative returns were promised. “Gurnule had purchased 10 acre land at Karanja and projected it as his scheme to the depositors, where they could invest money and get either a plot or monetary returns on a monthly basis,” he said.“After failing to pay the depositors, Gurnule had floated ‘Real Trade’, where he offered weekly returns and also had made some payments to gain confidence of depositors. He had later floated the crypto-currency scheme offering double returns,” said the DCP. Addl CP Zalke said the racketeers mostly targeted middle and lower income groups, who could be easily drawn into the trap.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/std-xii-pass-out-8-others-dupe-15000-investors-of-rs70-cr/articleshow/79309649.cms||Soumitra Bose
November 20, 2020||Ludhiana||Chhath puja: Devotees all set for evening ritual at Satluj, Sidhwan canal||LUDHIANA: For Chhath puja, devotees will gather at the banks of nearest water bodies for paying obeisance to sun on Friday evening. The organisers have already made arrangements at the banks of Sidhwan Canal and Satluj for the celebrations. However, due to Covid-19, the organisers are told to take preventive measures like masks, sanitisers and social distancing. The devotees, however, showed dissatisfaction over late release of water in Sidhwan Canal. Deepak Kanojia, president of Navyuvak Sewa Society, which organises Chhath puja at Sidhwan Canal for devotees, said, “On Friday, by 4pm, devotees will offer water and milk to sun and then on Saturday with morning offerings Chaath puja will get completed.” He said the water has been released late in the canal and it will create problems for the devotees. He said they had a meeting with the commissioner of police and deputy commissioner who had asked them to keep in mind Covid-19 restrictions. “We will keep masks and sanitisers ready and almost 40 security guards will be keeping an eye on devotees. Only those devotees who are fasting will be allowed to enter the water,” added Kanojia. Abhilesh Kumar, another organiser, said the water in canal was released on Thursday, whereas they were promised that it will be released by Wednesday. He said now when water has been released it is still dirty and it takes at least two days for the water to become clear. He said the devotees are little bit disappointed over the same. He assured that they will try to take all preventive measures at the time of celebrations. Chhath puja is already being celebrated by the devotees for the last two days and on Thursday they first prepared kheer and roti in earth stove and offered to God. Some of the devotees also have made arrangements at small ponds near their localities for performing the rituals instead of going to the canal or river. The families are busy in purchasing new clothes and other goods for celebrating the festival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/chhath-puja-devotees-all-set-for-evening-ritual-at-satluj-sidhwan-canal/articleshow/79311987.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Kochi||Collector’s order on elephants upheld by Kerala HC||KOCHI: The high court has declined to interfere with Ernakulam district collector’s order limiting the number of elephants carrying the idol of Sree Poornathrayeesa Temple of Tripunithura as part of Vrischikolsavam to two. The temple advisory committee had sought permission for 15 elephants. The decision by a division bench comprising Justice K Vinod Chandran and Justice TR Ravi came while considering a petition by Prakash Iyer, president of Sree Poornathreeyasa Kshethra Upadesaka Samithi.It was contended by the petitioner that the idol should be taken out with the accompaniment of 15 elephants. It is based on the belief that a great and pious saint perceived the deity on 15 elephants on the specific day coming within the ‘Vrishchikolsavam’, the court was told. The court said the order was passed by the district collector after assessing the situation prevailing in the district and the court does not have any material before it to interfere with such a decision. Dismissing the petition at the outset itself, the court said in the order, “Re-enactment of what a pious soul perceived in his mind’s eye cannot be in these unprecedented times when the virus has reared its ugly head all over the world and within the country; successfully holding the entire human race to ransom. We have nothing before us to interfere with the order of the district collector, who in the given circumstances is the authority to best assess the situation, based on ground realities. The petitioner too but for asserting that the impugned order is illegal has not substantiated that allegation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/collectors-order-on-elephants-upheld-by-hc/articleshow/79309646.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Dehradun||Education department to file report on absent students||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand education department has asked its officials across the state to file a report regarding the students’ attendance in the government-run schools. The report will comprise the list of absent children and will be later submitted to the labour department. The decision was taken after the education department observed low attendance during the online classes, and also after the schools reopened in the state for classes 10 and 12 this month. With the labour department’s assistance, the children will be brought back to the school if they are found working as labourers to support their families. A list will be compiled every month of those students who were absent from the classes for one month or more, and later, the report will be submitted to the assistant labour commissioner of the respective district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/education-department-to-file-report-on-absent-students/articleshow/79309657.cms||Mohammad Anab
November 20, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Mere WhatsApp chats not evidence of drug peddling, says NDPS court||MUMBAI: Granting bail to an Australian architect arrested by the NCB, a special Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act court on Thursday held that, at this stage, his WhatsApp messages with a co-accused are not substantial and sufficient to hold that he was a drug peddler. Paul Bartels was arrested last week for alleged procurement and consumption of contraband. While officials did not find any contraband in his Santacruz flat, they claimed to have come across his WhatsApp chats allegedly discussing drugs. This is the case the NCB has been probing in connection with actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. “In the absence of any substantial material, taking into account the fact that no contraband material was found from the accused, and except for the statement of co-accused and WhatsApp messages, there is no substantial material to treat the accused as a peddler or supplier of drugs, it may not be justified to refuse to extend the concession of bail,” special judge H S Satbhai said. The court further said that in case, in the future, cogent material is collected by the NCB, demonstrating Bartels’s role as a peddler or supplier of drugs, then the scenario would be different. “The fact that the NCB, after arrest of the accused, on his production before the metropolitan magistrate, did not ask for his NCB custody, goes to show that there was no material available with the NCB to interrogate the accused and to make further investigation, explaining that he is not a consumer of the drugs…” Bartels has to surrender his passport to the NCB. Seeking bail, senior counsel Abad Ponda and advocate Subhash Jadhav told the court that Bartels had a clean record and was in the country for over six years. “...Being in prison for a false and concocted case would ruin his life, career, and future prospects,” his plea said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mere-whatsapp-chats-not-evidence-of-drug-peddling-ndps-court/articleshow/79312577.cms||Rebecca Samervel
November 20, 2020||Meerut||Haryana farmers destroy large tracts of crops in UP's Baghpat over land claims||Meerut: A fierce clash took place on the agricultural fields of Niwada village at the border of UP and Haryana over land claims, on Thursday. According to sources, farmers from Haryana barged into UP on tractors and destroyed a large part of standing crops. This led to a clash between the two sides, leaving some of them injured. Senior officials tried to bring the situation under control. Every year, mainly due to the changing course of Yamuna, post-Monsoon, territorial disputes emerge often leading to heated arguments and clashes. Niwada village pradhan, Sarvar Rana, said, "Though the matter is in high court, yet some elements from the other side [Haryana] indulge in violence. We are not going to tolerate this anymore. They destroyed our crops." Additional DM Baghpat, Amit Kumar, said, "I, along with senior police officials, visited the site and spoke to both sides and urged them not to indulge in any kind of violence. The matter pertaining to territorial issues is already being resolved at the respective governments' level. At administrative level we are in touch with Haryana officials." A few farmers were injured and they are being taken care of, Kumar added. Territorial disputes are not new here. Notably, on October 14, residents of Tanda village in Baraut tehsil of Baghpat staged a protest at the DM office demanding action against farmers of Haryana who had allegedly destroyed cane plantations in the area. In another development, farmers in Sonepat district of Haryana were attacked, allegedly by UP farmers, in which almost a dozen farmers of Jajal village were hurt. Six districts of western Uttar Pradesh - Shamli, Saharanpur, Baghpat, Gautam Budh Nagar, Bulandshahr and Aligarh - witness frequent clashes between farmers of the two states over ownership of farm fields along the inter-state border. In the backdrop of these clashes the two state governments have agreed to cooperate in resolving half a century old issue and on January 8 of this year, a meeting was held under the chairpersonship of divisional commissioner of Meerut Anita Meshram. It was then decided that pillars will be erected to demarcate the border between two states and following that Yamuna will no longer be the "border marker". The work, according to officials, is still in progress. At present, 132 villages of five districts of UP and 102 villages of six districts of Haryana are located along the border and have land possession issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/haryana-farmers-destroy-large-tracts-of-crops-in-ups-baghpat-over-land-claims/articleshow/79307581.cms||Sandeep Rai
November 20, 2020||Mangaluru||Apostolic Carmel Sisters celebrate 150 years in India||MANGALURU: Apostolic Carmel Sisters celebrated 150 years of their existence in India by observing a Eucharistic mass and a formal programme on Thursday. The journey of the religious order began on November 19, 1870. Three pioneering Apostolic Carmel sisters along with three cloistered Carmel sisters, set foot in Mangaluru and embarked on their mission of the empowerment of girl children through education. Of the three Cloistered Carmelites, one of these, Mariam Baouardi, has been canonized by Pope Francis on May 17, 2015, as St Mary of Jesus Crucified. Sr M Jeswina, former principal, St Agnes College, said it is learnt that in the 1870s, Mangaluru was a large village and part of British India. The thinking was not progressive either, and the quality of life of women was unenviable. Girls received no education and married while they were in their early teens. The Hunter Education Commission noted that in 1881 only 0.2% of the women of this part of India were literate. This prevailing scenario inspired the sisters to venture into female education as the first step to modernisation, and to be uplifted in society. Among them, St Agnes College is the first women’s college on the west coast of India, and the first in the entire country to be run by private management. Besides education, the Apostolic Carmel has catered to the needs of the marginalised in society and less privileged children, by building and running orphanages, social service centres, technical schools, schools and residences for differently abled children and adults, crèches, health care centres, counselling centres, homes for destitute, needlework centres, boarding homes and hostels, vocational courses, community colleges, homes for the aged and social welfare centres. The nuns have also adopted other ministries, institutions, programmes and causes in their parishes and its surrounding villages. These include prison ministry, SHGs, rescue homes, adult education and care for delinquents, to name a few.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/apostolic-carmel-sisters-celebrate-150-years-in-india/articleshow/79309655.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Vadodara||Trains to SoU gets in-principle approval from railway board||VADODARA: Yet another step was taken towards enhancing rail connectivity to the Statue of Unity (SoU) with the railway board granting in-principle approvals for extension of three trains and starting two new trains to Kevadia Colony. A circular on Friday gave in principle approval for extension of the 12927/12928 Vadodara-Mumbai Express, 20903/20904 Vadodara-Varanasi Mahamana Express and 20905/20906 Vadodara-Rewa Mahamana Express to Kevadiya upon commissioning of the Pratapnagar-Kevadiya new section. A similar approval was given for two MEMU trains between the Pratapnagar railway station in Vadodara and Kevadiya Colony. The efforts are in line with the ambitious plan to provide both air and rail connectivity to SoU. A seaplane service was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on October 31. While it was Dabhoi BJP MLA Shailesh Mehta, who shared the news of in principle approval for trains as the trains may also connect Dabhoi, railway officials confirmed it. Sources in the Vadodara division of the western railways said that the work on the rail connectivity to Kevadia was progressing well and would end soon. An official said that all efforts were being made to complete the work on the railway line within a couple of months. “Since the work is set to end very soon, the approval for trains has already been given. The progress on work is being closely monitored,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/trains-to-sou-gets-in-principle-approval-from-railway-board/articleshow/79309329.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Dehradun||SI, two constables suspended for misbehaving with public||Dehradun: A sub-inspector and two constables were suspended on Thursday for allegedly misbehaving with the public during a routine checking in Dehradun. Dehradun’s deputy inspector general (DIG) Arun Mohan Joshi took action against sub-inspector Devendra Gupta, posted at the Nehru Colony police station, after a video showing him misbehaving with a family was sent to the DIG by the complainant. "The sub-inspector has been suspended and the circle officer of Nehru Colony has been asked to hold an inquiry into the matter, and submit a report within three days," said DIG Joshi. In a separate incident, two constables posted at Rishikesh police station — Sanjay Saijwal and Neeraj Kumar — were also suspended over alleged misbehavior with the public. CO Rishikesh has been tasked to hold an inquiry into the matter. DIG Dehradun has warned the heads of all police stations that any type of misbehaviour with the public will not be tolerated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/si-two-constables-suspended-for-misbehaving-with-public/articleshow/79309676.cms||Gaurav Talwar
November 20, 2020||Meerut||Rs 3,700cr loan deal signed for Delhi-Gzb-Meerut RRTS project||Meerut: New Development Bank (NDB) has approved $500 million (around Rs 3,700 crore) for Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut RRTS project. Construction work is under progress in more than 50 km of the 82-km long Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut RRTS corridor. A loan agreement was signed on Thursday between the government of India and NDB for funding the corridor. The 82-km corridor, with a total project cost of Rs 30,274 crore, will be co-financed under parallel financing arrangement with the Asian Development Bank and the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank. Vinay Kumar Singh, managing director of National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC), an implementing agency of the project, said, “This is a unique multilateral funding arrangement. This loan agreement with NDB will be a shot in the arm for NCRTC’s efforts of developing the indigenous capacity to create a new age infrastructure for the new India." With features like multi-modal integration and interoperability, RRTS will lead to polycentric development and significantly curb pollution and congestion in NCR by providing fast, reliable, secure and all-weather connectivity, Singh added. Earlier in September of this year, a loan agreement of $500 million was signed with ADB for funding the corridor. The Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut RRTS corridor will have a total of 24 stations. It will be elevated for around 70.5 km while 11.5 km of its stretch will remain underground. Civil construction work is in progress on more than 50 km of this 82-km long corridor. The 17-km long priority section of the corridor between Sahibabad and Duhai is scheduled to commence operations in 2023. The entire corridor is slated to be opened to the public by 2025. CPRO of NCRTC Sudhir Sharma said, "The civil construction work is in progress in more than 50 km of the 82-km long Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut RRTS corridor." NCRTC, the implementing agency of RRTS, is a joint venture of the Centre (50%) and state governments of Haryana (12.5%), NCT Delhi (12.5%), Uttar Pradesh (12.5%) and Rajasthan (12.5%). It is mandated to design, construct, finance, operate and maintain RRTS in NCR and works under the administrative control of the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/rs-3700cr-loan-deal-signed-for-delhi-gzb-meerut-rrts-project/articleshow/79307594.cms||Sandeep Rai
November 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Rs 20k to each flood-hit family: Telagana BJP chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar||HYDERABAD: State BJP chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Thursday announced his party will provide financial assistance to the tune of Rs 20,000 to flood-hit families in the city if BJP wins the GHMC polls. “Whoever has lost furniture, bikes, cars, we will help them with funds from the Centre. We will also help those whose homes have been damaged in the recent floods,” he said. Criticising the government on the flood relief, he sought to know what has the government done for the state and for Hyderabad. “Every development work has been taken up by the Centre,” he said. He said the Citizenship Amendment Act that had been introduced by the Centre was meant to help people. “The NDA government passed the triple talaq bill to protect Muslim women,” he said. Meanwhile, BJP Yuva Morcha activists staged dharnas protesting against a letter being circulated on social media purportedly in the name of Sanjay. Reiterating his challenge to prove that a letter to the SEC was written by him, he dared the CM for a debate at Bhagyalakshmi temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rs-20k-to-each-flood-hit-family-sanjay/articleshow/79311995.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Chennai||Turmeric: The yellow gold for smugglers||On the night of July 21, the Mandapam police in coastal Ramanathapuram district received a tip on suspicious movement of a van near Vedhalai, a fishing hamlet. A police team swung into action at once and intercepted the vehicle, which was found to be full of gunny bags. "We presumed it would be ganja or some other contraband. But we were surprised to find the bags stuffed with turmeric fingers,’’ said a police officer. In all, there were about 600kg of turmeric in 15 bags, all set to be loaded onto a fishing boat and smuggled to Sri Lanka. The July 21 seizure was one of the earliest catches made in Ramanathapuram district, known for smuggling of sea cucumber and ganja through the sea route to the island nation and bringing back gold. Since then more than 12,000kg of turmeric has been seized in 15 incidents by various agencies like the coast guard, customs, marine and local police so far. Local police alone accounted for 6,250kg seized in five incidents. Turmeric has now turned out to be the most sought after commodity in smuggling circuits operating in eastern coast of Tamil Nadu, thanks to the skyrocketing demand in Sri Lanka, which was a fallout of a ban on import of the yellow spice by the Sri Lanka government. Import of spices, including turmeric, was banned on December 21, 2019, a little more than a month after Sri Lankan president Gotabaya Rajapaksa assumed office. The idea was to promote domestic cultivation and thereby local economy. But the country’s home-grown production was way lower than the demand. According to reports in SL media, the domestic production accounted for just 2,000 tonnes against a demand of nearly 7,000 tonnes.  Turmeric is widely used in Sri Lankan cuisine, but what sparked its surge in demand was Covid-19. As turmeric’s immunity boosting properties were rediscovered, packets began flying off the shelves in SL. As stocks depleted, people there were ready to shell out more money. That’s when racketeers sensed a business opportunity. "One kg of turmeric, procured at `90 to `150 in Tamil Nadu is sold for `2,000 to `4,000 a kg in Sri Lanka. This lured even those who were smuggling other contraband,’’ said an officer of the coastal security group. Traders in Erode say that SL ban had dealt a severe blow to their business. M Sathyamurthi, secretary of Erode turmeric merchants and godown owners association said they have faced loss of `50 crore in the past two months because of the import ban by SL. "Merchants and farmers from Erode were exporting one lakh bags to Sri Lanka from India, in a year,’’ he said. "Lankan authorities have strictly enforced the ban since September," Sathyamurthi said. He said a few traders, lured by better returns, began selling their produce, to smugglers who pose as buyers, well aware that they are meant for illegal sale in Lanka, say turmeric merchants. The consignment is brought from Erode and stocked near the coast. With Palk Bay being one of the oldest smuggling routes, some fishermen were roped in. Places like Vedaranayam and Kodiakkarai in Nagapattinam district, Dhanuskhodi and Vedhalai in Ramanathapuram district and a few desolate stretches in Tuticorin coast, the traditional landing and take off points for smuggled goods since LTTE days, were used for turmeric as well. The 320km sea shore in Ramanathapuram district makes it hard for authorities to keep vigil. Smugglers make use of this opportunity to peddle the spice in the island nation. Police say the racketeers connect through WhatsApp, striking deals and exchanging information on location and timings. "They choose nights to avoid being detected,’’ said a police officer. The boats set off for the international maritime boundary line, which is 13 nautical miles from Point Calimere. Sri Lankan smugglers locate their Indian counterpart with the help of GPS. The consignment is transferred mid-sea. "The Indian smugglers prefer to collect gold for the value of turmeric instead of money," said the officer. Inspector general of police (west zone) K Periaiah said turmeric is an agricultural commodity and police cannot check its movement from one district to another. "If we receive any complaints for illegal smuggling for turmeric, then we can take action,’’ he said. Another official said they face challenges while arresting and seizing turmeric since it is neither a contraband nor does it come under essential commodities. When intercepted, smugglers claim they are carrying it for local sales. "People involved in the crime can be booked only under the Passport Act for trying to leave the country without papers. It is not a crime, which attracts stringent action. Hence, they get bail easily and repeat the illegal activity," he said. Ramanathapuram superintendent of police E Karthick told TOI they have increased vigilance to prevent turmeric smuggling. "A few changes have been made in the intelligence unit to pre-empt smuggling attempts,’’ he said. Sathyamoorthy said that a better solution would be if the Indian government intervenes and ensures resumption of turmeric trade between the two countries. (With inputs from A Subburaj)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/turmeric-the-yellow-gold-for-smugglers/articleshow/79310904.cms||V Devanathan
November 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Nowicki to Ram Mandir: A touch of modern idiom||When Mathew Nowicki, a key member of the American team of architects and planners, originally tasked with the planning of Chandigarh, was evolving conceptual sketches for various types of buildings, he imbued them with Indian elements expressed in modern idiom. A temple design conceptualised by him had a shikhrain stylised modernism, though sans traditional adornments. Historically, Hindu temples had two broad styles - the Nagara style with a curvilinear spire above the garbh griha, the sanctum sanctorum prevalent in the north and the Vimana style in the South, defined by a corbelled pyramidal spire and gopuram gateways marking outer temple precincts with profuse sculptural ornamantations. Besides these distinctions, the ancillary halls for gatherings called mandapas were almost similar, topped by corbelled stone pyramidal roofs. The Ram temple design, recently showcased during the bhumi pujan (ground breaking) ceremony on August 5, 2020 by the Prime Minister is almost a derivation from the Nagara style 1059 AD Vishvanatha temple at Khujarao. Though much larger in scale and with additional mandapas than it. Why the Hindu temple form is so a-changing and timeless? Is it because of the ancient Hindu treatises like the vastu shilpa sastras that codify temple building with canonical texts? The temple is seen as a living embodiment of the vastu purusha mandala - the universal man connecting it to the cosmic forces. The sastras have detailed principles on siting, proportions and plans for individual dwellings, temples, villages and town plans. The walled city of Jaipur built in 1727 by Sawai Jai Singh II was based on a sacred mandala. A key feature of the religious structures is to tower above other mundane functions. In the Hindu temple, it is defined by the shikhara, in the Muslim mosque the same is manifested through domes and minarets, and in the Christian churches through campaniles (bell tower) and spires. The differences, however, are in the spatial needs and plans too of the three. In the Hindu temple, the communion of the devotee with the presiding deity is an individual encounter in the sanctum sanctorum, a dark small place. On the other hand, in the church or the mosque, there is a practice of mass congregation of worshippers coming together for prayers, thus requiring larger spaces. Quite interestingly, Corbusier, too, wanted to echo the ‘sacred’ in his sculptural Assembly building in the Capitol Complex, Chandigarh, with its unique form of a hyperboloid funnel at the top. There are innumerable examples of modern architects designing cathedrals in the new era idiom, including some landmark churches by Le Corbusier himself in France. Even the mosques have been given some minor modernist flourishes as designed by American architects in petro-rich gulf nations. In Chandigarh - some inheritors of Corbusier’s legacy too have evolving symbolic forms denoting the spirit of religious building expressed in the language and idiom of modernism. Notably, S D Sharma - a veteran architect who designed a gurdwara - seeking inspiration from the Sikh turban and turned it into an evocative dome above the main hall. Also, both Sharma and a younger local architect Surinder Bagha, have explored symbolic forms for building churches that encapsulate their quintessential religious ethos. Evoking the timeless in the sacred is an age old quest for the architects and shall remain so till eternity. But the Hindu temples are timeless.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/nowicki-to-ram-mandir-a-touch-of-modern-idiom/articleshow/79309684.cms||Rajnish Wattas
November 20, 2020||Nagpur||Second wave is in the offing, don’t let your guard down, warn experts||Nagpur: While government authorities are still not speaking openly about the possible Covid second wave, epidemiologists, infectious disease specialists and experts of community medicine have told TOI that it is inevitable. According to experts, as compared to first peak (in September), the second wave could be weaker in Nagpur, but stronger in districts like Gondia, Bhandara, and Gadchiroli where the number of cases were less during the September peak. On the same line, second wave may hit rural areas of Vidarbha hard. During the recent sero-survey results of Nagpur, antibodies were found in about 50% of the participants. But infectious disease specialist Dr Ashwini Tayade said this can’t be taken as a relief factor. “Sero prevalence is not 50% all throughout. Only a few areas have good sero-prevalence. All others are still susceptible. These specifically include periphery and a few other localities in the city too,” she said. “Moreover, we must understand that due to the change in virus strain, the perception of patients is changing. We are seeing sicker patients these days. People are now relaxed, missing out on initial symptoms, and are coming to hospitals very late,” Dr Tayade added. Based on the past pandemic’s experiences, Covid-19 can return with an even more lethal force. “Over a century ago, Spanish flu had far more devastating second wave and caused huge mass mortality. But being a new virus, it is not clear if Covid will follow the pattern,” said cardiologist Dr Hrushikesh Umalkar.According to epidemiologist Dr Nitin Thatte, “In winter, people are bound to stay indoors. This can increase the chances of virus transmission in an enclosed environments. Severe cold is predicted from December 15 onwards. So, we can expect second peak somewhere during January.” Quoting some international researchers, who have predicted that the current pandemic might last for more two to three years, physician Dr Jitendra Thakur said that many such peaks will come and go. “Pandemic is likely slowdown only when more than 65% of the population around the world achieves immunity. Till then, repeated smaller waves are supposed to appear consistently,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/second-wave-is-in-the-offing-dont-let-your-guard-down-warn-experts/articleshow/79309692.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 20, 2020||Goa||Goa: Preparations on for reopening, but schools unsure of attendance||PANAJI: Preparations are in full swing in high schools and higher secondary schools in the state for reopening for Class X and XII students from November 21. Work of creating awareness about school SOPs among parents through online and offline modes, preparing teachers to monitor students to avoid crowding, and sanitisation of school premises is presently in progress. However, many schools are unsure about whether students will attend in the planned numbers. Most have grouped students into small sections to be able to maintain social distancing. The teaching timetable has been planned only for a week as of now. Institutes want to wait and watch students numbers and a review of the SOPs and timetable will be done accordingly. “We are calling students in smaller groups and classes will be held for fewer hours from 9.30am to 1pm, as against the regular hours. Our online classes will continue for now simultaneously,” headmaster of Dr K B Hedgewar High School, Cujira, Vilas Satarkar, said. Former president of the Goa Headmasters’ Association, Vithoba Desai, said that schools are doing everything in their capacity to adhere to the DoE guidelines of sanitisation even though maintenance grants to aided schools have not been released by the government. However, he said parents are less than enthusiastic about sending students back to school. “We are not sure how many children will come after all the preparations. School reopening is scheduled from November 21, which is a Saturday. So the exact picture will be known by Monday. Most institutes are utilising the physical classes for practical work in the laboratories rather than full-fledged teaching. DoE has not clarified as of now what steps schools should take if students decide to remain absent,” Desai said. Merces-resident Akshata Bhat, whose son is a Class X student, said she is yet to make up her mind about whether her child will attend physical classes. “Despite the toll the pandemic has taken, you can see adults roaming around without masks and these are kids we are talking about. The SOPs look good only on paper, but how practical are they. How will teachers keep a watch on the actions of every student. Even though instructions from the school states that students will strictly not share books or any other item among themselves, students have to give books to the teacher where there will be books of other students lying, too,” said Bhat, a lawyer by profession. She said that students should be called to school only to conduct their practicals in the laboratories once or twice a week. “In cases where online classes are working fine, why should students be sent to school? I have not decided yet if I want to send him to school. At least at present I am not comfortable with sending him to school.” Institutes with larger student enrolment are facing the toughest challenge in framing their SOPs. Government Higher Secondary School at Sakhali offers all four streams of arts, commerce, science and vocational. “Each class teacher has made a chart of 12 students from the class who will attend school on one day. We are restricting the number of students attending school on a day to 50. Each student will be attending school only once or twice a week. On the first day, we will make a presentation of the plan to the parents. We have also made provision for thermal scanning of all those entering the school premises, besides providing extra sanitisers in the school,” said headmistress Asha Naik. Shantaji Naik Gaonkar from the management of Shree Katyayni Baneshwar Vidyalaya, Canacona, said that the institute had begun experimenting with physical classes even before the DoE instructions came to reopen schools for Class X and XII. “If parents see that all SOPs are followed and that the classes are beneficial to the students, they do not hesitate to send their children to school. At first, when a meeting was called for parents to discuss calling students back to school, only 50% parents attended it. But eventually even those who did not attend the meeting began sending their children for classes,” Naik Gaonkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/prep-on-for-reopening-but-schools-unsure-of-attendance/articleshow/79312337.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
November 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Malkajgiri voters raise a stink over defunct sewer network||HYDERABAD: Issue of sewerage is getting bigger in the run-up to the elections for Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC). Some residents in Malkajgiri GHMC circle said that in 2018, the government had announced it would solve sewerage problems of 12 municipal circles on the periphery. “How long should we suffer. We spent lakhs and built apartments, but the roads are filled with sewer water,” said a resident of the GHMC circle. “They should have resolved our problems on priority. But nothing happened,” said Dhanunjay, a resident of Safilguda. A detailed project report was prepared by HMWS&SB and was submitted for financial clearance of about Rs 3,700 crore. But as model code of conduct came into force, the project is in limbo. “Even as the state government is in the process of clearing this proposal, civic polls were announced,” said a senior official from HMWS&SB.  HMWS&SB general manager, Sainikpuri, AS Sunil Kumar said, “We used to resolve sewerage problems on priority when water board was in charge. But now it’s GHMC’s responsibility.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/malkajgiri-voters-raise-a-stink-over-defunct-sewer-network/articleshow/79311998.cms||Sunil Mungara
November 20, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand gets its first PET -CT scan||Dehradun: Uttarakhand got its first positron emission tomography–computed tomography (PET-CT) scan on Thursday after it was inaugurated at the Cancer Research Wing of Himalayan Institute of Medical Sciences in Jollygrant on Thursday. Vice-chancellor Dr. Vijay Dhasmana, who formally inaugurated the service, said the patients would no longer have to go out of the state for a PET-CT scan. "PET-CT scan has the best resolution for the detection of any abnormal growth inside the body. Very few hospitals in the country have this facility. The nuclear medicine department at our CRI was established in 2009 with a single head gamma camera which has now become the first PET-CT facility in the entire state of Uttarakhand," said Dhasmana. He added that this new PET-CT installation will be "a valuable asset" to the training course of undergraduate medical students, post-graduate students as well as paramedical students, as its application for research purpose is immense. The authorities of the institution said there are plans to further expand the clinical services of nuclear medicine by commencing high dose of radioiodine therapy for thyroid cancer in the coming years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-gets-its-first-pet-ct-scan/articleshow/79309681.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 20, 2020||Bareilly||Azam Khan’s close aide declared ‘absconder’ by Moradabad court||MORADABAD: Despite repeated directives, taking firm note of Samajwadi Party (SP) MP Azam Khan's close aide and former Rampur Municipality chairman Azhar Ahmed Khan's continued absence in a derogatory remark case, a Moradabad special court on Wednesday declared Azhar as an "absconder". The additional district and sessions judge of MP/MLA court also invoked section 82 of the CrPC. Sharing details, Munesh Bhatnagar, the additional district government counsel (ADGC), said, "At an event on June 30, 2019, Azam Khan made some objectionable remarks against Jaya Prada. Mustafa Hussain [Jaya pardha's PRO] then filed a complaint against at least seven persons, including Azam Khan, ST Hasan [Moradabad MP], Feroz Khan [Sambhal's SP district president] and Azhar Ahmed Khan, at the Rampur Civil Lines police station. Later, the case was transferred to Moradabad due to its jurisdiction." "An FIR was registered under IPC sections 294 (obscene acts and songs), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty)," Bhatnagar added, stressing that the court had granted anticipatory bail to ST Hassan along with five others. "Now, after Thursday's declaration, if Azhar Ahmed fails to appear before the court within the next 30 days, then a process to attach his property will be initiated by police under section 83 of CrPC, according to the court order," the ADGC further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/azam-khans-close-aide-declared-absconder-by-moradabad-court/articleshow/79308487.cms||Nazar Abbas
November 20, 2020||Nagpur||NMC to reopen 25 secondary schools, 4 junior colleges from Nov 23||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation is all set to reopen schools for secondary school and junior college students, from Std IX to XII, from November 23. The decision to reopen 25 secondary schools and four junior colleges having 3,754 students was taken at a meeting convened by municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B. The meeting was attended by additional municipal commissioner Jalaj Sharma and education officer Preeti Mishrikotkar. NMC will conduct classes for three subjects — English, mathematics and science.In line with state government guidelines, NMC’s education department has asked all teachers to take RT-PCR test. So far, 60% teachers have taken the test. Tests of the remaining teachers are scheduled to be completed by November 20. Schools have also been instructed to purchase thermometers, thermal guns, pulse oxymeters, disinfectant soaps etc from the available funds.NMC plans to run each school for four hours. Meetings of the school management committee will be held in all schools till November 20 and the work of getting consent of parents has started.All 29 schools and junior colleges are being disinfected by the zonal offices of NMC. All school inspectors have been assigned the responsibility of secondary schools in their zone and the action taken by them is being reviewed on a daily basis.NMC will conduct daily thermal screening of students, teachers and school staff, and no outsider will be allowed to enter the school premises. Students will not be allowed to gather anywhere, nor share materials like masks, water bottles etc.“Students, teachers and teaching staff must wear masks. If any suspected Covid-19 patient is found in the school, s/he should be kept separate from others and the health department should be contacted immediately. Parents should not send sick children to school,” Mishrikotkar said.The toilets will be disinfected daily, the education officer said. Orders have been issued to regulate seating arrangements in classrooms as well as staff rooms to ensure distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-to-reopen-25-secondary-schools-4-junior-colleges-from-nov-23/articleshow/79309720.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 50 per cent students give consent for offline mode of classes||CHANDIGARH: With around 50% students giving consent for offline classes, private and government colleges are in the process of making strategies to start offline classes along with online classes. On the other hand, students of PEC have started reaching their campus to appear for offline exams, which will begin from Friday. Pawan Sharma, principal of DAV College in Sector 10, said more than 50% students have already given their consent for offline mode of teaching. “We are putting things in place to ensure complete compliance of the SOP issued by the MHRD,” he said. When asked about how the offline and online classes would be managed, he said, “We are planning best possible way and are also consulting other colleges for the same.” A principal from another private college said, “We are planning to call research scholars and PG students of sciences and discussions are on.” Other college heads shared a similar view. At Punjab Engineering College (PEC), students have started coming on the campus for their offline semester exams. Practical exams of B Tech third semester were conducted from November 17. The end semester exams will be held from November 22 and the other pending exams from December 21. The semester exams of B Tech seventh semester are scheduled from December 5 to 9. For M Tech third semester, pending exams will be conducted from January 4 and dissertation evaluation will be from January 11 to 13. It was on Wednesday that the department of higher education of UT Chandigarh allowed higher institutes to call final year undergraduate and postgraduate students for academic and placement purposes from November 23 onwards. The department has also allowed opening of public libraries from November 23. The institutes have been asked to adopt the UGC guidelines and the heads of the institutes will be responsible for ensuring compliance of instructions of the MHA-Government of India, ministry of education, UGC and Chandigarh administration. On Tuesday, Panjab University decided that it would continue with online teaching. In a notice issued by Panjab University, it has been shared that, “Keeping in view the prevailing situation because of Covid-19 pandemic, the authorities held various meetings to discuss reopening of the university, regional centres, affiliated colleges and constituent colleges.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/50-students-give-consent-for-offline-mode-of-classes/articleshow/79309697.cms||Kamini Mehta
November 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Rock Garden reopens after eight months, 2,000 visitors on Day 1||CHANDIGARH: Having remained out of bounds for nearly eight months, the city’s famous tourist spot Rock Garden was reopened for the public from Thursday. On the first day, around 2,000 people visited the Rock Garden. The administration had deployed staff at the entry for thermal scanning of visitors and checked them if they were wearing face masks. After completing Covid-19 protocols, the staff allowed visitors to enter the Rock Garden. Vinod, a visitor, said he and his family was happy to visit Rock Garden. He said there was not much rush so they enjoyed. The decision to open the Rock Garden was taken during a review meeting on November 16, which was chaired by UT administrator V P Singh Badnore. Notably, the Union ministry of culture on November 5 had allowed opening of art galleries, museums and exhibition halls from November 10. The Union ministry of culture in its November 5 order issued standard operating procedure (SOP) for opening of tourist spots, museums, art galleries and exhibition halls. To allow tourist spots, museums and art galleries to reopen and resume their operations, strict precautionary measures are to be observed by all the staff members and visitors to prevent the spread of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rock-garden-reopens-after-8-months-2k-visitors-on-day-1/articleshow/79309711.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: MCC official’s Facebook account hacked||Mangaluru: Santhosh Kumar G, joint commissioner (administration) of Mangaluru City Corporation, has filed a complaint at the cybercrime police station against a fake Facebook account created using his name. The fake account creator has sent messages to persons in the officer’s friends’ list seeking money. A case was registered on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mcc-officials-fb-account-hacked/articleshow/79309701.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Fresh spell of rain, snow in offing from Nov 23-24||DEHRADUN: After receiving snowfall in the higher reaches at the start of the week, a fresh spell of snow and rainfall is likely to lash parts of Uttarakhand on November 23 and 24, the Met office said. Regional meteorological centre’s director Bikram Singh told TOI, "A fresh western disturbance is going to influence Uttarakhand’s weather next week, which is likely to result in snowfall and rain in several places of the state." The high-altitude places situated at a height of 3,000 metre and above in Pithoragarh, Uttarkashi, Rudraprayag and Chamoli districts are likely to receive snowfall, while the foothills and plains might witness light showers on November 23 and 24. The Met officials said that due to the expected rain and snow activity, the temperatures are also likely to plunge across the state from November 23 onwards. "The day temperatures will start dropping from November 23 following rain and snow activity. The hills will see a drop in mercury by at least four to five notches while there will be a plunge of only one to two degrees in the plains," said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-fresh-spell-of-rain-snow-in-offing-from-nov-23-24/articleshow/79309722.cms||Gaurav Talwar
November 20, 2020||Dehradun||IMA to hold POP on December 12, kin can attend with Covid report||DEHRADUN: The Indian Military Academy (IMA) in Dehradun on Thursday announced that it would hold its Passing Out Parade (POP) for the autumn term, 2020, on December 12. However, unlike the spring term where the parents of the cadets were not allowed to participate in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the academy has allowed two relatives per cadets to take part in the event this time. However, the kin of the cadets will have to carry a Covid-negative certificate with them. Lieutenant Colonel Himani Pant, public relations officer at IMA, told TOI, “The POP is an extremely solemn and proud occasion, marking the gentlemen cadets’ first step into the uniformed fraternity. Almost 60,000 alumni from this revered institution have displayed extreme valour and commitment for the nation, with 889 martyrs making the supreme sacrifice in charting a path of glory. This event is therefore also an occasion to remember them and draw inspiration.” Lt Col Pant added that the event would ensure strict adherence to necessary precautions. “Parents and relatives of the Passing Out Course are looking forward to being present to experience the joy and pride in this once in a lifetime experience. Conduct of events shall be limited in scope ensuring strict adherence to requisite restrictions. However, ceremonial feel and immaculate military conduct shall ensure that the moment is treasured by all parents and etched in their memories,” she added. Notably, last time, with the Covid-19 raging across the country, the IMA had successfully managed to hold the POP of spring term on June 20. It was widely streamed across the media, including record live viewership on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ima-to-hold-pop-on-december-12-kin-can-attend-with-covid-report/articleshow/79309707.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 20, 2020||Dehradun||Three men found dead in separate incidents under mysterious circumstances||Rudrapur: Three people were found dead under mysterious circumstances in three different localities in Rudrapur city on Thursday. While one deceased could not be identified and is suspected to have died of ailment, the police officials suspect that the other two might have committed suicide. In the first incident, a dead body of a man in his forties was found by the divider at Kichha bypass near Kalyani river. The locals noticed the body and informed the police. SHO of Rudrapur police station NN Pant said “Prima facie, it seems that the man died of a prolong illness. We are trying to establish his identity by circulating his pictures in nearby localities.” The second incident was reported from Khera colony, where 55-year old Satpal Chaudhary, a resident of Kelakhera town near Gadarpur, was found dead at a rented house. The police said the deceased used to live with his partner in this house. When Choudhary's kin reached the house inquiring about him, they found him unconscious. He was pronounced dead when taken to the hospital. The police have detained the woman for interrogation and have sent the body for postmortem to ascertain the cause of death. In the third incident, a 35-year old man’s body was found from his house in Paharganj colony. SHO of Rudrapur police station NN Pant said, “The man was identified as Dhirendra Kumar who worked as a welder in Pantnagar industrial area. He died of gunshot on his temple. We believe it to be a suicide case, however, we are investigating the incident from different angles.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/three-men-found-dead-in-separate-incidents-under-mysterious-circumstances/articleshow/79309696.cms||Aakash Ahuja
November 20, 2020||Hyderabad||‘KCR, Jagan & Naveen ATM supporters’||Hyderabad: AICC secretary in charge of Telangana Manickam Tagore took potshots at three chief ministers by terming Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao, his AP counterpart YS Jagan Mohan Reddy and Odisha CM Naveen Patnaik as ‘any time Modi’ (ATM) supporters. In a tweet on Thursday, Tagore said: “Whenever Modi-Shah needs your help in Rajya Sabha you will help them. Chandrasekar-Naveen-Jagan are the ATM (any time Modi) supporters! Chandrasekar can’t fool all (sic).” Tagore was responding to KCR’s remarks that he will float a front of anti-BJP and anti-Congress parties and wage a war from Hyderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-jagan-naveen-atm-supporters/articleshow/79312014.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Bareilly||Vandals set truck on fire, 6th vehicle to go up in flames since November 12||PILIBHIT: Days after vandals set afire three motorcycles of three constables parked outside their house, a mini truck parked outside the house of its owner at Kalyanpur Khas village under Jahanabad police station was gutted in a fire on Wednesday night. Police suspect that the fire was deliberately set off by vandals. This was the sixth vehicle to be set on fire at night by vandals in Pilibhit since November 12. Dushyant Kumar, truck’s owner, has registered a police complaint. “We are inquiring whether the fire was an outcome of an electric short circuit. If all conditions are found to be normal, we will lodge an FIR in the matter,” said Harish Vardhan Singh, SHO of Jahanabad police station. Earlier, three bikes of three police constables of Sungarhi police station were burnt down by vandals in Sungarhi locality on the night of November 12, while two cars in the same locality were set on fire at night on November 17 at two different spots. Police are now beginning to think that there is a pattern and some gang is deliberately committing the act. Jai Prakash Yadav, superintendent of police, has directed all police stations to be alert and nab the vandals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/vandals-set-truck-on-fire-6th-vehicle-to-go-up-in-flames-since-nov-12/articleshow/79308503.cms||Keshav Agarwal
November 20, 2020||Dehradun||Jakhan-Johri stretch in bad shape; have repeatedly complained, say residents||Dehradun: Repeated complaints to the chief minister’s helpline number and to the PWD officials have failed to bring relief to the residents of Johri village who have claimed that the 1.5-kilometre Jakhan-Johri stretch is in a dilapidated state and “a major accident is waiting to happen.” The locals have claimed that the interlocking tiles on the road are broken and at some places have come out. They said the road — which was made four years back at a cost of Rs 58 lakh— lacks streetlights and has been causing hindrance to two-wheelers. “The road is also commuted by people who are travelling towards the CM’s residence and Raj Bhawan and is mostly busy with traffic movement. Since the road has sharp curves, security measures like cautionary board thermoplastic paint must be ensured,” SP Sharma, a resident of a gated colony in Johri village, told TOI. The road barricades on the sides are also broken at several places, making the travel risky, especially at night. The dilapidated road the is only main road for residents of 10 villages who travel to the city. “The road is already very narrow as it is situated at a height, but the situation has become worse in the absence of any repair work. The complaints made till now have remained unheard. I hope the authorities do something to make commuting on this road safe,” Shantanu Kumar, a resident in the area said. The residents had also written to the urban development minister in October. When contacted, Madan Kaushik, minister for urban development and housing, said “ I will look into the matter and try to resolve the problem soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/jakhan-johri-stretch-in-bad-shape-have-repeatedly-complained-say-residents/articleshow/79309809.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Mangaluru||‘Pilinalike’ get due prominence at Mangaluru International Airport||MANGALURU: A ‘pilinalike’ (tiger dance) replica at the domestic arrival of the Mangaluru International Airport (MIA) has got its due prominence after people from the coastal district, especially the Congress opposed the installation of an elephant replica near it. The airport was recently handed over to Adani Airports for its maintenance as per a decision taken by the union cabinet in July 2019. Consequently, on October 31, the Airport Authority of India (AAI) had announced handing over handling of MIA to Adani Group on a lease for 50 years. Thereafter, the Adani Airports installed a replica of an elephant near the tiger dance installation. Dakshina Kannada District Youth Congress president Mithun Rai, who launched a campaign demanding renaming of MIA after Koti – Chennaya, legendary twin Tuluva heroes, told TOI that the Adani Airports has understood the sentiments of people and rearranged the replicas. “I have contacted the PRO of the Adani Airports and requested them to keep their elephant replica at some other place so that the replica of the tiger dance will be there to welcome visitors. Tiger dance is a part of Tulunadu’s culture and identity. We want to portray our culture to people who come to the airport. By placing the elephant replica in front of the tiger dance replica, they had blocked the culture and identity of our region. They have responded to our request immediately and re-arranged both replicas in such a way that it will be seen by all passengers arriving at the airport,” Rai said. It may be recalled that the district Congress committee has been holding protests demanding the AAI and the Central government to rename the MIA after Koti-Chennaya. The party has been opposing the agreement signed between the AAI and Adani group for the handing over of the airport for maintenance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/pilinalike-get-due-prominence-at-mia/articleshow/79309799.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Nagpur||No reduction in testing capacity, Covid-19 beds Nagpur for now||Nagpur: After declining to 1,500-odd during the Diwali period, the number of Covid-19 tests reached 6,600 on Wednesday and 6,300 on Thursday. Health authorities across the state are not ready to take any chances in view of a bigger second wave of Covid-19 expected before the end of 2020.After Delhi which is seeing a fresh surge in cases from last week, Ahmedabad too reported a similar trend on Thursday. Maharashtra, state with the highest number of Covid-19 cases and deaths in the country, is being extra cautious.Sources in the state health department said that the expected second wave could be geographically different, and its intensity might depend on measures taken to check the infection locally. In Nagpur, additional municipal commissioner Jalaj Sharma told TOI that all testing centres in the city are functioning and all private hospitals designated as Covid-19 hospitals will continue to provide treatment until further notice.“Centres for RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests are having enough manpower and infrastructure. Hospitals designated for Covid-19 treatment have been asked to maintain the beds reserved as per the earlier protocol,” said Sharma. Interestingly, about 80% Covid-19 beds in the city hospitals are vacant. Despite Vidarbha Hospitals Association asking for relaxation from Covid-19 treatment, the administration has not given the permission. Divisional health authorities informed that they are planning more tests, and aggressive contact tracing in the next two weeks. Multiple RT-PCR laboratories are now functional in Nagpur and all district headquarters of Vidarbha. Government and private labs in Nagpur district can conduct more than 10,000 tests per day and authorities are trying to maintain the number in case the second wave strikes. As far as Vidarbha is concerned, on an average 5,000 tests are being conducted daily across 10 districts (except Nagpur). As the virus has already spread in rural area, the authorities are now focusing on conducting tests among vegetable vendors, shopkeepers, delivery executives etc. All Covid-19 tests, both RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests (RAT) are conducted for free in government laboratories. Private labs cannot charge more than the rates fixed by government. A senior official from department of health services said based on the trends exhibited during the 1918-19 influenza pandemic, and 2009-10 H1N1 pandemic, the authorities must be prepared for at least 18-24 months of Covid-19 activity.“Covid-19 is expected to remain in circulation among human population and have seasonal pattern with decreased severity just like other less pathogenic coronaviruses,” said the official. Doctors, after a short break due to decline in cases, are also gearing up for the second wave.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-reduction-in-testing-capacity-covid-19-beds-nagpur-for-now/articleshow/79309828.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 20, 2020||Kochi||Kochi turning into retirement destination for elderly citizens||KOCHI: Many elderly citizens living abroad are keen to return to the city for a retirement life. And, they are looking forward to ‘living spaces for elderly’ promoted by many real estate developers. Realtors too have been making an effort to bounce back to business by trying to promote Kochi as a retirement destination, where they get good geriatric care and recreational facilities. Dr Mahesh Sarvothaman, who currently resides in the United States said there is a huge interest for such properties among the people residing abroad. “This is an enticing model and if executed properly there will be many takers. The isolation they feel abroad during old age want them to get back home where they can mingle with people belonging to the communities,” he said adding that, for a good number of NRIs, the apartments they have bought in the city is not an investment but a place to go back when they get old and vulnerable. Real estate developers too say there is ‘considerable interest’ in such properties and they get quite a good number of enquires related to such projects. “We expect more elderly people to come down once the pandemic is brought under control,” said a Kochi-based developer. Government agencies and local bodies too will have to work out a plan to keep the elderly returnees and the ageing local population engaged in the development of communities and the process of building the city. D Dhanuraj, chairman of centre for public policy research (CPPR) said the society is ageing fast and both the “government and business community should work together to address the issues emerging out of the influx of elderly population.” While the government should put in place new polices related to geriatric care, health insurance and health facilities, business communities need to investigate how they can be professionally managed by providing better services. Former Kochi mayor K J Sohan said, “The demography of the city will witness a sea-change as Kochi will witness an increase in ageing population. Though those returning from abroad are expected to be financially sound, it could lead to a situation where they could get isolated in the spaces that is specifically built for them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kochi-turning-into-retirementdestination-for-elderly-citizens/articleshow/79309832.cms||Greeshma Gopal Giri
November 20, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: GSFC’s indigenous fertilizers for Himachal’s apples||VADODARA: Gujarat will now help produce delicious apples of better quality in the country. The Gujarat State Fertilizers and Chemicals Ltd (GSFC) on Thursday launched three indigenously manufactured fertilizers including Liquid Boronated Calcium Nitrate, Ammonium Sulphate and Nutri+ that are formulated specially for apple plantations. These fertilizers were launched in Himachal Pradesh and GSFC will work with the Himachal Pradesh State Co-operative Marketing and Consumers Federation Ltd (HIMFED) to help the farming community in the north Indian state. “Himachal’s Rs 4,000-crore apple industry is the second-highest apple producing state in the country. And now, I am glad that the GSFC is bringing its expertise to the apple farmers of Himachal. The fertilizers are formulated specially for apple plantations and will help them grow better produce,” said Jai Ram Thakur, chief minister, Himachal Pradesh who launched the products. Arvind Agarwal, chairman and managing director, GSFC Ltd, said that the company has taken this unique initiative to implement the ‘self-reliant India’ vision of PM Narendra Modi. “Today, in this product series, Liquid Boronate Calcium Nitrate is being launched from Himachal Pradesh which is a matter of pride for all of us,” Agarwal said. The other two products which were launched in Himachal Pradesh on Thursday namely Ammonium Sulfate and ‘Nutri+ (fortified Gypsum) along with Calcium Nitrate and Boronated Calcium Nitrate will be beneficial for the apple as well as other horticulture crops. Gujarat CM, Vijay Rupani too appreciated GSFC for the mutually beneficial opportunity in the times of Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/gsfcs-indigenous-fertilizers-for-himachals-apples/articleshow/79309348.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Bareilly||Stalker shoots girl, 19, in Sambhal, then kills self||BAREILLY: A 19-year-old girl from a minority community was allegedly shot dead by a 24-year-old man in UP's Sambhal district on Thursday evening. He later shot himself with the same country-made pistol when police tried to arrest him outside his house. Police have sent both the bodies for autopsy. Heavy force has been deployed in the Babrala village of Gunnor area as the accused belonged to another community. According to police, the girl was working in a field when the accused tried to engage her in a conversation, but she refused. In a fit of rage, the man took out a country-made pistol and shot at her. He then fled from the spot. The girl was immediately taken to a community health centre by locals and police were informed. She succumbed during treatment. When police reached the village and tried to arrest the accused, he shot himself in his head with the same pistol and died on the spot. Several locals were also present at the place. Gunnor circle officer Krishna Kant Saroj told TOI, “The accused had eloped with a minor girl three years ago, but no complaint was lodged by the girl’s family at that time. Now, he was forcing a girl from another community into a relationship. When she refused, he shot her dead. Later, he killed himself fearing police action." "We are trying to ensure that peace is maintained in the village. The police force will remain in the area, for now,” Saroj added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/stalker-shoots-girl-19-in-sambhal-then-kills-self/articleshow/79308552.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 20, 2020||Kochi||Ernakulam St Albert’s college to offer scholarships worth over Rs 1 crore for students||KOCHI: As part of its platinum jubilee celebrations, Ernakulam St Albert’s College is launching a project titled ‘Feeless Campus’ with a long-term objective of ensuring zero academic fees and 100% scholarships for all students by the time college reaches its centenary. As the initial step, the college is instituting academic scholarships worth Rs 1.26 crore for students pursuing unaided bachelor of vocation (BVoc) and master of vocation (MVoc) programmes. This will ensure that nearly 70% students studying in these courses would receive scholarships up to 50% of the fees paid in each year. The college will extend these scholarships to all courses over the next years and intend to ensure all students in all course could study without any kind of fees by the 100th anniversary. This year’s scholarship scheme will benefit nearly 550 students pursuing various BVoc courses and 60 students pursuing MVoc courses. “Feeless campus is one of the most important programmes envisaged as part of the platinum jubilee celebrations. It is the manifestation of the noble vision of the college’s founding patron Archbishop Joseph Attipetty to provide cost-free education for all students irrespective of caste, creed and colour. The scholarships are named after him. More than 70% students studying in the college receive external financial help and if something lead to stoppage of these supports, their education will be affected. So, the college aims to provide maximum support through scholarships based on their merits,” said Shine Antony, dean, training and development. The plan is to start with unaided courses and later shift to aided courses too, which has comparatively lesser fees. To find the money, a scholarship corpus fund has been started by the college and contributions will be received through sponsorships and from alumni.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/st-alberts-to-offer-scholarships-worth-over-rs-1-crore-for-students/articleshow/79309853.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
November 20, 2020||Aurangabad||Gangapur BJP MLA booked for cheating||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad rural police have filed a case of cheating and forgery against BJP MLA Prashant Bamb and 15 others for allegedly siphoning off Rs 15.70 crore from Gangapur Sugar Cooperative Factory. The FIR was registered late on Wednesday night, following a complaint by ZP member Krushna Patil Dongaonkar. Bamb, three-time MLA from Gangapur, is the chairman of the factory situated at Jamgaon in Aurangabad district. He along with factory’s executive director, BM Patil, and other 14 people have been accused of transferring farmers’ money to the bank accounts of seven people not connected with the sugar factory. When contacted, Bamb refuted the allegations. “We have worked hard to transform a completely defunct sugar factory and are on the verge of putting it back on track. The sugar lobby, especially senior NCP functionaries, is not comfortable about it and they have got me framed. I am going to sue all those trying to defame me through such malicious acti,” he said. Dongaonkar has stated in his complaint that the factory has been closed since 2007-08. The state co-operative bank had decided to sell off the factory to recover the arrears. The factory’s board of directors challenged the matter and won the case in the court of law. “During the trial, the factory had deposited Rs 9 crore in the court, which returned it. This principal amount, along with interest, takes the total to Rs 15.70 crore,” he has stated. Dongaonkar has alleged that Bamb and executive director Patil conspired and passed a resolution for opening of bank accounts. Whiel submitting the documents, they allegedly claimed that the sugar factory was their partnership firm, he said. Dongaonkar has alleged illegal diversion of funds from the sugar factory’s bank in the past fortnight. He has also lodged written complaints with the state cooperative minister, sugar commissioner as well as police authorities. Senior police officers refused to comment on the issue, saying that it was too early to comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/gangapur-bjp-mla-booked-for-cheating/articleshow/79308569.cms||Mohammed Akhef
November 20, 2020||Mangaluru||Poachers evade forest officials after 15km car chase||UDUPI: Poachers using the cover of darkness gave forest department officials, who were hot on their heels, the slip on Thursday, but not before a chase of around 15 km. Based on a tip-off about people engaged in poaching wild animals at Harkur reserve forest in Kundapur taluk, officials led by range forest officer (RFO) Prabhakar Kulal went to the spot. Spotting the officials, the poachers fled the scene in a sports utility vehicle (SUV). Kulal said the team comprising deputy RFO Dileep, forest guards Bangarappa, Manjunath Naik and Ashok, the jeep driver, attempted to intercept the Bolero vehicle at Harkur itself. After a chase, the poachers ran into a dead end, and abandoned their vehicle and fled, Kulal said. The SUV registered in Mysuru west, has since been seized. The whole operation that started around 2.30am ended an hour later, Kulal said. Harkur reserve forest area is generally known for its wild boar and deer population, and poachers are active there, usually during the weekends, he said. “We did not have any major incident of poaching in the recent past, due to the strict vigil maintained across the reserve forest area,” Kulal told TOI, adding his team recovered a rod, tarpaulin cover and a mobile phone from the SUV. The authorities are on the lookout for the four accused who fled the scene, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/poachers-evade-forest-officials-after-15km-car-chase/articleshow/79309849.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Hyderabad||SCB ward members to campaign||SECUNDERABAD: In a show of solidarity with the ruling TRS party, seven elected ward members of the Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB), have decided to participate in the GHMC poll campaign. Malkajgiri Lok Sabha TRS in-charge, Marri Rajasekhara Reddy, who took this initiative, allotted the Somajiguda GHMC division to them. On Thursday, all seven SCB members participated in campaigning. “We will explain the welfare schemes being launched by the TRS-led government, to voters of Somajiguda,” said SCB ward No 1 member, J Maheswar Reddy. On the other hand, state BJP party high command allotted Monda Market, Secunderabad to former vice-president of the board, J Rama Krishna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scb-ward-members-to-campaign/articleshow/79312054.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Bagru cops bust fake note racket, arrest 2||JAIPUR: The Bagru police, led by inspector Binod Kumar Meena, raided a counterfeit note printing unit on Thursday at a shop in Hardhyanpura near NH8 and seized over Rs 42,000 in fake currency. Two persons, found printing fake notes at the shop taken on rent, were arrested and identified as Sandeep Chaudhry (24) and Shubhash Kumar Kumawat (24). “We found 1,700 genuine notes of Rs 100. The counterfeit money was being printed using these notes,” Meena told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bagru-cops-bust-fakenote-racket-arrest-2/articleshow/79312093.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Aurangabad||Now, sandalwood tree stolen from tony area||Aurangabad: City police have registered yet another case of sandalwood tree theft from an upscale locality in the city. Around 10 days ago, a sandalwood tree was stolen from the compound of district collector’s official bungalow and police are still investigating the case. In the fresh incident, Shantikumar Kandi — a retired governent employee, who is a resident of Udyogvishwa Apartment in Khinvasara park of Ulkanagari area — has registered a theft complaint at Jawahar Nagar police station. As per complaint, the full-grown sandalwood tree was axed and stolen by unidentified thieves sometime between Tuesday (10 pm) and Wednesday (6 am). The incident came to light after Kandi and other members of the society woke up for the morning walk. Inspector Santosh Patil said the process of scanning footages of closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras installed in and around the locality is underway. “We are confident of detecting the case,” he said, adding that the crime has been committed following a tip-off by an insider. The theft took place inside a gated apartment and has raised concerns among the residents of the locality. The area where the incident took place is already covered under routine night patrolling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/now-sandalwood-tree-stolen-from-tony-area/articleshow/79308594.cms||---
November 20, 2020||India||TMC man killed, Bengal sees no let-up in violence||BARRACKPORE: A Trinamool Congress activist was hacked to death by miscreants at Jagaddal in North 24 Parganas late Wednesday and a BJP office was gutted in a fire in Titagarh's Koyrapur area early on Thursday, sparking a blame game between the rival political parties. Akash Prasad (26) was from Ward 12 of Bhatpara Municipality, which is on BJP MP Arjun Singh's turf. "My son got a call on Wednesday night asking him to step out of the house, which he refused to do. A local youth, Ashoke Shaw, barged in and dragged my son out of the house. His body was recovered late in the night," claimed the victim's father. Shaw's neighbours from Jagaddal's Palghat Road said the incident took place at around 11.30 pm. Akash's body was found lying in a pool of blood in an abandoned field barely 300 metres from his house. Multiple injury marks indicated the assailants had used sharp weapons, a police officer said. They apparently also set off bombs beside Akash to ensure he was dead, the police said. The main accused, Ashoke Shaw, has been arrested. "The murder was done by people on the instructions of BJP MP Arjun Singh," North 24 Parganas' Trinamool chief Jyotipriya Mullick alleged. Akash became the target after he brought as many as 123 BJP supporters into the Trinamool fold, Mullick claimed. The BJP MP rubbished the charge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tmc-man-killed-bengal-sees-no-let-up-in-violence/articleshow/79312968.cms||Sanjib Chakrabarty
November 20, 2020||Aurangabad||Mother-son duo booked for abetting woman’s suicide||Aurangabad: A man and his mother have been booked by Kranti Chowk police for allegedly abetting the suicide of a 20-year-old woman. The woman hanged herself at her home a couple of days ago after the man allegedly refused to marry her as his mother opposed it, said police. Police said a search has been launched for the suspects, who are missing since the offence was lodged against them. As per the complaint lodged by the deceased’s mother, the man was in a relationship with her daughter for the past two years. “His mother was against their relationship and had disapproved of their plan to get married,” said a police officer . “The complainant has stated that after the duo continued with their relationship and decided to get married, the man’s mother allegedly threatened the deceased that she would be forced into flesh trade,” he said. The officer said that the man later refused to marry the woman. Unable to bear the trauma and setback from the refusal, she took the extreme step, he added. A day after the suicide, the woman’s mother went to the police station and lodged a complaint against the mother-son duo, following which they were booked under section 306 (abetment of suicide) of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/mother-son-duo-booked-for-abetting-womans-suicide/articleshow/79308607.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Vadodara||Fake cops try to rob farmer of cash, produce||Vadodara: A gang of fake cops tried to rob a farmer from Kawant, near Bodeli in Chhota Udepur on Wednesday midnight. The farmer, Prakash Zamrala, told police that he was on his way to Vadodara to sell his farm produce when he was stopped near Jojva village. Zamrala said that there was just one man standing with a baton and when he stopped five others rushed towards his car. “On seeing the baton Zamrala believed that the accused was a cop. Zamrala showed his driving license and his car’s documents when asked. Yet, he was pulled out of the car and beaten up. His helper Alpesh Nayak was also thrashed and his car too was damaged,” said a police official. The robbers took away their mobile phones, Rs 15,000 cash and 10 sacks of pigeon peas from Zamrala’s car. As the robbers were about to flee, the police reached and nabbed one of them identified as Ransing Rathwa. The police said that when the two victims were being beaten up, a car driver passing by, stopped to help them, but as the robbers pelted stones at him, he fled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/fake-cops-try-to-rob-farmer-of-cash-produce/articleshow/79309360.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Hubballi||Lingayats need more reservation, not corporation, says Basavaraj Horatti||HUBBALLI: Former minister and MLC Basavaraj Horatti said on Friday that he is sticking to his demand of 16-18% reservation for Lingayats and is not averse for the formation of Karnataka Veerashaiva-Lingayat Development Corporation (KVLDC). Horatti said the Lingayat community’s demand for reservation was nowhere connected with their earlier struggle for minority status, which is pending before the Central government as well as in the court. Their demand is on the line of the Maharashtra government extending reservation for Maratha community, he added. Stating that setting up KVLDC was uncalled for, he said it does not serve any purpose considering the population of the community. According to data available with government, the population of Lingayats is around 1.18 crore in the state and the government should shell out thousands of crores to ensure the corporation’s benefit reaches all community members. “If the government earmarks Rs 1,000 crore for the corporation and 25% of the Lingayat population is considered as poor, each of them may get just Rs 3,570. Such a small sum would not help them anyway. Instead of pushing for the corporation, the government should think about extending reservation for the community,” he added. “The government has not consulted experts nor has it set guidelines or made a budgetary allocation for KVLDC,” he said and questioned the hastiness in its formation. If the government is serious, it should earmark Rs 5,000 crore for the corporation and lay proper rules, he added. On possible legal hurdles on reservation for Lingayats, Horatti said, governments in Tamil Nadu and Haryana have extended reservation beyond the 50% limit set by the Supreme Court. The state government should go ahead as most Lingayats are poor and agricultural labourers, he said. Rs 2,000 cr grants sought Ratna Bharat Raitha Samaj has welcomed the state government’s decision to form KLVDC and they demanded that the state government allot Rs 2,000 crore for the new corporation. Samaj office bearer Hemangouda Basangouda said on Thursday that the government must provide jobs to the poor of all sub sects of Lingayat and Veerashaiva communities through KLVDC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/lingayats-need-more-reservation-not-corporation-says-horatti/articleshow/79310148.cms||J Abbas Mulla
November 20, 2020||Patna||Mewalal resigns as Bihar education minister on Day 1 over graft charges||PATNA: The newly appointed education minister, Mewalal Choudhary, accused in a recruitment scam, resigned within two hours of assuming charge of his office on Thursday. His resignation comes three days after he was sworn in, amid sustained criticism by the opposition parties led by Tejashwi Prasad Yadav’s RJD, reminding CM Nitish Kumar of his “zero-tolerance policy” on corruption. After Choudhary resigned, Tejashwi tweeted holding Nitish responsible for appointing a tainted MLA as education minister. “Responsibility lies with you (Nitish). Why did you make him a minister?” read a part of his post. Governor Phagu Chauhan accepted Choudhary’s resignation with immediate effect, and the building construction department minister Ashok Choudhary was given the additional charge of education. Earlier in the day, Mewalal reached the new secretariat around 12.30 pm and assumed charge as education minister. Soon after, he spoke to media persons and began his first meeting with the department’s senior officers. “In the meantime, the minister received a call from the chief minister’s office. The minister was asked to rush to the CM house and meet Nitish Kumar. Within half an hour, we received information that the new minister has been asked to quit the post,” an education official told TOI on Thursday. With this, Mewalal has earned the unflattering distinction of being the “shortest-serving minister” who took charge for less than two hours. Speaking on the corruption allegations levelled against him soon after taking charge as education minister, Mewalal said, “An accusation is proven only when a charge-sheet is filed or a court gives an order and none of the two is there to prove the allegations against me." Earlier on Wednesday, opposition parties led by RJD strongly criticized Mewalal’s appointment in the new cabinet citing a pending case of corruption against him with the vigilance department. The two-term JD(U) MLA from Tarapur, is an accused in a vigilance case for “committing irregularities in recruitment of assistant professors-cum-junior scientists in the Bihar Agricultural University (BAU) during his tenure as vice-chancellor from 2010 to 2015.” Before being elected as MLA in November 2015, Mewala was the vice-chancellor of Bihar Agriculture University, Sabour. The case is pending in a court in Bhagalpur district and the Vigilance Investigation Bureau is investigating it, as per Choudhary’s affidavit available on the Election Commission website. However, a charge-sheet against Mewalal is yet to be filed. Mewalal was earlier suspended from JD(U) after an FIR was lodged against him with Sabour police station in Bhagalpur on February 21, 2017, by the BAU registrar. A one-member inquiry committee set up by then governor-cum-chancellor of universities, Ram Nath Kovind, had charged Mewalal with committing large scale bungling, favouritism, and violating the provision of the statute in the selection of assistant professors-cum-junior scientists. Based on this report the FIR was lodged against Mewalal by the university registrar. However, Mewalal was granted anticipatory bail by the high court on August 22, 2017, on grounds that the inquiry report didn’t contain any material to substantiate the charge that the former V-C had appointed his family members or relatives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mewalal-resigns-as-education-minister-on-day-1-over-graft-charges/articleshow/79309759.cms||Madan Kumar
November 20, 2020||Jaipur||Firms’ applications for ‘consent to operate’ piling up at pollution control board||Jaipur: The applications for renewal or new ‘consent to operate’ and ‘consent to establish’ have reached close to 4,000 with companies complaining laxity on the part of state pollution control board in giving them approvals to carry out their normal business unhinged.‘Consent to operate’ permissions are renewed at every 5, 10 or 15 years depending on the environment sensitive category of companies such as red, orange or green, while ‘consent to establish’ is a one-time approval to set up industries.Inordinate delay in getting ‘consent to establish’ permission impacts not only the investments and job generation opportunities in the state but drags down the ease of doing business. Similarly, delay in renewing consent to operate exposes the industry to possible action against them by the board officials.Companies are allowed to make application online and get approvals. As per the latest count, there are still 3,517 online application pending for clearance since April 1. TOI tried to speak to chairperson of State Pollution Control Board on the roadmap for reducing the pendency but she nether responded to text messages nor phone calls.Multiple sources in industry, which is wary of speaking on the laxity of the board for possible retribution, said the permissions should be made deemed if not given in a limited time frame.“The rules require companies to apply before four months of the expiry of the permissions. But the approvals don’t come several months after the expiry of the existing permissions. We want the board to fix a time and if approvals are not given within that time period, they should be made deemed approved,” said a member of the industry.Secondly, they pointed out that the board should communicate the deficiencies in the applications once. Currently, applicants are told to submit unfurnished information multiple times leading to unnecessary delays.“If they want to reduce the pendency in an effective way, they should not resort to raising queries several times for a single application. At one shot, they can ask for the missing information and accordingly treat the application quickly,” said a factory owner who has been waiting for approvals for 4 months.Ease of doing business rankings are keenly watched by the investors not only in the country but also foreign companies to make investments. If the state needs to improve its rankings, then it has to bring in efficiency in providing ‘consents’ in time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/firms-applications-for-consent-to-operate-piling-up-at-pollution-control-board/articleshow/79311032.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
November 20, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Cops crack fake gold loot case, arrest 3||ALWAR: The Bhiwadi police on Thursday claimed to have cracked a case of loot involving gold worth Rs 2.5 crore from Pramod Saini who was travelling in a roadway’s bus. The police said Saini and his friends concocted the loot story. Three people, including expelled Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) Jawan, who were involved in fake loot were arrested. Gold worth Rs 2 crore was also seized and luxury car used was also impounded. Bhiwadi superintendent of police Rammurhty Joshi said, “Pramod Saini, who is coming to Jaipur from Delhi with gold, along with his friend Pawan Jat, created this plant. Six people were involved in the loot. Three are still absconding,” he said. Pawan Kumar (30- years), who is a terminated CISF Jawan, was the mastermind and executed the plan along with Pramod. The other accused arrested were identified as Nivashi Kerwali and Manoj Saini. “Pawan Kumar owns a mineral water plant in Himachal Pradesh and lives a luxurious life,” said police official. On November 11, the accused after wearing police uniform stopped the bus in Neemrana police station area and arrested Saini who was having gold worth Rs 2.5 crore. They called him a smuggler and took him in their car. “The police found this suspicious as Saini did not resist. Also, the first complaint was given by the driver of the bus,” added police official. A source said, “When Saini came to file a report on November 12, we did not allow him to go and detained him to ask questions. He confessed that it was a fake loot plan.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cops-crack-fake-gold-loot-case-arrest-3/articleshow/79311030.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Aurangabad||Chorus grows for opening heritage sites||AURANGABAD: Amid the growing demand to reopen heritage sites located in and around Aurangabad, the Republican Party of India -Athavale (RPI-A) group on Thursday staged a demonstration for the same. Gathered in large numbers near the historic Bibi-ka-Maqbara, RPI-A activists led by Nagraj Gaikwad raised slogan in support of their demand before proceeding towards the office of Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) to submit the official memorandum. Gaikwad said the ASI and the state government must not cause further delay in reopening the heritage sites. “While the places of worship have now reopened amid the pandemic, it is unjust to keep the heritage sites and monuments closed. Such a stand is not only causing inconvenience to tourists but also posing survival issues before the associated multi-crore industry,” he said. Earlier, the Aurangabad Tourism Development Foundation ( ATDF ) has submitted another memorandum to the state government seeking the reopening of heritage sites with full Covid safety measures. “The tourism has a large effect on the economy and many livelihoods depend on it directly and indirectly. Since the monuments in and around Aurangabad have been closed for the last seven months due to the outbreak of the pandemic, all tourism stakeholders have exhausted their financial savings and are finding it difficult to sustain their livelihood by each passing day,” as per the memorandum. Meanwhile, the Aurangabad circle office of the ASI has sought the Maharashtra government's permission to reopen historical monuments in the region, including the world-famous Ajanta and Ellora caves, which remained shut since March due to the pandemic. The ASI's circle office has written a letter to the government in this connection on Tuesday, a senior official said on Thursday. According to the official, they have brought certain things to the notice of the state government, like the Centre's standard operating procedures (SOPs) regarding reopening of tourist places.  (-With agency inputs)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/chorus-grows-for-opening-heritage-sites/articleshow/79308660.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Meerut||Post Diwali, Covid-19 infection rate in Meerut increases to 6.2%||Meerut: The Covid-19 infection rate in Meerut rose to 6.2% on Thursday. The infection rate in the district has been on the rise post Diwali as health authorities contribute it to the increasing pollution and large crowds at marketplaces. The cases which were under 100 until a week ago have crossed over 250 now. “The infection rate of Covid-19 in Meerut is on the rise. On Thursday, the infection rate was 6.2%. The cases are increasing and the change in weather, pollution and crowded markets can be attributed to the rise in cases,” Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut's chief medical officer, said. TOI had earlier reported about the 10-day door-to-door drive in the district to tap on suspected Covid-19 cases. Meerut divisional commissioner Anita C Meshram also instructed to ensure mandatory isolation of suspected Covid-19 cases until their reports arrive to avoid them spreading the disease. “The recovered cases have increased to 15,451 and the active cases in the district are currently at 1,578. City residents must wear face masks in public,” Dr Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/post-diwali-covid-19-infection-rate-in-meerut-increases-to-6-2/articleshow/79308662.cms||Ishita Bhatia
November 20, 2020||Jaipur||State tells Centre to bring amnesty scheme for pending labour cess||Jaipur: Reacting to the demand of the industry for an amnesty scheme to pay pending labour cess, state labour department said it had written a letter to the Union labour ministry to reduce the penal interest rate to 9% on pending payments and consider introducing an amnesty scheme.While the department had written the letter to the Centre in July, it sent a reminder on November 10 reasoning out the requirement for such a scheme which would encourage companies to pay up and clear dues.The letter was written based on the decisions of a committee set up under the additional labour commissioner (HQ) to facilitate payment of the pending labour cess. A senior official of the labour department said that since it’s a central law, the state cannot introduce an amnesty scheme. In the letter, the department said that due to Covid pandemic, both labourers and companies were in a tight spot and keeping the situation in mind it proposed the Union ministry to bring in an amnesty scheme, having at least six month duration, which would help facilitate the payment by the industry. “In the letter, the department had proposed for an amnesty scheme which would help entities liable to pay the cess and clear the dues. We have issued notices to many who have not deposited the money. We have also written to UDH department and local bodies for advance deductions of labour cess at the time of giving necessary approvals,” said Prateek Jhajharia, labour commissioner.In the draft Code on Social Security, 2020 recently circulated by the Union labour ministry, the penal interest has been brought down to annual 12% from 24% earlier. But Jhajharia said the state has proposed a rate of around 9% keeping in view the economic conditions and also the reduced interest rate scenario.Construction of residential houses, commercial and industrial projects, hospitals, hotels, and any construction whose value is more than Rs 10 lakh, they attract labour cess of 1% of the construction cost. The cess is used for the welfare of the workers engaged in the industry.The pending cess is estimated to cross over Rs 1,000 crore. Some in the industry said the payments would be so large for companies that they would rather prefer disputes than pay the amount.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-tells-centre-to-bring-amnesty-scheme-for-pending-labour-cess/articleshow/79311029.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 20, 2020||Bareilly||Harassed for over a year, girl, 15, hangs herself; accused booked||BAREILLY: A 15-year-old girl, who was studying in Class XII, tried to allegedly hang herself at her home in Moradabad's Chandranagar locality on Thursday. The girl later succumbed in hospital. She was upset with a local youth, 17, who had been harassing her for the past one year, her family claimed. According to the police, the girl’s family alleged that she was harassed by the youth while the latter claimed innocence and maintained he had been in a relationship with her for nearly a year but the girl’s family was against it. An FIR under IPC section 306 (abetment of suicide) has been registered against the youth at Civil Lines police station. He was picked up by police for questioning. Sources said that the accused is also a student and belongs to the same place. The body has been sent for postmortem. Report is still awaited. The girl’s mother alleged that the youth used to follow her often when she went out for tuition. Her husband had even made a complaint to his parents, but nothing changed. “He [accused] lives near my sister’s house and started stalking my daughter over a year ago. On Wednesday evening, I saw him in my locality. I stopped and reprimanded him. Upon returning home, I found my girl upset because of him. He was continuously forcing my daughter to accept his proposal, but she wanted to focus on her studies," the girl’s father said. On Thursday morning, she tried to kill herself by hanging but "we saved her and took her to a hospital where she died during treatment", her father added. Additional SP Kuldeep Singh Gunawat told TOI, “The information about the girl’s death was shared by the hospital staff. The youth was present at the hospital. We have registered an FIR for abetment of suicide against the youth, who is also a minor. We are investigating the case. Action will be taken accordingly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/harassed-for-over-a-year-girl-15-hangs-herself-accused-booked/articleshow/79307787.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 20, 2020||Aurangabad||Click a pic of clean Aurangabad, get rewarded||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) on Thursday announced an open photography competition under ‘Love Aurangabad’ campaign, where the best entries will receive certificates and a chance to appear on mega digital display screens installed in the city. As part of the photography competition, the participants have to take pictures of AMC sanitation workers while they are working. The participant can send the pictures until December 10. AMC administrator Astik Kumar Pandey said the contest aims at raising awareness among citizens about the efforts taken by the sanitation workers to keep their city clean.  The photographs have to be sent to AMC on WhatsApp number 8087802717. A panel of jury will pick the 10 best photographs. Those shortlisted will get a chance to feature on the digital outdoor display and the social media handles of Aurangabad Smart City Development Corporation Limited (ASCDCL). Nandkishor Bhombe, the head of the solid waste management department appealed to the people to participate in large numbers. The AMC has initiated the ‘Love Aurangabad’ campaign with an aim to be in top 10 cleanest cities in India in Swachh Survekshan 2021.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/click-a-pic-of-clean-aurangabad-get-rewarded/articleshow/79308686.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Jaipur||Two persons die in road accident||Jaipur: In a road accident at Bhankrota on Thursday morning, two bikers were killed on the spot after a dumper hit the bike from behind. The incident took place near Keshavpura culvert in Bhankrota.“The incident took place around 9.30am this (Thursday) morning. Police reached the spot immediately. The driver, Ashish Kumar, 26, has been detained and he is being questioned. The two victims were identified as Charan Singh, 45, and Vishram, 43,” said Bhankrota SHO Surendra Singh.“The bodies have been sent for postmortem. We will register a case after that,” he added. According to the police, the driver said the dumper belonged to one of his relatives and he was employed under him.BoxFormer councillor commits suicide in TonkJaipur: Former councillor Giriraj Meena, 47, committed suicide by hanging from the ceiling fan at his residence at Tonk’s Niwai area on Thursday. His body was found in his room by Niwai police. The reason for committing suicide has not been ascertained yet.“Investigation is going on. The body has been handed over to the family after post-mortem. No suicide note has been found,” said Niwai SHO Prahlad Sahay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-persons-die-in-road-accident/articleshow/79311040.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Jaipur||Ashok Gehlot launches maternity scheme, to benefit 77k/yr||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday launched ‘Indira Gandhi Maternity Nutrition’ scheme in the state. Gehlot said it is an important step taken by the state government towards women’s empowerment. “The scheme was announced in the last state budget, giving priority to the health and nutrition of women and children. At present, the scheme has been launched in four most backward tribal districts of Udaipur, Banswara, Dungarpur and Pratapgarh, based on the ranking made on maternal and child nutrition indicators. The government would implement it in the entire state in a phased manner,” he said. Gehlot said that he will write to Prime Minister Narendra Modi demanding its implementation in the entire country on the lines of Rajasthan. He thanked Congress president Sonia Gandhi’s suggestion regarding this scheme and said that food security was ensured in the country by enacting a law during the UPA government. Under the National Food Security Act, 2013, there was also a provision for planning to improve the nutritional level of pregnant and lactating women and children, he said. Over 77,000 women will be benefited every year. Under this, an annual cost of Rs 43 crore will be incurred, funding will be done by the State Mineral Foundation Trust under the department of mines and geology. On the inauguration of the scheme, 2,000 beneficiaries of the four districts were given checks of Rs 1,000 as the first installment. Minister of state for women and child development Mamta Bhupesh said pregnant women will get benefits under the scheme at the time of second child born on November 1 this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cm-launches-maternity-scheme-to-benefit-77k/yr/articleshow/79311035.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Aurangabad||19 lakh consumers from Marathwada yet to clear electricity bills for 7 months||AURANGABAD: Over 19 lakh electricity consumers from Marathwada have not paid their monthly power bills of the past seven months, leading to dues mounting to Rs 13,565 crore, data from the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) shows. Sunil Jadhav, MSEDCL deputy chief public relations officer for Aurangabad division, on Thursday said that the number of defaulters are over two-third of the total consumers drawing low-tension power in the eight districts of Marathwada. “The state power utility has again appealed to the consumers to pay their dues. In keeping with the state government directives, no disconnection drive has been planned yet. However, paying dues is beneficial for consumers as well as MSEDCL,” he said. As per the official data, most defaulters (9,88,612) are domestic consumers, who owe Rs 847.3 crore. Over 8 lakh agricultural consumers owe Rs 10,534.6 crore. A total of 16,246 local self-governing bodies from the region drawing power for street lights owe Rs 1,543.5 crore. Some activists have blamed the state government for causing confusion among consumers regarding payment of power bills during the pandemic. “Leaders of the ruling parties made some statements, which created an impression that people are likely to get partial waiver in the bills,” activist Vishnu Dhobale said. Ashok Kolte, a power consumer, said top leaders from the ruling parties had promised a partial waiver in power bills as a relief to public. “I did not pay bills since outbreak of Covid-19 in the hope of some waiver. It is wrong on the part of the leaders to mislead people,” he said. MSEDCL authorities said the statements made by the leaders were related to complaints of alleged inaccuracies in bills. “We held many consumer camps and the doubts related to the billing process were addressed,” a senior MSEDCL official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/19l-consumers-from-mwada-yet-to-clear-electricity-bills-for-7-months/articleshow/79308676.cms||Prasad Joshi
November 20, 2020||Jaipur||Home dept wants zero-balance FASTags for police vehicles||Jaipur: The home department has written to National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) requesting to issue zero-balance ‘FASTag’ stickers for police vehicles in Rajasthan. This has been done to expedite the process of police action in various crime-related incidents. “We have written to NHAI to issue zero-balance FASTags for police vehicles so that there is no delay in maintaining law and order,” said secretary N L Meena.Meanwhile, NHAI has sent the list to Delhi for issuance of FASTags. NHAI chief general manager, Jaipur, M K Jain said, “The list of eligible vehicles have been sent to Delhi for approval. They are examining the list and will issue FAStags to those who are eligible.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/home-dept-wants-zero-balance-fastags-for-police-vehicles/articleshow/79311037.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Pandemic a testing time for educational institutions’ management skills||MANGALURU: The Covid-19 pandemic has turned out to be testing time for educational institutions to put their management skills into practice. It includes from following SOPs to arranging online classes, managing students on campus, to protocols, hostels and the entire campus in whole. P L Dharma, registrar (evaluation), Mangalore University, said the pandemic is testing the management skills of institutions from day one. The institutions have been devising new ways to reach out to students through out-of-the-box ideas for uninterrupted learning. Everything is being done keeping in mind government guidelines and SOPs, he noted. Dharma, who is also a political science professor, adds that teaching skills are also tested, apart from management skills. “First and foremost, a teacher is expected to reach out to the last student. He must reach out to students through whatever channel available, even those who don’t have access to connectivity. Secondly, In India, the mentality is that classroom teaching cannot be replaced through online classes. With the new normal, a teacher has to make sure that online classes are as attractive and interesting as those in the classroom. Meanwhile, the online sessions are posted on the internet, and so one must be very careful about his teaching as well as use of words,” explains Dharma. Some college managements pointed out that campus management has become the complete opposite of what it used to be during the pre-Covid days. “There were some places such as canteens on campus, which rightfully belonged to students, but not now. We don’t even allow them to be there for a minute now, due to the pandemic,” says Alwyn D’Sa, registrar, St Aloysius College. Apart from government SOPs to follow, the college has its internal SOPs, to contain the spread of the virus. Colleges have switched to a new system from their traditional system. “Classes that happened on campus have been replaced with online ones. On campus, there were just two internal examinations in each semester, but now it has gone up to 10,” said D’Sa, adding that lecturers have also become more compassionate and caring, instead of being strict.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/pandemic-a-testing-time-for-edu-institutions-mgmt-skills/articleshow/79309973.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
November 20, 2020||Jaipur||Sr tourist dept official sent on APO on harassment charges||Jaipur: Tourism additional director Sanjay Pandey has been sent on APO (awaiting posting order) after a report by an internal committee set up under the directions of the chief secretary found merit in the allegations of harassment to women at workplace against the senior officer.Along with the APO order on November 18, principal secretary tourism Alok Gupta has also written to the secretary, department of personnel, to take appropriate action against the officer under Rajasthan Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal, 1958, rule 18A. The rule 18A deals with harassment of women at workplaces and the maximum punishment leading to suspension.The case relates to multiple incidents of harassment and use of foul language both to employees of the department and also a woman of a private agency engaged in handling social media of the department. Based on the findings of the four-member internal committee, the CM who holds the post of tourism minister, recommended appropriate action against the official.While the tourism department has sent him on APO, the department of personnel has the powers to decide on the punishment and can suspend him looking at the gravity of charges. In the past also, he was warned of his undesirable behavior by the director of the tourism department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sr-tourist-dept-official-sent-on-apo-on-harassment-charges/articleshow/79311046.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 20, 2020||Jaipur||CM urges PM for early approval of loan for Rajiv Gandhi lift canal project||Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for early approval of loan of Rs 1163.2 crore from Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) for taking up the long pending Rajiv Gandhi Lift Canal, Phase III, for supply of drinking water to five cities and 2,104 villages in western region of the state including Jodhpur. Gehlot wrote that the canal plan needs to be executed quickly for supply of clean drinking water in Jodhpur, Phalodi, Bilara, Pipara City and Samdari towns and 2,104 villages in the desert region. For this, the state government had submitted the online application to the economic affairs department of the Union finance ministry on March 6, which has also been approved by the screening committee of the department on June 11.The chief minister informed that the state government had also submitted a detailed project report (DPR) of the scheme to the Union housing and urban affairs ministry. Officials of the state government are in constant touch with the officials of the ministries of the central government. Gehlot urged the prime minister to direct the finance ministry for early approval of loan for the scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cm-urges-pm-for-early-approval-of-loan-for-rajiv-gandhi-lift-canal-project/articleshow/79311049.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Aurangabad||Train to Panvel till Nov-end||Aurangabad: The South Central Railway (SCR) has decided to run Nanded-Panvel-Nanded special train (07613/07614) till the end of November in response to the passengers’ demand, as per an official release. Rajesh Shinde, the public relations officer of SCR’s Nanded division, said Nanded-Panvel-Nanded special train is among the few trains which have received good response from passengers, unlike other special trains. “The special train offering connectivity between Marathwada and Panvel via Pune will continue to run for an extra brief period to cater to the post-Diwali rush,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/train-to-panvel-till-nov-end/articleshow/79308711.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Nagaland woman molested in Ahmedabad's Satellite||AHMEDABAD: A 25-year-old masseuse from Nagaland has filed a police complaint alleging that a 25-year-old man molested her near Ramdevnagar Crossroads in Satellite when she was returning from her workplace. The complainant, who is Kohima and lives with her fiancé in Satellite, stated that the accused, later identified as Vitthal Rathod, a resident of Tulsimukhi no Vaas, groped her thighs when she was walking home. He also allegedly made abusive comments and called her a ‘woman from Thailand’. Investigators said the woman earlier worked as a masseuse at a spa in a hotel in Bodakdev. On Wednesday, she had joined a new job at a spa in Satellite, where her shift ended at around 9pm. As she was returning home and reached the Saibaba temple at Ramdevnagar Crossroads at around 9.30pm on Wednesday, Rathod walked towards her, molested her and ran away. She chased Rathod and began screaming for help. Passersby then caught him. Police sources said members of the public beat him up quite badly and detained him. The complainant then called her fiancé who rushed to the spot and called the police. A team of Satellite police then reached the spot and arrested Rathod. Police booked for molestation and have begun their investigation by gathering CCTV footage of the incident. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nagaland-woman-molested-in-satellite/articleshow/79311055.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Pune||PMPML to require 240 more buses for metro feeder service||PUNE: The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) will need an additional 240 buses to effectively run the feeder bus service once Pune Metro becomes operational from next year, said officials. A senior PMPML official said that a request for the additional buses has been sent to Maha Metro authorities. “Pune Metro services are expected to start on certain routes from next year. If one talks about both metro routes, covering 30 stations in all, PMPML will need additional buses. The feeder bus service, all mid-sized, will come in handy,” PMPML chairman and managing director Rajendra Jagtap told TOI. With a fleet of around 1,500 to 1,600 buses at the moment, the current number wouldn’t be enough to run feeder services, another official said. “Right now, we are running around 50% of the total fleet and, of around 22,000 trips per day, less than 13,000 trips take place. Once full-fledged services start, the current fleet will not be enough to run metro feeder services. Feeder buses will provide last mile connectivity from stations. Additional buses will be needed. Therefore, planning and finalization needs to be done from now on,” the official pointed out. The authorities said since the transport body resumed services across Pimpri Chinchwad and Pune from early September, income from fare revenue had touched Rs50 lakh. “This is one third of our daily revenue but it is a good sign considering we are running just over 1,000 buses at present at half the capacity. In pre-Covid times, when all buses were operational, PMPML’s daily revenue was around Rs1.5 crore. PMPML will need all its buses to run at full capacity on all routes to get to its earlier form. In order to get more revenue, we are presently looking at different forms of non-fare revenue too. This includes the recent agreement with oil companies to start fuel stations,” the official said. Jagtap said that until educational institutions reopened, revenue would be affected. Alert conductor catches thief in bus A PMPML conductor caught a thief in the bus on November 10. The accused had snatched a gold bracelet from a passenger worth Rs1.30 lakh and was trying to get off the bus. “The bus was on its way towards Talegaon at around 4pm. Laxman Gaikwad, a passenger, screamed after a man snatched his bracelet and ran towards the door to get out of the bus. However, the conductor Madhukar Gaikwad ran and caught the thief in the bus. The thief was later handed over to the police. The conductor will be rewarded,” a PMPML official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmpml-to-require-240-more-buses-for-metro-feeder-service/articleshow/79312701.cms||Joy Sengupta
November 20, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad registers spike in Covid cases post Diwali||AURANGABAD: The number of fresh Covid-19 cases has touched the three-digit mark for the second consecutive day in Aurangabad district on Wednesday with the sudden spike in new cases attributed to the rush during Diwali among other reasons. The district reported 114 fresh Covid cases on Tuesday, followed by 138 fresh cases on the next day. Dr Kananbala Yelikar, the dean of government medical college and hospital, Aurangabad, said the surge in the number of cases was anticipated post-Diwali. “The way a section of people were moving without wearing masks and not maintaining social distancing during the festive season, despite the current situation, was bound to give rise to fresh cases in larger number. The health machinery has been asked to remain on their toes to deal with the surge,” She said. She said citizens should not show any hesitation for Covid testing if they develop any symptoms. The number of fresh cases was reduced to two-digit figures since October 31, barring the exception of November 5, official data shows. Aurangabad has a total of 41,914 Covid patients till Wednesday. Of them, 40,161 have recovered and 1,124 have died. District collector Sunil Chavan on Thursday held a review meeting with the health authorities and called for an effective battle against Covid till the end of January to minimize the chances of the second wave of the pandemic. “The district administration has a useful database at its disposal, which has been collected during the campaign, ‘My Family-My Responsibility’. The data can help us reach out to the comorbid patients and other vulnerable groups of people.,” he said. Chavan also asked to ensure adequate supply of Covid treatment drugs and sufficient availability of reserved beds in private hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-registers-spike-in-covid-cases-post-diwali/articleshow/79308719.cms||Prasad Joshi
November 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Neighbour molests teen with learning difficulties||Ahmedabad: A man from the Sabarmati area of the city on Monday filed police complaint alleging that his 13-year-old daughter, who has learning difficulties, was molested by a neighbour and he objected, he and his wife were attacked by the man and his cousin. In his FIR, the victim’s father states that the accused, Prakash Jadeja, 30, barged into his house when the victim was home alone and molested her. The girl began screaming and when her mother rushed there, Jadeja fled. The girl told her mother that she had been molested. The victim’s parents confronted Jadeja, who abused them and assaulted them along with his cousin, Dinesh. The complainant alleged that the duo threatened to rape his daughter and kill his family. Sabarmati police registered a complaint of molestation along with charges under the POCSO act. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/neighbour-molests-teen-with-learning-difficulties/articleshow/79311058.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra Metro tackles tricky curve near Paud Phata flyover||PUNE: The Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MahaMetro) has sped up work on a challenging part of the viaduct between the Ideal Colony and Nal Stop Metro stations. Between the two stations is the Paud Phata flyover, which sharply curves to the right from Nal Stop towards Paud Road. MahaMetro had finished a large portion of the work on the viaduct on both sides of this curve — from Vanaz to Paud Phata and from Garware College to Nal Stop — before tackling this tricky turn. Officials said they were also on the verge of completing a crucial stretch near Krishna Hospital on Paud Road. They said work at both these spots had been pending because of various obstacles, which have now been cleared. The Vanaz-Garware College stretch is part of the priority section on this corridor. An official said piers have been erected at both spots and that spans would be launched in the next two or three months. “We have installed a launching girder at Karve Road that is moving towards Paud Road along the flyover. We were waiting for some space near the flyover to be vacated before undertaking this work. Now that we have cleared most of the hurdles, we expect work to go smoothly,” the official said. The official added that the work near Krishna Hospital was held up because a high-tension cable was to be moved underground. “This work got delayed because of the extended monsoon,” the official said. Another official said this work would not hamper the flow of traffic and that they would be working at night as well. The busy junction under the flyover is a crucial link to Kothrud, Karvenagar, Warje and beyond via Karve Road, and Ideal Colony, Anandnagar and Bhusari Colony on Paud Road. MahaMetro said no road closure has been planned for the moment and added that work on the viaduct was nearly complete in the rest of the priority section. “We are installing the overhead traction cables and tracks in the completed portions of this stretch. We have also expedited work on four stations on this stretch — Vanaz, Anandnagar, Ideal Colony and Garware College. We have removed barriers where work has been completed,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mahametro-tackles-tricky-curve-near-paud-phata-flyover/articleshow/79312699.cms||Sarang Dastane
November 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Businesses reopen on Labh Pancham with puja, rituals||AHMEDABAD: End of the holiday season was officially marked for the business community in Ahmedabad, as most businesses in different parts of the city resumed operations on Labh Pancham. Shops and markets reopened after the ritualistic pooja to resume business as usual. Many businessmen visited their offices or shops personally to open the lock as per the muhurat to start the business on an auspicious note. “Diwali is when the traditional chopda poojan is performed and the books of accounts are wound up. It is on Labh Pancham or some on Saatam, that businesses resume activities as usual,” said Jayendra Tanna, president, Gujarat Traders’ Federation. Some businessmen visit their offices early in the morning, perform the Labh Pancham pooja, burst crackers and then get their first order dispatched. “Our first order is usually decided and prepared and kept ready and we dispatch the consignment on the day of Labh Pancham, on an auspicious note,” said a city-based cloth trader. In the wake of the pandemic and an economic slowdown-like situation, even though most traders have resumed business as usual, the footfalls are likely to remain low. “Certain markets have considered resuming from Saatam while some others have restricted business hours. Immediately after Diwali, the business is as such slow for a week at least,” said Dinesh Shah, who owns a clothing store at Panchkuwa Market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/businesses-reopen-on-labh-pancham-with-puja-rituals/articleshow/79311060.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Bareilly||Body of girl, 16, found hanging, class 10 boy booked for murder||BAREILLY: Body of a missing 16-year-old girl was found hanging from a tree in a forest area near Jijoda Danda Rajpura area of Sambhal district on Thursday. The girl had eloped with her neighbour Arjun Kumar, 18, on Wednesday night and police have registered an FIR under murder charges against the accused on a complaint lodged by her father. The body was sent for autopsy and the accused was arrested while he was hiding in a field outside the village. The girl was a student of class IX and was said to be in a relationship with the accused, a student of class X, for over a year. According to her family, they wanted her to continue her studies while the accused was forcing her for marriage. Since she was a minor, her family members were strictly against the relationship. According to neighbours, there had been two meetings in the past between both the families in the presence of the village elderly. Gunnor circle officer Krishna Kant Saroj said, “The girl’s father has alleged that her daughter was abducted by the accused and later killed in a forest area. We have booked the accused for murder and have detained him. During questioning, he said that he had attempted to kill himself along with the girl but was saved because of the loose rope. He confessed that he couldn’t gather the courage to kill himself later. During investigation, we have found evidence that he was in a relationship with the minor girl. We will continue to investigate and the accused will be sent to jail soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/body-of-girl-16-found-hanging-class-10-boy-booked-for-murder/articleshow/79306953.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 20, 2020||Pune||Short tender system sought for pending civic works||PUNE: A group of corporators have demanded the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to use ‘short tender process’ system for completing pending civic works, which had to be halted due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Besides, the members felt that the code of conduct for graduate constituency might delay the tenders and work orders further. As a part of the short tender system, waiver is given to the mandatory time period for issuing tenders, accepting applications, deadlines and opening of tenders. It decreases the time between issuance of tender and actual work commencement. “If the regular tender system is implemented, it will cause delay in starting the project works, leading to lapse of reserve funds,” the proposal of elected members tabled before standing committee stated. “It will be tough to complete the tendering process due to time constraints. The project works kept in the corporators’ list in the budget can be carried out fast if the short tenders are issued after December 6,” the proposal submitted by corporators Archana Patil and Kalindi Punde stated. PMC officials said the civic administration had decided to reduce the spending on municipal works this year in the wake of Covid-19. “Besides, the administration is taking various steps to ensure revenue generation, including search of new income sources. Focus is on recovery of dues from taxpayers,” a civic official said. The official said the spending would be to reduced by around 40% this financial year, for which a five-member committee had been formed to take the idea forward. “Around 40% budget provisions will have to be dropped. Even during the regular budget performance, we see nearly 20% less income than expected. The reduction may be more this year due to Covid-19. So, we will have nearly 40% less income than expected in the current fiscal overall,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/short-tender-system-sought-for-pending-civic-works/articleshow/79312702.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMC health scheme vehicle mows down cyclist||AHMEDABAD: An unidentified man of about 45 was killed after he was hit by an Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) vehicle when he was riding a bicycle on Nehru Bridge on Thursday morning. Officers of B Division traffic police said the AMC vehicle — being run under the Vadil Sukhakari Yojana for healthcare to the elderly — had a driver, a doctor and paramedical staff in it when the accident occurred.  The victim was riding a bicycle and the speeding car hit him from behind, causing severe injuries to the cyclist’s head, chest and legs. The man died on the spot. According to the police FIR, the Vadil Sukhakari team members stayed at the spot and got their statements recorded. B Division traffic police did not mention the names of the accused persons even though their statements were recorded and they were identified. A police officer said the AMC team were in a hurry to get to unwell elderly citizens. The AMC had on October 23 launched the healthcare initiative for elderly citizens. Under the scheme, AMC teams visit elderly citizens, especially those with co-morbidities. These teams visit elderly citizens and apart from checking for diseases distribute immunity boosting supplements such as vitamin C, zinc tablets, samsamani vati and others. Senior citizens with co-morbidities are visited by a team every 15 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-health-scheme-vehicle-mows-down-cyclist/articleshow/79311064.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Power demand drops during Diwali||AHMEDABAD: The demand for power across the state declined with reduction in consumption of electricity by commercial, industrial and residential customers during the Diwali festivities. The power demand in Gujarat stood at 13,448MW at 4:30pm on Thursday, November 19. The maximum electricity demand of 13,417MW was recorded on November 18. The demand was as high as 16,596MW on November 9, shows data compiled by Western Region Load Dispatch Centre (WRLDC), which is a central government entity. After Diwali, power demand dipped to 11,357MW and 11,615MW on Sunday (November 15) and Monday (November 16) respectively. On the day of Diwali, the demand was at 12,616MW. “Except agriculture, power demand from commercial, industrial and residential category consumers declined due to holidays,” said K K Bajaj, a city-based energy and regulatory expert. “Overall, there was a reduction of around 5,000MW in demand during the Diwali festivities as offices, commercial establishments and several industrial units remained shut for a few days post Diwali,” he added. With the resumption of activities from Labh Panchami on Thursday, the electricity consumption has begun increasing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/power-demand-drops-during-diwali/articleshow/79311062.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Hyderabad||58 years later, woman mayor to lead Hyderabad through flood crisis again||Hyderabad: History seems to be repeating itself this GHMC election after 58 years. Rani Kumudini Devi, the first lady mayor of Hyderabad, was in the mayoral seat when a devastating flood hit Hyderabad on September 18, 1962 following a heavy downpour. Lakes breached and the Musi was overflowing. Thousands of people were rendered homeless and they were accommodated in government shelters. Many parts of the city were virtually in ruins, requiring a major re-development and redesign programme. Kumudini, who had just two years of experience as a municipal corporator, had prepared a roadmap not only to restore Hyderabad but also keep the city free of floods in the future. Six decades later, a woman is now set to be elected the city mayor after the polls to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) scheduled for December 1. Like in 1962, the election of the lady mayor now follows a devastating flood. There was only one episode of flood in 1962, but in October 2020 the city witnessed two episodes of floods within a fortnight. The monsoon 2020 rains, like in 1962, caused mayhem in parts of Hyderabad, throwing normal life out of gear. City history experts and heritage activists now watch with interest if the new woman mayor, who will be elected early next month, will succeed in creating a master plan for flood management as Kumudini did decades ago. “Hyderabad needs mayors with a vision. Every time Hyderabad had witnessed a devastating flood till 1970, the rulers had come out with great solutions. It started from Nizam VI Mir Mahbub Ali Khan after the Musi deluge of 1908. But after the 1970 flash floods, there’s no major plan to keep Hyderabad free of floods. Most of the reports on flood management now gather dust,” said P Anuradha Reddy, convener of INTACH, Hyderabad. The new mayor will face a Herculean task in redrawing the city’s drainage map. She said Kumudini was a brave woman who took decisions independently without yielding to political pressures. Kumudini prevailed on the Nizam trust to hand over land for a multi-storey building for the poor. She also got land for the Municipal Corporation of Hyderabad (MCH) office where the present GHMC building stands. She removed encroachments on Naubat Pahad (Birla mandir hill) and developed a public garden to avoid flooding. In her autobiography, Kumudini had recalled the 1962 floods and how the “whole town was flooded”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/58-years-later-woman-mayor-to-lead-hyderabad-through-flood-crisis-again/articleshow/79312280.cms||Syed Akbar
November 20, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Complaint against conductor for not accepting 10-rupee coin||MANGALURU: A journalist has sought action against a city bus conductor, who refused to accept a 10-rupee coin for ticket. Journalist Harsha said he felt embarrassed after the conductor insulted him for tendering the coin. “During my journey between Lalbagh and Bunts Hostel Circle, conductor of the city bus refused to accept the 10-rupee coin. He said the coin is not accepted by anyone and even petrol bunks don’t accept it. Though I tried to convince him that refusing to accept a currency denomination is a crime, he was reluctant to listen. Hence, I have complained to the Mangaluru City Traffic Police and also the RTO with details of the bus and the conductor,” he said. Traffic police inspector has promised to look into the issue, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/complaint-against-conductor-for-not-accepting-10-rupee-coin/articleshow/79310051.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Pune||Govt decision brings relief for Shirdi airport officials||Pune: It will take at least three months for flight movement and passenger traffic at Shirdi airport to reach a point where it’s comparable to the pre-Covid days, senior officials at the Maharashtra Airport Development Company Limited (MADC) have said. They added that the government decision to open places of worship from today has come as a relief.“Unlike many other airports that saw higher number of flights and passenger traffic after resuming operations from May 25, the Shirdi facility has been stagnant. It is good news that the government has decided to open all religious places of worship from Monday. However, the airport will still take at least three months to fully recover considering there is no surge in Covid-19 cases and no second wave,” said a senior airport official.The public relations office of Sri Saibaba Sansthan Trust, Shirdi, confirmed that the temple will open on Monday. “The temple will open but the state government’s SOPs will be followed strictly. Furthermore, presently, a meeting is on to discuss the safest way to open the temple,” an official said.Before the pandemic hit, Shirdi airport was among the fastest growing airport in the state with total flight movements standing at 28. The daily passenger traffic stood at around 3500 passengers. Since its operations restarted from June, total flight movements has remained between 2 to 4 or even nil on many days and passenger traffic too has fluctuated between 100 to zero.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/govt-decision-brings-relief-for-shirdi-airport-officials/articleshow/79312703.cms||Joy Sengupta
November 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Asifnagar-Jhirrah Road turns into cesspool due to sewage flow||Hyderabad: Asifngar-Jhirrah road has turned into a cesspool due to the frequent sewerage flow causing much inconvenience to voters of the area, who are now becoming increasingly vocal with just a few days to go for the GHMC polls. Though complaints were made to the officials concerned but no effective measures are being taken to fix the problem. Locals and traders told TOI that the problem has persisted for the last several months, which has been a matter of concern for them as their business has taken a huge hit. “Pathetic condition of the road inside the localities and overflowing drain water upset everyone passing through this route,’’ Sushant, a resident said. Water board officials acknowledged the issue and clarified narrow water channel was a factor for the problem. “The problem begins during water supply hours and it comes to halt in non-supply times,” an official from Mallepally section of HMWSSB told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/asifnagar-jhirrah-road-turns-into-cesspool-due-to-sewage-flow/articleshow/79312285.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad municipal corporation seals eateries, vehicle showroom||AHMEDABAD: With the festivals over, the solid waste department team of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) began taking action against those units where overcrowding was witnessed.  The AMC sealed Burger King at Wide Angle and Royal Enfield showroom both situated on SG Road and KFC Prahladnagar for allegedly violating Covid-19 guidelines in the past 24 hours. A senior AMC official said that after a meeting it was decided that in order to enforce a check on the increasing spread of covid infection it was necessary to take action once against those units and eateries where overcrowding was witnessed. Harshad Solanki, the director of the solid waste department of the AMC, told the TOI: “In order to check overcrowding, the AMC began taking action, and hence the solid waste department began inspecting such units. Even roadside lorries were asked to be on the move.” Solanki said that Royal Enfield showroom was sealed on Thursday as there was overcrowding and even several of its employees were not even wearing masks. The solid waste department of the AMC’s south west zone on Wednesday raided the Burger King outlet and found that there was overcrowding and that the social distancing norm was being violated. The raids began late on Wednesday evening and a pani puri stall in Maninagar area which falls in south zone was sealed as there was overcrowding and even people who had gathered there were not wearing masks. The solid waste team sealed the outlet and the raid continued till late in the night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-seals-eateries-vehicle-showroom/articleshow/79311095.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Pune||Policy certainty key for long term revival of real estate sector: Experts||PUNE: Even as emerging data points to a recovery in the real estate sector, realtors and market watchers remain sceptical of the immediate future. They say that much of the current momentum in the market is on account of pent up demand. Realtors also think only policy certainty will add to sustainable future for the second largest job accretive sector after agriculture. Among key things they think will stimulate the market are a steady stamp duty, GST and ready reckoner rate and tax benefits, which can be passed onto the buyer, and easier project finance. “Measures like stamp duty rationalisation by the state government, discount by developers and innovative financial structuring schemes have helped turn the tide. Keeping such incentives time-bound will not work in anyone’s interests. Also, there needs to be a uniform GST treatment for both under-construction and ready-to-move homes. The factors that impact demand must be imbibed and factored into the whole equation. In a healthy market, there cannot be a perpetual stand-off between buyers and sellers. The returning demand is ample proof that when stakeholders relax previously held hard stances, the market begins to revive,” said Aditi Watve, city head, Pune, Anarock Property Consultants. She added that people need to be certain of the system; there needs to be a high degree of predictability for the real estate sentiment to thrive. “Anything that disrupts the status quo negatively impacts buyer and investor sentiment,” she added. Atul Chordia, director, Panchshil Realty, said that stamp duty should be reduced to max 2% of the guidance value to move the market beyond the “pent up demand”. However, others felt that momentum of home sales and launches will continue post the festive season. “The lockdown confined people to their homes and made them enter an entirely new universe where the office, school/ college and regular household activities amalgamated within the boundaries of their homes. The compact homes of Indian cities and the joint family culture of India only added chaos to this universe. As the initial lockdown of 21 days got extended to nearly six months in the form of partial lockdowns, families felt the need for larger apartments, thereby creating a fresh demand for upgrades which may not have been a necessity earlier,” said Paramvir Singh Paul, branch director, Knight Frank India. Rohit Gera, managing director, Gera Developments said that all policy shocks have pushed the market more into consolidation phase. “Every shock that has hit the real estate market has pushed the weakest of the developers to the edge and many today are facing a tremendous liquidity crisis. The outcome of this is home buyers are finally seeking out reputed developers with a track record for delivery and not getting lured by deep discounts by fly-by-night operators,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/policy-certainty-key-for-long-term-revival-of-real-estate-sector-experts/articleshow/79312709.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
November 20, 2020||Pune||Pune: Online, offline mode for backlog exam in autonomous courses||PUNE: Savitribai Phule Pune University has drawn up a new order stating that students studying in autonomous courses as mentioned in the university circular 125 will have both online and offline options to attempt the examination. The examination is scheduled between December 3-16, and would be of 50 marks and of one-hour duration. The results would be out before December 25. The difficulty level of the question paper would be such that 40% questions would be easy, 40% would be semi-difficult and the remaining 20% would be difficult. A total of 60 questions will be put out, of which 50 right answers would be considered for evaluation. However, students are demanding that facilities such as mock tests and question banks be offered. The practical examinations would be held between November 26 and December 2, for the total marks allotted for the test in the subject. These shall be held online using various platforms and the recording of the viva/seminar should be preserved by the respective college. A mock test would need to be held to make the students familiar with the online process. There would be no revaluation, both for online or offline examination, the circular stated. Mahesh Kakade, director of examination and evaluation said, “There are some autonomous courses which have very few students enrolled in them. For these courses, the colleges form an exam panel and other necessary bodies and conduct their own examination. The new circular is for such courses and not for other backlog examinations.” Meanwhile, students’ organisations have been raising their voice against the alleged problems in the results of certain final year students who appeared for the examination in the month of October. The students are also calling for an option of revaluation in the upcoming backlog/performance improvement examinations. Student activist Kuldeep Ambekar said, “Many final-year students, who despite appearing for the exam and submitting the online paper, have been marked absent in the result. Then, there are many who say that their marks do not reflect the reality as they had answered many more questions correctly. All these problems would not arise if there is an option of revaluation or photocopy. Hence, we want a revaluation/photocopy option for the backlog examination.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/online-offline-mode-for-backlog-exam-in-autonomous-courses/articleshow/79312705.cms||Ardhra Nair
November 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Godown owner gets bail in Pirana case||AHMEDABAD: A city sessions court on Thursday ordered the release of Nanu Bharwad, who is accused in the case pertaining to the chemical explosions in Ganeshnagar on Pirana-Piplaj Road, with the observation that his involvement is “prima facie doubtful or is falsely implicated” because merely renting out his premises cannot be an act of negligence. Bharwad is the owner of the godown where Kanika Fashion operates, where 13 workers lost their lives because of the explosions in the adjacent chemicals unit, Sahil Enterprise, on November 4. Three persons were arrested – Nanu Bharwad, Pradeep Bharwad and Hetal Sutaria, the owner of Sahil Enterprise – and charged with culpable homicide not amounting to murder and for violation of environment protection laws. Additional sessions judge V R Raval ordered Bharwad’s release on conditional bail on a furnishing bond of Rs 15,000. However, the court came to the conclusion that Bharwad seemed unlikely to be responsible for the tragedy. The court said that the explosions did not take place on the premises owned by Bharwad but in the chemical unit, from where some material fell on Kanika Fashion, where the workers who became casualties were present. The court also said that Bharwad is the owner of the godown and not the owner of the units functioning from his premises and “therefore also the present applicant-accused’s involvement directly cannot be held and also prima facie responsibility for any negligent act”. Fire safety precautions were also taken by Bharwad in the godown owned by him. After his arrest, Bharwad tested positive for Covid-19 positive and was being treated at a private hospital. The owner of Sahil Enterprise, Sutaria, has filed a bail plea which the court is likely to hear on November 27.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/godown-owner-gets-bail-in-pirana-case/articleshow/79311096.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Fight over setting off firecrackers||AHMEDABAD: A resident of New Ranip area of the city on Tuesday filed a complaint with Sabarmati police station alleging that four men living in the same locality assaulted him and his wife as they suspected that the complainant was bursting crackers in the area. In his FIR, Vipul Joshi (43), who runs a cake shop on Science City Road, said that the two accused —Natwarlal Joshi and Ghanshyamsinh Rathod — had come to him on Tuesday night asking as to why he was bursting crackers. Joshi told them that two motorcycle-borne men had come there and burst crackers. However, the duo did not listen to him and began beating him. Later, Natwarlal’s son Jigar and Ghanshyamsinh’s son Hardik also arrived at the scene and beat up Joshi with sticks. When Joshi’s wife tried to intervene, she, too, was beaten up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fight-over-setting-off-firecrackers/articleshow/79311118.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Pune||Three held for stealing costly spares from cellphone towers||PUNE: The crime branch of the Pune police on Thursday claimed of solving 11 theft cases involving costly electronic hardware supporting 3G and 4G network, following the arrest of two suspects and a scrap dealer. Police also recovered spares worth Rs 60 lakh from the suspects. Deputy commissioner of police (crime) Bachchan Singh said, “There was a spate of thefts of costly hardware from cellphone towers, especially in the rural parts of the Pune district. One such theft had taken place in the area of Bharati Vidyapeeth. While the crime branch was probing the case, we received critical inputs from various sources, after which arrests were made.” Inspector Mahendra Jagtap of Unit II of the crime branch told TOI, “Apart from the hardware worth Rs 60 lakh, police have also seized two motorcycles worth Rs 1.15 lakh from them. These motorcycles were used in the crimes.” Police identified the suspects as Sufran Latib Raj alias Baba (40), Mahesh Hanumant Parit (24) of Hadapsar. The scrap dealer has been identified as Sameerulla Shah (29), also from Hadapsar. Jagtap said in the last one-and-a-half-month, the suspects stole the hardware namely, Base Band, which supports the 4G and 3G technology. “It is a costly hardware and has a price tag ranging between Rs 4 lakh and Rs 5 lakh,” he said. “Parit was employed in a private company, which installs cellphone towers, while Raj was working as a driver in the same company. They left their jobs few months ago. Both of them knew the value of the base band,” Jagtap said. They stole base bands from the cellphone towers located in Vimannagar, Bharati Vidyapeeth, Wanowrie, Loni Kand, Shikrapur, Shirur, Daund, and Loni Kalbhor. Police said the suspects used to dismantle the hardware and sell them in pieces in the grey market in Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/three-held-for-stealing-costly-spares-from-cellphone-towers/articleshow/79312706.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Eight new MLAs sworn in by speaker||GANDHINAGAR: The eight newly elected MLAs were sworn in at the Vidhan Sabha in Gandhinagar on Thursday. Speaker Rajendra Trivedi administered the oath of office in the presence of chief minister Vijay Rupani, deputy CM Nitin Patel, ministers and a handful of supporters. The MLAs who were administered the oath are Pradyumansinh Jadeja (Abdasa), Brijesh Merja (Morbi), J V Kakadiya (Dhari), Akshay Patel (Karjan), Atmaram Parmar (Gadhada), Jitu Chaudhary (Kaprada), Vijay Patel (Dang) and Kiritsinh Rana (Limbdi). The BJP won all eight assembly seats where byelections were held earlier this month. All eight seats had been won by the Congress in the 2017 assembly election. The BJP now has 111 MLAs in the house, while the Congress has 65. The current strength of the Gujarat assembly is now 180. Bharatiya Tribal Party has two MLAs, NCP has one MLA and there is one independent. Two assembly seats, Dwarka and Morva Hadaf, are vacant, as they are being contested in courts. “The newly elected MLAs chose ‘Laabh Paacham’ to be sworn in on and came with a handful of supporters. Akshay Patel, the MLA from Karjan could not make it in time and was sworn in in my chamber,” Gujarat assembly speaker Rajendra Trivedi said after the ceremony. Byelections were held for the constituencies of Abdasa, Morbi, Dhari, Gadhada, Limbdi, Karjan, Dang and Kaprada after the Congress MLAs resigned earlier this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/eight-new-mlas-sworn-in-by-speaker/articleshow/79311186.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Pune||BJP to oppose recovery of inflated electricity bills||PUNE: The Bharatiya Janata party (BJP) has decided to oppose the state government’s move to conduct programmes to explain its stand on increasing electricity charges, The BJP will not allow these programmes to take place, said leader of opposition in state legislative council Pravin Darekar while speaking at a press conference on Thursday. “We will disrupt any attempt at conducting such so called “awareness programmes”. These events will hurt the sentiments of people who are suffering because of inflated electricity bills. We will oppose the programmes as a representation of public anger,” he said. Darekar said that the state government had given promise to waive off electricity bills up to 100 units. But that promise has not been fulfilled. On the contrary, the government is taking steps to recover the money from common citizens. This stand taken by the state is not justified and is against public interest. On the upcoming graduate constituency elections, Darekar said that the BJP was focusing on these polls to address the challenges faced by the educational sector in the state. The party will focus on ‘creating job-oriented initiatives’ as well as ‘skill set development for self-reliance for graduates’ as part of its election agenda. “The state government has failed to deal with challenges faced by the education sector. Many issues like reservation in admission, mismanagement in competitive exams and other eight major concerns need to be addressed. The state leadership is not paying adequate attention to them. This has put the future of many students in danger,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bjp-to-oppose-recovery-of-inflated-electricity-bills/articleshow/79312715.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Pune||Cops crack 9 break-ins, recover car & booty||PUNE: The Vishrambaug police on Wednesday claimed to have solved nine cases of house break-ins and a car theft following the arrest of Sarfaraj alias Ravan Raj Shaikh (20) early on Saturday and the recovery of car along with stolen booty worth Rs1.53 lakh. Shaikh’s accomplice Vikas alias Junglya Dilip Kamble (21) of Chikhali managed to escape, police said. Senior inspector Dadasaheb Chudappa of the Vishrambaug police told TOI, “The two were found moving around suspiciously in a car and a team headed by sub-inspector Vijay Jadhav intercepted them following a brief chase on Kelkar Road.” Investigations revealed that the duo had stolen the car from Dehu Road and then executed the thefts in Vishrambaug, Koregaon Park and Vishrantwadi using the four-wheeler. “The majority of the stolen booty is with Kamble. We have launched a search for Kamble and we hope that most of it will be recovered,” Chudappa said. “The duo have been involved in as many as 50 house break-ins and thefts in Pimpri Chinchwad. However, it was strange that they started targeting houses in Pune city,” he said. Speaking about their modus operandi, he said the duo targeted locked flats or houses between 2-5am. “They generally used a stolen car to execute the thefts,” he said. Thieves strike at locked flat Thieves stole gold ornaments, totally worth Rs14.46 lakh from a locked flat at a residential housing society in Dhayari sometime between Tuesday and Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-crack-9-break-ins-recover-car-booty/articleshow/79312711.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Chennai||Real-time info missing, Tamil Nadu govt sites of little help to residents||CHENNAI: If you are in Bengaluru and want to know the list of public toilets available, area wise, all you have to do is visit the city corporation’s website. The Bengaluru water supply board gives a plethora of information including real time testing results of sewage from its treatment plants. In Chennai, however, such information is not available on the websites of the agencies concerned. Tamil Nadu government officials, especially those who head agencies that affect citizen’s daily lives, take stock of all issues and pass orders on a weekly and monthly basis. Senior officials say they have a huge stockpile of data, but it is not reflected on their websites. Section 4 of the RTI Act mandates every government agency to publish as much information as possible on its website for the benefit of citizens. The Tamil Nadu State Information Commission (TNSIC), which has a role in ensuring RTI Act is implemented, itself has an outdated website with the 2017 annual report the last published one. Greater Chennai Corporation publishes the resolutions taken at council meetings several months after the event. Currently, it has published only the March resolution. The city police do not have a website and on TN police websites, contact numbers of officers in charge of the city’s police districts are not available. The TN Pollution Control Board website has no information on real time air quality monitoring. On many websites, names of officials are outdated or links given are incorrect. The Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) does not upload minutes of meetings where significant decisions are taken. Same is the case with Metrowater. Around seven years ago, lawyer and RTI activist P Balaji says, government websites used to give real-time information. “I remember garbage collection figures at various stations used to be available till 2013. We could also access schedule of road relaying work and inspect it,” he said. These details are no longer available. Mohammed Salihu, an environmental activist, said the TNPCB’s consent status given to industries is not up to date. “The dashboard link to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) doesn’t work.” Former TNSIC chief information commissioner K Ramanujam said every department should appoint an officer to update its website regularly. The kind of information sought can be gauged by the RTI applications received, Ramanujam said, adding that there is no bar on the quantum of information to be published. “But often the HoDs are never apprised of the nature of RTI applications.” At the end of his tenure three years ago, Ramanujam had started an exercise to check the quality and quantity of information on TN government websites and submitted recommendations to the government. Balaji pointed out how TN reginet, the website for registration department, was one of those helpful in obtaining copies of land documents sitting in the comfort of one’s house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/real-time-info-missing-govt-sites-of-little-help-to-residents/articleshow/79311148.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
November 20, 2020||Aurangabad||3 brothers electrocuted on Jalna farm||Aurangabad: Three brothers aged between 18 and 26 were electrocuted while they were at their farm to water the wheat crop in village Palaskheda Pimpley of Jalna district, about 85km from here, on Wednesday. The brothers — Dnyaneshwar Jadhav (26), Rameshwar (23) and Sunil (18) — would assist their elderly parents on the farm. Following a daily routine, the brothers went to the farm around 9pm to release water from the well for the crop. One of them switched on the water pump situated on the well but got electrocuted. He fell into the well. Police said that to save him, the other two brothers jumped into the well. However, they too were electrocuted by the current passing through the water. The eldest brother, Dnyaneshwar, had married barely three months ago. Police said that after watering the crop, the brothers would return home in a couple of hours. When they did not return till late, and were also not reachable on their cell phones, their parents and Dnyaneshwar’s wife informed neighbours and some relatives living in the village. A search was launched and the brothers’ were found floating in the well. Villagers shut off the water pump and pulled out the bodies. A local hospital declared them brought dead. Assistant inspector Santosh Ghodke of the Hasnabad police said a case of accidental death has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/3-brothers-electrocuted-on-jalna-farm/articleshow/79308893.cms||Mohammed Akhef
November 20, 2020||Chennai||Chennai's Covid positivity rate below 5% for first time||CHENNAI: For the first time in more than seven months, the test positivity rate (TPR) for Covid-19 in Chennai has dropped below 5%. World Health Organisation (WHO) and Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) recommend that testing should be at a level to ensure TPR is below 5%. TPR is a measure of the spread of infection and indicates stabilising of the spread. On Wednesday, Greater Chennai Corporation said it tested 10,411 people, of which 479 tested positive for Covid-19. This translates into a TPR of 4.6%. In May and June, Chennai had recorded TPR of 30%. However, senior corporation officials said they are not going to relax and will increase testing till December 15. Chennai’s TPR has remained around 5% before Diwali and was at 6% during the weekend when daily testing dropped to 7,000. This was attributed to lakhs of people leaving the city and also a general decrease in people turning up at the fever camps where symptomatic people are identified and swabs taken for testing. However, immediately after people returned, the testing figures went up to more than 10,000 and corporation sources said it was likely to touch 12,000. This was after instructions were given by health secretary J Radhakrishnan to ramp up testing to ensure that a post-festival spike, if any, was identified early. A senior corporation official said it would not be safe to say that Chennai has gone past the peak. “We will check for an incubation period of 30 days. If the numbers remain stable after December 15, only then can we relax,” the official said. Another official said the city has been successful in bringing viral transmission under control. “We are working to lower this threshold over time,” the official said. However, this does not mean that herd immunity has set in, the official said. “Low TPR simply means that level of transmission, relative to the amount of testing, is low at this point in time,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennais-covid-positivity-rate-below-5-for-first-time/articleshow/79311199.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Are cops going soft on mask violations?||AHMEDABAD: Even as many areas in the city registered a steep rise in Covid-19 cases, cops went soft on violators of Covid protocol. This is apparent from the number of Covid protocol related offences cops registered during Diwali festival. According to the figures obtained from the city police, there was a decline of nearly 90% in mask rule violations in last eight days.  More to that, the city police did not register a single case on November 17 — a day after the Gujarati New Year and Bhai Dooj festival. A senior police officer said that they did not intensify action against offenders for not wearing mask due to the festival. “We stopped taking strict against people during Diwali festival which started from Agiyaras so that people may celebrate with ease. The cases dropped drastically on Diwali, New Year and Bhai Dooj,” said a senior police officer.Another police officer deployed near Lal Darwaja, the heart of the city, where people gathered in large numbers during festival time, said they had instructions not to book people for violation of not wearing mask and were told to ensure social distancing. “We kept announcing in the crowded areas not to violate social distancing and keep wearing masks, but did not generally book people the way we did earlier for violation of police commissioner’s notification or for spreading infectious diseases. Along with that, the cops did not even charge them Rs 1,000 for violating the rule of wearing masks,” said a police officer. The fine for not wearing masks was raised from Rs 500 to Rs 1,000 on August 10 following the Gujrat high court’s direction. Since then, police have registered on an average 1,000 cases every day, until this Diwali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/are-cops-going-soft-on-mask-violations/articleshow/79311213.cms||Ashish Chauhan
November 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Cop scuffles with airline staff||AHMEDABAD: A major scuffle was reported on Tuesday at the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International (SVPI) airport in Ahmedabad, between a sub-inspector rank officer and the ground staffer of an airline. According to sources, the sub-inspector was not allowed to board a flight as he reported late to the airport and he allegedly slapped the ground-staff member of the airline. The incident took place early on Tuesday, when the cop was to travel to Delhi via SpiceJet flight SG-8194. Sources confirmed that three passengers including the said police officer reported late at the airport and argued with the airline staffer present at the ticketing counter at the SVPI airport. Sources said that the passengers and airline staff reached a mutual understanding and had withdrawn the complaint against passengers including the sub-inspector. None of the three passengers, however, were allowed to board the flight. The airline, however, denied that any such incident had taken place and termed it as an ‘argument’. “On 17th November 2020, three passengers booked on SpiceJet Flight SG 8194 (operating Ahmedabad – Delhi) reported late for the flight. The said passengers had an argument with SpiceJet Airport staff. However, there was no manhandling of SpiceJet staff by the concerned passengers,” said a SpiceJet spokesperson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cop-scuffles-with-airline-staff/articleshow/79311219.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad Curfew: Western parts of city see tsunami of Covid cases||AHMEDABAD: The number of fresh Covid cases are spiralling out of control in western parts of the city and on Thursday, the tony areas of Jodhpur, Bopal, Vejalpur, Maktampura and neighbouring wards that form the South West Zone had the highest number of active Covid cases. The complacency of Amdavadis during Navratri and Diwali-New Year celebrations have resulted in this situation. The South West Zone had 452 active cases till Thursday, while it was 403 cases on November 11. “These numbers shows the virus is spreading most in this zone, followed by the East Zone and then the North Zone. The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), claims that 2,637 Covid beds available to patients from Ahmedabad in the city and Gandhinagar, including 2,237 at government hospitals and 400 at private hospitals. Rajiv Kumar Gupta, additional chief secretary, forests and environment, who is in charge of Covid management in Ahmedabad city, said that during the festive period people came out in large numbers and social distancing and wearing of masks were neglected. People also went to meet relatives in other districts. All this has led to more Covid cases, he said. Covid testing facilities have been set up in every two kilometres in the city. Gupta said 400 Covid beds have been added at private hospitals this week and a similar number have been added at the Asarwa and Sola Civil Hospitals as well as Kidney Hospital. The situation has now escalated to such levels that patients from Sabarmati, Chandkheda and Motera are officially being sent to Gandhinagar Civil Hospital, an official said. Gupta said that a drive to enforce the mandatory wearing of masks and social distancing has also begun in the city. He said there are 500-odd patients being from neighbouring Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan being treated in the city. The state government also allocated 300 more doctors to the city. Desperate hospitals are pulling more beds into Covid wards to accommodate patients even as they struggle with inadequate medical staff. The experience of a Delhi-based pharmaceuticals professional, Jay Contractor, and his wife, who are being treated at a Satellite hospital is worth citing. “Beds are closely placed. The viral load in the room is high that reinfection is imminent with hardly any ventilation in the room,” said Contractor, who has two more days at the hospital. “A single washroom is shared by 24 patients, biomedical waste is kept within the ward. The government should also check the quality of low molecular weight heparin (LMWH), antibiotics and other drugs that are being administered at the hospitals,” says Contractor, who sent TOI a few photographs. Gupta said 900 mobile medical vans, 550 Corona Sanjivani vans, 150 Dhanvantri mobile medical vans, 100 vans of the 104 fever helpline and 100 vans of the Vadil Sukhakari Yojana (to check on the elderly) are operational in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/western-parts-of-city-see-tsunami-of-covid-cases/articleshow/79311319.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Schools, colleges won’t reopen on November 23 in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: The state government has decided to revoke its decision to reopen schools and colleges across the state starting November 23. The decision comes at a time when parents and school owners are pressing for their demand to delay reopening of schools till the Covid-19 crisis got under control. Gujarat joins the list of many other states including Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan that had revoked similar decisions and shut down educational institutions after facing a rising number of Covid-19 cases in school students. The government’s decision came late on Thursday evening after holding series of discussions with various stakeholders including college authorities and schools.  “I have decided to keep my earlier decision on hold regarding reopening of schools and colleges. They will not reopen on November 23 as announced earlier,” said Bhupendrasinh Chudasama, state education minister. The decision has been taken keeping in view the rising number of Covid-19 cases and a second wave that is being anticipated shortly. The new date for reopening educational institutions in the state will be announced later on. The owners of self-financed schools and the parents of school children urged the state government to reconsider the decision of physically re-opening schools at a time when the state was witnessing a spike in Covid-19 cases. The state government, in a cabinet meeting held last week, had decided to re-open schools and colleges across the state from November 23. They were shut down in March due to the pandemic, and they have remained closed ever since. The colleges offering undergraduate courses were to remain physically shut for a little longer time till the first week of December despite the government decision for re-opening. The reason for this being that the government has allowed re-opening only for the final year candidates. “Presently, term-end exams are under way for the fifth and seventh semester students. They will end around December 7. Only then will the new semester for the last year students begin,” said an official close to the development. “We want the government to hold their decision on re-opening by at least a fortnight by when the picture will become much clearer,” said Bhasker Patel, president of Gujarat Rajya Shala Sanchalak Mahamandal. Jatin Bharad, vice-president of Self-Financed School Management Association, said that it would be better if the government waited a little longer and delayed the re-opening of schools at least by 10 to 15 days. According to the SOP guidelines issued earlier, schools were to take consent letter from the parents before allowing their wards to attend physical classroom studies. At least 40% parents to whom different school authorities have reached out to in urban centres are reluctant in sending their children to schools, according to Bhasker Patel. In a recent letter to chief minister Vijay Rupani on Thursday, the All Gujarat Vali Mandal has pressed for their demand to keep schools closed for at least two months more or till a Covid-19 vaccine is made available in the market. The association had also called for a state wide shutdown of schools on November 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/schools-colleges-wont-reopen-on-nov-23/articleshow/79311225.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19: Recovery rate low, death rate high in Gujarat, says Centre||AHMEDABAD: The Union health ministry has deputed high-level central teams to Gujarat, Haryana, Rajasthan, and Manipur. According to a statement, Dr S K Singh, the director of the National Centre for Disease Control, will be leading the Gujarat team. These teams will visit the districts reporting high numbers of Covid cases and support the state efforts towards strengthening containment, surveillance, testing, infection prevention and control measures, and efficient clinical management of cases. Central teams shall also offer guidance on effectively managing challenges related to timely diagnosis and follow ups. Data shared by the central team shows that the state’s share in the total Covid cases in the country was 2.1%. The country has so far reported 1.32 lakh deaths, making up about 1.5% of the 89.58 lakh Covid cases. In Gujarat, the death rate was 2% with 3,823 people dying out of 1.92 lakh Covid cases. The data revealed that the recovery rate in the state is 91.50% which is lower than the national average of 93.58%. The percentage of deaths in the state to the total deaths in the country is 2.9%, the highest among these four states. The death rates in these states are Haryana (1.6%), Rajasthan (1.6%), Manipur (0.2%) The Centre stated that the positivity rate in Gujarat was 3.1%, lower than the country’s positivity rate of 7%. The positivity rates are 6.8% in Haryana, 6.3% in Rajasthan, 6.4% in Manipur. In July, a four-member team of the Centre visited Gujarat to review the Covid situation and provide guidance. The central team had reviewed the situation in Ahmedabad and Surat districts and had praised the state government’s efforts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/recovery-rate-low-death-rate-high-in-gujarat-centre/articleshow/79311221.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Choose those committed to devpt: DS||Hyderabad: After lying low for the last three years, TRS Rajya Sabha MP D Srinivas has urged Greater Hyderabad residents to vote for those parties which are committed to development of the city and not to those who resort to gimmicks. He said the TRS should first gain credibility among the people. Srinivas said, “When the government wants to give Rs 10,000 immediate relief to the victims and people were facing hardships, the government should have waited for completion of disbursement of relief. GHMC elections can wait till December last week,” he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/choose-those-committed-to-devpt-ds/articleshow/79312288.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Youth flaunts ‘pistol’ on SG Road, nabbed||AHMEDABAD: Crime branch sleuths on Wednesday nabbed one Sahil Mevada (Bharvad) 21, of Makarba as his video, brandishing a pistol-like object from a car on SG Road had gone viral on social media on Wednesday. Though the video is about two to three months old, the cops took it seriously and nabbed him from his house on Wednesday. Hardevsinh Vala, who runs a coffee shop on SG Road has also been arrested as he had sold the pistol-like object to Mevada. Assistant commissioner of police, crime branch, D P Chudasama, said that the video on social media showed the youth brandishing a pistol-like object in his hand. “At that time the we did not know who the youth was, but the teams were dispatched to nab the accused,” he added. Crime branch sources said they got a tip that Mevada, who stays in Makarba area of Sarkhej has a habit of keeping such things and many times he had identified himself as a police officer, brandishing the ‘weapon.’ Crime branch sources said that though the pistol-like object seems to be a cigarette lighter, they have sent it for forensic examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/youth-flaunts-pistol-on-sg-road-nabbed/articleshow/79311228.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Delhi||Government to knock at doors of 58 lakh Delhiites||NEW DELHI: In a five-day exercise beginning Friday, around 58 lakh Delhiites living in Covid ‘hotspots’ will be surveyed to identify symptomatic people and isolate those who test positive. Nearly 10,000 teams have been formed in the 11 districts of Delhi, who will conduct the door-to-door survey, which will be primarily carried out in and around containment zones and other ‘super spreader’ areas identified by the district authorities. As part of the survey, physical parameters of the residents of these areas, including their temperature and oxygen saturation (SpO2), will be checked and those found with Covid-19 symptoms would undergo RT-PCR test. Extensive contact tracing will also be done. “The emphasis right now is on the survey and we are going to do the survey in all the hotspots, inside and outside the containment zones, apart from areas where there is a vulnerable population,” West Delhi district magistrate Neha Bansal said. The district has around 7 lakh people residing in hotspots, who will be surveyed by Wednesday as per a standardised format prepared for the survey. Bansal said that people residing in market areas or any ‘super spreader’ area, where there have been clustering of cases, would be surveyed too. “If anyone is found having symptoms, RT-PCR test and then contact tracing will be carried out,” she said. “We have formed the teams and are ready to start from Friday,” North West district magistrate Cheshta Yadav said. Yadav said that “around 1,200 teams have been formed that include teachers, Booth Level Officers (BLO), Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) workers, Auxiliary Nurse Midwife (ANMs) and other staff.” “The mandate is to find the maximum symptomatic cases who are not coming out and are not testing themselves, identify their contacts, get them RT-PCR tested and get them isolated,” Yadav said, adding that even symptomatic people not getting tested leads to mortality as well. “We have identified major hotspot areas where we are getting maximum Covid cases like Saraswati Vihar, Prashant Vihar, Begumpur and Ashok Vihar,” Yadav said. “We have also identified the dispensaries, which will cater to the symptomatic cases that we find,” she added. Officials in the East District, which has nine lakh people residing in hotspots, also said that they were prepared to roll out the survey from Friday with target areas in mind and the experience gathered on the first day would help them tweak the strategy on ground if needed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-to-knock-at-doors-of-58l/articleshow/79311389.cms||Sidharatha Roy
November 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad municipal corporation to deploy officer at 108 call centre||AHMEDABAD: For the kin of Bharat Makwana, a resident of Vejalpur, one hour in an EMRI 108 hospital on Tuesday seemed like an entire day. “With high diabetes, he was turning critical with every passing minute. We went to no less than five hospitals to admit him with Covid-19 infection, but they did not have beds with oxygen supply available. We eventually took him to Civil Hospital and got him admitted – he needed critical care right after the admission,” said his son. Makwana was not alone in the ordeal – several Amdavadis faced the issue when they called up ambulance to go to a nearby hospital, only to be told that the hospital no longer had beds. Majority of the citizens faced issues with high-dependency unit, oxygen beds and ventilator beds, that also in hospitals of their choices. To address the issue, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) held a meeting with stakeholders on Wednesday, after which it was decided to deploy a senior officer in the EMRI 108 control room itself to steer the ambulance to the hospitals with beds available. “The system of the patient first going to SVP Hospital to get the required paperwork will be abolished, as the digital verification will be initiated in a few days’ time. The officer will be coordinating with the medical officers to assess the bed vacancy in both requisite and non-requisite categories,” said a senior EMRI official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-to-deploy-officer-at-108-call-centre/articleshow/79311313.cms||Parth Shastri
November 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Three Gujarat HC judges test positive for Covid||AHMEDABAD: Three judges at the Gujarat high court (HC) were reported to have tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. While the court is yet to open for general public, the HC administrative staff has now gone on an overdrive to sanitize facilities within the premises. A strict protocol is being enforced to prevent the further spread of infection. The HC officials claim that the health of the three judges is stable and that they are taking rest. The HC has been delaying the physical functioning of the courts since the March lockdown. The HC had announced recently that there would be no resumption of physical hearing till further orders. The HC on November 4 had decided that all lower courts across the state would start physically functioning after the Diwali vacation except the courts in four major cities. The HC has also prescribed standard operating procedures (SOPs) to be followed by all, after courtrooms reopen on November 23. Besides Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot, the courtrooms will not open in those courts which fall under micro-containment zones. Matters requiring urgent attention and bail applications will be heard by these courts. Besides this, the HC has ordered that the lower courts will start functioning with the installation of plexi-glass screens in all courtrooms dividing the judge’s dais from the place of advocates and litigants. The HC has also ordered the rearrangement of chairs and benches in the courtrooms to maintain social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/3-hc-judges-test-positive-for-covid/articleshow/79311314.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Nagpur||Vidarbha reports over 1,200 new Covid cases for first time in November||Nagpur: For the first time in November, Vidarbha reported over 1,200 new cases of Covid-19 on Thursday. The increase in number of infections could be a result of people’s casual attitude during the Diwali festivities and an indicator of second wave which is expected before the end of 2020. The 1,245 new cases reported on Thursday are highest for November so far. Nagpur district, which has been seeing an increase in daily cases for last four days, reported 443 new cases, followed by Chandrapur (222), Gondia (125), Bhandara (87), Gadchiroli (80), Yavatmal (74), Buldhana (54), Wardha (53), Amravati (53), Akola (43), and Washim (11). The region’s caseload has reached 2,14,539. At 832, recoveries were significantly less than the number of new cases on Thursday. They came from Nagpur (224), Chandrapur (253), Wardha (70), Yavatmal (64), Gondia (51), Gadchiroli (51), Amravati (34), Buldhana (31), Bhandara (29), Akola (15) and Washim (10). With 199030 patients recovering till date, the recovery rate of Vidarbha which used to be more than 93% three days ago, has come to 92.7%. Deaths due to Covid-19 also increased to 20 on Thursday. However, case fatality rate of Vidarbha came under 2.7% for the first time in the last 20 days. Nagpur district reported highest 12 deaths — five from Nagpur city, three from Nagpur rural while four patients were from other states/divisions who had tested positive in Nagpur. Amravati: A spike of 53 cases took the district’s caseload to 17,017 while no death was reported on Thursday. Recoveries dipped for the second successive day in comparison to new cases. Recoveries increased to 16,313 after discharge to 34 patients for a recovery rate of 95.6%. Now, there are 385 patients under treatment. Chandrapur: The cases, which were hovering around 100 during Diwali, shot up to 222 on Thursday. No death was reported. The caseload has now reached 18,173, while the toll is 277. The day saw 253 patients getting discharge, taking the recoveries to 15,376. Now, there are 2,160 patients under treatment. Wardha: Two men (34 and 72) from Wardha died during treatment on Thursday while 53 new patients were detected and 70 were discharged. The caseload is 7,174, including 6,560 recoveries. New cases came from Wardha (25), Deoli (16), Hinganghat (10) and Samudrapur (2). The toll stands at 229 while 385 patients are under treatment. Yavatmal: The district reported no death on Thursday while 74 new cases took the caseload to 10,921. Recoveries reached 10,224 with addition of 64 reported on Thursday. Now, 268 patients are under treatment. Bhandara: The day saw 87 new cases and 29 recoveries in the district. No death was reported in a day. Now, of the 9,803 patients detected so far, 8,803 have recovered and 763 patients are under treatment. The recovery rate is 89.8%. Gondia: The district reported a spike of 125 fresh cases, highest in the last 29 days, while 51 patients were discharged. Three patients (31, 46 and 62) died due in last 24 hours. Now, the district has 678 patients under treatment. Gadchiroli: A 76-year-old patient of diabetes died due to Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the toll of district to 74. The day saw 80 new cases while 51 patients were discharged. The district’s caseload is 7,129, including 6,561 recoveries and 494 active cases. Recovery rate is 92%. Akola: The district is witnessing a fresh surge in Covid-19 cases. The caseload increased to 8,879 with addition of 43 new cases on Thursday while only 15 patients recovered in a day. A 70-year-old woman who was admitted on Wednesday died on Thursday, taking the toll to 287. Now, 404 patients are under treatment. Buldhana: A 74-year-old man from Sindhakhed Raja died during treatment on Thursday, taking the district’s toll to 133. Of the 585 reports received on Thursday, 54 tested positive, taking the Covid-19 count to 10,662. Recoveries reached 10,104 after discharge to 31 patients during the day. Now, 425 patients are under treatment. Washim: With 11 new cases reported in a day, Washim was the least affected district in Vidarbha on Thursday while 10 patients were discharged during the day. Of the 5,929 patients reported till date, 5,626 have recovered. No death was reported on Thursday. Now, 159 patients are under treatment, which is the lowest in the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vidarbha-reports-over-1200-new-covid-cases-for-first-time-in-november/articleshow/79311290.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 20, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS-BJP-MIM axis at work, says Revanth Reddy||HYDERABAD: Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) working president A Revanth Reddy has alleged that the Telangana Rashtra Samithi, BJP and AIMIM are trying to divide the society on communal lines for political gains. Adressing a press conference, he alleged that CM K Chandrasekhar Rao and Telangana Bharatiya Janata Party chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar were trading charges against each other only for public consumption and said they have a common agenda with Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM. He said the sole intention of the Telangana Rashtra Samithi, Bharatiya Janata Party and AIMIM was to weaken the Congress party by using communalism as a tool. He said the Bharatiya Janata Party leaders often accuse the AIMIM of having connections with terrorist organisations and wondered why no action had been taken against the Majlis party despite a Bharatiya Janata Party-led NDA government at the Centre. Revanth Reddy said Nizamabad BJP MP Dharmapuri Arvind talks about several irregularities in the state, but no action is taken by the central government against the TRS government. He alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party government is shielding K Chandrashekar Rao in the ESI and Sahara scandals by not ordering a CBI probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-bjp-mim-axis-at-work-says-revanth/articleshow/79312290.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Trichy||Stalin slams govt for failure to stall hydrocarbon project||Nagappattinam: Claiming that the offshore hydrocarbon projects signed between the central government and Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) are detrimental to the interests of the people of the state, DMK president M K Stalin said that the state government was unable to stall the projects due to their fear of the BJP-led central government.“Going by a newspaper report yesterday, the central government entered into an agreement with the ONGC for offshore hydrocarbon exploration in Tamil Nadu. The nod was given for the first time. They are implementing the projects in the sea after implementing them on the plains affecting hectors of farm land,” said Stalin.Stalin was unveiling the portrait of DMK’s former Nagappattinam north district deputy secretary D Sathyendran through video conferencing on Thursday. Sathyendran passed away recently.He said that the projects will be implemented on more than 4,000 square kilometre area. All the AIADMK ministers from the Cauvery delta districts remained tight-lipped over the project. He said that even chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami too made no statement against the projects. “This is how the AIADMK government, ministers and the chief minister have been giving up the rights of the state. They are frightened by the BJP,” he said appealing to the party cadres and functionaries to work towards dethroning the EPS-led AIADMK government.Stating that the draft electoral roll has been released, Stalin asked the party men to check whether there was any rigging in the electoral roll.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/stalin-slams-govt-for-failure-to-stall-hydrocarbon-project/articleshow/79312293.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 20, 2020||Bhopal||New Covid-19 record in Bhopal, 381 cases in a day||Bhopal: The state capital on Thursday reported the highest number of daily Covid-19 cases – 381. Of them, Kolar alone accounted for 150 Covid-19 cases. In effect, Kolar reported 11% of all cases — 1,363 — in Madhya Pradesh on Thursday. The spurt has hit all areas. Besides, 150 cases from Kolar, 68 were reported in Govindpura, 46 in TT Nagar, 42 in Bairagarh, 38 in MP Nagar and 34 cases were reported in other areas. Around 3,000 COVID-19 test reports were received on Thursday. 102 of those diagnosed had no symptoms. 72 reported mild symptoms like cough, cold and body ache. Around two dozen reported loss of smell or weakness or both. One of the largest COVID-19 care centres located in Bairagarh warned incoming patients about stress on ventilator support. Other hospitals too are facing crises to provide ventilator support to all patients in need, said sources. “Rationalisation and prioritisation of COVID-19 is a very likely possibility if the situation deteriorates. As things stand, Bhopal hospitals are well-prepared to handle critical cases,” said a senior consultant with a medical college. Post-November 10, cases of COVID-19 have increased. The recent spurt has increased active cases in the state capital to almost 2,000. Around 750 new cases have been added in the last few days. 160 newly diagnosed cases were under home isolation. The rest were in COVID-19 care centres or hospitalisation. Status of 51 cases was unknown. Two deaths have been reported in Bhopal, taking the toll to 503.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/editednew-covid-19-record-in-bhopal-381-cases-in-single-day/articleshow/79310162.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Traders to restrict working hours to prevent crowding||AHMEDABAD: Despite a dwindling business since the pandemic, traders across Ahmedabad are mulling over observing a self-imposed lockdown over the coming two weeks. The decision has been taken amidst a fresh wave of coronavirus infections being reported across Ahmedabad. As part of the self-imposed lockdown, traders will restrict their business hours to prevent unnecessary crowding of people. Since the past few days, at least 200 cases are being reported in the city every single day. “The civic authorities have remained quite supportive to traders by allowing shops and establishments to remain open till late,” said Jayendra Tanna, president, Gujarat Traders’ Federation (GTF). Manek Chowk Choksi Mahajan, which houses some 210 shops, has taken the decision to restrict timings from 10am to 6pm against 9.30am to 8.30pm earlier. Teams of the solid waste management department of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) sealed a few popular eateries and cinema halls in various parts of the city for violating social distancing and other norms pertaining to taking precautions during the pandemic. “Shutting down businesses is not an option at a time when demand is dwindling. But we’re ensuring double the amount of precautions,” said Vasant Tirodkar, vice-president, CG Road Retailers’ Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/traders-to-restrict-working-hours-to-prevent-crowding/articleshow/79311261.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Don’t discharge Sebastian, ACB tells special court||Hyderabad: ACB investigating the cash-for-vote scam told the ACB special court in Hyderabad that Bishop Harry Sebastian had played an instrumental role in case and urged court not to discharge him from the case.  ACB additional superintendent M Ramana Kumar said Sebastian chose to remain silent when two other accused filed discharge pleas and he filed it now after the dismissal of two pleas of the accused. “This is done to delay the process before the trial court,” he said. Sebastian went to MLA Elvis Stephenson on the evening of May 31, 2015 along with then TDP leader A Revanth Reddy and tried to lure him to vote in favour of TDP nominee Vem Narender Reddy in the MLC elections which were to be held on the next day. They offered Stephenson Rs 5 crore as a bribe for doing this and had even shown him Rs 50 lakh cash that was brought and placed before Stephenson on that day. Both Revanth and Sebastian negotiated with Stephenson asking him to vote for TDP nominee. Remaining Rs 4.5 crore was to be handed over to him after voting for TDP nominee. “It is a clear case of abetment to crime which is punishable under section 12 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988,” the counter said. Sebastian and Revanth approached Stephenson on May 30 itself and negotiated with him for a deal of Rs 2.5 crore. It was in this meet, the venue for three of them to meet at flat No. 204, Pushpa Nilayam in South Lalaguda of Secunderabad on May 31 was agreed upon. It was Sebastian who increased the bribe amount from Rs 2.5 crore to Rs 5 crore. He asked Stephenson either to vote in favor of the TDP nominee or to abstain from voting. The ACB sent Sebastian’s mobile phone to the Forensic Science Laboratory which analysed the conversations he had with other accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dont-discharge-sebastian-acb-tells-special-court/articleshow/79311269.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Former MIM corporator returns to party after six years||HYDERABAD: A former All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) corporator-turned Congress leader Mohammed Ghouse on Thursday rejoined the party six years after he left. AIMIM floor leader Akbaruddin Owaisi accompanied him to party headquarters at Darussalam in his car. Soon after he arrived at the party office, Ghouse was given the primary membership of the party. “The reason to re-join AIMIM is that while many Congress leaders are joining BJP, I decided to come back to my party. There is no greed behind rejoining,” said Mohammed Ghouse. He was arrested in more than half a dozen cases of communal violence, rioting and also sent to jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/former-mim-corporator-returns-after-six-years/articleshow/79312298.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Mining scam: CBI conducts searches at ex-MLA’s premises in Hyderabad, Guntur||HYDERABAD: The Central Bureau of Investigation on Thursday conducted searches in 25 locations in Hyderabad and Guntur district on the premises of former TDP MLA of Gurazala Yarapathaneni Srinivasa Rao. The searches pertained to 17 cases of illegal mining of limestone booked against the accused. Searches were also conducted on 22 individuals. The CBI seized incriminating documents, mobile phones, material objects and cash. Searches were conducted on six henchmen of the MLA identified as V Venkateswarlu, Ghattamaneni Nageswara Rao, Muppala Venkateswarlu, Nelluri Srinivasa Rao, Nelluri Ramakotaiah and Vemula Srinivasa Rao. CBI sleuths seized Rs 15 lakh from all the locations. In order to ascertain the quantum of unauthorised and illegal mining, the CBI is conducting a volumetric analysis by using satellite imagery, sources said. CBI recently taken over 17 cases of illegal limestone mining from CID, Andhra Pradesh, and registered a case on August 26, 2020, against 17 accused. It was said that the accused had fraudulently conducted illegal and unauthorised mining, quarrying and transportation of limestone in Konanki village of Piduguralla mandal and Kesanupalli and Nadikudi villages of Dachepalli mandal in Guntur for several years. They were also charged with causing revenue loss to the government and other licensed lease holders and exploiting the natural resources.  CBI has named 17 persons — Nelluri Srinivasa Rao, Vemula Srinivasa Rao, Orsu Venkataeswara Rao, Vemula Yedukondalu, Irla Venkata Rao, Bathula Narasimha Rao, M Anji Babu, T Narayana Sarma, G Ajay Kumar, T Seeta Ramanjaneyulu, R Jacob, GVS Koteswara Rao, O Prakash, Varla Ratnam, Nandyala Nagaraju, N Srinivasa Rao and Alapati Nageswara Rao in the FIR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mining-scam-cbi-conducts-searches-at-ex-mlas-premises/articleshow/79311249.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
November 20, 2020||Trichy||3 deaths, 123 fresh cases in south TN, 147 in central dists||Trichy/Madurai: Southern districts in the state reported 123 fresh cases and 1,235 active cases while the central region recorded 147 cases and 1,352 active cases on Thursday. Central region had registered 139 cases on Wednesday. No deaths were recorded in the central region while three deaths were reported in the south including two in Madurai and one in Dindigul. In Madurai a 53-year-old man who tested positive on Monday died in a private hospital on Wednesday after suffering from fever for eight days and cough and breathing difficulty for four days.A 65-year-old woman from Madurai who tested positive on Tuesday died at a private hospital on Wednesday afternoon. In Dindigul a 64-year-old woman who tested positive on Monday and was admitted in the Coimbatore medical college and ESI hospital the same day died in the wee hours of Tuesday.With 24 fresh cases, Madurai recorded the highest and was the only district in the southern region with more than 20 cases. On the other hand, Nagapattinam (41) recorded the highest among central districts and also has the highest number of active cases at 309.For the first time in more than two months imported cases have been reported among 10 districts in the southern region, out of three imported cases reported in the state. Both the cases were in Sivagangai district that reported 13 cases, including 11 local cases. Tenkasi (5), Dindigul (6) and Ramanathapuram (7) recorded less than 10 cases.Total active cases in the region continued to drop for the ninth day in a row and touched 1,235 on Thursday from 1,903 on November 10. Active cases dropped by 153 from on Thursday from 1,388 on Wednesday. Sivagangai with 94 cases became the fifth district in the region to have less than 100 active cases apart from Ramanathapuram (37), Theni (42), Tenkasi (59) and Virudhunagar (80), and Permbalur (16) and Ariyalur (38) in the central region. With Madurai’s active cases dropping to 294, all the districts in the region have less than 300 active cases. Madurai is the only district in the region with more than 200 active cases, while it is Karur (254) and Trichy (204) in the central region. Thanjavur has 196 and Tiruvarur has 189 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/3-deaths-123-fresh-cases-in-south-tn-147-in-central-dists/articleshow/79312292.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC polls: TRS dumps 7 corporators, keeps MLAs’ wives guessing||HYDERABAD: While maintaining suspense on announcing the names of candidates, including family members of MLAs and mayor Bonthu Rammohan’s spouse, the TRS on Thursday released the second list of candidates with 20 names. The party announced the first list of 105 candidates on Wednesday night. Till now, the party has announced 125 candidates’ names out of the total 150 wards. The third list with the rest of 25 names is expected by Thursday night. In the first list, the party has given tickets to the sitting corporators except in four divisions. In the second list, seven sitting TRS corporators were denied tickets. In Secunderabad assembly constituency, which is being represented by deputy speaker T Padma Rao, the party announced new candidates Prasanna Laxmi (Addagutta), R Sunitha (Mettuguda) and Kandi Sailaja (Boudhanagar). In Sanathnagar constituency, represented by minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav, Begumpet ticket has been allotted to Maheshwari Srihari. The TRS replaced sitting candidates with freshers in Balanagar, Vivekanandanagar and Begum Bazar divisions. Party sources said the sitting corporators were denied tickets due to poor performance and differences with local MLAs. Sitting TRS corporators retained tickets in Mallapur, Ramanthapur, Sulemannagar, Shastripuram, Rajendranagar, Himayatnagar, Baghamberpet, Shaikpet, Serilingampally, Vinayaknagar and Kukatpally. No decision has been taken on Charlapally where Rammohan’s wife Sridevi Yadav, Uppal MLA Bethi Subash Reddy’s wife Swapna’s candidature from Habsiguda and Amberpet MLA Kaleru Venkatesh’s wife Padma’s candidature from Golnaka division.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-dumps-7-corporators-keeps-mlas-wives-guessing/articleshow/79311231.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Trichy||Posters launched to promote awareness on child abuse||Trichy: The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII)-Young Indians (Yi) Trichy chapter launched awareness posters on Thursday, on the occasion of the World Day for Prevention of Child Abuse (November 19), to help children differentiate between a good touch and a bad touch. The posters with pictorial representation of a bad touch in braille format is meant to create awareness among blind children.The posters printed as part of ‘project Masoom’ - both in English and Tamil explains the difference between safe and unsafe physical contacts made by adults. Organisers said the posters shall serve a dual purpose in inclusive sensitisation as they were printed with braille format in the rear of the posters. The braille content was developed with the help of students of Rehabilitation Science, Holy Cross College.The poster was unveiled by M Yovan, district child protection officer, Trichy on Thursday. CII has distributed the posters to children in their homes. Once schools reopen the drive is likely to be covered there. “To create a safe environment for children with the support of parents and other stakeholders, the project Masoom will cover the vulnerable age groups in the coming days,” an organiser said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/posters-launched-to-promote-awareness-on-child-abuse/articleshow/79312295.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Trichy||Perambalur intensifies strict quarantine measures for workers||Perambalur: Having managed fresh Covid-19 infections to single digit or nil cases in the past one month, the Perambalur district administration is taking no chances and has intensified quarantining protocols to prevent a fresh surge. Employees of industries and guest workers arriving from other districts and states have been told to compulsorily quarantine for two weeks at their work locations, and employers instructed to facilitate adequate arrangements. In case of any symptoms, the managements were told to inform the district administration immediately, after which the samples shall be collected.“Two weeks of quarantine will prevent the spread even if the visiting worker was asymptomatic, provided the individual was properly quarantined. People who visited other districts or states should be cautious,” R Geetharani, deputy director of health services, Perambalur said. Only three bulk employers in the district are employing around 350 workers from other states. The managements have been told not to employ workers who display symptoms such a cold, cough, fever and throat pain, she said.Indicating that influenza-like illness and SARI cases are also down, officials said that the number of outpatients recorded at the four government hospitals in Perambalur, has not increased. Compared to outpatients treated in the GHs in the corresponding period in November 2019, only 50% of the footfall has been recorded so far. RT-PCR testing in Perambalur GH has also been ramped up from around 400 to 600 per day. Health authorities said that around 1,000 beds are available for treating Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/perambalur-intensifies-strict-quarantine-measures-for-workers/articleshow/79312297.cms||Deepak Karthik
November 20, 2020||Trichy||Fatal accidents begin to climb in Trichy with easing of lockdown||Trichy: Fatal accidents in Trichy district have witnessed a marginal increase in October ever since the lockdown restrictions were eased, and more vehicles started hitting the roads. A total of 29 people have died in accidents in October.According to statistics shared by the road accident data management system (RADMS), a majority of fatal accidents involved pedestrians. Ignorance of road users, pedestrian crisscrossing and parking vehicles in motorable space were identified as the key reasons for the surge. The statistics also revealed that ramming of vehicles one behind the other resulted in a significant number of deaths. Overspeeding was identified as another cause of multiple casualties reported on the Trichy-Namakkal highway.“Pedestrians are the most vulnerable section of road users. We proposed solutions with the stakeholders such as marking bold stop lines near pedestrian crossings and median openings,” P Vadivel, divisional engineer, state highways told TOI. As an outcome of compiling the accident data and inspecting vulnerable sites, blind spots in the flyover bypassing TVS Tollgate junction have been identified. “The stakeholders were requested to position convex mirrors in the black spots of the flyover area to be aware of vehicles approaching from behind,” Vadivel, who is also the convenor of RADMS, said.Unauthorised median openings in national and state highways are to be streamlined to avoid the illegal crossings, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/fatal-accidents-begin-to-climb-in-trichy-with-easing-of-lockdown/articleshow/79312294.cms||Deepak Karthik
November 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Parents seeks assurance on fee regulation||HYDERABAD: Upset with the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) for failing to keep its previous civic poll promise -- to regulate school fee -- Hyderabad’s parents have now decided to support the party that assures to address this issue. Parents say, during the run up to the 2016 civic polls, framing strict guidelines to regulate fees in corporate and private schools — to stop commercialization of education — was a major poll promise of the TRS. It was even added to the manifesto following multiple complaints from parents. But four years hence, nothing has moved on the ground, they add. “We were promised that a regulation will be imposed to curb fee hike. But while we held multiple protests, submitted multiple representations, in the last four year, little that has been done to about it,” said Seema Agarwal, vice-president, Hyderabad School Parents Association (HSPA). Many have even raised complaints about non-compliance of GO 46 that curbs schools from increasing fees and asks them to collect fees on a monthly basis for the academic year 2020-21. “School fee issue is always among the most neglected ones. No action is ever taken against erring schools,” said Priyanka Reddy, another flustered parent. So this year, even as political parties commence campaigning for the GHMC elections, the parents body has planned a massive protest at People’s Plaza, vowing to support the party that resolves this issue. They want that district fee regulatory committees for school fee regulation are set up on par with the Telangana State Admission and Fee Regulatory Committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/parents-seeks-assurance-on-fee-regulation/articleshow/79311255.cms||Preeti Biswas
November 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Corona warriors spent festival on duty||AHMEDABAD: The surge in Covid-19 cases has put healthcare workers in a tight spot. “It’s has been a difficult year for us all. I hoped to spend Diwali and New Year with the family, but as the hospital started filling up fast, we were called back,” said a senior Civil Hospital doctor. Dr Bharat Gadhvi, president of Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA), said most hospitals worked at a full strength. “With beds almost fully occupied, it was difficult to spare a single staffer,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/corona-warriors-spent-festival-on-duty/articleshow/79311304.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Tiger’s pug marks found in Mahabubabad||Hyderabad: An adult tiger has been moving around in Mahabubabad district. Forest officials have identified its pug marks at as many as 16 different places. “The tiger, however, has not been sighted by anyone,” district forest officer T Ravi Kiran told TOI. It is for the first time since 2003 that a tiger’s presence was detected in the area and forest officials have asked the public not to venture into the forest area. More specifically, locals tend to take their cattle for grazing in the forest area and this is what officials have cautioned them against doing. With the recent incident of a tiger killing a 22-year-old youth in Kumarambheem Asifabad district and people in general in the grip of fear, forest officials have cautioned the public against doing any harm to the tiger if they were to spot a big cat. Officials have circulated a telephone number in the villages so that they can inform them if they happen to notice the movement of a tiger. The new tiger whose pug marks have been found in Mahbubabad is believed to have come from Eturunagaram as its pugmarks were said to have been noticed there recently. Though the pug marks have been collected, since they were mostly found in slush in the forest area, it could not be established whether the tiger was male or female or its age. “We have cautioned them against poisoning leftover carcass of a cattle kill by tiger,” Ravi Kiran said. Tigers tend to come back to consume rest of the carcass of an animal they kill.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tigers-pug-marks-found-in-mahabubabad/articleshow/79311287.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Hubballi||Kannadigas fume over Mumbai AIR’s closure of Kannada section||HUBBALLI: When Kannadigas across the globe are celebrating the month of Karnataka Rajyotsava with fervour and zeal, over 25 lakh Kannadigas will be deprived of their daily dose of Kannada programmes on All India Radio (AIR) Mumbai. Speaking to TOI, Karnataka Sangh trustee Bharat Kumar Polipu said he had been listening to Kannada programmes on AIR Mumbai since four decades. “This section was very supportive of Kannada activities. Irked by the closure of the section, we have written request letters to Prasar Bharati, AIR Mumbai and the Union government. We are hopeful that broadcast of Kannada programmes on AIR Mumbai will resume soon,” he said. Shrinivasa Jokatte, editor of ‘Sneha Sambandha’, a Kannada monthly from Mumbai, rued that Kannada section is shut citing the unavailability of an official to look after the section. “I wonder how can they cite this reason as the section was being looked after by non-Kannadiga officials from about 15 years. When B A Sanadi, who was also a poet, retired in 1990s, the section was left without an officer. A contract-based announcer was running the section successfully under guidance of higher officials. Not only Kannadigas, Kannada speaking listeners from other parts of the country too were listening to Kannada programmes on every Saturday between 12.30 to 1 pm,” he said. Meanwhile, several Mumbai-Kannadigas have also tweeted the issue to the Prime Minister Office. Sources in Kannada and Culture department in Bengaluru revealed that a letter has been sent to Prasar Bharati, Delhi to retain Kannada programme at AIR Mumbai. Professor Purushothama Bilimale, former HOD, Kannada language chair, JNU, Delhi, said such setbacks happen for Kannada language due to the negligence of MPs representing Karnataka in Parliament. “Lack of political will is shutting Kannada sections and chairs at radio stations, varsities and other organisations located outside Karnataka. We have sought the intervention of Union ministers from Karnataka in this regard,” he added||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/kannadigas-fume-over-mumbai-airs-closure-of-kannada-section/articleshow/79310178.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
November 20, 2020||Trichy||Trichy corpn to revamp more community toilets||Trichy: Women from self-help groups (SHGs) who maintain public and community toilets here distributed awareness pamphlets with chocolates to users as part of World Toilet Day celebrations on Thursday. Trichy Corporation has planned to renovate more public and community toilets in need of repair works here to encourage people use them instead of open defecation. World Toilet Day is celebrated annually on November 19. The SHGs sensitised visitors by explaining the efforts carried out daily to keep them hygienic and user-friendly. The support of visitors was sought to maintain them. Kolams were also drawn as a part of awareness drive.Earlier in the year, the corporation had identified 95 toilets in a dilapidated state had entrusted Trichy-based Gramalaya NGO to refurbish them. Around 90 of them were refurbished and handed over to SHGs for maintenance. The toilets were fitted with incinerators to prevent sanitary napkins and diapers from being dumped in the sewers. Through a public-private partnership model, sources said that the civic body has considered to revamp a few more community and public toilets..SHG women also said that anti-social elements and tipplers damage the public toilet complexes at night. They said that incidents of vandalism have declined in the complexes where CCTV cameras have been installed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-corpn-to-revamp-more-community-toilets/articleshow/79312296.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Discharge me from Jagathi case: Vijaya Sai||Hyderabad: YSRCP MP V Vijaya Sai Reddy has urged the CBI special court to discharge him from the Jagathi Publications investments case. His counsel Uma Maheshwara Rao said the CBI initially had filed a case against Vijaya Sai in the case under section 9 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, but later realised that this section is not applicable to him. Hence, it filed a supplementary chargesheet bringing in section 31-D of the Act to justify its action, he said. Principal special judge BR Madhusudhan Rao would hear the case on Friday. The counsel said CBI chargesheet in the case spoke about three individual investors and there was no public servant or public assets involved in the case. “Leave alone sufficient material, there is no material at all that attracts provisions of PCA in this case because there are no public assets misused by any public servants in this case. It is a case pertaining to three investors,” the counsel argued. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/discharge-me-from-jagathi-case-vijaya-sai/articleshow/79311296.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: TRS changes tack, raises Hindutva & divestment issues||HYDERABAD: Ahead of nationwide general strike call given by trade unions against disinvestment in public sector units (PSUs) on November 26, TRS has decided to rake up national issues, especially BJP’s Hindutva agenda as well divestment of PSUs, during the campaigning for the ensuing GHMC elections. To fight BJP in Greater Hyderabad, TRS leaders have been highlighting disinvestment in LIC, Indian Railways and privatisation in the power sector as key poll planks. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao reportedly directed all TRS leaders to speak out about “communal politics of BJP” and as well sale of government stake by issuing IPOs in public sector units during the party’s first stragegy meeting for GHMC polls held at Telangana Bhavan on Wednesday. KCR has reportedly told leaders to ask voters whether they want a communal Hyderabad, where people fight with each other, or a peaceful city with development. Minister Satyavati Rathod and several other MLAs, who were campaigning in wards in Greater Hyderabad, highlighted about the privatisation of LIC, power sector, railways and other PSUs. Despite speaking about its welfare and development agenda, TRS lost to BJP in the Dubbak bypoll. Political analyst and former MLC Professor K Nageswar said, “It’s an intelligent strategy by KCR to target the disgruntled employees of PSUs, who are adversely affected by the NDA government’s policies. They (central government employees) form a large voter base in Hyderabad, which is a hub of public sector units, defence establishments and headquarters of South Central Railways.” BJP has, historically, a significant presence in Hyderabad and in local body polls its a key opponent to Congress, AIMIM and now TRS. “TRS is also speaking about infrastructure it developed like flyovers of SRDP. However, they are stressing on the adverse impact of the NDA government’s economic policies, which have implications on citizens of Hyderabad also. For LIC alone, there would be thousands of families who are employees, agents and development officers living in the city. Even it can have an impact on policy holders. KCR is targeting the vulnerability of BJP,” the former MLC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-changes-tack-raises-hindutva-divestment-issues/articleshow/79311246.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
November 20, 2020||Bhopal||1,363 new cases take Madhya Pradesh Covid-19 count to 1,88,018||BHOPAL: As many as 1,363 more people were diagnosed with Covid-19 across Madhya Pradesh on Thursday, according to the state health bulletin. The state’s Covid-19 tally stands at 1,88,018, while 14 fatalities took the death toll to 3,129. Three people died in Indore, two each in Gwalior, Sagar and Raisen and one each in Bhopal, Jabalpur, Ujjain, Damoh and Mandsaur. A total 887 patients were discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours, taking the state’s overall recovery count to 1,75,089. Out of the 1,363 fresh cases, Bhopal accounted for 231, Indore 255, Gwalior 92 and Jabalpur 60. Bhopal’s daily report from the district administration indicated 381 tests. The state report is compiled in the morning. It is from the data from the local administration that is released in the evening before. The number of cases in Indore rose to 36,310, including 722 deaths, while Bhopal’s case tally stood at 28,360 with 502 fatalities. Gwalior and Jabalpur have so far recorded 13,618 and 13,533 infections, respectively, the officials said. Indore now has 2,163 active cases, while this figure for Bhopal is 1,867. Gwalior and Jabalpur have 742 and 661 active cases, respectively. With 22,815 more samples being tested in the state in the last 24 hours, the number of tests rose to more than 34.04 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/1363-new-cases-take-mp-covid-count-to-188018/articleshow/79310172.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Rajkot||25-year-old man looted, murdered in Lalpur||Rajkot: The 25-year-old man was found murdered from Moti Rafudal village of Lalpur taluka in Jamnagar district on Thursday morning.Police said that the deceased Jayesh Madhudia appeared to have been killed between the night of Wednesday and early Thursday morning. “Madhudia’s body was found half naked from the bushes. The body bore wounds caused by sharp-edged weapons on his face and head. Madhudia used to work in a private firm of Jamnagar. He had come to his house in Moti Rafudal village to spend Diwali holidays with his family members,” said B S Vala, sub-inspector with Lalpur police station. “We have booked unidentified assailants on the complaint of Madhudia’s elder brother Nilesh Madhudia. Investigation on the basis of call records of Madhudia has started,” said Vala, adding that the assailants had also robbed him of his cellphone and wallet. The police suspect that the assailants might have committed the murder at some other place and dumped Madhudia’s body at Moti Rafudal village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/25-year-old-man-looted-murdered-in-lalpur/articleshow/79308964.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Trichy||Theft accused escapes from police custody in Thanjavur||Thanjavur: An accused, who was arrested in connection with various theft cases, escaped from police custody in Thanjavur while he was being escorted to prison in Trichy. According to police, Rajkumar, 51, a native of Thiruthuraipoondi in Tiruvarur district was involved in two-wheeler thefts for a long period and several cases were also pending against him at various police stations in Trichy, Nagapattinam, Thanjavur and Tiruvaurur.A few months ago, the Manapparai police arrested him in connection with a two-wheeler theft. After interrogation, police came to know that he had stolen 70 two-wheelers from across the delta districts. Following this, all the bikes were recovered from Rajkumar. He was remanded in judicial custody in a sub-jail in Manapparai.Two police personnel— one from Velankanni and another one from Keelvelur police limits in Nagapattinam district had taken him to Nagapattinam and were returning to Trichy after producing him before a judicial magistrate court on Tuesday night.While they were at the New Bus Stand in Thanjavur to board a bus, Rajkumar pushed the police and escaped.The personnel lodged a complaint with the Thanjavur Medical College police station. Based on it, a case was registered. A search is on to nab the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/theft-accused-escapes-from-police-custody-in-thanjavur/articleshow/79312303.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Cabbie, scooter rider killed while truck, car drivers argue on road||BENGALURU: A road-rage incident involving drivers of a truck and a car claimed the lives of two others — a van driver and scooterist — in Nelamangala, Bengaluru Rural, on Thursday morning. Trouble began around 7am when a Bengaluru-bound container truck is said to have grazed against a car parked by the roadside on Bengaluru-Pune highway, a little behind Nelamangala KSRTC bus stand. But the truck driver didn’t stop and soon left the highway. The truck entered Nelamangala town and was moving near the bus stand when the car overtook it and stopped in the middle of the road, blocking its way. The truck driver stopped the vehicle and the car occupants stormed out to fight with him, said police. But the sudden halting of the truck caught a Maruti Omni driver unawares and he rear-ended the heavy vehicle. A gearless scooter behind the Omni also ended up hitting the van from behind. The Omni driver and scooterist sustained severe injuries and died before they could be shifted to Nelamangala government hospital, less than 400 metres from the accident spot. The occupants of the damaged car drove away as the tragedy unfolded, while the truck driver fled leaving behind his vehicle. The van driver was identified as Sunil Kumar, 21, of Devannanapalya and the scooterist as Paramesh alias Parameshappa, 34, of Danojipalya and from Hassan. The Omni had been decorated for the wedding of Sunil’s cousin this Sunday. “Sunil, a cab driver, was heading towards Nelamangala market to buy flowers and vegetables he had ordered on Wednesday. It’s not known where Paramesh, who runs a travel agency and drives cabs, was going,” Nelamangala police said. Investigators said they are collecting CCTV footage to trace the drivers. “Only that will tell us where exactly the accident involving the truck and car took place. Both the drivers are equally responsible for the fatalities and have been booked under IPC section 304A for causing death due to negligence,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cabbie-scooterist-killed-as-truck-car-drivers-argue-on-road/articleshow/79310207.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Rajkot||Eight killed in three accidents during Diwali holidays||RAJKOT: The Diwali festivities proved fatal for eight persons who were killed in three separate road accidents reported from Wadhvan in Surendranagar, Meghpar in Jamnagar and Jamudia village of Morbi taluka on Wednesday and Thursday. Two women were killed when the car they were travelling plunged 35-feet into the river bed after breaking the railing of a bridge on Jamnagar-Khambhalia Road near Khatia village of Lalpur taluka of Jamnagar district on Thursday morning. “Jasu Karangia (38) and her sister-in-law Pali Ahir were killed on the spot, while her husband Naran Karangia (40), son Sumit Karangia (17) and one Hemant Ahir survived with injuries,” said an official from Meghpar police station. The victims belong to Ranjitpar village in Devbhoomi Dwarka district. They were going to Jamnagar to attend a religious ceremony at their relative's house, he added. On Wednesday morning, four persons of one family died after their car went off road and crashed into a tree on Lakhtar Road near Wadhvan town. “It appears that the driver of the car dozed off while driving, resulting in the accident,” said D G Chudasma, sub-inspector with Wadhvan police station. The deceased were identified as Lalita Lakhtaria (65), her son Navin Lakhtaria (45), his wife Varsha Lakhtaria (43) and her daughter Janu Lakhtaria (17). Navin’s son Ravi Lakhtaria is battling for his life at Surendranagar Civil Hospital. “The victims were on their way back home after offering prayers at a temple in Bhaguda village. The car was so badly mangled that it had to be cut open in order to extricate the bodies out,” described Chudasma. Meanwhile in Jambudia village of Morbi taluka, a man and his seven-year-old nephew were killed when the bike they were riding on was rammed by a dumper truck from rear on Wednesday morning. “Devabhai Salat (35) was taking his nephew Bhola on his bike to a pan shop when the accident took place. The truck driver fled after abandoning his vehicle,” said the official from Meghpar police station. While Bhola died on the spot, Salat succumbed to injuries at Rajkot Civil Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/eight-killed-in-three-accidents-during-diwali-holidays/articleshow/79308994.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Vijayawada||Prepare rural women for entrepreneurship: AP CM Jagan Mohan Reddy||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday asked officials to prepare rural women for small entrepreneurship roles to empower them to make their own living. Speaking to officials from his Tadepalli camp office ahead of the launch of Jagananna Asara on November 25, the chief minister reviewed the arrangements for distribution of cows, buffaloes, sheep and goats for women under Asara and Cheyuta schemes. The schemes will be launched on November 25 in 4,000 villages across Prakasam, Chittoor and Kadapa districts in the first phase. Officials have identified beneficiaries whose details have been digitalised at the Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBK) in the villages. The government would hand over the livestock to the beneficiaries to start milk production. It will also send veterinary assistants attached to village secretariats on regular intervals to the beneficiaries to take care of the health of these animals. The government had already tied-up with the Anand Milk Union Limited (Amul) of the Gujarat Cooperative Milk Marketing Limited (GCMML) for procurement of milk and manufacture of milk-based products. The chief minister said that every village should have a bulk milk collection centre from where the Amul team would collect milk from the beneficiaries. The state would also establish chilling centres to support the initiative and ensure that milk is procured from these beneficiaries. The women will also be able to establish grocery stores across the state under Aasara and Cheyuta schemes which have extended financial support to 2.78 lakh women through self-help groups. The government had asked bankers to provide additional financial support to these women and help them identify their market. Besides grocery stores and milk production, the women are also being trained to take up organic agriculture activities for vegetables production. The government had tied-up with Reliance and other corporate malls in the state to procure these vegetables. In return, the malls will tie up with the grocery stores of the beneficiares and convert them as their vendor points. The chief minister asked the officials to ensure that the tie-up with the corporates worked chiefly for the women to sustain in their business. He wanted officials to closely monitor and extend marketing guidance to the women beneficiaries. Minister for panchayat raj and rural development Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy, minister for fisheries and animal husbandry Sidiri Appala Raju along with other officials were present at the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/prepare-rural-women-for-entrepreneurship-jagan/articleshow/79309478.cms||Gopi Dara
November 20, 2020||Amaravati||Prepare rural women for entrepreneurship: AP CM Jagan Mohan Reddy||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday asked officials to prepare rural women for small entrepreneurship roles to empower them to make their own living. Speaking to officials from his Tadepalli camp office ahead of the launch of Jagananna Asara on November 25, the chief minister reviewed the arrangements for distribution of cows, buffaloes, sheep and goats for women under Asara and Cheyuta schemes. The schemes will be launched on November 25 in 4,000 villages across Prakasam, Chittoor and Kadapa districts in the first phase. Officials have identified beneficiaries whose details have been digitalised at the Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBK) in the villages. The government would hand over the livestock to the beneficiaries to start milk production. It will also send veterinary assistants attached to village secretariats on regular intervals to the beneficiaries to take care of the health of these animals. The government had already tied-up with the Anand Milk Union Limited (Amul) of the Gujarat Cooperative Milk Marketing Limited (GCMML) for procurement of milk and manufacture of milk-based products. The chief minister said that every village should have a bulk milk collection centre from where the Amul team would collect milk from the beneficiaries. The state would also establish chilling centres to support the initiative and ensure that milk is procured from these beneficiaries. The women will also be able to establish grocery stores across the state under Aasara and Cheyuta schemes which have extended financial support to 2.78 lakh women through self-help groups. The government had asked bankers to provide additional financial support to these women and help them identify their market. Besides grocery stores and milk production, the women are also being trained to take up organic agriculture activities for vegetables production. The government had tied-up with Reliance and other corporate malls in the state to procure these vegetables. In return, the malls will tie up with the grocery stores of the beneficiares and convert them as their vendor points. The chief minister asked the officials to ensure that the tie-up with the corporates worked chiefly for the women to sustain in their business. He wanted officials to closely monitor and extend marketing guidance to the women beneficiaries. Minister for panchayat raj and rural development Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy, minister for fisheries and animal husbandry Sidiri Appala Raju along with other officials were present at the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/prepare-rural-women-for-entrepreneurship-jagan/articleshow/79317975.cms||Gopi Dara
November 20, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: School pals gift house to man who lost shelter in cyclone||PUDUKOTTAI: A group of friends have constructed a house for one of their schoolmates after mobilizing Rs 1.50 lakh by creating a WhatsApp group. M Muthukumar, a 44-year-old truck driver of Machuvadi in Pudukottai, who lost his house in cyclone Gaja and has been struggling due to the lockdown, received a house from his friends. Friends of the TELC Higher Secondary School of the 1988 to 1994 TELC classmates batch joined together to construct a small house for their schoolmate. M Nagendran, a businessman, was instrumental in gifting a home for their old friend. Muthukumar is the only breadwinner of a seven-member family including his mother and four children and wife. He had been staying in a partially damaged tent since the cyclone struck the area on November 16, 2018. “Had my friends not helped me to have a house, we could not have slept peacefully during the recent rain that lashed across the district. Ever since the cyclone damaged the hut, we hardly slept for the last two years,” Muthukumar told TOI. “Since my earning was not even enough to feed my family members, I could not even think about repairing the house. I thought of applying for a house under PM-Kisan scheme. But for that too, I should have some cash in my hand. So, we continued to reside under tarpaulin sheet,” Muthukumar said. Nagendran, a businessman and a foreign returnee, happened to meet Muthukumar in September. After noticing the damaged hut where Muthukumar and his family were residing, he decided to construct a house for his friend. “I left the place without telling anything and formed a WhatsApp group and managed to add 60 of my batch mates. When I expressed my idea, all of them accepted and swung into action immediately. Altogether we managed to mobilize Rs 1.50. Within 50 days, we completed the 11x17 square feet asbestos house and handed it over to my friend’s family before Diwali,” Nagendran said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/school-pals-gift-house-to-man-who-lost-shelter-in-cyclone/articleshow/79312300.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
November 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Buses yet to get cycle racks as utility awaits Centre’s nod||BENGALURU: Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation’s plan to equip 100 buses with bicycle racks has hit a roadblock with the Centre yet to grant permission. Cycle sales in the city have increased amid the pandemic with people wanting to avoid public transport and focusing on fitness. The rack proposal was aimed at improving first-and last-mile connectivity. BMTC sources said they have written to the Union ministry of road transport and highways (MORTH) seeking nod to set up the racks. “Bus-mounted bicycle racks are common in foreign cities but it’s a unique concept in India. MORTH has to give permission since they are extra fittings,” said a senior BMTC official. Each rack costs around Rs 4,500 and 10 such buses are ready on a pilot basis. Employees of BMTC’s central workshop have executed the work. A majority of these buses were to be deployed on Outer Ring Road where the directorate of urban land transport is planning a pop-up bicycle lane. In August, BMTC had installed a bicycle rack on a bus to encourage cyclists to get on board and promote mixed mobility. Fixed on a non-AC bus, it can hold two bicycles. Traffic police had recently faced severe criticism after imposing hefty fines on car drivers for installing bicycle racks. Senior officers later clarified racks can be mounted on cars but should not jut out. Section 52 of the Motor Vehicles Act states: “No owner of a motor vehicle shall so alter the vehicle that the particulars contained in the certificate of registration are at variance with those originally specified by the manufacturer.” However, the Centre ccan grant exemption for alteration of vehicles. A senior transport department official said: “Altering vehicles without approval from RTO is illegal and they need to take permission before installation of bicycle racks.” BMTC officials said they will take a decision based on MORTH’s response. “Being a government establishment, we don’t want to violate any rules,” said an official. ‘Outdated rules’“When transport agencies are coming up with innovative practices, the transport department is following outdated rules. MORTH amends rules to promote cars but not cycling. The transport sector is witnessing several innovations and government departments should also adopt them,” said bicycle mayor Sathya Sankaran. Kochi Metro shows the way Kochi Metro has allowed passengers to carry regular cycles inside trains free of cost. It also has the provision of bicycle stands with parking facility and locking mechanism at stations. In Namma Metro, only foldable bicycles that pass through scanners are allowed inside coaches. “Parking charges at stations have been fixed at Rs 1 per hour and go up to Rs 10. Some parking contractors charge users but most don’t,” said BL Yashwanth Chavan, chief public relations officer, BMRCL.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/buses-yet-to-get-cycle-racks-as-bmtc-awaits-centres-nod/articleshow/79310165.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
November 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: AAP demands rollback of power tariff hike||BENGALURU: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) workers on Thursday staged a ‘Shock Beda’ protest in front of Cauvery Bhavan demanding the state government withdraw the power tariff hike. They also wanted the state to adopt the Delhi government's model for electricity charges. They pointed out that many have lost their jobs post the Covid-19 outbreak and the governments across the globe are supporting citizens, but Karnataka, ironically, is increasing tariffs of essential services. The party released a mobile application, Shock Beda, that shows how much one will have to pay under the new tariff regime. The app is available at https://bit.ly/shockbeda “If the government is collecting huge amount in the form of various taxes, why does it make people pay in the form of bills too? What do they do with tax money? We’ll expose the government’s money trail to show how they are fleecing the people despite having sufficient revenue in the form of tax and otherwise,” said AAP’s Karnataka convener Prithvi Reddy. Electricity supply companies (Escoms) have affected an average increase of 5.4% in power tariffs from November 1. The party, which plans to contest from 198 wards of the BBMP, said from Friday, it will hold various programmes under the campaign.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/aap-demands-rollback-of-power-tariff-hike/articleshow/79310624.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Illegal transactions: Bank told to reverse Rs 3.9 lakh to Bengaluru man’s card||BENGALURU: A man who was billed Rs 3.9 lakh by a bank towards fraudulent transactions on his credit card though he had blocked it on noticing illegal activity approached a consumer court in December 2018. Nearly two years on, the forum has ordered the amount be reversed and the customer’s legal expenses be reimbursed. A Standard Chartered Bank credit card holder, Manoj Shah of JC Road noticed unauthorised transactions totalling over Rs 3.7 lakh on June 1, 2018. He immediately contacted the bank’s phonebanking service and lodged a complaint and was told his card had been blocked. The Bengalurean also approached police’s cybercrime wing and an FIR was registered. However, another fraudulent transaction of Rs 19,439 was made on the card that was still in his possession. Once again, Shah alerted the bank authorities, who promised an inquiry. Much to his dismay, the bank communicated to him that a few transactions were secure and had been done by using one-time password (OTP), and the onus of clearing the bill was on the card holder. Shocked over being asked to pay for illegal transactions despite him blocking the card and registering an FIR, Shah approached the Bangalore Urban District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum in Shantinagar on December 3, 2018 with a complaint against Standard Chartered Bank and its customer care. Shah’s lawyer presented his case, while the bank’s lawyer argued that its fraud investigation team had probed the case and ascertained some online transactions were secure and were done using valid OTPs generated from the customer’s registered mobile number. But the judges pointed to a Banking Ombudsman’s report following a complaint by Shah, which said there were some inconsistencies on Standard Chartered Bank’s part in the case. Despite a demand by the court, bank authorities failed to produce documents pertaining to the Ombudsman’s version, which gave the customer the benefit of doubt and recommended a reversal. The judges wondered whether the bank was hiding the documents fearing it would be exposed. In their verdict pronounced on October 19, 2020, the judges ruled that the bank is severely liable to reverse Rs 3,93,639 to the customer’s credit card and pay him Rs 5,000 towards litigation cost. The court declined to grant a compensation to the customer despite him having proved deficiency in service, stating the bank operated with public funds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/illegal-transactions-bank-ordered-to-reverse-rs-3-9l-to-mans-credit-card/articleshow/79310600.cms||Petlee Peter
November 20, 2020||Amaravati||Jagan Mohan Reddy meets party leaders on Tirupati bypoll||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday held a meeting with senior party leaders from Chittoor and Nellore districts on selection of candidate for the by-election to Tirupati Lok Sabha constituency. It may be recalled that YSRC’s sitting MP from Tirupati, Balli Durga Prasada Rao, died of Covid-19 on September 16. Though the by-poll date is yet to be announced by the  Commission, opposition TDP has already announced former Union minister Panabaka Lakshmi as its candidate. Lakshmi had lost to Durga Prasada Rao in the 2019 elections by a margin of 2.28 lakh votes. Congress is likely to field former minister Chinta Mohan, who represented the seat six times since 1984. The BJP last won the Tirupati seat in 1999, with Nandipaku Venkataswamy as its candidate. Venkataswamy has been in public life for many years and is a known leader in the area. He had contested the seat in 1998 too but lost to Chinta Mohan in a three-cornered contest. The Tirupati Lok Sabha seat is reserved for SCs. Three out of seven assembly segments in the constituency are also reserved for SCs. YSRC won all seven assembly seats in the 2019 elections. The TDP and the BJP have won this seat once each since 1952, while the Congress has won all other elections, except in 2014 and 2019, when the YSRC wrested the seat. The TDP won the seat in 1984 when Chinta Mohan was in the party. He later joined Congress and won the seat five times except in 1996 and 1999.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/jagan-meets-party-leaders-on-tirupati-bypoll/articleshow/79318011.cms||Gopi Dara
November 20, 2020||Vijayawada||Jagan Mohan Reddy meets party leaders on Tirupati bypoll||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday held a meeting with senior party leaders from Chittoor and Nellore districts on selection of candidate for the by-election to Tirupati Lok Sabha constituency. It may be recalled that YSRC’s sitting MP from Tirupati, Balli Durga Prasada Rao, died of Covid-19 on September 16. Though the by-poll date is yet to be announced by the  Commission, opposition TDP has already announced former Union minister Panabaka Lakshmi as its candidate. Lakshmi had lost to Durga Prasada Rao in the 2019 elections by a margin of 2.28 lakh votes. Congress is likely to field former minister Chinta Mohan, who represented the seat six times since 1984. The BJP last won the Tirupati seat in 1999, with Nandipaku Venkataswamy as its candidate. Venkataswamy has been in public life for many years and is a known leader in the area. He had contested the seat in 1998 too but lost to Chinta Mohan in a three-cornered contest. The Tirupati Lok Sabha seat is reserved for SCs. Three out of seven assembly segments in the constituency are also reserved for SCs. YSRC won all seven assembly seats in the 2019 elections. The TDP and the BJP have won this seat once each since 1952, while the Congress has won all other elections, except in 2014 and 2019, when the YSRC wrested the seat. The TDP won the seat in 1984 when Chinta Mohan was in the party. He later joined Congress and won the seat five times except in 1996 and 1999.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/jagan-meets-party-leaders-on-tirupati-bypoll/articleshow/79309516.cms||Gopi Dara
November 20, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC polls: Jana Sena wants 50 wards, BJP offers 20||HYDERABAD: A possible alliance between the BJP and Pawan Kalyan’s Jana Sena Party had one too many twists and turns since Thursday morning. Insiders said the JSP wanted to enter the fray from at least 50 wards, while the BJP was not ready to give more than 20 wards as part of the alliance. Both the parties have not come to an understanding on sharing the wards till late on Thursday night. After Jana Sena sent out an official release that BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar will meet its president Kalyan, Sanjay at a press conference in the afternoon said that no discussion had taken place on the alliance with the JSP. “We don’t need to negotiate. We are capable of winning the polls,” he said. When contacted, a Jana Sena leader said that if the alliance did not work out, the party would go it alone. However, BJP sources said a friendly contest in some wards is a probability. Sources said the BJP delayed releasing its second list because it was involved in a discussion with the Jana Sena.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jana-sena-wants-50-wards-bjp-offers-20/articleshow/79311291.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 20, 2020||Hyderabad||200gm stimulant seized||Hyderabad: Task Force police nabbed three drug peddlers and seized 200 grams of mephedrone worth Rs 10 lakh from their possession. The gang procured the narcotic substance from Mumbai-based supplier Mukhesh, who is absconding. Acting on specific information, north zone task force team along with Bowenpally police raided a flat in Bowenpally and arrested T Suresh, a businessman from Panjagutta, Sageer Ahmed and Sheik Sondu Miya, both telemarketing agency workers from Bowenpally. Another gang member Mohammed Salman, a chef from Banjara Hills, is absconding. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/200gm-stimulant-seized/articleshow/79311308.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP does a YSRC, seeks ‘one chance’ to rule Greater Hyderabad ahead of civic elections||HYDERABAD: Even while driving a strong Hindutva agenda in the December 1 polls, the BJP is seeking ‘one chance’ from the voters to elect the party. Modelled on the lines of slogan ‘give me one chance’ of YSR Congress president YS Jagan Mohan Reddy during his padayatra which later proved to be his trump card as he won the 2019 elections with a massive majority, BJP is also laying focus on asking the voters to give it one chance to rule Greater Hyderabad. The party leadership internally debated on this subject and a suggestion was made that ‘BJP for a change in Hyderabad’ should be the party slogan in the election manifesto. However, some senior leaders expressed apprehension on using this slogan in the manifesto directly. Instead, they had decided to talk about this in the public meetings and campaigns of candidates so that the message would reach the electorate effectively. “The appeal would be on the lines of people giving a chance to Congress, TDP and TRS to rule and time has come for giving that one chance to us to run the GHMC,” a senior leader said. Party state chief Bandi Sanjay voiced a similar opinion at a press conference on Thursday. He said they deserve at least one chance to govern. “We are appealing to the people that if we get a chance we will do much better to serve the people. Senior leaders like Dr Laxman are also stressing that the BJP should be given a chance,” party leader NV Subhash said. The BJP is also working on another important slogan on the city mayor. “The mayor will not be there just to run the affairs of GHMC or of the city. But, our mayor will be a people’s mayor,” a party leader said. The party is also coming up with slogans like ‘BJP for change in Hyderabad’, ‘End the family rule,’ etc. The social media wing of the BJP is working already to create memes and content on these lines. Party leaders are hoping that slogans like ‘voting for TRS is voting for AIMIM’ will also help its candidates in some wards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-does-a-ysrc-seeks-one-chance-to-rule-greater-hyd-ahead-of-civic-elections/articleshow/79312304.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 20, 2020||Hubballi||Hubballi: Artist Solabakkanavar passes away||HAVERI: Renowned artist T B Solabakkanavar passed away at a private hospital in Hubballi in the wee hours of Tuesday due to age-related ailments. Solabakkanavar, 73, the founder of Gotagodi’s Rock Garden Shilpakala Kuteer, also served as the president of Karnataka Bayalata Academy. Solabakkanavar is survived by his wife, son and daughter. His last rites were performed with state honours near Rock Garden on Thursday afternoon in the presence of his followers, artists, politicians and relatives. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa, home minister and Haveri district-in-charge minister Basavaraj Bommai, agriculture minister B C Patil, Union minister Pralhad Joshi expressed their condolences. Solabakkanavar, a specialist of open museums, established many such centres with cement moulding sculptures across the country. He has given employment to more than 200 artists at Rock Garden near Gotagodi which is a famous tourist spot on the global map. The noted artist has created over 10,000 cement sculptures and has trained over 3,000 artists at his institution ‘Shilpakala Kuteer’ since last 20 years. He was also involved in setting up “Model Traditional Village” in Bengaluru recently. Solabakkanavar was honoured with Karnataka Rajyotsava award in 2005 and the Lalitakala Academy award in 2006. The Karnataka Folklore University had conferred honorary doctorate on him in 2018. “Not only fine art and open museum, Solabakkanavar also encouraged Bayalat and Doddata for last 30 years. He donated his valuable property to set up an open theatre for dance-drama performances and set up the lone research and training institute for Doddata — the Karnataka Doddata Trust,” said his kin Gulappa Aralikatti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/artist-solabakkanavar-passes-away/articleshow/79309794.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
November 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||APSRTC to run special buses for Tungabhadra Pushkarams||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) has announced that it will run special buses for Tungabhadra Pushkarams beginning Friday. Deputy chief traffic manager of RTC-Visakhapatnam Dwarka bus station, K Venkat Rao, said that APSRTC will run four buses daily from Visakhapatnam to Kurnool but these will cover all stations en route. “If passengers come in a group, we will run special buses exclusively for them. These buses will offer non-stop services,” Rao told TOI. RTC-Srikakulam divisional manager G Varalakshmi said that around 10 passengers have come forward to use RTC services for Tungabhadra Pushkaralu. “We will coordinate with Visakhapatnam RTC to ferry these passengers,” Varalakshmi said. Meanwhile, state officials have formed special teams to monitor facilities such as the e-ticketing system for visitors. “No one will be allowed to take a dip in the water. But a row of showers will be available at the ghats for people to take holy bath,” a senior official said. The ‘pushkaralu’ is held once every 12 years. Pilgrims from across Andhra Pradesh as well as Karnataka, Telangana and Maharashtra come to take a dip in the holy water of river Tungabhadra. Some of the key riverbanks are: Mantralayam and Naguladinne in Nandavaram mandal, Gundrevula in Kodumur mandal, Sunkesusla and Panchalingala in Kurnool mandal and Sangameswaram in Kothapalli mandal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/rtc-to-run-spl-buses-for-tungabhadra-pushkarams/articleshow/79309536.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
November 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Prepare rural women for entrepreneurship: AP CM Jagan Mohan Reddy||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday asked officials to prepare rural women for small entrepreneurship roles to empower them to make their own living. Speaking to officials from his Tadepalli camp office ahead of the launch of Jagananna Asara on November 25, the chief minister reviewed the arrangements for distribution of cows, buffaloes, sheep and goats for women under Asara and Cheyuta schemes. The schemes will be launched on November 25 in 4,000 villages across Prakasam, Chittoor and Kadapa districts in the first phase. Officials have identified beneficiaries whose details have been digitalised at the Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBK) in the villages. The government would hand over the livestock to the beneficiaries to start milk production. It will also send veterinary assistants attached to village secretariats on regular intervals to the beneficiaries to take care of the health of these animals. The government had already tied-up with the Anand Milk Union Limited (Amul) of the Gujarat Cooperative Milk Marketing Limited (GCMML) for procurement of milk and manufacture of milk-based products. The chief minister said that every village should have a bulk milk collection centre from where the Amul team would collect milk from the beneficiaries. The state would also establish chilling centres to support the initiative and ensure that milk is procured from these beneficiaries. The women will also be able to establish grocery stores across the state under Aasara and Cheyuta schemes which have extended financial support to 2.78 lakh women through self-help groups. The government had asked bankers to provide additional financial support to these women and help them identify their market. Besides grocery stores and milk production, the women are also being trained to take up organic agriculture activities for vegetables production. The government had tied-up with Reliance and other corporate malls in the state to procure these vegetables. In return, the malls will tie up with the grocery stores of the beneficiares and convert them as their vendor points. The chief minister asked the officials to ensure that the tie-up with the corporates worked chiefly for the women to sustain in their business. He wanted officials to closely monitor and extend marketing guidance to the women beneficiaries. Minister for panchayat raj and rural development Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy, minister for fisheries and animal husbandry Sidiri Appala Raju along with other officials were present at the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/prepare-rural-women-for-entrepreneurship-jagan/articleshow/79317973.cms||Gopi Dara
November 20, 2020||Vijayawada||SEC’s video meeting with collectors cancelled again||Amaravati: The tussle between the state government and state election commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar continued on Thursday with the SEC forced to cancel his scheduled video conference with district collectors and senior officials for the second consecutive day. The SEC had called for the video conference on Wednesday but cancelled it after chief secretary Nilam Sawhney decided that there’s no need convene a meeting to discuss the state’s preparedness for local body elections when the situation was not conducive. She told the SEC that the government would communicate as and when the situation becomes conducive to hold the elections. After cancelling the meeting, Ramesh Kumar shot another letter to the chief secretary late on Wednesday night, expressing his desire to convene a video conference with district collectors, zilla parishad chief executive officers and district panchayat officers on Thursday. The SEC also mailed separate letters to all district officials to attend the conference from 10 am and 12 pm on Thursday. He asked panchayat raj department principal secretary Gopalakrishna Dwivedi and PR commissioner Girija Sankar to assist the commission in holding the video conference. While the SEC made arrangements for the video conference and waited for officials to join the session, there was no response from the other side. Sources said district collectors and other senior officials went ahead with their regular schedule as they did not receive any instructions from the chief secretary to attend the video conference. Meanwhile, Ramesh Kumar has complained to governor Biswa Bhushan Harichandan against civil supplies minister Kodali Nani for making derogatory comments against the commission. He also attached news clippings and videos of Nani’s comments as evidence with his complaint. Nani had alleged the SEC was acting at the behest of TDP chief N Chandrababu Naidu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/secs-video-meeting-with-collectors-cancelled-again/articleshow/79309573.cms||Samdani MN
November 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||East & West Godavari get Swachh awards||Kakinada/Eluru: East and West Godavari districts have been selected for prestigious Swachh Bharat national awards. The twin Godavari districts were among 20 districts across the country selected for implementing the open-defecation-free (ODF) action plan in an efficient way. Union minister for Jal Shakti, Gajendra Singh Shekawat, presented the awards to the district collectors of East and West Godavari districts through a virtual ceremony as part of World Toilet Day on Thursday. The Union minister said that people of India are putting an end to open defecation following the call given by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi. East Godavari district collector D Muralidhar Reddy received the award on behalf of his district. Reddy thanked the Union minister for recognising the motivation and commitment of the people. West Godavari collector Revu Muthyala Raju said the district machinery created awareness among public and motivated every family to get a toilet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/east-west-godavari-get-swachh-awards/articleshow/79309605.cms||Samson Raj
November 20, 2020||Vadodara||Man killed in road accident in Vadodara||VADODARA: A 40-year-old man was killed and his son and wife injured in a head-on collision between a bike and a car on canal road near Bhimpura village in Vadodara on November 17. The deceased, Vinu Padhiyar, was swept away in the gushing waters of the canal, and his body was recovered on the same evening. According to police, Padhiyar, his wife Vidhya and son Jairaj were going to meet his sister at Dumad village on a bike on the occasion of Bhaibij. While passing by Bhimpura on the canal road, a car registered with Surat number hit the trio from the opposite side. Vidhya and Jairaj fell on the road and Padhiyar was flung off into the canal. The mother-son duo was taken to GMERS Medical College and Hospital in Gotri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-killed-in-road-accident/articleshow/79309372.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Rajkot||Man, two aides booked for scaring deputy sarpanch in Wadhwan village||RAJKOT: Man was booked for firing in the air to scare the deputy sarpanch of Vadla village and his brother in Wadhwan taluka of Surendranagaar district on Wednesday evening. Police said the accused, Vanraj Makwana, fired three rounds from his licensed gun in the air to scare Jagdish Kher and his cousin Shaktisinh Kher. Also booked were Vanraj’s aides — Mehul Makwana and Devji Rathod — who had come armed with an axe and an iron pipe. According to the police, Vanraj and Jagdish had been political rivals ever since Jagdish won gram panchayat election against Vanraj. After becoming the deputy sarpanch, Jagdish had obtained a contract to sink a well under Sujalam Suflam scheme. On the day of the crime, Rathod came to the site of the pond and demanded that he be given a share in the contract. “After entering into an altercation with Jagdish and Shaktisinh, Rathod left the spot and returned with the other accused including Vanraj, who had a firearm. Then Vanraj opened fire,” said D D Chudasma, sub-inspector with Wadhwan police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-two-aides-booked-for-scaring-deputy-sarpanch-in-wadhwan-village/articleshow/79309016.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||GCCI, Karnavati office-bearers test +ve for Covid||The spurt in coronavirus infections in Ahmedabad has hit people across all sections, including members of the executive committee of Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry and several members of board of directors at Karnavati Club. If sources are to be believed, at least eight such persons along with their family members have tested Covid-19 positive. These include GCCI past president, Rakesh Shah, along with Trilok Parikh, the founding member of Karnavati Club and Bhavesh Lakhani, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gcci-karnavati-office-bearers-test-ve-for-covid/articleshow/79311432.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: After Ijtima, Lokrang under Covid-19 cloud||BHOPAL: The annual religious congregation of Muslims, ‘Ijtima’ has already been postponed indefinitely in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic and, in all likelihood, the city’s much-awaited cultural festival ‘Lokrang’ will not take place either. These two used to be major attraction for people of the city in the winter in addition to artistic and theatre performances, which are not taking place either except for ‘Gamak’ being held at the tribal museum to “keep the cultural flag of Bhopal flying” as director of Adivasi Kala Parishad, Ashok Mishra puts it. Member of the Ijtima organising committee, Ateeq-ul-Islam, said the religious event has been postponed indefintely and it would only be organised once the pandemic is under control.The religious congregration was scheduled from November 27 to 30 at Eintkhedi, on the outskirts of the city. “This would have been the 73rd year of the Ijtima in Bhopal and there has never been a gap in the past 72 years, but as the situation stands now, it can't be held,” said Islam. When asked, he said had the event taken place, jamaats from more than 28 countries were expected to participate. A total of over 10 lakh people would have participated in the four-day event. Though Lokrang starts on the Republic Day at Ravindra Bhavan and continues till January 30, which is still more than two months away, the organisers are not very optimistic that they will be able to hold the event. “It depends on whether the district collector allows the event and on what conditions. If only 100 persons are allowed at the festival at one time, holding Lokrang wouldn't be viable. For us, it's not a big deal. We hold it every year and would like to organise it this year too, if it is deemed safe for participants, but permission of the administration would be required. We wanted to hold our annual ‘Bodhi’ festival at Sanchi, too, but the district collector didn't allow it. We are not being able to hold any cultural functions. That is why we started ‘Gamak’ at the tribal museum, so that at least something keeps going and artistes, who are dependent on performances to earn their living, have something to fall back upon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/after-ijtima-lokrang-under-covid-cloud/articleshow/79310197.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP announces 18 more names||Hyderabad: BJP announced its second list of 18 candidates and also released a 10-member star campaigners’ list. Star campaigners’ list includes Dubbak MLA M Raghunandan Rao, party state president Bandi Sanjay Kumar, Union minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy, Nizmabad MP Dharmapuri Arvind, former MP Garikapati Mohan Rao, former national general secretary P Muralidhar Rao, state committee member Vivek Venkatswamy, national vice-president DK Aruna and MLA Raja Singh. Vijayalatha Reddy who was seeking a ticket from Nacharam took sleeping pills as she was denied ticket. She was later rushed to a private hospital. Meanwhile, TRS corporator Anjaiah Yadav joined the BJP. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-announces-18-more-names/articleshow/79311297.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Hyderabad||TDP 1st list out with names of 90 candidates for GHMC polls||HYDERABAD: Telangana TTDP on Thursday released its first list of 90 candidates for the GHMC polls. The party will contest in 140 wards, said senior leaders. The party is hopeful of winning at least five wards. Before releasing the list, there was a hectic debate within the party. Interestingly, TDP supremo N Chandrababu Naidu, who takes call on ticket allotment, was not present. He sent politburo member Kambhampati Rammohan Rao as his representative at a meeting of party leaders held here before releasing of the list. Sources said the party is expected to give a tough fight in wards falling under LB Nagar assembly constituency.  The party had won only Kukatpally division in the last elections out of 92 wards it had contested in alliance with the BJP. “We had done a lot of development for Hyderabad and will do it again,” a TDP leader said. Party insiders said that by not fielding a candidate in Dubbak by-election, the party indirectly helped the BJP win the seat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tdp-1st-list-outwith-names-of-90-candidates/articleshow/79311301.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 20, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: RMC corporator’s husband booked for ‘sex racket’||RAJKOT: Congress leader and husband of an RMC corporator was booked for immoral trafficking and usurpation of property on Wednesday evening. Police said accused Mayursinh Jadeja had allegedly usurped a flat from the original owner who was unable to pay a loan, and rented it to people who operated a sex racket from the premises. Jadeja, who is the president of Rajkot Chemists’ Association too, was booked after the sex racket was busted in the flat at Panchnath Plot. While cops arrested Teerthrajsinh Gohil alias Sidhdharajsinh who operated the clandestine business, police also rescued a sex worker from the spot. “When we inquired about the owner of the flat, we came to know that it belonged to one Chandrakant Sheth, who had died and the flat was in the possession of Sheth’s nephew, Jatin. When we interrogated Jatin, he said that Jadeja had grabbed the flat from him during lockdown after he failed to repay Rs5 lakh loan that he had taken from Jadeja,” said V K Gadhvi, inspector with Rajkot detection of crime branch. Jadeja had rented out the flat to Gohil and Akshay Prafulchandra, who started running the sex racket in the flat. “We have detained Jadeja at present. He will be formally arrested once he undergoes Covid-19 test,” added Gadhvi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rmc-corporators-husband-booked-for-sex-racket/articleshow/79309039.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong releases 2nd list with 36 names, Anjan says not quitting||Hyderabad: Telangana Congress Pradesh Committee on Thursday released the second list with 36 candidates for the GHMC polls, The list was released in three phases. With this, the party has named 81 candidates out of 150 wards. The party also released the coordinators’ list assembly segment wise. A control room committee was constituted with B Mahesh Kumar Goud as chairman. City Congress leader Anjan Kumar Yadav said that there was no truth in speculation that he quitting the party. Meanwhile, M Kodandaram’s Telangana Jana Samithi (TJS) released its first list with 27 candidates. CPI and CPM released a combined second list of 15 candidates. The left parties have already announced their first list with 11 names on Wednesday.  M Kodandaram’s Telangana Jana Samithi released its first list with 27 candidates. He also released party manifesto||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-releases-2nd-list-with-36-names-anjan-says-not-quitting/articleshow/79311321.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Nagpur||Senate meet was a Shikshan Manch show: Members||Nagpur: A day after boycotting Nagpur University’s (NU) online senate meeting, the members accused the administration of completely ignoring various issues faced by the students’ community in Covid pandemic. They further charged NU of suppressing the public representatives’ voice which they termed as “anti-democratic”. According to them, the administration led by vice-chancellor Subhash Chaudhari deliberately held the meeting online despite their protests as they didn’t want to face them on a range of issues, including the online examination fiasco, inordinate delay in results declaration and postgraduate admissions. “It was a complete Shikshan Manch show where only nominated members participated. Since they were nominated by the chancellor or VC, they blindly agreed to all proposals moved by the administration. I skipped the meeting as there’s no respect to suggestions of senior members. Last time, we had forced them to adjourn the online meeting. Hence, it was expected that the administration would conduct offline meeting this time,” senior member Baban Taywade said. Others like Manmohan Bajpayee said the NU administration failed to properly convey sentiments of members to chancellor Bhagat Singh Koshyari. “They simply forwarded a letter to his office and waited for his reply. They should have directly talked to him. It’s impossible to discuss important issues like online examinations. Actually, the VC and team didn’t want to face the members on contentious issues and, therefore, preferred the online meeting,” he said. Endorsing him, member Vishnu Changde said the administration’s apathy can be gauged from the fact that it deliberately avoided inviting the media for the meeting, thus breaking age-old traditions. “With senior members skipping the event as their demand of an offline meeting was not met, hardly any issues related to the students were raised or discussed. Only reduction of fees raised by one of the members was discussed and the administration took it positively. The poor students are likely to be benefitted if NU takes it seriously,” he said. Other members said NU’s future looked bleak with the Shikshan Manch-led administration ignoring the students’ woes. “They’re suffering immensely in the pandemic. The online exam disaster has further led to their troubles. There’s still no clarity on holding exams of failure students. Admissions to most postgraduate courses are yet to commence and we’re already in November’s third week. Instead of discussing all these crucial issues, the administration tabled all administrative work and cleared them with the help of nominated members,” they told TOI. Members speak Ignored various issues faced by students’ community in pandemic NU suppressing public representatives’ voice which is ‘anti-democratic’ NU didn’t want to face them on range of issues related to students It included online exams fiasco & inordinate delay in results declaration It was a Shikshan Manch show where only nominated members participated It’s impossible to discuss important issues like online examinations||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/senate-meet-was-a-shikshan-manch-show-members/articleshow/79311349.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
November 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Include road closure in manifesto for GHMC elections: Citizens to parties||HYDERABAD: Voters of Kapra, AS Rao Nagar and Malkajgiri are urging all the major political parties to include ‘road closure’ issue in their manifestos. “Our main demand is reopening 21 of the 25 civilian wards. We appeal to the political parties to include road closure issue in their manifestos along with several major issues like rejuvenating of decades-old Kapra and RK Puram lakes, improvement and strengthening of the storm water drainage system, and developing road connectivity,” said CS Chandrasekhar, secretary, North-Eastern Colonies of Secunderabad (FNECS). “All the RWAs in these three GHMC divisions will support the party that includes these issues in its manifesto,” added Chandrasekhar. “Though several parties, including the TRS, Congress, and BJP supported the cause of this 3.5 lakh residents and made representations to the ministry of defence (MoD), nothing much changed. The roads are repeatedly closed by the Army and we are facing a lot of inconvenience,” said a member of FNECS. General secretary of Uttamnagar Colony, K Raghavendra Rao urged the parties to support the issue. “The parties should support this issue. The problem should be resolved by laying alternative roads,” Rao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/include-road-closure-in-manifesto-citizens-to-parties/articleshow/79311327.cms||Sunil Mungara
November 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Elephant tramples 70-year-old woman||Coimbatore: A wild elephant trampled a 70-year-old woman to death at Vellapathi section of Boluvampatti forest range in Coimbatore forest division.The deceased was identified as S Maruthammal of Sarkar Porathi tribal settlement near Chadivayal. She had gone missing two days ago. Boluvampatti forest guard Marimuthu, forest watcher Thilaksaran and two anti-poaching watchers found the body near the Sarkar Porathi bus stop inside the Boluvampatti block-II reserve forest on Thursday. The personnel also found footprints of an elephant nearby.“Maruthammal had left for Chadivayal on Tuesday to get old age pension. When she failed to return, her neighbours thought that she might have gone to her daughter Vijaya’s house at Alandurai,” a forest department official said.The body was handed over to the family on Thursday evening after postmortem was conducted at the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH).The department gave Rs 50,000 as first instalment of compensation to the family. The remaining Rs 3.5 lakh will be given soon, the official said.The officials cautioned inmates of the settlement not to venture out alone as several elephants were spotted in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/elephant-tramples-70-year-old-woman/articleshow/79311363.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Rajkot||Seaweed feed to reduce methane emission in bovine||RAJKOT: Did you know that two cows can release as much greenhouse emissions in one year which is equal to carbon dioxide released by a car in the same period? No. Don’t blame the cow alone for the pollution as all ruminant livestock including sheep, buffalo, goat and the cows release very high amounts of methane. A rough calculation states that on an average animal produces nearly 200 to 300 litre methane daily! According to the Food and Agricultural Organization, total emissions from global livestock in terms of CO2-equivalent per year, represents 14.5 percent of all anthropogenic GHG emissions. For the first time, Bhavnagar-based Central Salt & Marine Chemical Research Institute (CSMCRI) in collaboration of the country’s three leading institutes developed a seaweed-based animal feed additive formulation that aims to reduce methane emissions from cattle and also boost immunity of cattle and poultry. Meanwhile, the institute, which has successfully conducted tests and okayed its commercial production and marketing on Wednesday, vouches that these additives significantly reduce the methane emission which will have a positive impact on global warming. Scientists claim that cattle breeders simply have to mix the additive with regular cattle feed. Principal scientist and project coordinator, Anup Ghosh said, “This is the first time we have used Indian weed and have conducted elaborate studies in the country. This is the first of its kind of study in India and the seaweed we are using is found in Indian tropical water.” He further said that nearly 90 percent of the methane is released by cows through mouth while the remaining is released either as manure or flatulence. Research on seaweed started in 2016 with the collaboration of three ICAR (Indian council of agriculture research) institutes including Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI), Central Avian Research Institute (CARI) and Indian Dairy Research Institute (IDRI). “We sought ICAR collaboration to validate the efficacy of our products. Toxicity and safety studies were also done by Lucknow-based CSIR-Indian Institute of Toxicological Research (CSIR-IITR)”. Ghosh added. According to CSMCRI the salient features of the formulations are that they impart higher weight gain in poultry (both layers and broilers) and cattle besides favourable feed conversion ratio. One such formulation leads to better calcium content in cow milk, an increase by around 13 percent. The other results in improved gut health and enhanced egg production with better keeping quality. The seaweeds are processed in a way which preserves the bio-active constituents in the formulations developed. This formulation will be marketed by Delhi-based Aquagri processing private limited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/seaweed-feed-to-reduce-methane-emission-in-bovine/articleshow/79309067.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
November 20, 2020||Dehradun||Nilgai declared vermin in U’khand, wild boar again tagged as pest that can be culled||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand government after receiving a nod from the Centre has declared nilgai a vermin that can be killed after seeking permission from the forest department. The “vermin” status has been reapplied to wild boar as well. Incidentally, Uttarakhand had put wild boars in the vermin category in 2016 although the permission to cull wild boars was valid only till 2019. The step is intended to save farmers from losing their standing crops. Chief wildlife warden JS Suhag told TOI that at a meeting of the National Board for Wildlife (NBWL), a go-ahead was given to all the states to take independent decision regarding declaring of animals as vermin. “The NBWL has directed to not forward any such proposal to it. Instead, the chief wildlife warden can use powers under section 11 of the Wild Life (Protection) Amendment Act, 2006, and subsequently, can declare the problem animal a vermin. Therefore, we have declared wild boar and nilgai as vermin, although it is only after the forest department’s permission that the villagers can kill the animal,” Suhag added. The declaration entails eight riders ranging from terminating the animal only with a rifle or a pistol to not entering into the forest if the hurt animal runs to save its life, and to discard its body in the presence of forest officials. The hunting of the animal can only be initiated once the forest department and the village pradhan grant permission to the villagers. The move to add the village pradhan was initiated after the NBWL members suggested that the inclusion of more panchayat members will help in taking the decision as they live there, know the ground reality and the intensity of the problem. Notably, the permission will cease automatically after 15 days from the day of being granted, irrespective of the animals’ living or dead status. According to the forest department, 30 people were brutally injured by wild boars and two lost their lives this year. Monkeys also continue to be a pest in the state, but owing to religious beliefs, tagging them as vermin is being avoided. Even though the state government had put forward its proposal last year before the Centre to declare monkeys “vermin”, it remains status quo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nilgai-declared-vermin-in-ukhand-wild-boar-again-tagged-as-pest-that-can-be-culled/articleshow/79309070.cms||Shivani Azad
November 20, 2020||Nagpur||Two held for killing vegetable vendor over 6 lakh dues||Nagpur: Cotton Market wholesale dealer Shaikh Shakeel Hassan and his accomplice Sayyed Imran have been arrested for shooting vegetable vendor Umesh Dhoble for not settling dues of Rs6 lakh on Wednesday. Dhoble was shot in the head from point blank range in Cement Lane near HP Gas godown on Wednesday and died in hospital later. Sakkardara police managed to crack the case by analysing the calls made and received by Dhoble. Police said Hassan was miffed with Dhoble, who also owned autorickshaws, as he was not paying up the dues incurred over the last couple of years. Dhoble was also not responding to his repeated calls, leaving him enraged. Hassan is learnt to have summoned Dhoble to meet him and also sat on his two-wheeler as pillion, as they decided to go somewhere together. Police said Hassan’s accomplice, Imran, who has two cases against him in the past, followed them on another bike. Along the way, Hassan pumped a bullet into Dhoble’s head from behind before fleeing from the place. The Sakkardara police, led by senior inspector Satyavan Mane under supervision of Zonal DCP Akshay Shinde, zeroed down upon Hassan and Imran from the call details of the two. “We are still to ascertain how Hassan managed to procure the firearm and from whom,” said Mane.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/two-held-for-killing-vegetable-vendor-over-6-lakh-dues/articleshow/79311358.cms||Soumitra Bose
November 20, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu girl fights off dark nights, poverty and a cyclone to live her doctor dream||TRICHY: When G Sahana collected her MBBS admission card from KAPV Government Medical College in Trichy on Thursday evening, it was the culmination of an inspiring fightback against poverty and nature’s fury. The 18-year-old girl from Pookollai village in Thanjavur district, which was devastated by cyclone Gaja in 2018, bagged a seat in the government medical college under the 7.5% quota for government school students. My dream wouldn’t have come true without the help of actor Sivakarthikeyan who sponsored my NEET coaching, the girl said. Sahana had scored 87.3% marks in her Class XII examination in 2019, overcoming a life of darkness in a thatched house bereft of electricity. The havoc wreaked by Gaja came as a double blow in November 2018. TOI had reported in April last year how her good score came amid challenging circumstances. Her family lived in a thatched hut on rent in a coconut grove which was looked after by her father. Since it had no electricity, she struggled to prepare for Class XII by studying when there was sunlight. She used to finish her homework and studies in her school itself. “We lost the thatched hut too during the cyclone. The entire family resided under the open sky in the grove. Despite the odds, I did not give up on my dream and started preparing for NEET with the help of my school teachers, as my parents didn’t have the resource to send me to a coaching class,” Sahana recalled. It was at this juncture that Sivakarthikeyan contacted her and promised help to pursue her dream. “As Sivakarthikeyan sir promised me, his managers arrived at Pookollai and took me to Chennai. They helped me get admission in a private NEET coaching centre there and he bore the entire expense. Without him I could not have attained my dream. Some good-hearted people also offered money,” Sahana told TOI.  She secured 273 marks in NEET but was not sure if she would get a seat until the state government came out with an ordinance on 7.5% quota and the governor okayed it. Her father K Ganesan is also a part-time tailor while mother G Chitra is an agriculture labourer. She also has an elder sister. Sahana said the actor has also come forward to bear the entire expenses of her medical education. Sahana arrived from Chennai on Wednesday evening after completing the counselling to collect her admission card from KAPV Government Medical College in Trichy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tn-girl-fights-off-dark-nights-poverty-and-a-cyclone-to-live-her-doctor-dream/articleshow/79311375.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
November 20, 2020||Nagpur||Wardha police recover stolen dry fruits worth Rs 30 lakh||NAGPUR: Talegaon police of Wardha district recovered dry fruits worth more than Rs30 lakh after unearthing a fake accident set-up by the truck driver this week. Apart from the driver Jameer Ahmad, police arrested five other persons, including three from Kamptee. It’s learnt that businesspersons from the city had placed an order of around 18 tonnes of dry fruit from New Mumbai. The consignment had left New Mumbai on November 10. On November 14, truck driver Ahmad told one of the consignees that the truck met with an accident near Talegaon and that villagers from the adjoining hamlets fled with substantial share of the dry fruit consignments. The consignees approached Talegaon police after sensing foul play as the driver did not even have a scratch on his body, though the truck had rolled down a slope on the roadside. Talegaon police kick-started a probe under the supervision of inspector general Chiranjeev Prasad and police superintendent Prashant Holkar, after registering an offence against Ahmad. Wardha sub-divisional police officer Piyush Jagtap said the accident was apparently concocted by the driver to cover up his misdeed. “Following his arrest and subsequent interrogation, we learnt that he had disposed of nearly 100 sacks of dry fruits in Nanded with the help of his accomplices — three of whom were from Nagpur. On November 16, Wardha police recovered the stolen dry fruits from Nanded,’ said Jagtap. Police also visited the adjoining villages close to the spot, making appeals to return the sacks of dry fruits which were stolen from the truck, warning the villagers of strict action. “Most of them returned the sacks but some had to be recovered by us during searches in the village,” said Jagtap. He added that the police were hopeful of more recoveries once one of the main accused in the case is apprehended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/wardha-police-recover-stolen-dry-fruits-worth-rs30-lakh/articleshow/79311369.cms||Soumitra Bose
November 20, 2020||Hyderabad||KTR: Decide between galli party & Delhi party||Hyderabad: TRS working president KT Rama Rao said the government would deal sternly with forces trying to disrupt communal harmony in Hyderabad. He also said people should decide whether they would vote for a ‘galli party’ (local party TRS), which has developed the city in the last six years, or a ‘Delhi party’ (BJP) in the GHMC electionsHe said the voters should decide whether they prefer development or destruction in this crucial election. He said the TRS government was giving top priority for maintaining law and order and making Hyderabad the safest city in the country. “After the TRS came to power, there were no communal riots, no curfews, no gambling clubs and no gudumba dens. Though it has got nothing to do with the elections, I am making it clear that the government will not keep quiet and allow these forces to dent the image of Hyderabad,” he warned. Listing out developmental works executed by the government in infrastructure, water, power, investments and other sectors, KTR said the government spent Rs 65,000 crore on various works without enhancing property tax, registration charges, trade licences, power tariff and developmental charges. He was addressing a ‘Meet the Press’ programme organised by Hyderabad Press Club on Thursday. “The party will release department-wise works taken up by the government in the city in the next two to three days. I urge the people to see development for themselves, decide whether to bless the party and give an opportunity to continue the works or convict us,” the minister said. Asked if he is ready to resign if the party does not fare well in the GHMC polls as he had made a challenge in 2016 elections, KTR said if other parties are ready to throw a challenge he is ready to accept it. Indirectly referring to BJP state president Bandi Sanjay’s remark that the party would hoist the saffron flag on Golconda (referring to GHMC elections), KTR said TRS president K Chandrasekhar Rao had already unfurled the national flag on Golconda. Launching an attack on opposition parties, he said some parties said if a separate Telangana was created, the state would plunge into darkness, while some leaders said there would be law and order problems and that investors would run away from Hyderabad. “But now, the city has won awards in various fields. Top five companies in the world are in Hyderabad. Top five companies in the world are in Hyderabad. While Microsoft had set up its office, four companies — Amazon, Google, Apple and Facebook — have set up their offices in Hyderabad after the TRS came into power,” he said. He also said thanks to the policies of the government, political stability, good weather, law and order, over Rs 2 lakh crore worth of investments have been made in the last six years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ktr-decide-between-galli-party-delhi-party/articleshow/79311343.cms||Koride Mahesh
November 20, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh’s air quality improves five days after Diwali||BHOPAL: The air quality in major cities of Madhya Pradesh improved significantly five days after Diwali. Track the pollution level in your cityThe air pollution levels improved 100 points reaching satisfactory to moderate levels in Bhopal, Indore and Jabalpur. The air quality improved 100 points in Gwalior too but still remained in the poor category, said the Central Pollution Control Board. Analysis of the air pollution of major MP cities points that the air quality was best in June during Unlock 1, which kept deteriorating with every other Unlock, peaking on Diwali. The air quality in MP cities had deteriorated significantly this Diwali. Air quality of major MP cities Bhopal, Indore, Gwalior and Jabalpur a day after Diwali was not even fit for breathing. The Air Quality Index (AQI) on Sunday (a day after Diwali) in Bhopal, Indore and Jabalpur was recorded at ‘Poor’ which means breathing discomfort to most people on prolonged exposure. The air quality of Gwalior was ‘Very Poor’ similar to New Delhi which may lead to respiratory illness on prolonged exposure. Air Quality Index between 0 and 50 is termed as good with minimal possible health impacts,  Air Quality Index between 51 and 100 is satisfactory but may lead to minor breathing discomfort to sensitive people, above 100 is moderate and leads to breathing discomfort to the people with lungs, asthma and heart diseases. AQI above 200 leads to breathing discomfort to most people on prolonged exposure and AQI above 300 may cause respiratory illness on prolonged exposure, as per the pollution control board. Air quality is measured taking into account the levels of sulphur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxide (Nox), RSPM10 and fine particulate matter (PM2.5) in the air. While the rise in sulphur dioxide is due to vehicle emissions, increase in nitrogen oxide is due to human activity, including vehicles and sewage, among others. PM 10 is due to dust, construction, including building of roads while PM2.5 is due to dust, human activity and climatic conditions. Central Pollution Control Board data points that air quality of major MP cities improved majorly in lockdown. Officials said lockdown helped in cutting down air pollution to unexpected levels. But the cities were unable to maintain the low air pollution level after the unlocks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mps-air-quality-improves-5-days-after-diwali/articleshow/79310217.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Kolkata||Perform rituals at home, CM Mamata Banerjee appeals to Chhath devotees||KOLKATA: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has appealed to Chhath devotees to refrain from taking part in processions and urged them to perform the rituals at home. Those who need to step out to go to a pond or a river, she has requested they do so in small groups, both on account of Covid risks and court rulings. She said Bengal, unlike some other states, had not banned Chhath and left it to people to choose whether they would perform the rituals at home or outside. Bengal has announced a two-day holiday to celebrate the festivals. In a three-minute video appeal released by the state government on Thursday, Banerjee said: “As you all know, a pandemic is on. That is why we have not been able to celebrate any festival properly so far. During Durga Puja, people could not enter the pandals. Kali Puja and Diwali were celebrated without bursting any firecracker. Everyone has cooperated with us. We have made around 1,500 ponds and lakes in the city and the suburbs for people to perform the Chhath rituals. You can perform the pujas at these water bodies. People need to do perform the rituals in small groups slowly and not together.” Banerjee pointed out that a court order prohibited any procession. “Some states have banned Chhath puja outside and have asked people to perform the rituals at home. We, however, leave it to your choice. For those who have resources, please perform the pujas at home. But those who must step out and perform the rituals at water bodies or at the riverside, do so in small groups. This is necessary to ensure that Covid does not spread and the court order is not violated,” the chief minister said. “Like we have celebrated the other festivals, we will observe Chhath in very small groups. There will be a water body in your locality so that you do not have to go far.” The Delhi High Court has upheld a Delhi government order, banning Chhath celebrations outside. The Jharkhand government has also done so. In Bihar, restrictions have been put on Chhath celebrations outside, especially riverside. Mumbai has also put in place Covid restrictions for Chhath celebrations. The Calcutta High Court on November 10 directed that not more than two persons per family could visit any water body to perform Chhath Puja and the rest of the family must “observe Chhath Puja at home or in and around home”. The HC has also banned long drawn processions and use of loud music, apart from dhak or small bands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/perform-rituals-at-home-cm-appeals-to-chhath-devotees/articleshow/79311383.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Coimbatore||MBBS student hangs self in hostel room||COIMBATORE: A final year MBBS student of the Karpagam Medical College at Othakkalmandapam here committed suicide by hanging at the boys hostel on Thursday evening. Police identified the deceased as Naveenkumar, 22, from Thiruvannamalai. “He had come to the college hostel five days ago to attend the arrear examination. He had failed in a subject in the second year and was depressed. He was undergoing treatment for the last two years. He had met with an accident two weeks ago and had fractured his left hand. He became more depressed after the accident. His mother had visited the hostel on Thursday morning to meet him. She left in the afternoon. When she phoned him later, there was no response. She contacted the hostel warden and asked him to check her son. The warden rushed to the hostel room to find Naveenkumar dead,” a police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/mbbs-student-hangs-self-in-hostel-room/articleshow/79311374.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Nagpur||Two Yavatmal farmers die by suicide||YAVATMAL: Two debt-ridden farmers from the district’s Ner tehsil died by suicide on Wednesday night at their respective homes. The first deceased is identified as Vinod Rathod (45), a resident of village Lohatwadi. He ended his life by consuming poison. The second one is Rajesh Tupatkar (55), a resident of village Pimpri, who hanged himself to death. Vinod owned 3 acres of agricultural field and owed Rs1.1 lakh to a bank, and Rs50,000 to a private moneylender. Distressed with his crops failing and the government not providing financial assistance to him, he ended his life on Wednesday night. He leaves behind his parents, wife, two sons and a daughter. Rajesh had 12 acres of rain-fed agricultural land against which he had taken a bank loan of Rs3.5 lakh. He was pained by the lack of financial assistance from the government after his crops got damaged due to excessive rains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-ytl-farmers-die-by-suicide/articleshow/79311386.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Active cases dip to 151 in Nilgiris as 28 recover||UDHAGAMANDALAM: The Nilgiris district logged 16 new cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the count to 7,176, even as the number of active cases dipped to 151 with 28 patients getting discharged from treatment centres. The new cases were mostly reported from the rural areas in the district. Two people were, however, tested positive for the virus from Ooty town. At least 6,985 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in the hill retreat, where the recovery rate stands at 97.3%. Of the 151 active cases, nine patients are undergoing treatment at the government hospitals in Coimbatore, 36 are in home quarantine, 10 are admitted to the government hospitals in Ooty, Coonoor and Gudalur, and the remaining are in Covid care centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/active-cases-dip-to-151-in-nilgiris-as-28-recover/articleshow/79311387.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Vice admiral Chawla visits INS Agrani||Coimbatore: Vice admiral A K Chawla, flag officer commanding-in-chief, Southern Naval Command, visited the Indian Naval Station (INS) Agrani, the leadership training establishment of the Indian Navy in the city, on Thursday.Chawla received the guard of honour and reviewed the training infrastructures of the establishment. He inaugurated the new Naval Communication Network Centre and also interacted with naval personnel, including defence civilian employees and highlighted the important role played by the unit in imparting leadership and management skills to trainees.The Vice admiral was accompanied by Sapana Chawla, president of the Navy Wives Welfare Association (NWWA), southern region. She inaugurated the newly-constructed multipurpose audio-visual room-cum-computer lab at the Navy Children School. She also inaugurated the single officers’ in-living accommodation at the Naval Officers Mess and interacted with the ladies of the establishment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/vice-admiral-chawla-visits-ins-agrani/articleshow/79311403.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Private schools to resume online classes today||JAIPUR: Private schools called off their strike on Thursday and decided to resume online classes from Friday. The move came after members of the Forum of Private Schools of Rajasthan held a detailed discussion with school education minister Govind Singh Dotasra. The members of the forum had been on a hunger strike at Shaheed Smarak for over a week over non-submission of fees by parents and had even stopped online classes. The schools had demanded an assurance from the government that fees will be paid as per the recent orders of the education department. Ashok Vaid, a member of the forum said, “We are satisfied with the assurance given by the government. They have assured us that all students taking up online classes will pay around 60% of tuition fees as per the orders by the state government. Any student who wants to take a transfer certificate have to take clear his dues. Scan can also opt to not take online classes as well.” A senior government official, who was present at the meeting, said private schools are now assured about the fulfilment of the orders issued on October 28. “We have clearly mentioned in the order that schools can charge 60% of the capacity building fees in the name of online classes till schools reopen. After the reopening, fees will be charged on the basis of reduction of syllabus. This order is an interim order and will be subject to the decision of the Rajasthan High Court where the matter is sub-judice,” said a senior official. Private schools also wanted some relaxations in electricity bills, UD tax rates. The government said they have sent a letter to the respective departments who will take a call on that.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/private-schools-of-rajasthan-resume-online-classes-from-friday/articleshow/79311411.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Nagpur||NMC starts shutting down illegal chilled water bottling plants||NAGPUR: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has finally started taking action against illegal bottlers of drinking water cans. On the other hand, the state’s RO Chilled Water Manufacturers’ Welfare Association is planning to file a counter petition in the Supreme Court. About 10 days back, TOI had reported about the state government ordering closure of drinking water bottling units which are operating illegally. The move came following an order of the National Green Tribunal (NGT). Following this, the civic body swing into action and started seizing illegal units from Thursday. While activists had submitted a list of over 100 such units operating in the city, NMC is tracing out all units operating without the mandatory permissions. Activists claimed there are over 800 such units in the city. Speaking to TOI, municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B said that zone-wise action is being taken. “We are identifying units which do not have the state pollution control board’s consent to operate and other mandatory permissions from different departments. I have formed a team under assistant commissioners which is ensuring immediate closure of such units,” he said. The units will remain closed until further directives from the NGT. “We will wait for NGT’s directions. They won’t be allowed to operate until all the compliances are met,” the commissioner added. The NGT order had come while hearing a petition based on a series of TOI reports. On September 6, 2016, TOI, after visiting various units of unpackaged drinking water across the city, had exposed the unhygienic conditions in which the units were operating. Extensively quoting TOI’s reports, petitioners Vijaysinh Dubbal, Dattatraya Bharne and Santosh Sinha had said that the chilled water sold in unpackaged and unsealed jars and cans was not potable and hazardous to human health. They further highlighted that groundwater was withdrawn without the mandatory permission of Central Ground Water Authority (CGWA). “Such units need to be closed so that public health is not put at stake. If the unit owners want to run the business, they should do it only after following the proper protocol and getting all the permissions in place,” said Vishal Doifode, hydrogeologist and technical adviser to Maharashtra Packaged Drinking Water Manufacturers Welfare Association. Disagreeing with the government action, members of state’s RO Chilled Water Manufacturers Welfare Association are planning to move the Supreme Court. “A section of people are misguiding everyone that we don’t treat water scientifically, whereas we ensure that RO and UV treatment are done properly. We will approach the apex court as soon as possible,” said Vimal Agrawal, president of the association, who is based in Nagpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-starts-shutting-down-illegal-chilled-water-bottling-plants/articleshow/79311408.cms||Manka Behl
November 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana high court pulls up state govt over Covid test numbers||HYDERABAD: Surprised at poor enforcement of social distancing norms at MeeSeva centres, where hundreds of people had gathered to apply for flood relief in the last few days, the high court on Thursday warned the state government to be wary of the second wave of Covid 19 and directed it to step up testing (at least 50,000 tests a day and hit a lakh at least once a week) in the coming weeks. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy gave this direction after resuming hearing in a batch of Covid-related PILs. The bench expressed doubts over claims of having done 40 lakh tests till now made by state public health director Dr G Srinivas Rao. The bench told him that he was trying to mislead the court with clever ploys. “You reduce the number of tests to 20,000 per day immediately after the court hearing. And you would increase it to 40,000 per day just three days prior to the next hearing. We could see through this game. We are getting a graph prepared on your testing pattern and you would then understand where you stand,” the bench said, while reminding him about 82 lakh tests done by Maharashtra and 98 lakh tests by Karnataka. Dr Srinivas Rao told the court to take the population and test ratio into consideration and urged the court to issue an appeal to the people to follow Covid norms scrupulously. The bench told him and the state to enforce Covid 19 norms with the help of police to ensure compliance. “Rajasthan started penalising all those who were found on the roads without masks. You can also do this,” the bench said. The bench also directed the state to introduce the latest testing methods approved by ICMR and asked it to do it in a massive way to understand and track the movement of Covid-19 in the state and chalk out further strategies to tackle it. Agreeing with the contention of Kowturu Pavan Kumar, the counsel for one of the petitioners, the bench directed the state to increase the number of RT-PCR labs in the state. Responding to the contention raised by another counsel, Gorantla Pujitha, on the disaster management plan, the bench told her that it failed to obtain a copy of the same from the state in the last five months. “We assume there is no such plan prepared by the state and we have to draw an adverse inference to that effect,” the bench added. Advocate general B S Prasad said they did prepare a disaster management plan and assured the court that he would furnish it to the court by the next date of hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-pulls-up-state-over-covid-test-numbers/articleshow/79311418.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
November 20, 2020||Jaipur||Nahargarh biological park records death of sixth wild cat in six months||Jaipur: Jugunu, a 14-year-old leopard, died at Nahargarh Biological Park on Thursday morning. The leopard was brought to Jaipur in 2007 after rescuing it in Ajmer. A forest official said, “The leopard was old and died a natural death. The age of a wild cat ranges between 13 and 15. The body was cremated after conducting a post-mortem.” This was the sixth death of wild cats at the park in the last six months. Preliminary investigation has ruled out leptospirosis, a bacterial infection, which was one of the reasons for deaths of other big cats in the park. However, sources said big cats and other animals in the park are under threat from field rats and mongoose which are present in large numbers and passing on potentially life-threatening diseases to them.“The main source of leptospirosis infection is rat urine and infected animals can also spread it further. It could also be spread from mongoose urine. Rats and mongooses are in plenty and they need to be kept away from the zoo premises,” a source said. Staff at the park said as the biological park is situated in the sanctuary area, many a times rats and mongoose enters the cages and nibble on the food of wild animals. “Measures need to be taken to control their number and activities”, he said. “Despite several efforts by our team, rats dig holes causing threat,” he added. The forest department is now mulling over a proposal to install CCTV cameras in cages for 24x7 monitoring following a recommendation by experts from Punjab’s Chhatbir Zoo. The experts were called to Jaipur after the authorities were unable to understand the cause of the death of big cats at the park last week. “As the problem looks perennial, close monitoring of cages, especially at night is required. The project will be taken up soon,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nahargarh-biological-park-records-death-of-sixth-wild-cat-in-six-months/articleshow/79311404.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Rajkot||UK resident among three booked for suicide abetment||Rajkot: A resident of the UK along with two others, was booked for the abating suicide of a farmer in Chandravada village of Kalyanpur taluka in Devbhoomi Dwarka district. Police said the accused, Bhikhu Modhvadia, who currently lives in the UK, his wife Gita Modhvadia and Bharat Kadachha, allegedly tried to usurp the standing crop of groundnut sown by Samat Modhvadia (38), tormented by which Samat ended his life. “Samat had taken the farm from Bhikhu on rent for the cultivation of groundnut. However, following a dispute, Bhikhu and the co-accused started pressurizing him to abandon the farm and forsake the groundnut produce that he had grown. They threatened to kill him if he took the possession of the groundnut produce,” said an official from Kalyanpur police station. Samat consumed pesticides on November 15, after which he called up his wife Sumadi. Samat was first taken to Kalyanpur primary health centre from where he was taken to Porbandar Civil Hospital where he died during the treatment. The accused were booked on the complaint of Sumadi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/uk-resident-among-three-booked-for-suicide-abetment/articleshow/79309107.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Poster war erupts again||Coimbatore: Posters praising chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and mocking DMK chief MK Stalin surfaced in different parts of the city on Thursday, forcing the opposition party functionaries to lodge a police complaint seeking action against the people who defamed their party president.The posters appeared on Ukkadam main street, Townhall, Lala Corner and railway junction. There was no mention of the printing press on the posters, which also didn’t carry any other details to identify the people behind it.There were two types of posters – one praising the chief minister for working tirelessly during the pandemic and mocking Stalin for wearing a wig during the period, and another lauding Palaniswami for protecting the delta farmers and taking a dig at the DMK chief for signing the methane and hydrocarbon projects.When DMK functionaries came to know about the posters, they removed them from the Town Hall and railway junction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/poster-war-erupts-again/articleshow/79311394.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Madurai||HC seeks response on air ambulance in Ooty, Kodai||Madurai: Taking into account the huge number of tourists visiting hill stations throughout the year, the Madras high court on Thursday sought a response from the state government on establishing air ambulance facilities at Ooty and Kodaikanal. A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi was hearing a public interest litigation filed by N Abdul Rahman Jalal, an environmental enthusiast from Madurai district. The petitioner stated that ambulances play a vital role in picking up patients from remote and rural areas to the government hospitals, and also to shift those who are in a critical condition from the southern districts to Madurai district. He stated that adequate numbers of ambulances are required to save precious lives in cases of emergencies. He said that both the two-wheeler ambulances allotted for Madurai district are not being maintained properly and kept idle. At the same time, people in rural areas are suffering during emergencies due to lack of sufficient ambulances. Hence, the petitioner moved the high court Madurai bench seeking to make available 108 ambulances at all the primary health centres in Madurai and also sought to use the two-wheeler ambulances and to procure additional ambulances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-seeks-response-on-air-ambulance-in-ooty-kodai/articleshow/79312328.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Woman DMK MLA admitted to ICU, ‘party stress’ blamed||CHENNAI/MADURAI: Former DMK minister and Alangulam MLA Poongothai Aladi Aruna was admitted to a private hospital in Tirunelveli in a critical condition on Thursday morning. She has been admitted to the ICU of Shifa Hospitals in Tirunelveli and is said to be responding to treatment. “Poongothai Aladi Aruna has been admitted in an unconscious state at Shifa Hospitals, Tirunelveli. She is being evaluated. At present she remains awake, responsive and vital parameters are satisfactory. Her current clinical condition warrants stay in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU). She is being continuously monitored by a team of doctors,” Mohammed Arafath, medical director, Shifa Hospitals, said in a bulletin. The former minister attended a party meeting at Kadayam in Tenkasi district late on Wednesday evening. “Developments within the party had led to her stress,” family sources said. Party sources said there were unpleasant moments at the meeting as some functionaries and cadres picked up an argument with the MLA, who was a former minister for social welfare and nutritious noon meal scheme and information technology during the DMK regime (2006-11), over her style of functioning. She was also questioned by a functionary for not visiting two bereaved families of party functionaries staying in a locality, where she secured sizeable votes when she won the Alangulam seat in the 2016 assembly election. Poongothai was not given a seat on the dais and was asked to sit along with booth agents. Instead, she sat on the floor. A video of the MLA squatting and falling at the feet of partymen at the meeting was shared in social media. After a heated exchange of words, she left the venue and returned home, sources said. She was found unconscious by a relative in the house where she was staying at Alangulam in Tenkasi district on Thursday morning and was taken to the private hospital. DMK office-bearers including Tirunelveli MLA A L S Lakshmanan, the party’s Tirunelveli central district in-charge Abdul Wahab, former assembly speaker R Avudaiappan and former Radhapuram MLA M Appavu visited the hospital. Since she was in the ICU, they inquired about her condition with the doctors. Party functionaries in the region were tight-lipped on the issue and the turn of events. Tenkasi police said they have not received any complaint regarding the developments at the party meeting in Kadayam. They promised action if a complaint is lodged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/woman-dmk-mla-admitted-to-icu-party-stress-blamed/articleshow/79311427.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Apollo, Tata MD to roll out new test for Covid-19||HYDERABAD: Healthcare services provider Apollo Hospitals Group and Tata group’s new healthcare venture Tata Medical and Diagnostics (Tata MD) have joined hands to roll out TataMD CHECK, the world’s first Covid-19 diagnostic test based on the DNA genome editing tool CRISPR Cas-9, to step up testing across the country. The TataMD CHECK is powered by FELUDA (FNCAS9 Editor-Limited Uniform Detection Assay), a diagnostic technology platform developed by the Institute of Genomics & Integrative Biology of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR-IGIB), that offer results in under an hour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/apollo-tata-md-to-roll-out-new-test/articleshow/79311430.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana records 1,000 new Covid cases||HYDERABAD: Telangana crossed 50 lakh Covid-19 tests on Thursday even as 1,058 new cases and four deaths were recorded during the last 24 hours. While Narayanpet district saw a 28% jump in numbers this week, the total number of cases have now reached 2,60,834 and over 1.6 lakh cases recorded so far have been asymptomatic. The death toll now stands at 1,419 cases, but with improving recovery rate in the state which has now touched nearly 95%, a total of 2,46,733 patients have so far recovered from the infection. The number of active cases reduced to 12,682 on Thursday from 13,068 on Wednesday. The GHMC limits saw 168 new cases. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-records-1000-new-cases/articleshow/79311424.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Delhi||All hands on deck: Delhi government orders doubling of test centres||NEW DELHI: With Covid-19 cases surging and claiming more than 90 lives every day, Delhi government on Thursday directed all district magistrates (DMs) to take immediate steps to double the number of testing in their respective areas. On Thursday, total 62,437 covid tests were conducted in the capital, including a record 22,067 RT-PCR tests, which are considered much more reliable than the Rapid Antigen Tests, of which 40,370 were conducted in the last 24 hours. The last time Delhi saw more tests being conducted was November 12, when a total of 60,229 tests were conducted, including the highest number of RT-PCR tests conducted in a day till then — 19,752. While Delhi is witnessing more than 60,000 tests a day now, the numbers would be scaled up by this weekend. On Thursday, the health and family welfare department of Delhi government issued an order, directing all DMs and chief district medical officers to take steps to double the testing centres in all districts immediately. The order stated that the locations will be finalised by November 19 itself and the actual scaling up will be done latest by November 21. “The manpower required for the new testing centres may be hired from open market, if required,” the order stated. “Every district has been given targets, which is based on the population density of each district. Preparations have been made for scaling up of tests and in most districts, tests are carried out by private laboratories as well,” a Delhi government official said. Delhi has been scaling up testing over the past few months and while 4 lakh to 5.5 lakh covid tests were carried out every month between June and August, the numbers spiralled to around 15 and then 16 lakh in September and October, respectively, November has already recorded nearly 10 lakh covid tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/all-hands-on-deck-delhi-govt-orders-doubling-of-test-centres/articleshow/79311421.cms||Sidharatha Roy
November 20, 2020||Bhopal||No Hajj flight from Bhopal in 2021, number of pilgrims reduced||BHOPAL: Bhopal is not in the list of proposed embarkation points, as per the Hajj 2021 guidelines announced by the Haj Committee of India (HCI). Flights carrying Hajj pilgrims have been the only international flights operating out of Bhopal airport since 2016-17. “Embarkation points have been reduced to 10 (from 21) for Hajj 2021. Pilgrims from Madhya Pradesh will board their flight from Mumbai,” HCI chief executive officer, Masood Ahmed Khan told TOI. HCI took the decision in consultation with the ministry of civil aviation. Other major affected embarkation point includes Chennai, which historically has had a sizeable passenger list. The actual cost and other quota for Hajj-2021 would be finalised only after the Saudi government announces actual guidelines and norms for Hajj 2021, an official said. The HCI guidelines are based on the assessment that the Saudi Hajj quota for India would be around 50,000, he added. In a normal year, about 1.70 lakh pilgrims travel from India for the annual Hajj. In effect, the HCI quota would be about 35,000 pilgrims and the quota for Madhya Pradesh is likely to be reduced by the same percentage. In 2019, about 4,500 pilgrims went for Hajj from MP. In view of the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic, the proposed embarkation points for Haj 2021 are proposed to be — Cochin, Delhi, Guwahati, Lucknow, Srinagar, Ahmedabad, Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Kolkata. All pilgrims from Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Daman and Diu, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Goa would embark on pilgrimage from Mumbai. The process of application for Haj-2021 through HCI commenced online from November 7 and will conclude on December 10, 2020. Social distancing increases cost of Hajj: “Utilisation and precautionary measures have increased the cost of Hajj 2020,” said MP state Hajj committee, executive officer, Dawood Ahmed Khan. Due to expected change in accommodation criteria from 4 sq metre per Haji to 9 sq metre per Haji, the accommodation rent is expected to be enhanced by 2.25 times the original cost. VAT has been increased from 5% to 15% by the Saudi government. Visa fees 300 Saudi Riyal would also be applicable, which was not being charged earlier. Transportation cost is likely to be enhanced by three times the original cost due to the reduced number of pilgrims in each bus (15 pilgrims in one bus instead of 45 pilgrims) because of Covid-19. The pilgrims will have to take an RT/PCR corona test at the time of both outward and inward phase of Haj journey of pilgrim(s) as per prevailing International Air Travel Protocol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/no-hajj-flight-from-bhopal-in-2021-no-of-pilgrims-reduced/articleshow/79310251.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Nagpur||Thanks to Covid vigilance, dengue cases down to half this year||NAGPUR: The increased precautionary measures in view of Covid and restricted movement of people during lockdown has shown some positive results. Nagpur city (NMC region) has reported only 82 cases of dengue this year as against 400-plus reported from January 1 to October 31 last year. Data released by the directorate of health services, Pune, shows that Nagpur division has reported less than 50% of dengue cases this year. As far as Nagpur city is concerned, 80% less cases were reported. Proper cleanliness drive of drainage system and Nag River undertaken by the NMC during lockdown ahead of rainy season played an important role. Due to this, inspite of more than average rainfall, potential breeding places of mosquitoes were less this year. Nagpur district (rural) also witnessed nearly 50% decline in dengue cases. Frequent fogging in villages and cleanliness drives during Covid times have shown good results in rural areas. In Nagpur division, only Gadchiroli and Wardha are the two districts where dengue cases were more than the corresponding period in 2019. The increase, however, is not significant. Excessive rainfall in Gadchiroli and flood-like situation for long time could be held responsible for it. According to doctors, restricted movements during lockdown and sanitization measures taken by authorities during Covid times resulted in lowering the number of mosquito-breeding grounds and eventually less dengue cases. Dengue is a viral disease spread by bite of an infected aedes mosquito. High-grade fever is one of the most common symptoms, which is similar in Covid too. This year, health authorities conducted house-to-house surveys and reported fever patients on regular basis which reduced the chances of under-reporting or no reporting of dengue cases. General physician Dr Bhushan Khobragade said Covid helped in reduction of dengue cases. “Fear of Covid increased precautionary measures among people, especially during monsoon. This is the season when most of the cases of dengue are reported. Social gatherings, functions were also not held during last many months. Together, all this helped in decline of dengue,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/thanks-to-covid-vigilance-dengue-cases-down-to-half-this-year/articleshow/79311438.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 20, 2020||Erode||Women texpreneurs weave success stories||Coimbatore: City-based Deepika Thiyagarajan, who had a baby last year, found herself struggling to find comfortable and attractive maternity and nursing wear during her pregnancy and post-partum phase. Realizing that there was a sizable gap for such products in the market, Deepika, being an entrepreneur dealing with cocoa and hot chocolate powder, decided to launch her own line of maternity and nursing wear. The looming lockdown and the pandemic situation did not stop her from launching ‘Putchi’ in March. Along with Deepika, there has been a surge in the number of women turning entrepreneurs in the textile industry. Sowmya Sailendra, who had her baby in February, decided to launch her own brand of clothing named Konrai in October. The trend of women entering the textile industry, always considered male-dominated manufacturing industry, began around seven years ago. “Most of us got into entrepreneurship to fill a gap we noticed in the market. For example, I launched my line of baby blankets, swaddles and jablas, because I was not happy with the prints available for boys and the quality of muslin I found,” said Mirudhula Vaasudevan, who founded Lil Amore, two-and-a-half years ago. “It also helps that it is easy to source different types of fabrics from close by, because textile is our region’s base industry,” said the entrepreneur, who sources pure cotton and muslins from Erode. However, the journey has not been easy for them. “The biggest challenge was sourcing raw material for us, because many weavers and suppliers considered us a small business and would charge us higher prices,” said Deepika. “Initially, many printers would flatly refuse to digitally print on our fabric, insisting it won’t work. But now that they have seen it, they work with us regularly. The lockdown also delayed our launch by a few months because we could not access our vendors, do photoshoots and meet each other,” said Sowmya, who wants to eventually be a brand that sells fabric with unique prints. The entrepreneurs said their business has soared despite the lockdown. While brands like Lil Amore saw sales doubling from mid-March, newer brands like Konrai and Putchi are seeing strong demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/women-texpreneurs-weave-success-stories/articleshow/79319393.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Women texpreneurs weave success stories||Coimbatore: City-based Deepika Thiyagarajan, who had a baby last year, found herself struggling to find comfortable and attractive maternity and nursing wear during her pregnancy and post-partum phase. Realizing that there was a sizable gap for such products in the market, Deepika, being an entrepreneur dealing with cocoa and hot chocolate powder, decided to launch her own line of maternity and nursing wear. The looming lockdown and the pandemic situation did not stop her from launching ‘Putchi’ in March. Along with Deepika, there has been a surge in the number of women turning entrepreneurs in the textile industry. Sowmya Sailendra, who had her baby in February, decided to launch her own brand of clothing named Konrai in October. The trend of women entering the textile industry, always considered male-dominated manufacturing industry, began around seven years ago. “Most of us got into entrepreneurship to fill a gap we noticed in the market. For example, I launched my line of baby blankets, swaddles and jablas, because I was not happy with the prints available for boys and the quality of muslin I found,” said Mirudhula Vaasudevan, who founded Lil Amore, two-and-a-half years ago. “It also helps that it is easy to source different types of fabrics from close by, because textile is our region’s base industry,” said the entrepreneur, who sources pure cotton and muslins from Erode. However, the journey has not been easy for them. “The biggest challenge was sourcing raw material for us, because many weavers and suppliers considered us a small business and would charge us higher prices,” said Deepika. “Initially, many printers would flatly refuse to digitally print on our fabric, insisting it won’t work. But now that they have seen it, they work with us regularly. The lockdown also delayed our launch by a few months because we could not access our vendors, do photoshoots and meet each other,” said Sowmya, who wants to eventually be a brand that sells fabric with unique prints. The entrepreneurs said their business has soared despite the lockdown. While brands like Lil Amore saw sales doubling from mid-March, newer brands like Konrai and Putchi are seeing strong demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/women-texpreneurs-weave-success-stories/articleshow/79311423.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Jaipur||Tiger T-38 returns to Ranthambore after decade||JAIPUR: Male tiger T-38, which had crossed the Chambal ravines and went to Kuno-Palpur in Madhya Pradesh nearly a decade ago, has returned to Ranthambore National Park (RNP). The migration has surprised forest officials and experts as this is the first resident tiger of Ranthambore which returned after spending years in a wildlife sanctuary. The press statement released by Ranthambore Tiger Reserve’s field director TC Verma said T-38 had disappeared in 2012. Wildlife experts, however, claimed the tiger went in 2010 and came back after 10 years. Dharmendra Khandal, conservation biologist of Tiger Watch said, “The tiger was photographed by our team in March 2008 when it was approximately 9 months old. In 2010, after staying in Sevti forest block for a month, it crossed Param river and reached MP. It lived in central area of the wildlife sanctuary. The capture of T-38 in our trap camera after so many years came as a surprise.” A senior forest official said, the tiger movement was captured in a camera trap installed near Bhadlav and Chiroli area of Kundera range on October 19 and 24. On November 15, the movement of the striped animal was again recorded in the Pilu Deh area of Talada range. This was the first tiger, which was tracked back then, after it moved to MP. “To identify the big cat, the department matched the latest pictures with Kuno-Palpur trap camera’s images. It is confirmed that T- 38, which went to Madhya Pradesh, has returned to Ranthambore,” said a senior forest official. T-38, which was born to tigress T-13, is approximately 12 years old. At present, T-13 is the oldest surviving tigress in Ranthambore. An official said, “There is a possibility that more young tigers have reached Kuno and pushed the old tiger from the sanctuary. Following the incident, we have also shot a letter to MP forest department to closely monitor the presence of big cats and coordinate with Rajasthan about movement of tigers.” In the past, many tigers have moved to Kuno-Palpur wildlife sanctuary in Sheopur district, which is about 80km from Ranthambore. Movement of T-71, which later disappeared, was recorded in 2012. Similarly, T-56 lived in the sanctuary before moving further to Datiya in MP. The migration of T-38 through the active natural corridor between Ranthambore and Kuno-Palpur wildlife sanctuary has put a question mark on Madhya Pradesh department proposal to reintroduce Asiatic lion. “MP government should reconsider the proposal of developing Kuno as a lion sanctuary. There is constant tiger migration from Ranthambore every year. A lion country in close periphery of RNP will give birth to a conflict in wild cats,” added Khandal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tiger-t-38-returns-to-ranthambore-after-decade/articleshow/79311420.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Allahabad||UPSESSB cancels recruitment drive||Prayagraj: Uttar Pradesh Secondary Education Service Selection Board (UPSESSB) cancelled a recruitment process to fill up 15,508 vacancies of teachers in over 4,500 government-aided secondary schools due to legal issues on Wednesday, just three weeks after announcing the posts. The recruitment drive was one of the biggest ever to be launched in the state. Launched on October 29, the drive aimed to fill up 12,913 posts of trained graduate teachers (TGT) and 2,595 vacancies for post graduate teachers (PGT). UPSESSB deputy secretary Nawal Kishore said, “The board would issue a fresh advertisement for the recruitment drive after redressing all legal issues in its path.” The decision was taken during the online meeting of UPSESSB officials on Wednesday. UPSESSB officials said that the decision to cancel the advertisement was taken so that no move results in a possible contempt of Supreme Court orders. “Candidates who have already applied online will not be required to re-apply once the new advertisement is issued. National Informatics Centre (NIC) will be requested to make the due provisions in the software,” the officials added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/upsessb-cancels-recruitment-drive/articleshow/79312336.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Elephant falls into 60ft-deep open well, rescued after 15-hour struggle||In a rescue operation that lasted for a little more than 15 hours, forest department officials pulled out 30-year-old female elephant from a 60ft-deep open well on an agricultural land at Elagundur near Panchapalli village in Dharmapuri district on Thursday.According to a source, it was farmland owner Venkatachalam who spotted the elephant battling for life in the well, which had water up to 6ft, around 4am on the day.He alerted the forest department officials, who, along with fire and rescue services personnel, sprang into action to rescue the elephant at 5am by using two cranes.Rajkumar, district forest officer, Dharmapuri forest division, said, “The elephant was part of a herd that entered the farmland to raid the standing crops around 4am on Thursday. The animal didn’t seem to have noticed the well, which was narrow and didn’t have any wall around it.”He said a veterinary doctor, anti-poaching watchers and forest department field had entered the well using a wooden structure and checked the elephant’s health, which was found to be satisfactory. He said they had also helped the elephant with some food.“We have pumped out the water from the well based on the veterinary doctors’ advice and tranquilized the elephant by darting it with sedatives. After that, the frontline staff tied ropes around the elephant and lifted the animal from the well with the help of a crane. While a portion of the rope was snapped while lifting the animal, the staff replaced that with another rope. We rescued the elephant safely by 8.15pm it’s in good health condition. It hasn’t sustained major injuries,” the district forest officer said. After rescuing, the elephant was tied to a coconut tree and given green fodder.The forest officials, meanwhile, advised Venkatachalam to construct a wall around the well to avoid similar incidents in future.Earlier in the day, hundreds of villagers had gathered at the spot. Police personnel were subsequently deployed to manage them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/elephant-falls-into-60ft-deep-open-well-rescued-after-15-hour-struggle/articleshow/79311436.cms||A Subburaj
November 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Telecaller jumps to death in Secunderabad||HYDERABAD: A 21-year-old telecaller at a prominent MNC allegedly committed suicide by jumping off from the sixth floor of her office building near Clock Tower, Secunderabad on Thursday morning. Gopalapuram police said that Sushmita, a resident of Chilkalguda, came to her office at around 9.30 am, and jumped off from the building’s sixth floor a few minutes later. “She went inside the washroom and jumped to death from the window in the washroom,” Gopalpuram inspector B Sai Eshwar Goud said.The exact reason for the suicide is not yet clear as no suicide note was found. Sushmita had joined the company last month. Her father dropped her at the office on Thursday. Police are investigating. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telecaller-jumps-to-death/articleshow/79311440.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Jaipur||11-year-boy kidnapped on Wednesday, rescued today, two persons arrested||Jaipur: An 11-year-old child, Kanha, who was kidnapped on Wednesday from Dholpur’s was rescued by district police on Thursday. Two persons – Mehdi Hasan and Mehboob - were arrested by police.On Thursday, the child was left by the kidnappers at Nurabad area in Madhya Pradesh. The team of police officials rescued the child from there brought him to Dholpur. The child was handedover to his family on Thursday evening.“The child’s father runs a street food stall. The child was kidnapped when he was returning after having met his father at the food stall around 9:30 am on Wednesday. On the way, he was kidnapped by two unknown persons. Later, the family informed the police and an FIR was registered at Sarmathura station,” said Dholpur superintendent of police (SP) Keshar Singh Shekhawat. “Later in the evening, the family received a ransom call and the kidnappers demanded Rs 55 lakh. They were told that if they failed to give money, the child would be killed. The police swung into action immediately. Two teams were formed – one was assisting the father in negotiations with the kidnappers and the other was meant for technical surveillance to record the calls and seek assistance from the service providers to track the location,” he added. The assistance of Madhya Pradesh police was also sought in tracing the location of child. “A team of police officials were sent to Morena, from where the ransom calls were made. It was found out that one of the accused, Mehdi Hasan was making calls from Kailaras. We arrested him with the help of MP police and during the interrogation he disclosed Mehboob’s name. We have arrested him as well. Investigation is underway,” said Shekhawat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/11-year-boy-kidnapped-on-wednesday-rescued-today-two-persons-arrested/articleshow/79311428.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Encroachments removed from Cross Cut Road||Coimbatore: City corporation officials on Thursday removed encroachments, some of which had come up four years ago, on Cross Cut Road, creating more space for vehicular and pedestrian movement. They also removed illegal hoardings that commercial establishments had erected on the roads.The drive follows several public representations in this regard to corporation commissioner Kumaravel Pandian, who ordered to free the space that was illegally occupied by the Aavin outlet on Gandhipuram 10th Street and a tea shop on Sarojini Street.The Aavin outlet had used more space than allocated to extend its shade and portico on to the main cart track. “This affected movement of vehicles, especially when they were taking a turn,” a city corporation official said.The civic body also locked and sealed a tea shop that had come up right on the top of the corporation’s drainage pipeline on Sarojini Street many years ago, narrowing down the road for vehicular movement. “The shop owner didn’t care to vacate the place, despite multiple notices,” the official said.The drive saw officials removing four to five illegal hoardings that were erected by commercial establishments in the area. The city corporation has, of late, been cracking down on encroachments and rent defaulters in its buildings at Gandhipuram, one of the commercial centres of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/encroachments-removed-from-cross-cut-road/articleshow/79311431.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Jaipur||Roadways slashes fare on super deluxe buses on Delhi-Jaipur route||Jaipur: Rajasthan roadways has slashed fares of its super deluxe bus service on Delhi- Jaipur route from Rs 900 to Rs 700. The new fare will be effective from November 23 to December 31. Roadways CMD Rajeshwar Singh said the decision was taken on Thursday to make the roadways buses more competitive in comparison to private operators on this route.The super luxury bus service on the Delhi-Jaipur route has been a popular option with the public. But with the launch of daily double-decker train services between Delhi and Jaipur in the morning and evening and shifting of the deluxe depot in Delhi from Bikaner House had hit its business. Besides, the service had been facing stiff competition from private buses which charge much less fare. Singh said, “The decision was taken on an experimental basis. He said if the step helps to attract travellers to roadways buses and increase its revenue, we will continue with the decision.” He said the decision was taken in the light of the upcoming marriage season and for candidates appearing for various competitive exams. Singh said the roadways now runs about 2,800 buses and soon 280 contract buses will also join the fleet. He said the situation is fast returning to pre-Covid level. Pre-Covid we used to earn a revenue of around Rs 5 crore and now the revenue has reached around Rs 4.25 crore and passenger load is also returning to normal. Electric busesSingh said the proposed electric deluxe bus service on Delhi -Jaipur route is expected to commence from April next year. He said according to the plan, 48 buses will be launched on this route in phases. He said charging stations will be set up in various places and a detailed plan was being worked out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/roadways-slashes-fare-on-super-deluxe-buses-on-delhi-jaipur-route/articleshow/79311433.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Udaipur||Record 2,549 cases in Rajasthan, Jaipur reports highest one-day spike with 519 infections||JAIPUR: Reporting a massive 17% daily growth rate in Covid cases on Thursday, the state achieved the grim milestone of recording the biggest single-day spike of 2,549 taking the overall tally to 2,34,907. Jaipur, too, reported its biggest single-day spike of 519 cases, breaching the 500 mark for the first time. The state reported 371 more cases than it did a day before, which indicated that cases have been increasing rapidly post-Diwali and municipal polls in the state. Active cases have also breached the 20,000 mark again. The first time when active cases had breached the 20,000 mark was on September 28 and touched peak at 21,924 on October 13. Since then active cases constantly dipped and on October 31, it touched 15,101. Since then, active cases have constantly been on the rise with increasing number of daily new infections being reported from different parts of the state. For the 13th day in a row, active cases have been increasing daily. With increase in active cases, more patients are getting admitted to hospitals. “The number of admissions to our hospitals have increased suddenly. More than 200 patients have been admitted in 2-3 days. We have 651 beds occupied out of 1,055. We still have sufficient number of beds and there is no shortage of facilities in our hospital. A month ago, the occupancy was 300-350 beds but now it has increased significantly,” said Dr Ajit Singh, medical superintendent, dedicated Covid-19 RUHS Hospital. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has already alerted health department officials and directed them to ensure availability of beds in private and government hospitals. Health department is taking all possible measures to strengthen facilities for Covid care along with continuous monitoring of availability of beds. “We have directed private hospitals, having 80 or more beds, to reserve 30% for Covid treatment. Apart from some five to eight private hospitals, all private hospitals have availability of beds. In government-run Covid hospitals too, sufficient beds are available,” said Siddhartha Mahajan, principal secretary (health). In the last 24 hours, 15 persons died taking the state’s toll to 2,116. Jaipur reported its 403rd Covid-19 death, Jodhpur 210th, Bikaner 154th, Kota 120th, Bharatpur 98th, Udaipur 81st, Sikar 71st, Nagaur 70th, Alwar 69th, Jhunjhunu 36th, Sriganganagar 33rd, Chittorgarh 33rd, Tonk 28th, Dausa 16th and Hanumangarh reported its 9th Covid-19 death. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (519), Jodhpur (346), Ajmer (210), Ajmer (205), Kota (203), Bikaner (197), Sikar (88), Sriganganagar (85), Udaipur (82), Bhilwara (76), Nagaur (68), Pali (65), Sirohi (56), Bharatpur (45), Churu (43), Dungarpur (34), Hanumangarh (29), Jhunjhunu (28), Jalore (27), Bundi (22), Dausa (19), Barmer (19), Rajsamand (17), Jaisalmer (12), Jhalawar (12), Chittorgarh (9), Pratapgarh (8), Tonk (7), Dholpur (7), Baran (4), Karauli (3), Sawai Madhopur (3) and Banswara (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/state-witnesses-biggest-single-day-spike-of-2549-cases/articleshow/79314400.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Delhi||MHA asks NCR governments for survey of private hospitals||New Delhi: After the 10 multi-disciplinary teams appointed by the home ministry to assess bed utilisation and identity extra ICU beds at 100 private hospitals in Delhi submitted their reports, the ministry has asked the Haryana and Uttar Pradesh government to conduct a similar survey of private hospitals in their respective NCR districts. In line with the directives issued by home minister Amit Shah after a review of the Covid-19 situation in Delhi on Sunday, the number of ICU beds in the national Capital has gone up by 150 and 500 isolation beds at the 10,000 Covid care centre in Chhatarpur will be converted into beds with oxygen facility and these beds will be ready by the weekend. A home ministry spokesperson on Thursday said 75 doctors and 251 paramedics from the central armed police forces (CAPF) have already reported for duty in Delhi, of which 50 doctors and 175 paramedics were deployed at the Chhatarpur and Shakur Basti Covid care centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mha-asks-ncr-govts-for-survey-of-private-hospitals/articleshow/79311435.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Ajmer||Record 2,549 cases in Rajasthan, Jaipur reports highest one-day spike with 519 infections||JAIPUR: Reporting a massive 17% daily growth rate in Covid cases on Thursday, the state achieved the grim milestone of recording the biggest single-day spike of 2,549 taking the overall tally to 2,34,907. Jaipur, too, reported its biggest single-day spike of 519 cases, breaching the 500 mark for the first time. The state reported 371 more cases than it did a day before, which indicated that cases have been increasing rapidly post-Diwali and municipal polls in the state. Active cases have also breached the 20,000 mark again. The first time when active cases had breached the 20,000 mark was on September 28 and touched peak at 21,924 on October 13. Since then active cases constantly dipped and on October 31, it touched 15,101. Since then, active cases have constantly been on the rise with increasing number of daily new infections being reported from different parts of the state. For the 13th day in a row, active cases have been increasing daily. With increase in active cases, more patients are getting admitted to hospitals. “The number of admissions to our hospitals have increased suddenly. More than 200 patients have been admitted in 2-3 days. We have 651 beds occupied out of 1,055. We still have sufficient number of beds and there is no shortage of facilities in our hospital. A month ago, the occupancy was 300-350 beds but now it has increased significantly,” said Dr Ajit Singh, medical superintendent, dedicated Covid-19 RUHS Hospital. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has already alerted health department officials and directed them to ensure availability of beds in private and government hospitals. Health department is taking all possible measures to strengthen facilities for Covid care along with continuous monitoring of availability of beds. “We have directed private hospitals, having 80 or more beds, to reserve 30% for Covid treatment. Apart from some five to eight private hospitals, all private hospitals have availability of beds. In government-run Covid hospitals too, sufficient beds are available,” said Siddhartha Mahajan, principal secretary (health). In the last 24 hours, 15 persons died taking the state’s toll to 2,116. Jaipur reported its 403rd Covid-19 death, Jodhpur 210th, Bikaner 154th, Kota 120th, Bharatpur 98th, Udaipur 81st, Sikar 71st, Nagaur 70th, Alwar 69th, Jhunjhunu 36th, Sriganganagar 33rd, Chittorgarh 33rd, Tonk 28th, Dausa 16th and Hanumangarh reported its 9th Covid-19 death. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (519), Jodhpur (346), Ajmer (210), Ajmer (205), Kota (203), Bikaner (197), Sikar (88), Sriganganagar (85), Udaipur (82), Bhilwara (76), Nagaur (68), Pali (65), Sirohi (56), Bharatpur (45), Churu (43), Dungarpur (34), Hanumangarh (29), Jhunjhunu (28), Jalore (27), Bundi (22), Dausa (19), Barmer (19), Rajsamand (17), Jaisalmer (12), Jhalawar (12), Chittorgarh (9), Pratapgarh (8), Tonk (7), Dholpur (7), Baran (4), Karauli (3), Sawai Madhopur (3) and Banswara (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/state-witnesses-biggest-single-day-spike-of-2549-cases/articleshow/79314401.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Jaipur||Record 2,549 cases in Rajasthan, Jaipur reports highest one-day spike with 519 infections||JAIPUR: Reporting a massive 17% daily growth rate in Covid cases on Thursday, the state achieved the grim milestone of recording the biggest single-day spike of 2,549 taking the overall tally to 2,34,907. Jaipur, too, reported its biggest single-day spike of 519 cases, breaching the 500 mark for the first time. The state reported 371 more cases than it did a day before, which indicated that cases have been increasing rapidly post-Diwali and municipal polls in the state. Active cases have also breached the 20,000 mark again. The first time when active cases had breached the 20,000 mark was on September 28 and touched peak at 21,924 on October 13. Since then active cases constantly dipped and on October 31, it touched 15,101. Since then, active cases have constantly been on the rise with increasing number of daily new infections being reported from different parts of the state. For the 13th day in a row, active cases have been increasing daily. With increase in active cases, more patients are getting admitted to hospitals. “The number of admissions to our hospitals have increased suddenly. More than 200 patients have been admitted in 2-3 days. We have 651 beds occupied out of 1,055. We still have sufficient number of beds and there is no shortage of facilities in our hospital. A month ago, the occupancy was 300-350 beds but now it has increased significantly,” said Dr Ajit Singh, medical superintendent, dedicated Covid-19 RUHS Hospital. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has already alerted health department officials and directed them to ensure availability of beds in private and government hospitals. Health department is taking all possible measures to strengthen facilities for Covid care along with continuous monitoring of availability of beds. “We have directed private hospitals, having 80 or more beds, to reserve 30% for Covid treatment. Apart from some five to eight private hospitals, all private hospitals have availability of beds. In government-run Covid hospitals too, sufficient beds are available,” said Siddhartha Mahajan, principal secretary (health). In the last 24 hours, 15 persons died taking the state’s toll to 2,116. Jaipur reported its 403rd Covid-19 death, Jodhpur 210th, Bikaner 154th, Kota 120th, Bharatpur 98th, Udaipur 81st, Sikar 71st, Nagaur 70th, Alwar 69th, Jhunjhunu 36th, Sriganganagar 33rd, Chittorgarh 33rd, Tonk 28th, Dausa 16th and Hanumangarh reported its 9th Covid-19 death. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (519), Jodhpur (346), Ajmer (210), Ajmer (205), Kota (203), Bikaner (197), Sikar (88), Sriganganagar (85), Udaipur (82), Bhilwara (76), Nagaur (68), Pali (65), Sirohi (56), Bharatpur (45), Churu (43), Dungarpur (34), Hanumangarh (29), Jhunjhunu (28), Jalore (27), Bundi (22), Dausa (19), Barmer (19), Rajsamand (17), Jaisalmer (12), Jhalawar (12), Chittorgarh (9), Pratapgarh (8), Tonk (7), Dholpur (7), Baran (4), Karauli (3), Sawai Madhopur (3) and Banswara (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-witnesses-biggest-single-day-spike-of-2549-cases/articleshow/79311439.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Jodhpur||Record 2,549 cases in Rajasthan, Jaipur reports highest one-day spike with 519 infections||JAIPUR: Reporting a massive 17% daily growth rate in Covid cases on Thursday, the state achieved the grim milestone of recording the biggest single-day spike of 2,549 taking the overall tally to 2,34,907. Jaipur, too, reported its biggest single-day spike of 519 cases, breaching the 500 mark for the first time. The state reported 371 more cases than it did a day before, which indicated that cases have been increasing rapidly post-Diwali and municipal polls in the state. Active cases have also breached the 20,000 mark again. The first time when active cases had breached the 20,000 mark was on September 28 and touched peak at 21,924 on October 13. Since then active cases constantly dipped and on October 31, it touched 15,101. Since then, active cases have constantly been on the rise with increasing number of daily new infections being reported from different parts of the state. For the 13th day in a row, active cases have been increasing daily. With increase in active cases, more patients are getting admitted to hospitals. “The number of admissions to our hospitals have increased suddenly. More than 200 patients have been admitted in 2-3 days. We have 651 beds occupied out of 1,055. We still have sufficient number of beds and there is no shortage of facilities in our hospital. A month ago, the occupancy was 300-350 beds but now it has increased significantly,” said Dr Ajit Singh, medical superintendent, dedicated Covid-19 RUHS Hospital. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has already alerted health department officials and directed them to ensure availability of beds in private and government hospitals. Health department is taking all possible measures to strengthen facilities for Covid care along with continuous monitoring of availability of beds. “We have directed private hospitals, having 80 or more beds, to reserve 30% for Covid treatment. Apart from some five to eight private hospitals, all private hospitals have availability of beds. In government-run Covid hospitals too, sufficient beds are available,” said Siddhartha Mahajan, principal secretary (health). In the last 24 hours, 15 persons died taking the state’s toll to 2,116. Jaipur reported its 403rd Covid-19 death, Jodhpur 210th, Bikaner 154th, Kota 120th, Bharatpur 98th, Udaipur 81st, Sikar 71st, Nagaur 70th, Alwar 69th, Jhunjhunu 36th, Sriganganagar 33rd, Chittorgarh 33rd, Tonk 28th, Dausa 16th and Hanumangarh reported its 9th Covid-19 death. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (519), Jodhpur (346), Ajmer (210), Ajmer (205), Kota (203), Bikaner (197), Sikar (88), Sriganganagar (85), Udaipur (82), Bhilwara (76), Nagaur (68), Pali (65), Sirohi (56), Bharatpur (45), Churu (43), Dungarpur (34), Hanumangarh (29), Jhunjhunu (28), Jalore (27), Bundi (22), Dausa (19), Barmer (19), Rajsamand (17), Jaisalmer (12), Jhalawar (12), Chittorgarh (9), Pratapgarh (8), Tonk (7), Dholpur (7), Baran (4), Karauli (3), Sawai Madhopur (3) and Banswara (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/state-witnesses-biggest-single-day-spike-of-2549-cases/articleshow/79314399.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Bhopal||Tigresses on bikes to tour Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL: With a view to promote tourism activities, especially adventurous and safe tourism for women, the state tourism department on Thursday launched the first women’s biking trail programme (Tigress of the Trail) at Saira Sapata. Minister of tourism, Usha Thakur, was the chief guest on the occasion. In all, 16 women bikers from across the country were flagged off who will ride in different parts of the state with the message to promote safe and secure tourism in MP. The women bikers include Edwina D’Souza (31) from Mumbai, Silvana (35) from Italy, Amita Singh (43) from Bhubaneswar, Meenakshi Rao (35) from Tamil Nadu, Sheetal Sharma (23) from Indore, 24-year-old Komal Mandloi, 29-year-old Kirti Alava, 41-year-old Surabhi Bhadauria, 21-year-old Anushka Jain, 32-year-old Meenakshi Thakur, 28-year-old Nivia Singh from West Bengal, 57-year-old Dr Neeta Khandekar from Punjab, 24-year-old Meghna Patil from Pune, 30-year-old Pooja Vikram from Patna and 24-year-old Sonia Adhikare from Bangalore. ‘Tigress of the Trail’ is a unique innovation in which bikers will visit all the national parks. They will also promote other tourist places. MLA Nandani Maravi and Principal Secretary (tourism) Sheo Shekhar Shukla were also present on the occasion. “This journey of women bikers will also define the good governance of Madhya Pradesh that daughters can roam fearlessly in Madhya Pradesh,” said minister Usha Thakur. Principal secretary Shukla said that in view of the coronavirus crisis, the tourism department has decided to organize such an event and find a new way to meet the challenges. He said that the first women’s biking “Tigress of the Trail” is an innovation in which the fame of tourist destinations of the state will be further enhanced. Women bikers will cover 1500 km in six days. “They will give a message of safe environment of Madhya Pradesh by visiting several places,” said Shukla. Thanking the tourism department, Italy’s Silvana said, “There is an atmosphere of freedom and security for women in Madhya Pradesh and I feel proud to be a part of this program.” Women bikers will reach Mandhai from Bhopal and enjoy evening jungle walks and boat rides. The next day, on November 20, they will reach Pench from Madhai, Jungle Safari and also visit rural studies, excursions and handicrafts. On November 21, they will reach Kanha from Pench. After reaching Bandhavgarh from Kanha on Sunday, November 22, they will do jungle safari, bonfire music and swimming.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/tigress-of-the-trail-kicks-off-from-bhopal/articleshow/79310264.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Budding artists in Tirupur pay tribute to men who contributed to civilization||Coimbatore: To celebrate the International Men’s Day on Thursday, students of NIFT-TEA College of Knitwear Fashion are making an abstract wall painting at the Metropolitan Club in Tirupur.Six students are painting a 3,600 sqft wall using acrylic colours to create the monochromatic work, which tells stories of men who contributed to the world civilization, including explorers Christopher Columbus and Vasco da Gama, and artists Leonardo da Vinci, Michelangelo and Pablo Picasso.The students are using only the red colour family, said assistant professor G Boopathy Vijay, who guided them. “The 70ft*60ft work depicts the world map along with essentials like a gun, telescope, an anchor, shop, sharks, treasure box and a ship steer, among others. The idea was to depict how people travelled before the age of technology and how people had to struggle to paint and pursue art.”“We wanted to show the members of the current generation, who access pictures and videos of anyone or any part of the world through Instagram and Facebook, and books tickets with a click of a button, how the first travellers travelled across the world, encountered challenges and risked their lives. It is because of their travels that we discovered so many countries,” said Vijay. “We also pay tribute to first artists like Da Vinci and Michelangelo, who managed to create masterpieces and promote art even when art material must have been difficult to procure.”The students began the painting on October 25, Picasso’s birthday, and are expected to complete it by Thursday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/budding-artists-in-tirupur-pay-tribute-to-men-who-contributed-to-civilization/articleshow/79311429.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Most Indians unaware of link between diabetes and obesity, finds survey||HYDERABAD: Nearly 38% of Indians believe they are healthy, but have been found suffering from diabetes. Another 28% healthy individuals have been found to be pre-diabetic based on their HbA1c levels. Hence, two-third either have cardio vascular risk or are risk prone, reveals a new survey. As per the latest findings of ‘Making India Heartstrong Survey 2020’, which was done across several cities, including Hyderabad, half of the 600 respondents were found to be unaware that diabetes and obesity were the most closely associated risk factors with heart diseases. Mumbai, despite being a top metro, ranked low with just 14% respondents being aware, while in Hyderabad 45% respondents were aware about the association between diabetes and heart diseases. Also, 50% Indians are unaware that diabetes and obesity are the most closely associated risk factors with heart diseases, while 88 % did not know that high cholesterol might lead to heart disease. The findings are significant in view of the fact that people with diabetes are known to have a two to four-time increased risk of coronary artery disease (CAD) risk. CAD has also been reported to occur two to three decades earlier in diabetic subjects as opposed to their non-diabetic counterparts. “It is unfortunate that in a country where diabetes is on the verge of becoming an epidemic, people are still ignorant about the implications of it. It is important to understand that diabetes has no cure. But it can be managed or kept in check with a right combination of healthy foods and regular physical activity. Remember it’s going to be a lifetime regimen. So, just make it a habit and watch out for aggravating symptoms.” Dr Kishore Babu Kunta, a diabetologist, told TOI. The survey was done in six cities across four states — Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and AP— and 600 respondents participated in it. The survey also found that only 10% respondents knew that hardening of arteries fell under the umbrella of heart diseases. This, however, is an important factor. “Prevalence of hardening of arteries is on the rise, particularly in younger population owing to changes in their lifestyle and food habits. Research shows that coronary stenosis, which is associated with hardening of arteries, affects nearly 30% population,” says Dr TNC Padmanabhan, consultant interventional cardiologist, Krishna Institute of Medical Sciences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/most-indians-unaware-of-link-between-diabetes-and-obesity-finds-survey/articleshow/79311434.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Nagpur||Platina Project, pvt blood banks already following ICMR advisory on off-label plasma use||Nagpur: The Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) advisory on off-label convalescent plasma use in Covid19 patients confirms what doctors involved in Maharashtra’s Platina Project as well as private blood banks from city had been advocating since last two month. The apex research body’s PLACID Trial concluded that plasma use was “ineffective”.On November 17, the ICMR has recommended judicious use of off label plasma and ensuring the donor and recipient fit certain benchmarks. One of the major factors blamed for failure of PLACID — world’s largest convalescent plasma therapy (CPT) trial — was that it didn’t look for presence of antibodies in the plasma. This was because there were no reliable kits available when the study was initiated in April. Similar studies conducted in China and Netherlands have also documented no significant benefit of CPT in improving the clinical outcomes of hospitalized Covid -19 patients, it states.Now, the ICMR has defined three sets of antibodies which must be present in the donor’s plasma before it is harvested. It should also be given only in early phase of Covid infection. Both, the platina project teams conducting randomized controlled trial on 472 Covid patients across 21 medical colleges in the state and certain private blood banks have already been following the guidelines which has made plasma use effective in large number of patients and saved lives.Assuming the effectiveness of plasma, doctors and relatives had started seeking plasma for even critically ill patients, which raised concern over alleged futile use of the scarce resource. GMCH’s Dr Mohammed Faisal, who is state nodal officer for Project Platina, said, “Ours is an academic trial for severe Covid19 patients and we will go for its scientific conclusion. Whether it’s useful or not will only be clear when we do our final data analysis. Our experience with plasma therapy is positive when given in early virology phase of Covid which is exactly what ICMR has said. Plasma should be used in moderate patients only and the antibody content of the donor plasma should have high quality antibodies.”“Indiscriminate use of plasma by the treating physicians and demand by relatives should now be rationalized in the light of the latest advisory by the ICMR which is the highest body of India,” Dr Faisal said.The rationalized use of off label plasma refers to the fact that physicians and relatives must understand that plasma may not be as effective in advanced stage of infection.City’s Lifeline Blood Bank has been promoting the use of receptor binding domain (RBD) plasma based on the same principle of use in early viremic phase and harvesting plasma with high antibody titre (1:640).The ICMR advisory is silent on RBD plasma but gives 13 AU (Absorbance Unit)/mL9 through (CLIA), IgG antibody 1.640 and neutralizing antibody as the standard for confirming donor’s fitness.The ICMR advisory also states that the donor must have tested RTPCR positive to be eligible.Yet, government doctors have observed donations have been accepted from persons who were found positive in sero survey.What ICMR says on CPT* Benefits of CPT in improving the clinical outcomes, reducing severity of disease, duration of hospitalization and mortality in Covid -19 patients are dependent on the concentration of specific antibodies in convalescent plasma that could neutralize the effects of SARS-CoV-2* It is speculated that convalescent plasma having low concentration of specific antibody against SARS-CoV-2 may be less beneficial for treating Covid -19 patients as compared to plasma with high concentration of such antibodies*A potential donor for convalescent plasma should have sufficient concentration of antibody working against Covid. It also highlights that presence of antibody against Covid in a potential recipient makes transfusing convalescent plasma a futile intervention||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/platina-project-pvt-blood-banks-already-following-icmr-advisory-on-off-label-plasma-use/articleshow/79310304.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
November 20, 2020||Chennai||Centre asks Tamil Nadu not to finalise Rs 2,000-crore Bharatnet tender||CHENNAI: The nearly Rs 2,000-crore Bharatnet tender has run into rough weather for the second time in the past six months, with the Centre once again asking Tamil Nadu government to desist from finalising the tender until a grievance filed by a USA-based company, which alleges non- compliance of Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India) Order, 2017, is resolved. In an office memorandum dated November 9, the Union ministry of commerce and industry has also asked the state government agency TANFINET to take disciplinary action against erring officials. “Disciplinary action may be considered against erring officers where restrictive conditions against domestic manufacturers have been imposed in a malafide fashion,” the ministry’s department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT) said. DPIIT has also sought a report on the issue. “The subject procurement will not be finalised till the aforesaid grievance is disposed of by the competent authority,” the department said. Hans Raj Varma, additional chief secretary (Information Technology), Tamil Nadu, did not respond to call and message from TOI. This is the second time the tender for setting up OFC cables to provide broadband internet in 12,000-odd TN villages, has faced such an issue. Last April, too, the DPIIT had sent a similar letter to Tamil Nadu based on a complaint sent by Chennai- based anti-corruption NGO Arappor Iyakkam alleging restrictive tender conditions. Later, after conducting an inquiry into the allegations, DPIIT asked TN government to refloat the tender by removing the restrictive clauses. TANFINET, the TN government agency, re-tendered it in October, but once again Arappor Iyakkam and a few other participants raised issues regarding conditions on routers. Though the exact nature of the complaint filed by the US-based company is not known, DPIIT’s letter has asked TANFINET to examine the complaint and take corrective action if any violation of the Make in India clause is found. Jayaram Venkatesan, convenor of Arappor Iyakkam, questioned why the state government closed the tender if questions had been raised about it. “TANFINET can extend the last date for the tender and resolve the grievances by addressing the issues. Closing the tender without addressing the questions may only lead to the tender being cancelled again,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/centre-asks-tn-not-to-finalise-rs-2000cr-bharatnet-tender/articleshow/79311444.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
November 20, 2020||Jaipur||Extra personnel in RUHS to handle Covid pressure||JAIPUR: While the city is grappling with spurt in Covid cases, Sawai Man Singh Medical College has developed RUHS Hospital into a fully equipped dedicated Covid facility. A fleet of 350 nursing staff and three units of medicine department have been deployed by the SMS Medical College for taking care of Covid patients. After RUHS Hospital was handed over to SMS Medical College in mid-September, new facilities have been added along with increasing bed capacity from 300 to 1,200. While strengthening facilities at RUHS, SMS Medical College has launched a first-of-its-kind initiative of installing oxygen points at wheelchairs to provide immediate oxygen to Covid patients reaching in emergency with breathing difficulties. “We have installed 30 oxygen points with wheelchairs and fowler bed in emergency of RUHS to oxygenate every patient within a minute. Nowhere is such emergency arrival arrangements available with 30 oxygen points,” said Dr Sudhir Bhandari, principal and controller, SMS Medical College. He said, “150 ventilated beds and another 70-bedded ICU is also starting soon.” Apart from three medicine units, SMS Medical College has also deployed a fleet of anesthesia specialists and doctors of different specialities. Moreover, RUHS hospital is developing its oxygen generation plant and a liquid oxygen plant. “The liquid oxygen plant will soon become operational. We are waiting for some permissions required for it. The requirement of oxygen for Covid patients’ treatment has gone up. We need 1,500 oxygen cylinders daily. The requirement was 450 cylinders a month ago,” said Dr Ajit Singh, medical superintendent, RUHS Hospital. SMS Medical College is taking care of patients of three dedicated Covid hospitals including RUHS, Jaipuria and ESI Hospital, having a collective capacity of 1,700 beds approximately. edited (gfx with deepesh) Graphics Work done at dedicated Covid RUHS Hospital since SMS Medical College took over it in mid-September 1. Installation of 30 oxygen points with wheelchairs and fowler bed in the emergency of the hospital to oxygenate every patient within a minute 2. Increased beds from 300 to 1,200 3. Installation of TVs & water coolers in every floor 4. Increase in oxygen points in ICU beds. 150 ventilated beds and another 70 beaded ICU starting soon 5. Proactive treatment with top drugs like remdesivir, tocilizumab, plasma therapy and standard of care absolutely free6. Facilities for latest blood test like cytokine markers 7. Big faculties of medicine, anaesthesia, pediatrics & critical care with best of nursing care & logistic facilities like food 8. Patient addressal system on each floor 9. Coffee counter and rasoi in progress 10. Maintenance of toilets by Sulabh agency||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/extra-personnel-in-ruhs-to-handle-covid-pressure/articleshow/79311442.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Bus driver charged for student’s death in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A driver of a college bus was charged under Section 304 (ii) (Culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the IPC for causing fatal accident while driving under the influence of alcohol at Jeedimetla. The accused, D Srinivas Rao rammed into a scooter near HMT in Jeedimetla on November 13. Pillion rider K Yamini, 20, an engineering student died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bus-driver-charged-for-students-death/articleshow/79311441.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Dehradun||Identify & prepare local products for exports: DM||Dehradun: Dehradun district magistrate (DM) Ashish Kumar Srivastava directed the departments of agriculture and horticulture, fisheries, dairy, animal husbandry as well as the departments of tourism, industry, education department, and culture to identify various products and services for exports on a large scale. The official has instructed each department to present a list of 10 such products or services within a week with every detail related to it. The DM said that the products and services with an export value and which have a large demand in foreign lands should be put on the export incentive list. Citing examples, he said that Basmati rice, lychee, bakery products, and decorated light goods made in Dehradun city can be re-projected in a better way for exports. He ordered all the concerned departments to present a better export plan by marking the related services and products in a week during a meeting with the district export promotion committee and various departments. “Various types of pulses, including rajma, kuthali, soyabean, urad, are grown here. In the Kalsi-Chakrata region, handloom and herbal products are also manufactured. We can make these products available for export bringing maximum benefits to the farmers and local artisans,” said DM Srivastava.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/identify-prepare-local-products-for-exports-dm/articleshow/79309188.cms||Abhijeet Singh
November 20, 2020||Nagpur||After tar roads, potholes tarnish cement roads too||NAGPUR: Cement roads would put an end to the problem of potholes on city’ roads, that’s want the previous state government led by Devendra Fadnavis and the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) had claimed to back the road concretization projects. Today, newly-constructed cement roads have developed cracks at many places and taking shape of potholes. TOI on Thursday found big cracks on cement roads that have grown in size with each passing day. One such patch is near Suresh Bhat auditorium on Great Nag road between Reshimbagh Chowk and Bhola Ganesh Chowk that has developed horizontal and vertical cracks on either side. This patch was constructed under cement road phase-I project whose cost was around Rs124 crore. The spot near Reshimbagh Chowk has become accident-prone due to potholes, said local residents. Amir Saeed, a resident, pointed out that similar is the situation in front of Ravindra Adhyapak Vidyalaya on other side of the stretch. The delay in taking up corrective measures like replacing the damaged part of the road is causing inconvenience to motorists, particularly two-wheeler riders. “Those new to the stretch lose balance while negotiating these deadly patches,” said Ramesh Pohinkar, a resident of Reshimbagh. NMC’s superintending engineer (PWD) Manoj Talewar said the civic body has already withheld payment of around Rs40 lakh to Unity Infra Projects, the agency that undertook concretization of Great Nag Road, due to poor quality. The cement roads constructed some couple of years ago under phase-II of the Rs324 crore project too have met similar fate. “The horizontal and vertical cracks on VIP Road between Children Traffic Park Square and Alankar Square have exposed not only poor quality of work by the contractors but heavy corruption in NMC’s public works department,” said Rohit Mahajan, a resident of Ramdaspeth. Talewar said the NMC has withheld part payment of Rs40 lakh to the agency that constructed the VIP Road stretch. The NMC official said the two stretches in question have developed cracks on either side due to open spaces along the roads. “The black cotton soil at these places absorbs moisture, weakens the surface, thus causing cracks,” he said. Similar problems have come up on stretches of inner ring road constructed by the state’s public works department through M/s RPS Infrastructure. Central Road Research Institute has suggested some corrective measures like changing panels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/after-tar-roads-potholes-tarnish-cement-roads-too/articleshow/79311450.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
November 20, 2020||Nagpur||Most depositors withdrew money from LVB in September 2019||NAGPUR: Depositors recollect that in September last year there were apprehensions that the Laxmi Vilas Bank’s (LVB) Nagpur branch would sink. The bank survived for slightly over a year when, finally, RBI capped withdrawals at Rs25,000. The false alarm is possibly the reason that depositors are not queuing up for withdrawing funds now. Currently, the Nagpur branch has a total deposit base of Rs43 crore. The amount is much less than that of the cooperative banks that have gone bust more than 10 years ago. For example, the Samata Bank which faced withdrawal restrictions in 2006 and finally liquidation, had a deposit base of over Rs100 crore. “I barely have a few thousands in the bank. In September last year there was a long queue extending to the road. There was a strong rumour that the bank is going to shut down so all of us rushed to get the money back. I have withdrawn a major part of the funds,” said an ayurvedic doctor. BC Bhartia, a chartered accountant, said even he had a sizeable amount in the bank, which he withdrew last year. “There was a huge rush of depositors then. The bank managed to convince us that the money was safe. Yet, we took out most of the money and only kept a nominal amount,” he said. More than the depositors, the shareholders have a bigger concern as the draft merger plan with DBS Bank says that LVB’s entire paid up capital will be written off. Bhartia said even he had brought the bank’s shares in anticipation of a merger earlier but sold as there was no development. Stock broker Anuj Badjate of M/s Badjate and Co said he continues to hold some of the LVB’s shares for which he may not get any value under the draft merger scheme. “I have no objection, because equity always has risk element and the investor should be prepared for it. It’s good that the depositors’ interests has been taken care of first,” he said. Till two years ago, LVB was a heavily traded share and has given good returns too, said Badjate. “I have sold shares for as much has Rs400,” he said. There wasn’t much rush at the branch on the second day of RBI’s restrictions on Thursday. Depositors came one by one to inquire about their funds. The bank which has only one branch in the city runs with a small workforce. The salaries are being paid in full said a senior official at the headquarters in Chennai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/most-depositors-withdrew-money-from-lvb-in-sept-19/articleshow/79311447.cms||Shishir Arya
November 20, 2020||Delhi||Feluda, newly developed Covid-19 test, in Delhi soon||NEW DELHI: The world’s first CRISPR Cas-9 (gene-editing tool)- based diagnostic test for Covid-19, Feluda, will be available in Delhi-NCR from the first week of December and will shortly thereafter be rolled out in Mumbai, Kolkata, Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Chennai, Ahmedabad and Pune, substantially increasing India’s testing capacities. The test, developed indigenously by CSIR’s constituent lab, Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, and named after the detective created by doyen of Bengali cinema Satyajit Ray, will be available for testing in the remaining cities across the country subsequently in a phased manner. The cost of the test, which can give results in 6-7 hours, will be based on respective state government guidelines. The main advantages are its affordability, relative ease of use and non-dependency on expensive QPCR machines. “It’s a proud moment for India. It reflects true spirit of our young scientists who have risen to the occasion and provided us an indigenous test which we foresee as a global product,” Shekhar C Mande, director general, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, told TOI. “I am told the company will also explore its market in western Europe and north America. This test will also be helpful in India’s friendly countries in Africa and in the neighbourhood,” he said. These kits will not be available for individuals. Initially they will be available at Apollo Hospitals, which on Thursday entered into a partnership with Tata Medical and Diagnostics (Tata MD), a new heathcare venture of the Tata Group, to kick off the TataMD Check test, powered by Feluda. The Tata Group had got the licence from CSIR-IGIB for development and commercialisation of the testing kit for rapid and accurate diagnosis of Covid-19. The TataMD Check testing kits are currently being manufactured at the company’s production facility near Chennai. “We believe the association with Apollo Hospitals will catalyse rapid adoption of TataMD Check as the efficient and preferred testing option as we begin to resume our lives again,” said Girish Krishnamurthy, CEO & MD, Tata Medical and Diagnostics. During the next few weeks, Apollo Hospitals group will ensure availability of TataMD Check testing in eight hospitals in Phase-I. Location-wise quantities will be ramped up based on demand and need for expanding to other centres. “The primary care clinics and Diagnostics Lab and Collection centre network of Apollo Diagnostics in all these cities will also support the collection, home collection as well as testing to support this initiative,” said a joint statement of Apollo Hospitals and Tata MD. Commenting on the initiative, Sangita Reddy, joint managing director, Apollo Hospitals said the move would further the cause of ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ (self-reliant India) in providing the launch pad for adoption of this indigenously developed testing as a new addition to the array of Covid testing. The process of collecting patient samples, RNA extraction and amplification remain same in TataMD Check as in other viral detection tests. However, the use of CRISPR-Cas9 technology ensures quicker results due to a more agile process and AI-based automated result detection methodology. “Continuous quality control of kits using sensors as well AI-based result capture and analysis tool will help laboratories with image-based results, with full traceability of the sample and results that are accessible anywhere resulting in an enhanced patient experience,” said the statement on the TataMD check which has already been approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/feluda-newly-developed-covid-19-test-in-delhi-soon/articleshow/79311453.cms||Vishwa Mohan
November 20, 2020||Lucknow||Class 5 passout in the fray to represent graduates’ seat in UP Legislative Council||LUCKNOW: A class five passout woman is among the 24 candidates in the fray for election from Lucknow division for graduates constituency. The division comprises seven districts — Lucknow, Barabanki, Pratapgarh, Rae Bareli, Lakhimpur Kheri, Sitapur and Hardoi. Among the candidates are four women, including Kranti Singh, a class five passout hailing from Sultanpur. The eldest candidate is 73-year-old Baba Hardeo Singh, a former civil servant. Six candidates are being backed by political parties. Kranti Singh is a farmer with family assets worth Rs 35 lakh. TOI contacted Kranti Singh to enquire about the purpose for contesting the election to represent graduates, but she refused comment citing busy election campaign schedule. TOI spoke to some constitutional experts to gather their views on a class V passout candidate entering the electoral fray to represent graduates. “Even an unlettered person can contest elections since the Constitution has a provision for that,” additional chief electoral officer, Yogeshwar Ram Mishra, told TOI. Prof Chandra Prakash Singh, head of LU law department, said, “Ideally to represent graduates, a candidate, too, should be educated enough, otherwise how he/she would become their voice in the House.” Prof Balraj Chauhan, constitutional expert and vice-chancellor of Dharmashastra National Law University, Jabalpur, said we need to appreciate the constitutional provision that even a person who is not formally educated but has sufficient competence, capability and intellectual integrity can contest polls. “The responsibility has been given to the electorate to choose their representative in the form of electoral college. Anyone who is contesting election, will be elected democratically by the electorate who is a graduate. This is the beauty of democracy,” prof Chauhan added. Reiterating the same view, Prof Iqbal Ali Khan of Aligarh Muslim University, said, “The Constitution only provides different types of electorate to choose their representatives and it is not necessary that the person elected should also belong to that class. The whole onus and accountability lies on the electorate to choose.” “The idea underlying in Articles 171 and 173 of the Constitution may not be to make any reservation for this class but to give them the right to choose their representatives,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/class-5-passout-in-the-fray-to-represent-graduates-seat-in-up-legislative-council/articleshow/79312346.cms||Arvind Chauhan
November 20, 2020||Chandigarh||HC upholds Panjab University decision to scrap LLM admission exam||CHANDIGARH: Putting the stamp on the decision of Panjab University (PU) to scrap written examination for admission to the master’s course in law (LLM), the Punjab and Haryana high court dismissed a petition challenging it. The court, however, made it clear that the applicant could approach the university administration to take back the fee deposited for the written examination. The HC passed these orders while relying on its prevision decision passed in Chiraag Malli’s case in which it had upheld PU’s decision to scrap written examination for admission to LLB course. The division bench comprising Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli of the HC passed these orders while dismissing the petition filed by Anirudh Sharma. “The validity of the decision of the respondent, University, to scrap the entrance examination and to make admissions on the basis of marks obtained in the eligibility examination was upheld by this court in the case titled as Chiraag Malli Vs Panjab University, Chandigarh and others and another connected matter decided on November 4. In the circumstances, the prayer made by the petitioner for directing the university to hold the entrance examination deserves to be and is hereby rejected in terms of the decision of this court rendered in Chiraag Malli’s case,” observed the bench.  In this case, the petitioner had approached the HC for directions to the university to take steps for conducting PU-CET (PG) entrance test for LLM or return the examination fee charged from the petitioner for conducting the examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-upholds-pu-decision-to-scrap-llm-admission-exam/articleshow/79310315.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Nagpur||Citizens for isolating travellers but admin, expert see no gains,||Nagpur: The district administration as well as experts have ruled out any benefit from screening and isolating travellers, especially those coming from cities like Delhi, Ahmedabad, Jaipur and Pune where Covid-19 cases are spiking.On the other hand, citizens and doctors feel the administration is taking things lightly and exposing the city to a serious resurgence of Covid infection.Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar said as of now there are no plans to isolate people travelling from any specific city “as the situation in Nagpur is pretty much under control”. “Commercial activities must go on and let’s hope the situation remains like this. The government policy is for all cities. I don’t think other cities are isolating travellers coming from affected areas. We shouldn’t create panic among people,” he said.Civil surgeon Dr Devendra Paturkar said the government guidelines on travellers are already being followed at railway station and airports. “People who want to get tested are doing it. No separate instructions have been issued,” he said.Infectious disease specialist Dr Nitin Shinde feels screening and isolation of returnees from a particular city may not benefit in containing the spread. “The administration can’t do much, especially when it is asymptomatic transmission of the disease. It may not benefit. Severe measures like lockdown can only slowdown and control the surge but it is followed by a bigger wave,” he said. Dr Shinde said at the most only temperature will be checked at entry points which is not going to help much. “Despite the 14 — day quarantine rule implemented before, Covid infection spread. Isolation of travellers helps only during stage one of the pandemic or when the outbreak is limited. There will be multiple waves and slump of cases.”TOI posed the query to a doctor, an industry representative, a citizen and an NGO involved in Covid-19 containment drives. Businessman Anand Chandwani said travellers should be screened and isolated. “The administration and people have become callous. I fear city will be in a pathetic situation. To avoid explosion of cases, travellers must be isolated for 14-day, either at home or at a government facility,” he said.NGO TogetherWeCan’s Anasuya Kale Chhabrani said just because cases have gone down the norms shouldn’t have been relaxed. “Because the rules were relaxed, people became lax. International travel has resumed in other cities. Now, they don’t even ask for RT-PCR report. This is very wrong. All passengers/travellers coming to city should be screened and isolated even if they don’t show any symptoms,” she said.Vidarbha Taxpayers Association (VTA) secretary Tejinder Singh Renu said as responsible citizens they are taking utmost precautions including screening of customers. “Likewise, the administration needs to implement topmost screening level to avoid import of virus from more infected cities. However, citizens too shouldn’t hide their travel plans and share potential contact details. “In more affected cities, travel pass can be introduced to keep a track. Second wave is said to be more harmful and can push fatality rate sharply. Hence, this is the time to reintroduce procedures to avoid future chaos,” said Renu.Axon Hospital director and critical care physician Dr Santosh Dhole believes restrictions are needed to control the spread. “This week is going to be dangerous for the city. Travellers must be monitored and shifted with medical certificate and advised home isolation. No one paid attention to their health during festive period and the repercussions will be seen now,” he said. InfoQ-timeline· On Mar 6, administration started screening of flyers and subsequently placed them in 7-day institutional quarantine at MLA Hostel· Flyers from city were released after two days and advised 14-day home isolation· District health office set up corona war room to monitor all the flyers during isolation period· In March last week, flight discontinued at city airport· Vande Bharat flyers arrived in later months but were immediately put in paid quarantine. Outside district flyers asked to isolate at home· In April, over 250 Delhi returnees were identified and brought to MLA Hostel, Ravi Bhavan and Vanamati for 14-day quarantine· All of them were tested twice and had to spend more than 14 days at Q-centres· None of the flyers was tested initially||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/citizens-for-isolating-travellers-but-admin-expert-see-no-gains/articleshow/79310316.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
November 20, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: BJP begins workshop on ‘saffron ideology’||BHOPAL: After an impressive victory in the Madhya Pradesh bypolls, BJP organised a two-day workshop for master trainers ahead of its 19-day training camp for party workers and new entrants. The party plans to impart training to newcomers from Congress on saffron ideology, BJP’s history and national security. “The training programmes are for all party workers and are aimed at educating about BJP’s ideology, methodology and history. BJP workers’ dedication, sacrifice and austerity has turned the party into the world’s biggest political outfit. The newcomers will also learn about Central and state government schemes for the benefit of the public,” said BJP state president V D Sharma. The event has two objectives, first to inform workers and leaders who came from Congress about the party’s ideology as during recent bypolls it was revealed that there was lack of companionship between Jyotiraditya Scindia supporters and BJP workers. Besides, many newcomers were not aware of the saffron ideology and traditions, apart from poll management tactics. The workshop carried various sessions for master trainers addressed by experts including former ministers, state office-bearers and head of party’s fronts. “The trainers will educate the party workers in 1,059 mandals of 56 organisational districts about the history and development of BJP, party’s responsibilities, idea of working like a family, Antyodaya schemes and benefits given to the public during last six years of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s rule, party’s functioning and role in organisational structure”, Sharma said. “BJP will also educate workers about the achievements of the state and Central governments, personality development, effective use of social media and national security along with self-reliance,” said organising general secretary Suhas Bhagat. Senior party leaders Jaibhan Singh Pawaiya, state vice-president Vinod Gotia, national president of SC front Lal Singh Arya, state general secretary Ranveer Singh Rawat, Bhagwandas Sabnani, Sartendu Tiwari and Harishankar Khatik addressed the sessions among others. Sources said that Scindia is likely to attend the workshop on Friday. Recently, he had also visited RSS headquarters in Nagpur and met RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bjp-begins-workshop-to-train-newcomers/articleshow/79310326.cms||Rajendra Sharma
November 20, 2020||Dehradun||HNBGU’s convocation to commence from Dec 1, Nishank to be chief guest||Dehradun: In an official communication, the Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna Garhwal Central University in Srinagar has announced that it is going to hold its eighth convocation ceremony from Dec 1 onwards and that Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank will be the the chief guest of the ceremony. In the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, the event will be held in online mode. The ceremony will be telecasted live on the public service broadcaster Doordarshan as well. The theme for the convocation ceremony will be “Online Education and Resilience”. As many as 60 students, across subjects, will be honoured with gold medals for their brilliant performance. All those who want to attend the ceremony will have to register themselves on the university’s web portal by November 22, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hnbgus-convocation-to-commence-from-dec-1-nishank-to-be-chief-guest/articleshow/79309203.cms||Mohammad Anab
November 20, 2020||Hubballi||Congress’ stance on Maratha board puts Uttara Kannada leaders in a bind||KARWAR: At a time when the Congress is struggling to recover lost ground in the coastal district of Uttara Kannada, statements made by former chief minister Siddaramaiah and other senior leaders of the party on the proposed Maratha Development Board has put the local members in a bind. Uttara Kannada district is home to a sizeable Maratha population. Ironically, the sole representative that the Congress has from the district in the assembly is from Haliyal – former minister RV Deshpande – a constituency, wherein Marathas account for 35% of the voters. Karwar is another constituency where Marathas, accounting for 12% of the electorate, can decide the outcome of the poll, while in Yellapur and Sirsi too, their numbers are large enough to have a significant impact on the result. Furthermore, Kittur and Khanapur taluks of Belagavi district, both of which boast a considerably large Maratha voter base, are part of the Uttara Kannada Lok Sabha seat. Local Congress leaders pointed out that the party’s MLC from the district Shrikant Ghotenkar was, in fact, a Maratha himself. Both Deshpande and Ghotenkar welcomed the state government’s decision to set up a dedicated board for the welfare of the Maratha community. However, differing voices within the party dubbed the decision a move by the BJP to divide the people of the state. Consequently, both Deshpande and Ghotenkar find themselves wedged between a rock and a hard place. Given that the countdown to the gram panchayat elections has started in the earnest, neither leader wants to publicly endorse the party’s stance and risk antagonising the Maratha community in the district. BJP members and functionaries in Uttara Kannada, on the other hand, are rather pleased with the turn of events since the internal dispute within the Congress has provided the saffron party with the opportunity to strengthen their hold on the Maratha community in the district. Former Haliyal MLA and BJP leader Sunil Hegde dubbed the government’s decision to constitute a dedicated Maratha board a ‘historic’ move. “The backward community has got justice, at last,” Hegde said. A senior Congress leader in Uttara Kannada voiced apprehensions over the stance adopted by the party on the board. “It may affect the party’s electoral fortunes here. Our leaders, when making such statements, have in mind only the political scenario in Bengaluru and Mysuru. But they do not realise that they may lose voters in the rest of the state by making such remarks,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/congress-stance-on-maratha-board-puts-uttara-kannada-leaders-in-a-bind/articleshow/79310166.cms||Deepak Kumar Shenvi
November 20, 2020||Chennai||V K Sasikala has 129 days remission, can walk out of Bengaluru prison anytime||CHENNAI/BENGALURU: Former Tamil Nadu chief minister J Jayalalithaa’a aide V K Sasikala, now serving a four-year jail term in Karnataka, can walk out anytime, theoretically. If one goes by the rules on leaves for prisoners, she has completed her prison term and was eligible to walk out of the jail more than two months ago. Karnataka jail rules enable a convict to earn three days of remission for every full month spent in jail. A total of 129 days of earned remission have accrued to Sasikala’s history ticket so far. Sasikala’s lawyer Raja Senthur Pandian told TOI that as on Thursday she needed only 69 days of earned leave to step out of the Parappana Agrahara jail. “If you add leave incentive for good conduct activities like gardening and taking courses in Kannada and computers, she has earned more than 200 days of leave. Yet, it has been denied due to discretionary powers of officials.” A Parappana Agrahara jail official said they have been getting calls from supporters seeking to know whether Sasikala would be released on Saturday. “Sasikala has spent 13 days in judicial custody between January 31 and February 12, 1997. After the trial court convicted her, she spent 22 days between September 27 and October 18, 2014, in prison. If these 35 days are considered, Sasikala is likely to be released on January 27, 2021,” an officer said. “The date was calculated after considering 17 days’ parole she used.” Sasikala, accompanied by her co-convict and sister-in-law J Ilavarasi, entered the Parappana Agrahara jail in Bengaluru on February 15, 2017, a day after the Supreme Court upheld a trial court order finding them guilty of corruption and amassment of wealth. Former chief minister Jayalalithaa, too, was found guilty, but charges against her abated as she was no more. Though the imminent release of Sasikala has been a hot topic in power corridors, the news that the ₹10 crore fine imposed on her was paid on November 18, has triggered curiosity outside political circles. Rules empower jail superintendents to give prisoners a relaxation of 30 days per year for good conduct; a deputy inspector-general of prisons can give 60 days and IG prisons can give 90 days per year, based on a mark system. “While mark-based remission relief is discretionary, the one which Sasikala must have earned on monthly basis cannot be denied,” said A Sirajudeen, senior Supreme Court lawyer and author of the book ‘The Rights of Prisoners’. The earned leave can be forfeited only if the convict commits a prison offence for which due trial was conducted and she was punished, he said. “A written punishment order, too, should be served on the convict. In the absence of this process, earned leave is an earned right,” he said. Replies obtained under the Right to Information (RTI) Act show how similar earned remission benefits have been extended to other convicts during the same period. Pandian said there is a Union home ministry note clarifying that those convicted under Prevention of Corruption Act are excluded from the benefit. Sirajudeen said the parole period should not be exempted from the jail term. “If these mandatory benefits are denied citing discretionary powers, it is a good ground for filing a personal liberty petition saying her continued incarceration amounts to illegal confinement, he said. Some differ. Advocate S Ashok Kumar said remission is not a legal right. “It isn’t an absolute right either. Remission days are calculated, and above that their conduct is considered. Whether, during the period of sentence, the convict has reformed or his/her release will not harm others should be up to the subjective satisfaction of the appropriate government,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/sasikala-has-129-days-remission-can-walk-out-of-prison-anytime/articleshow/79311468.cms||A Subramani
November 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Social distancing, masks ignored at Sector 26 mandi||CHANDIGARH: Despite an increase in Covid-19 cases in the city, people are neither maintaining a social distance nor wearing a mask in the congested Sector 26 fruit and vegetable market. There are no checks by the authorities at the entry and exit of mandi, where vendors, wholesalers and buyers are moving without any safety measures. A vendor said there were no checks not only in the Sector 26 mandi, but all over the city.  Another vendor said, “The UT employees always challan poor people, but do not check hotels, restaurants and nightclubs, where nobody follows social distancing norms.” An official said as the ministry of home affairs (MHA) and the UT administration had lifted restrictions, there were no curbs on entry, but they have been spreading awareness. UT adviser Manoj Parida said instructions would be issued to staff to ensure people and vendors do not violate social distancing norms. The violators would be penalised, he added. In September, the market had shifted back to its original location in Sector 26. To contain the spread of Covid-19, the UT administration had temporarily shifted the market, which was located close to Bapu Dham Colony that had many containment zone pockets, to Sector 17 Inter-State Bus Terminal (ISBT) in May. Apni mandis still not operationalThough the UT administration has opened Sector 26 mandi, the weekly apni mandis are still not operational. Sources said while apni mandis were not operational, illegal ones were running in many sectors and colonies, where 10 to 20 vendors sit together.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/social-distancing-masks-ignored-at-sec-26-mandi/articleshow/79310334.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
November 20, 2020||Nagpur||‘CM, dy CM insulted Nitin Raut by refusing power bill waiver’||NAGPUR: BJP general secretary Chandrashekhar Bawankule on Thursday said chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and his deputy Ajit Pawar have insulted energy minister Nitin Raut by refusing power bill waiver. The former BJP minister claimed that this happened because Shiv Sena and NCP did not want Congress to get any credit. Bawankule advised Raut to quit instead of taking the blame for state government’s refusal to waive off or provide rebate on power bills. “He is a grass roots man and should not take it lying down,” said Bawankule. Raut had twice promised to provide rebate in power bills during lockdown and once before it. Every time Thackeray and Pawar agreed it to in principle but later refused to sanction relief. Power consumers are now charging Raut with making false promises. Refusal of CM and his deputy to waive off power bills has not gone down well with Congress leaders. Relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar told media on Wednesday that the decision taken by energy department should be discussed in cabinet. “Public sentiment over this issue is intense. We realize this when people come to meet with us over high power bills. Affluent people and those who could afford have paid the power bills during lockdown period but there are a large number of people who are not in a position to pay the full amount,” said Wadettiwar. Wadettiwar said if there is feeling of injustice among such people, it had to be addressed. “If necessary power distribution company should be given aid on lines of Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC),” he said. Another Congress leader, former MLA Ashish Deshmukh has gone a step ahead and slammed CM Thackeray for doing a “U-turn on power bill waiver”. “The time has come for Congress to give an electric shock to the government,” he said. “Inflated bills were issued during three months of lockdown. Everybody demanded that the government give rebate on power bills and if possible completely waive them off. The state government then announced that it would provide relief to power consumers. If giving relief was not possible, why such announcements were made,” said Deshmukh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cm-dy-insulted-nitin-raut-by-refusing-power-bill-waiver/articleshow/79311462.cms||Ashish Roy
November 20, 2020||Lucknow||Women’s cell to come in 350 UP tehsils: Yogi||Lucknow: On the occasion of the 192nd birth anniversary of Rani Lakshmi Bai, chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced that a women’s cell will be set up in all 350 tehsils in the state to provide assistance to women. Praising Ram Lakshmi Bai’s valour and courage, Yogi said that the way in which she represented the strength of women in front of the British is unforgettable. “She is a symbol of female pride and the foreigners had to bend before her courage and valour. She sacrificed herself for India’s independence. There are several examples of women in our history who have set a high standard for valour and bravery. Even now, there are several women and young girls who are setting new standards of knowledge, talent and hard work,” he said. Yogi said the Centre and state are running several programmes for women empowerment. In the Centre, schemes like Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao were implemented, along with PM Ujjwala Yojana, PM Awas Yojana, Swachh Bharat Mission which have had a direct impact on the lives of women, he said, adding that not only had his government implemented these schemes effectively but launched its own schemes. “For us, all girls are like Rani Lakshmi Bai. Awards are given to girls for showing exemplary courage and for excellence in sports. Lakhs of toilets have been constructed in the state which are a symbol of pride for women,” he said. The CM spoke about the ongoing Mission Shakti programme to create awareness about women empowerment and security. He said that the protection of their dignity, ensuring their safety and giving respect in society was the responsibility of both society and the government. For this purpose, he said, Mission Shakti is being rolled out in three phases. He explained that in the first phase the government took up the task of sensitization while in the second phase, Mission Shakti Operation will be launched. In the third phase, legal action will be taken against those who act against women while programmes will also be conducted to make women self-reliant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/womens-cell-to-come-in-350-up-tehsils-yogi/articleshow/79312359.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Better performance will earn power firm incentive||CHANDIGARH: The UT administration will give an incentive to the power distribution company, which will be finalised after the bidding process, if its performance surpasses the set target. In the proposal submitted before the Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC) for the privatisation of the UT electricity department, the administration stated, “T&D losses, collection efficiency and aggregate technical and commercial (AT&C) losses trajectory for the next five years will be fixed in the request for proposal (RFP). An incentive will be allowed to the distribution company if the actual performance surpasses the same.” Recently, the UT administration had written a letter to the JERC and submitted a roadmap for the department’s privatisation. For the project, nine private firms, including CESC Limited, Torrent Power Limited, Sterlite Power, Adani Transmission Limited, Tata Power Company Limited, GMR Generation Asset Limited, India Power Corporation Limited, DNH Power Distribution Corporation Limited and NTPC Electric Supply Limited, have bought RFP documents till date. Meanwhile, in the letter written to the JERC, the UT also submitted that they have decided to formulate a company first, which will take over the assets of the power department. It was also decided to create a trust, which will manage the pension obligations of the government employees, who will be shifted to the private company. The administration had sought the advice of the power regulatory body on the principles of the reorganisation and transaction of the electricity department. Despite protests by the UT powermen union, the UT administration, on the directions of the Union government, has started the privatisation process. The UT has appointed Pawan Kumar Sharma, executive engineer, UT electricity department, as nodal officer for all activities related to privatization, including tendering, coordination with various departments, ministry and transaction advisor. In May, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said that electricity distribution companies in union territories (UTs) would be privatised. Earlier, the UT had engaged a government-owned power finance corporation limited to unbundle the electricity department and transform it into a corporate. Meanwhile, the UT power department employees continued with their protest against the move. They have even sought help from the city residents and various political parties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/better-performance-will-earn-power-firm-incentive/articleshow/79310343.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
November 20, 2020||Dehradun||Religious fairs and festivals in border areas of Uttarakhand hit by continued closure of India-Nepal border||Nainital: The closure of the India-Nepal border for almost eight months now has affected religious festivals and fairs held in the border towns. The most prominent among the festivals that have been affected is the Purnagiri fair held in Tanakpur where estimates suggest over four lakh pilgrims from Nepal converge every year. Local residents told TOI that pilgrims from Nepal not only contribute to and make up a critical part of the local economy but also play an important role in rituals like making of ‘prasad’ for the temple and therefore, their absence has now started to affect their customs. “The visitors from Nepal stay in local guest houses and hotels and spend money while visiting the fair which contributes to the local economy,” said Bhuwan Pandey, president, Poornagiri mela committee. Harish Chandra Haisiyat, a resident of the area, added that people from across the border also play an important role in some of the rituals of the Purnagiri temple. “The Nepalese people are involved in making ‘prasad’ for the temple and their absence has affected that work as well,” Haisiyat said. The borders were expected to open on November 15, but the Nepalese government decided to not open them for another month. India and Nepal have around 20 entry points on the border of which seven are in Uttarakhand. These border points have remained closed since March 25. Meanwhile, some local contractors have also started to feel the absence of skilled masons and labourers from the neighbouring country saying this has started to cause delay in delivery of their projects. “We used to employ almost 70% of our workforce from Nepal but because of the border closure, the labourers are unable to come to India and this is causing delay in many of our projects,” said Jitin Patani, a contractor from Haldwani who takes up road construction works in Kumaon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/religious-fairs-and-festivals-in-border-areas-of-uttarakhand-hit-by-continued-closure-of-india-nepal-border/articleshow/79309222.cms||Prashant Jha
November 20, 2020||Varanasi||Madhya Pradesh cop injured in attack by fraud accused’s aides||VARANASI: A Madhya Pradesh Police team from Singrauli was attacked by the accomplices of an accused to facilitate his escape in Shivpur area on Wednesday, resulting in grievous injuries to a head constable. A team of four MP Police cops led by an inspector from Bherwa police station in Singrauli district had come to arrest a fraud case accused Ramesh Singh of Mahesh Nagar in Shivpur police station area. Singrauli cops arrested Ramesh for his involvement in duping people by giving them fake job offers after a case was lodged against him under Sections 420, 294, 506 and 34 of IPC. After the arrest, the team completed all legal formalities at Shivpur police station and left for Singrauli. However, they had reached a few hundred yards only when several accomplices of Ramesh attacked them and fled with him. When head constable DN Singh tried to stop the assailants he was brutally thrashed by them and sustained grievous injuries. Shivpur police launched a rigorous manhunt and succeeded in arresting Ramesh and his four accomplices while teams were conducting raids to nab two absconding accused. The escape bid of accused Ramesh was foiled and he was nabbed with his four accomplices within a few hours. A fresh case was registered and the five were sent to jail, said Cantt CO Abhimanyu Mangalik. An FIR was lodged against Ramesh and his six accomplices under Sections 147, 148, 149, 307, 323, 324, 504, 506, 332, 353, 224, 225, 394, 511 of IPC and 7 CLA Act, Mangalik added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/mp-cop-injured-in-attackby-fraud-accuseds-aides/articleshow/79289671.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Lucknow||‘Huge potential for growth in UP’||Lucknow: Acknowledging the huge potential of growth in UP, management consulting firm Arthur D Little’s CEO and India and South Asia Managing Partner, Barnik Chitran Maitra said several international investors were keen to come to the state, citing improvements in investment opportunities and its second position in ease of doing business ranking. Speaking at the inauguration of ADL’s office in Lucknow, the third in the country after Gurgaon and Mumbai, Maitra said the company was looking to move to a state with the right environment, political leadership and bureaucracy and found it in UP. “UP is a state of opportunities. Before setting base here, we spoke to investors, especially international investors, who said they had already invested in Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu and now, based on the buzz in the market, they saw a lot of opportunity and potential in UP,” Maitra said. We are in discussion with the government on three-four issues and are also in touch with an investor eager to invest in UP, he added. The firm has appointed former chief secretary Alok Ranjan and Mukesh Bahadur Singh, member of the executive council of the Indo-American Chamber of Commerce, Lucknow Chapter, as its senior board advisers to assist in its expansion plans in UP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/huge-potential-for-growth-in-up/articleshow/79312365.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Madurai||Soorasamharam at Tiruchendur temple to be held on seashore||Madurai: The state government on Thursday informed the Madras high court that the Soorasamharam of the Tiruchendur Murugan temple would be conducted on the seashore and the Thirukalyanam inside the premises. The court observed that since devotees would not be permitted to witness the Soorasamharam and Thirukalyanam, television channels should be permitted to live telecast the events.The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by an advocate B Ramkumar Adityan who sought a direction to conduct the Soorasamharam festival on the seashore on November 20 and Thirukalyanam inside the temple on November 21, on the occasion of the Kandha Shasti festival as per tradition at the Tiruchendur temple in Tuticorin district. He stated that the temple authorities had issued a statement stating that this year the Soorasamharam would be conducted inside the temple instead of the seashore.Additional advocate general K Chellapandian submitted that subsequently the temple authorities announced that the Soorasamharam would be conducted at the seashore as per tradition, and arrangements are being made. Taking cognizance of the submissions, a division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi observed that the steps taken by the authorities cannot be found fault with due to the spread of Covid-19. Refusing to accept the submission made by the petitioner’s counsel that Skanda Purana from Nepal was translated into Tamil, the judges observed that Lord Murugan is a Tamil god worshipped only in the southern states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/soorasamharam-at-tiruchendur-temple-to-be-held-on-seashore/articleshow/79312364.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Madurai||HC seeks reply on plea to legislate torts||Madurai: The Madras high court on Thursday sought a response from the central government on a plea which sought to bring in a comprehensive legislation on torts and state liability. A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi was hearing a PIL filed by K Pushpavanam, a law student from Madurai. Based on the recommendations of the Law Commission of India, the central government had in 1965 and 1967 introduced two Bills on ‘Government Liability in Tort’. However, neither of these bills emerged as an Act. The Supreme Court had also stressed on the need for legislation in this regard, the petitioner stated. The state should be liable for the torts committed by its employees while acting within the scope of their office. Though the 22nd LCI was constituted in February, petitioner said he had received an RTI response stating that the appointment of the chairman and members was not made yet. Hence, he moved the HC Madurai bench. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-seeks-reply-on-plea-to-legislate-torts/articleshow/79312363.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Why you must use soap over sanitiser, if possible||NEW DELHI: Use of hand sanitiser is good. But wherever possible one should wash hands with soap and water instead, skin specialists advise. According to Dr Kabir Sardana, dermatologist at Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) hospital, they have come across patients who developed whitening of skin due to overuse of sanitisers that are mostly alcohol-based. One of them was a 40-year-old man who suffered confluent lightening of skin and few skin lesions between the fingers of both hands. Dr Sardana said the patient was referred to him by a physician who suspected vitiligo – a skin disease. “The whitening of the skin was limited to his hands. It didn’t affect any other body part. So, we asked him how often he used hand sanitiser,” the RML doctor said. It was found that the patient had been regularly using an alcohol-based hand rub for the past two months during the pandemic. He had noticed itching and mild redness of the skin over the web spaces after a few days of use, but continued its application. He also gave history of frequent handwashing, sometimes with hot water, and doing wet household work without the use of moisturisers. No other potential irritants or allergens could be discerned in history. A skin biopsy from the depigmented skin confirmed absence of melanocytes, cells that produce the protective skin-darkening pigment melanin. Therefore, the doctors said, the patient was advised to stop use of the particular hand rub and use moisturiser along with daily application of steroid-based creams. After eight weeks, while the whitening of the skin did not increase, it did not decrease either, Dr Sardana said. The doctors said skin allergy and irritation due to excessive use of hand sanitiser are seen quite often but this was among the first few cases to be documented and published in a medical journal called Contact Dermatitis. Dr Surabhi Sinha, another skin specialist at RML, was the co-author of the case study. Both doctors said people should quit using a particular sanitiser if its application causes excessive irritation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/why-you-must-use-soap-over-sanitiser-if-possible/articleshow/79311480.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
November 20, 2020||Chandigarh||No more chaos: Manimajra likely to have multilevel parking||CHANDIGARH: The municipal corporation has planned a multilevel parking in Manimajra on 0.75 acres. The civic body is already running a paid parking lot at the site. The land is situated along the government school, which is a busy area. The agenda to call expression of interest (EOI) for the project will come up before the finance and contract committee (F&CC) on Friday for discussion and approval. Since the civic body is facing an acute financial crunch, it will come up on public private partnership (PPP) mode. The selected bidder will construct the project, run it for 15 years and then the MC will control it. Sources in the MC said, “At present, the civic body is running the surface parking at the location, which is an area that is thickly populated. There is no ample parking facility, which forces people to park their vehicles at unauthorized places and along the roadsides, making the place chaotic.” If the venture matures, it will be the first parking project of the MC to come up on PPP model in Chandigarh. Sources said some commercial ideas could be considered to make it financially viable. As Manimjara is a thickly-populated area, it will facilitate thousands of people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-more-chaos-manimajra-likely-to-have-multilevel-parking/articleshow/79310367.cms||Deepak Yadav
November 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 14 night shelters to guard needy against winter chill||CHANDIGARH: The Chandigarh municipal corporation is going to raise 14 temporary night shelters in different parts of the city for three months (from December to February) to provide cover to the poor from extreme cold. The engineering wing of the civic body on Thursday completed the tendering process for the project and received three bids from different agencies. The work is likely to be allotted to the most competent agency by Monday. The engineering department has estimated the project cost at Rs 1.70 crore, but in view of the competition among the bidders, the MC authorities are hopeful of awarding the contract at a lesser amount. According to the plan, these night shelters will have all the necessary facilities, besides CCTVs for round-the-clock monitoring of these shelters. Supervisory employees will also be deployed there to look after the shelters. “The locations of the night shelters have been decided keeping in mind that maximum homeless people and even others, who require these shelters, can avail the facility during the extreme cold season. The tender will be opened by Monday and the successful agency will have to complete the work before December 1, so that we can make it operational from that day itself,” an official said. Sources in the MC revealed that though these night shelters are being erected for only three months, depending on the weather conditions, the period could be extended. Although all these night shelters will have ample spaces to accommodate a good number of people, the one outside the PGI in Sector 12 will be the largest one with the capacity of over 100 people at a time. Besides, large night shelters will also come up outside the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, outside Shani Temple, Sector 19, outside Sai temple in Sector 29, at ISBT, Sector 43, at Sector 22 near Sector 22/21 rotary, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/14-night-shelters-to-guard-needy-against-winter-chill/articleshow/79310377.cms||Deepak Yadav
November 20, 2020||Madurai||SUV mows down pregnant woman, mother-in-law injured||Ramanathapuram: A pregnant woman was killed and her mother-in-law injured in a road accident near Uchipuli in Ramanathapuram district on Monday night. M Sathiya Priya, 20, suffered head injuries and died on the way to hospital while her mother-in-law Valli, 65, was undergoing treatment in a private hospital in Madurai city. After causing the accident, the vehicle did not stop and drove directly to the police station fearing attack by locals. The family in the vehicle was returning from Rameswaram temple. Uchipuli police registered a case under 304 (a) of IPC — causing death by negligence — without naming anyone. District police superintendent of police E Karthick told TOI that since a case has been registered, it is only a matter of time before the person behind the wheel is named. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/suv-mows-down-pregnant-woman-mother-in-law-injured/articleshow/79312370.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Lucknow||Another Braj attraction: Heritage city to come up near Mathura soon||LUCKNOW: To ease the pressure of tourists from Mathura-Vrindavan, the UP government has planned to create a heritage city in the Raya Urban Centre. The greenfield project will be developed in an area of 9.3 hectare and is expected to have a population of 9.7 lakh by 2031. Additionally, a logistics hub has been planned in the Tappal-Bajna Urban Centre along the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority. The two projects were approved as per the Masterplan of 2031 by the Yogi Adityanath government in 2017. Industries minister Satish Mahana said that Raya, part of the Mathura-Vrindavan region, would have high-end tourist facilities, hotels, water bodies, recreational areas, etc. “The move is aimed at decreasing pressure from areas like Mathura and showcasing the history and cultural importance of Braj,” he said. Officials said that there is a lot of pressure from tourists on Mathura even as the area does not provide high-end facilities because of which several tourists prefer staying in Delhi or NCR, travelling to Mathura for a day. The new township will have state-of-the-art facilities for all kinds of tourists, providing options of long and short stays and recreational activities. “The Braj region is famous for its association with Lord Krishna and many international religious communities have established temples and societies here. According to an estimate, about 5 crore pilgrims and tourists visit Braj annually with the peak tourist season falling between November and March. Footfall rises substantially around Holi, which is celebrated on a grand scale in the region. The government would like to promote the entire Braj circuit as a tourist-friendly area and therefore, better facilities will be developed around it,” said an official. According to a YEIDA official, the tourism development zone will tap the potential of the Braj region while overcoming the current challenges being faced. The new centre will allow for showcasing the ethos of the Braj region while easing the burden on tourist infrastructure in Mathura and Vrindavan. It will also help in overcoming lack of tourism infrastructure, especially on the east bank of the Yamuna and provide a tourist zone with provisions for both short and long duration stays, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/another-braj-attraction-heritage-city-to-come-up-near-mathura-soon/articleshow/79312371.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Delhi||HC questions Delhi government over low Covid penalty||NEW DELHI: Hours before the AAP government hiked the fine for violating mask discipline, Delhi High Court had flagged the deterrent value of Rs 500/1,000 fines when there were over two lakh violations from September to mid-November and just five arrests. “We may note the chart filed reflects that between 07.09.2020 and 16.09.2020, only five people have been arrested for violating the norms (two each in Central and East districts and one in North). While South, South-West and West districts have been seriously affected by the rise in Covid cases, the fines imposed in the said districts for failure to adhere to social distancing and wearing masks norms is proportionately very small. Even the fine imposed, i.e., Rs 500 for the first violation and Rs 1,000/- for the second is hardly a deterrent,” a bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad observed while hearing a PIL on Covid preparedness in Delhi. The bench said any action that the government takes has to act as a deterrent so that people were more cautious and adhered to the norms. But since the administration was “lax”, even people staying indoors were getting infected due to the actions of those who were not careful. The court also noted that there were 119 enforcement vehicles and 134 enforcement teams in place, but said for a population of over 2 crore and hundreds of markets, “these numbers are insufficient.” Standing counsel Satyakam then apprised the court that besides the teams created by Delhi government, it was Delhi Police that had mainly been prosecuting people for violating Covid norms. In its status report, the government told the court that multi-organisational mobile teams had been constituted to enforce the norms, and citizens found violating it were fined and a total of Rs 11.8 crore was collected between September 7 and November 16. It also told the bench that during the same period, Delhi Police realised nearly Rs 26 crore from fines. The government also submitted that the fifth phase of sero survey would not be carried out anytime soon as the capital was reeling under a third wave of Covid-19 infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-questions-delhi-govt-over-low-covid-penalty/articleshow/79311507.cms||Abhinav Garg
November 20, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Tonnes of lady’s finger dumped in river after price tanks||THENI: A video of lady’s finger in quintals being dumped into the river flowing through Veerapandi village in Theni district was circulated on social media, in which the person recording it says they were unable to sell it at the Veerapandi wholesale vegetable market. Following the incident that happened two days ago, deputy directors M Pandi from horticulture department and A Albert from agricultural marketing department visited the market and farms where the vegetables are grown on Wednesday to assess the situation. They said that the main reason for the pile up at the market was due to Diwali holidays. The price of lady's finger in the wholesale markets in Theni was Rs 5 to Rs 7 per kg on Thursday, Rs 10 at Uzhavar Santhai and Rs 12 in other markets. Horticulture officials said that they have stepped in to purchase surplus produce and transport it to districts where the demand is good. The harvest and price is expected to stabilise in a week. Lady's finger is grown on 80 to 90 hectares by nearly 600 farmers in the district. “They are mostly in small farm holdings of 10-20 cents each, while very few have one or two acres of lady's finger cultivation. But the yield has gone up manifold compared to a decade ago as farmers have switched to high yield hybrid varieties,” Pandi said. A three-month crop yielding 7 to 10 tonnes per hectare now yields 30 to 40 tonnes. It is learnt that as the price touched Rs 100 per kg, farmers made Rs 60 to Rs 70 per kg about a month ago, following which more farmers started cultivating lady's finger, increasing the area under cultivation by 50% to 130 hectares. Lady's finger starts flowering in the fifth week and is ready for the first harvest in the seventh week and continues to be harvested on alternate days till the ninetieth day. A Saturday was Diwali, the wholesale market was closed for the weekend. The plants were not harvested for three days as most labourers did not turn up for work on Friday. It resulted in more than twice the usual harvest on Monday. Farmers have no option but to pluck the old ones too, else it would affect fresh yield. Rain coupled with holiday mood after Diwali resulted in lesser turnout of traders from Kerala and Tamil Nadu. First quality segregated at farms is sold for Rs 15 to Rs 20 per kg. Officials said that it was the second quality that comes to the wholesale market. Increase in the inflow reflected in the wholesale price dropping to Rs 5 per kg. Officials said that fresh vegetables were sold whereas the old vegetables that could not be sold were dumped by traders in the river.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tonnes-of-ladys-finger-dumped-in-river-after-price-tanks/articleshow/79312369.cms||M K Ananth
November 20, 2020||Madurai||Monsoon preparedness in full swing; flood alert sounded at Manjalar dam||Madurai: The third and final flood alert was sounded at Manjalar Dam at 10.30 am on Thursday as water level touched 55ft against the full dam capacity of 57ft. Villagers living in the low lying areas on the banks of the river at Devadanapatti and Genguvarpatti in Theni district and Vathalagundu and Sivagnanapuram have been asked to move to safety.Water level in the dam was 435.32 MCFT against its full capacity of 487.35 MCFT. The entire inflow of 126 cusecs was discharged into the river. Theni district collector Pallavi M Baldev, who inspected the vulnerable and low lying areas, said that heavy rain in the catchment areas of Mullaperiyar reservoir has resulted in good inflow into the dam.Teams comprising inter disciplinary officials are monitoring 43 vulnerable areas in the district and 66 temporary facilities have been kept ready to relocate people from such areas in case of emergency. Ahead of the monsoon, 195 swimmers, 119 coracles and boats and 71 disaster management teams are kept ready in the district.Tuticorin district recorded an average rainfall of 37.6 mm. Srivaikuntam with 78 mm recorded the highest rainfall in the district, followed by Maniyachi (63 mm), Kadambur (49 mm), Kayalpattinam (46 mm), Tiruchendur (44 mm), Kayathar (43 mm) and Surangudi (42 mm).Inspecting the affected areas in Tuticorin, MP Kanimozhi accused poor planning by the ruling party as a reason for the inundation in her constituency. In Tirunelveli, the average rainfall was 23.55 mm with Palayamkottai recording 72 mm. Showers in the ghats in the previous days have led to good inflow in reservoirs in Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts.Ramanathapuram district recorded an average rainfall of 8.51 mm with Theerthandathanam recording the highest rainfall of 35 mm. Kanyakumari district recorded an average rainfall of 8.38 mm with Mylaudy recording 43.4 mm. Mild and occasional showers brought down mercury levels in Madurai. The district recorded 3.46 mm rainfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/monsoon-preparedness-in-full-swing-flood-alert-sounded-at-manjalar-dam/articleshow/79312366.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 20, 2020||Madurai||TN jawan, one more killed in Ladakh accident||Tuticorin: A 34-year-old soldier from a village near Kovilpatti in Tuticorin district was killed in an accident in Ladakh on Thursday morning. Karuppasamy of Shanmuganagar in Therku Thittankulam, who had joined the Army 14 years ago and was serving in the Ladakh area, was one of the two jawans killed in the accident within the army area. Karuppasamy had come on leave for two months and had returned for duty in February. He is survived by his wife Thamayanthi, two daughters – Kanya, 7, and Vaishnavi, 5 – and son Pradeep Raj, 1. His body will be flown to Tamil Nadu in a day or two after autopsy and a Covid-19 test. A pall of gloom descended on Therku Thittankulam following the news of his death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tn-jawan-one-more-killed-in-ladakh-accident/articleshow/79311486.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Biker dies after collision with wrongly-parked truck||PANCHKULA: A man was killed and another injured after their motorcycle rammed into a wrongly-parked truck on the highway near Barwala on Wednesday. Bakshish, 42, a resident of Billa village and eyewitness, said in his police complaint, “I was on way home in my car when I saw the accident around 1.50pm. The motorcycle ran into the truck (UP-32-Z-7560), which was parked on the highway without any indicator or signboard.” Motorcycle driver Kamal, a resident of Boonga village, and Prince of Billa, who was riding pillion, were taken to civil hospital, Sector 6. While Kamal succumbed, Prince is under treatment. Cops and families of the victims were called to the hospital. ASI Jitender Singh said the truck driver has been identified as Shiv Kumar of Uttar Pradesh.  A case has been registered under sections 283 (danger or obstruction in public way or line of navigation), 337 (whoever causes hurt to any person by doing any act so rashly or negligently as to endanger human life,) and 304-A (death caused due to negligence) of the IPC at Chandimandir police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/biker-dies-after-collision-with-wrongly-parked-truck/articleshow/79310388.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Lucknow||Drip irrigation in UP’s 30,000 villages in 2 years||LUCKNOW: In the next two years, the UP government plans another ‘green revolution’ by extending drip or micro irrigation to all villages in the state. The horticulture department, which has been tasked with the work of implementing the system, says that for the time being it has drawn up a plan to bring at least two-hectare in each village under the drip irrigation system. “There are about 30,000 villages in UP which have adopted micro irrigation practices, especially in the Bundelkhand region. The system reduces consumption of water for agricultural purposes by at least 30% and ensures better soil health and greater productivity. By the end of 2022, we are aiming to extend this system to all villages in the state,” said Manoj Singh, additional chief secretary (horticulture). Officials say that there is massive scope to adopt micro irrigation in UP, especially by the sugarcane sector. Singh said that compared to UP, Maharashtra which was using drip irrigation, had a significantly better rate of sucrose recovery than UP as it had adopted the use of sprinklers and its soil conditions were better. Compared to UP’s 10-12% recovery, Maharashtra’s is about 30%. “We are working to encourage sugarcane growers to adopt this system as it will prove to be highly beneficial for them,” he said. In India, about 8% of agricultural land is under drip irrigation, say horticulture department officials, as opposed to 65% in the US and up to 95% in Russia. Currently, the state government is providing a subsidy of 90% for adoption of micro irrigation, but due to the high subsidy the cost of implementing it remains elastic. Officials say that this may prove to be a hurdle in extending its use as the price will continue to fluctuate as per policy and change in government. The other challenge will be to encourage farmers to shift to the system from traditional means of irrigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/drip-irrigation-in-ups-30k-villages-in-2-years/articleshow/79312368.cms||Neha Lalchandani
November 20, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 80% of ICU beds to be reserved for Covid patients in private hospitals||NEW DELHI: To combat the surge in Covid-19 cases, Delhi government on Thursday directed 90 private hospitals to reserve 60% of their total bed capacity for treatment of infected individuals. The director general health services also ordered 42 private hospitals to reserve 80% of their total ICU/HDU beds for treating serious Covid patients. Private hospitals have also been asked to postpone non-critical planned surgeries for a few days so that more manpower and resources can be directed towards fighting the viral disease. Health minister Satyendar Jain said the decision would lead to an increase of 2,644 non-ICU beds and 260 ICU beds in private hospitals. The highest number of 20 ICU beds would be increased at Delhi Heart & Lung Institute and 17 at Kalra Hospital, Kirti Nagar. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said 7,461 out of 16,884 Covid beds and 446 ICU beds were currently available in government and private hospitals. The availability of ICU beds was declining fast. “After getting permission from Delhi High Court last week, we allocated around 80% of ICU beds across 32 hospitals for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. We hope that 300 more beds in private hospitals will now be available,” he added, saying Delhi government was making all efforts to augment the availability of beds. “The number of non-ICU beds in private hospitals has been increased from 50% to 60%. All non-critical planned surgeries have been postponed. For instance, if you have a tonsils operation, you can reschedule it after a few months as it is not an emergency. There are many such surgeries that can be conducted a few months later,” said Kejriwal. For the past several days, 7,000-8,000 Covid cases were being reported daily, while deaths reached 131 in a single day. Despite the surge in fresh cases, the active case load was not increasing as fast because of the high number of recoveries. On Wednesday, 6,900 patients recovered from the disease. Apart from the hospitals, there are over 8,000 beds in Covid care centres where non-critical patients are admitted. Of these, over 7,000 beds are vacant. “Delhi is soon expected to have 1,413 ICU beds. Yesterday, I said that we would be adding 663 beds in Delhi government hospitals within the next few days. The Centre has assured us an additional 750 ICU beds in central government hospitals,” said the CM. Acknowledging the role of doctors and healthcare professionals in managing the situation and terming it unparalleled in the world, Kejriwal said, “Even when the number of cases in a single day touched 8,500, our doctors and the medical fraternity did a commendable job in managing the situation. No patient was lying in the corridors of hospitals or on the roads when the disease peaked in Delhi. When we compare ourselves to advanced countries, I feel we have done much better than them. We should pat our healthcare personnel on their backs and thank them for their service.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/80-of-icu-beds-to-be-reserved-for-covid-patients-in-pvt-hosps/articleshow/79311571.cms||AlokKNMishra
November 20, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: ‘Befitting response to Congress in bypolls’||BHOPAL: BJP Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia on Thursday said that the public has given a befitting reply to Congress’s ‘bikau versus tikau’ campaign against the saffron party in the Madhya Pradesh bypolls. He said that BJP candidates who lost the bypolls will be given responsibility by the party organisation soon. “The victory belongs to the public and I salute them. Under the able leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, senior leaders J P Nadda and Amit Shah, the country will prosper and public confidence will increase. The credit of the victory also goes to chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan,” said Scindia, after reaching the state capital in the afternoon. He was given a rousing welcome by party workers and his supporters. Scindia is also likely to attend the party’s two-day workshop for master trainers and workers ahead of the civic polls in the state. On the defeat of three ministers and some MLAs, Scindia said that the matter has already been discussed. “There were efforts by some people to flare up the issue. But the matter has already been discussed with the chief minister. As far as responsibility to the leaders goes, the party organisation will take a decision and all those who have worked hard will be assigned duties as per their abilities,” Scindia said. On complaints of sabotage in the party during the by-polls, Scindia said that BJP will review and discuss the matter with the leadership. “All the issues raised by the leaders will be discussed on party forum. We will also introspect and find out the reasons behind our defeat on some seats,” he said. On cabinet reshuffle, Scindia said that it is Chouhan’s prerogative. He (Chouhan) and the party will take a decision on cabinet expansion. He also visited the RSS office of Madhya Bharat region here in the evening. He was accompanied by senior leaders Tulsiram Silawat, Govind Singh Rajput, ministers Mahendra Singh Sisodia and O P S Bhadoria. “I came here for a courtesy call. We all are social workers who are dedicated to the public,” Scindia said in response to queries on his discussion with RSS leaders. Scindia was scheduled to hold meetings with chief minister Chouhan, state chief V D Sharma, Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar and organising general secretary Suhas Bhagat on a possible rejig of the cabinet and appointments of BJP leaders in boards and corporations. The meeting was, however, postponed due to the demise of the chief minister’s father-in-law Ghanshyamdas Masani and party veteran Kailash Sarang. He also paid tributes to the departed souls. Sources said that Scindia is likely to attend the workshop for the master trainers on Friday. The training session will be held from November 25 to December 15 to educate the newcomers in the party about the saffron ideology and programmes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-gave-befitting-reply-to-congress/articleshow/79310437.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Madurai||DMK Madurai urban dist unit bifurcated||Madurai: The DMK headquarters in Chennai on Thursday announced the bifurcation of its Madurai urban district unit as Madurai urban north and south district units. According to the party, it is part of the exercise to split up various city and district units that is being carried out across the state for administrative reasons and for strengthening the party before the assembly polls. In a statement, DMK general secretary Durai Murugan said that each of the two newly-formed district units will comprise two assembly segments each. The Madurai urban north district unit will comprise Madurai north and Madurai south assembly segments. Pon Muthuramalingam will be the district in-charge for the unit. Madurai urban south district will comprise Madurai central and Madurai west assembly segments, for which G Thalapathy will be the district in-charge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dmk-madurai-urban-dist-unit-bifurcated/articleshow/79312374.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Lucknow||Drug & medical device industries to be set up||Lucknow: Highlighting the work done by UP government during the Covid-19 pandemic to promote industrial growth in the state, industries minister Satish Mahana said that new industries were being encouraged to set up in the state. “The government is focusing on industries such as bulk drug and medical device manufacturing, for which we are in touch with the Centre for development of dedicated industrial parks. Simultaneously, we are also setting up an electronics park, apparel park, handicraft park and toy park in the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (YEIDA) area. An integrated township is also planned along the proposed heritage city at Raya Urban Centre and logistics hub at Bajna Urban Centre,” Mahana said. He said that a dedicated medical device park is proposed in an area of 350 acre in YEIDA’s Sector-28 along Yamuna Expressway. An MoU has been signed with the Kalam Institute of Health Technology to prepare a detailed project report for this. Meanwhile, the state has made immense progress in allocating land for setting up industries, Mahana said. In 2020-21, industrial development authorities have allotted almost 740 acre under 1,097 plots for projects with an investment of around Rs 9,700 crore and employment generation potential of nearly 1,95,990. Out of this, YEIDA has allotted 566 acre in 871 plots for projects worth Rs 7,006 crore and employment generation of 1,71,683. An allotment of 124 plots has been made for an apparel park, 76 plots for a handicraft park, 516 plots for MSME park and 111 plots for a toy park in Sectors 29 and 33. UPSIDA has allotted nearly 52 acre in 123 plots for projects worth Rs 588 crore, followed by Noida which has allotted 92 acre in 101 plots for projects worth Rs 1,341 crore. The major investments in these areas include Rs 750 crore in a data centre by Hiranandani Group, Rs 300 crore in setting up an integrated food processing unit by Britannia Industries Ltd, Rs 750 crore in yeast manufacturing by Associated British Food Plc, Rs 200 crore in consumer electronics by Dixon Technologies, Rs 300 crore in footwear manufacturing by Von Wellex of Germany, Rs 953 crore by Surya Global Flexi Films Pvt Ltd, Rs 200 crore in software development by Maq Software of US, Rs 746 crore in grain infrastructure equipment by Ekagrata Inc of Canada, Rs 750 crore in electric vehicles by Edison Motors of South Korea and Rs 2,000 crore in wiring harness and components by Japan’s Yazaki. Mahana said that post Covid-19, seven projects with an investment of about Rs 8,500 crore have commenced commercial operations, while 19 projects with an investment of about Rs 6,400 crore have entered active implementation stage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/drug-medical-device-industries-to-be-set-up/articleshow/79312379.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Nagpur||Funds crunch hits 26 cement roads, levelling of 10 intersections||NAGPUR: The work on 26 different tar roads in the city, which were shortlisted for cement concretization works, has been hit due to Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s acute funds crunch. The NMC has withheld the floating of the work order for converting 14 tar roads (which were part of the phase-I cement road works) into cement concretization. Besides this, the NMC has also not taken up the work of 12 roads under phase-III cement road works, confirmed a senior official from the NMC’s public works department. These works were stalled for the time being due to shortage of funds. The 14 different roads under phase-I cement road project require Rs47 crore. Actually, these roads should have been completed a couple of years ago. But the private contractor Unity InfraProjects Limited failed to complete the project within the stipulated time. Later, it left the work midway not completing 14 stretches of the 26 roads across the city. Though the NMC had initiated the process of retendering of the works of 14 roads, the then municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe dumped the work in cold storage due to shortage of funds. Considering the current financial situation of the NMC, the new civic chief Radhakrishnan B has maintained the status quo of the project. Similarly, the work orders of 12 roads of the 39 different roads under Phase-III project was not allotted for the same reason, the officer said. “The NMC has also delayed the work of levelling 10 major intersections due to want of Rs45 crore,” said the officer. TOI has been highlighting the poor planning of cement road works being taken up by the NMC by excluding the levelling of intersections. At some places, tiles have been fitted on cement road approaches but there is a small trench between the tiles and the adjoining tar roads. The NMC contractors have executed the work extremely unscientifically. With this, the motorists will have to compromise with the uneven intersections which are also marred with potholes and tar roads which were not even repaired after being shortlisted for cement concretization works.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/funds-crunch-hits-26-cement-roads-levelling-of-10-intersections/articleshow/79311568.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
November 20, 2020||Pune||Pune: Multiplexes lean on return of the elusive audience soon||PUNE: Almost eight months after the state allowed the multiplexes in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad to reopen, the establishments are reporting 10-15% occupancy rate on an average every day, rough estimates from multiplexes have revealed. The government has permitted multiplexes to operate at 50% seating capacity for now. The multiplex owners said that most establishments are seeing an average of 10% footfall on a daily basis, a drastic change in comparison to the days before Covid-19. A source from the Multiplex Association Of India (MAI) said, “The one new release being screened at cinema halls has not been able to attract a high chunk of patrons. Most of the multiplexes’ major clients — students and the IT crowd — have gone back home during the pandemic. Also, fear of Covid-19 has kept many patrons off public places. A few multiplex branches that had planned to reopen decided against it after seeing the tepid customer response at multiplexes that restarted operations.” Rough estimates from MAI indicated that hardly 10 of the 31 multiplexes (including branches) have reopened in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad so far.” The source said that several multiplex chains have reopened only one property each in Pune metropolitan region, while several others are yet to reopen. “It is only around early next year that we hope to pull in more footfall, when some new movie releases are likely,” he said. Neerav Panchamia, chief operating executive of E-Square Leisure Private Limited, told TOI that despite a cap of 50% seating capacity and a new release, footfall at multiplexes are an average of 10-15% in comparison to the normal audience numbers. “Most properties are just assessing the situation before reopening. The 10-15% occupancy rate in comparison to 50% seating capacity allowed is unlikely to cover the costs of overheads incurred during operations. Of the total collections for the day, approximately 50% is the distributors’ share. The remaining 50% with such low footfalls is unlikely to cover overhead costs like air conditioning, manpower, mall rent, etc,” he said. He added that big blockbusters are needed to attract more people. “The release of big blockbusters has been pushed to 2021 and it’s only from the beginning of next year that theatres hope to attract more people,” said Panchamia. E-Square Carnival located on University Road and Hinjewadi may reopen either on Friday or Saturday. A source from a multiplex chain said, “The customer response is not encouraging in comparison to normal business days. But, given the fact that the pandemic continues and there are operational limitations, even 10-15% seat occupancy rate in a day is a good thing. Things have especially started looking up after the new movie release on November 15. But then again, customer footfall remains low because normally during this time of the year, several new movies are released. That has not happened this time due to the pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/multiplexes-lean-on-return-of-the-elusive-audience-soon/articleshow/79311529.cms||Neha Madaan
November 20, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Dialogue panel, Unicef body ink pact on jobs||NEW DELHI: The Dialogue and Development Commission (DDC) of Delhi and YuWaah, a Unicef-initiated multi-stakeholder global platform, signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) on Thursday to work together on initiatives to empower the youth with skills and job opportunities. “The two biggest challenges that the country is facing right now is joblessness and Covid-19. While the world waits for the Covid19 vaccine, the problem of joblessness is not going to be solved by a simple vaccine,” deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said during signing of the MoU at Delhi Secretariat. “To address this, we need to come together through concentrated efforts, such as the collaboration we have signed. I look forward to leveraging the expertise of YuWaah and Unicef towards making the Rozgaar Portal — which launched by Delhi government in July — a truly robust one-stop solution for young people looking for jobs,” he said. The MoU was signed by DDC vice-chairperson Jasmine Shah and Dr Yasmin Ali Haque, Unicef India representative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dialogue-panel-unicef-body-ink-pact-on-jobs/articleshow/79311526.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Madurai||Fire & rescue dept issues show-cause notices to 112 buildings||Madurai: Fire and rescue services has issued show-cause notices to 112 commercial buildings in and around Masi Streets in Madurai city after an inspection by its officials found various shortcomings in fire safety.Officials from the fire and rescue department said that at least 500 buildings were inspected by separate teams in the last one week. Director of fire and rescue department M S Jaffar Sait had instructed officials in all the districts in the state to carry out such inspections and find out buildings, which are non-compliant to fire safety standards. The drive was initiated in the wake of the recent fire accident in the city, in which two firefighters lost their lives in line of duty. The firefighters died while extinguishing fire at a textile store in Navabathkhana Street near Vilakkuthoon on November 14.K Kalyana Kumar, Madurai district fire officer, said, “The inspection is still going on. Two assistant district fire officers from other districts have also joined the operation. The show-cause notices were served on buildings lacking fire safety equipment, alternative exit and those with old and faulty electric line.”Another official said that mostly buildings, which are more than 40 years old and large shops in narrow lanes, are also being checked. They also met Madurai Corporation commissioner urging the corporation to take action against buildings that are not stable. He said, “Only corporation officials are competent to look after the stability of a structure. The unstable buildings should be brought down.”The corporation officials have also initiated an inspection to check the stability of old buildings in Masi Streets and nearby streets. Notices have been served to weak structures. So far, 25 such buildings were brought down, said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/fire-rescue-dept-issues-show-cause-notices-to-112-buildings/articleshow/79312383.cms||V Devanathan
November 20, 2020||Business||Property registration to be linked to national judicial data grid, boost ease of doing business||NEW DELHI: In a step towards bettering India's ranking on World Bank's Ease of Doing Business index, the government has decided to link property registration with the National Judicial Data Grid (NJDG). This will not only bring more transparency in land-related disputes but also help in fast-tracking commercial cases. "In pursuance of the cabinet secretary's directions, a meeting was held with representatives from eCommittee of Supreme Court, the department of land resources and others to enable linkage of property registration with National Judicial Data Grid as part of improving the ease of doing business ecosystem," the law ministry said. A working group has been constituted to come up with a detailed action plan. In a status report submitted to the cabinet secretariat, the law ministry said the first meeting (on ease of doing business) was held on October 12 and the department of legal affairs was 'bringing about simplification of forms and rules and Pre-Institution Mediation and Settlement (PIMS)'. The e-Committee of the SC held a meeting with representatives of the high courts of Delhi, Bombay, Calcutta and Karnataka to further simplify procedures. India ranked 63rd in the World Bank's ease of doing business index in 2020, up from the 130th position it held out of 190 countries in 2016. Law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad has written to all CMs to set up dedicated special courts under the Specific Relief Act. The responses were under compilation, law secretary Barun Mitra said in his letter to the cabinet secretary. To further ensure time-bound disposal of commercial cases, the government has created 42 additional posts of higher judicial services in Delhi HC which will help it to set up additional dedicated commercial courts. At present, Delhi has 22 dedicated commercial courts. The government has simultaneously taken up an awareness drive among industry chambers by conducting interactive sessions on 'enforcing contract, government reforms and way forward'. The law ministry, in its previous communication to the four HCs, had asked them to ensure that no judge under their jurisdiction gave more than three adjournments in a case, particularly in commercial division of HCs so that cases were disposed of in a set time-frame. During the pandemic, the government had asked all commercial courts to make e-filing of cases mandatory. The HCs of Delhi, Bombay, Karnataka and Calcutta were asked to implement an e-filing process in all dedicated commercial courts by June 30 for Delhi and Mumbai and by September 30 for Kolkata and Karnataka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/property-registration-to-be-linked-to-national-judicial-data-grid-boost-ease-of-doing-business/articleshow/79313287.cms||Pradeep Thakur
November 20, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Man, 60, gets 10 years jail for raping three girls; victims to get Rs 5 lakh each as relief||KANYAKUMARI: A 60-year-old man who had raped three minor girls repeatedly in 2017, was sentenced to 10.5 years imprisonment by a special court for exclusive trial of cases under Pocso Act in Kanyakumari on Wednesday. Sessions judge S Ezhil Velavan in his judgement also directed the Kanyakumari district administration to give Rs 5 lakh each as compensation to the three survivors. The convict, Abdullah from Maideen Puram in Mathavalayam committed the crime from April 24 to May 24, 2017. The victims were then aged 9, 10 and 11 years, respectively. “One of the victims is the complainant’s daughter while the others are her late sister’s daughters who were under her care. The two girls studied in a free hostel and used to go home during the weekends,” investigating officer in the case, C Kanmani told TOI. Abdullah owned a small plot of four cents near the complainant’s house. The complainant worked as a cleaner in a hospital while her husband was working elsewhere. The three girls used to be alone at home when the couple went to work. Taking advantage of the situation, he befriended them by giving them chocolates, took them to an isolated place and raped them. The incident came to light when one of the girls complained of pain. Abdullah was booked under sections of the Pocso Act and arrested. The judge awarded a maximum imprisonment of 10-and-a-half-years – nine counts of the same as three counts each, as he was found guilty under sections 5(i), 5(l) and 5 (m) respectively of the Pocso Act and three counts of eight years each as he was guilty under section 4. The convictions are to be served concurrently. A compounded fine of Rs 60,000 was also slapped on Abdullah. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-60-gets-10-years-jail-for-raping-three-girls-victims-to-get-rs-5-lakh-each-as-relief/articleshow/79312385.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Lucknow||Noble Co-op Bank CEO arrested by EOW in Rs 4,000cr bike bot scam||Lucknow: The CEO of Noble Cooperative Bank Vijay Sharma was arrested by the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of UP Police in connection with the Rs 4,000-crore bike bot scam. Sharma was arrested from his residence in Greater Noida on Thursday. The EOW had taken over the case in which Sanjay Bhati, the owner of Garvit Innovators Promoters Limited (GIPL), had cheated 2.6 lakh people in March this year. Bhati was the mastermind of the scam and had launched the Ponzi scheme named ‘Bike Bot’. They would lure people to invest by promising to double their money within a year. The Enforcement Directorate had also registered a case and attached moveable and immoveable assets worth over Rs 103 crore of the company on July 20. Director general of EOW RP Singh said that Sharma was the chief executive officer of the bank floated in 2003 in four districts with eight branches. His son Govind Bharadwaj worked as legal advisor and personal secretary and Raghav Bharadwaj as deputy CEO of the bank. “In 2018, Sharma came in contact with Bijendra Singh Hooda and Bhati and opened bank accounts of their companies without any formalities such as KYC,” he said. The officer also said that the Rs 80 crore roped in by luring investors in the scheme was collected in the accounts of the bank and later the accused used it in a separate construction company called ‘White House’. The accused in connivance with Bhati also nominated their aides Shyan Arif and Vivek Singh in the bank without having any requisite qualification to make adjustments in the cash invested by GIPL. Sharma had also sanctioned a loan of Rs 2.1 crore to GIPL bending all the rules of the banking sector established by the government. The officer also said that when the investors did not get returns, they created a stir following which Sharma handed out as many as 2.6 lakh fake bank cheques to the investors. However, the issue snowballed when the cheques bounced and were found to be fake.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/noble-co-op-bank-ceo-arrested-by-eow-in-rs-4000cr-bike-bot-scam/articleshow/79312390.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 20, 2020||Pune||Plasma stock, demand dip as cases stay on lower side||PUNE: Blood plasma stock, as well as its demand, has taken a hit in Pune division over decline in Covid-19 cases, resulting in fewer donors in the past few weeks. On Wednesday, only 228 units of plasma were available in 45 blood banks across the division as against around 350 bags in October, data from the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) showed. Shankar Mosalgi, blood transfusion officer from the Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial (YCM) hospital, said from November 1 to 15, demand for plasma bags was in a single digit every day. “It is only from November 16 that the demand rose to 10-12 plasma bags daily. We do not have an ample plasma stock, so we too increased the daily collection from 2-4 units to 10-15 units now,” The YCM hospital’s blood bank is leading the division in terms of plasma collection and distribution with over 1,562 plasma units’ collection by 750 donors. Atul Kulkarni, director, Jankalyan blood bank, confirmed that due to a sharp decline in the number of positive cases, both the donors and the demand had gone down. “However, the demand started to pick up post-Diwali. We are gearing up to bring more people onboard for plasma donation now,” he said. Till Wednesday, as many as 3,232 donors had donated 6,533 units of blood plasma in Pune division. Of these, 6,274 units have already been distributed and around 31 units have been discarded due to technical reasons. Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation’s additional commissioner Santosh Patil told TOI that the administration was prepared with the plasma collection and distribution with apt database. “We have the database of the recovered patients and in almost all the cases, they give their consent for plasma donation. We call them as per requirement,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/plasma-stock-demand-dip-as-cases-stay-on-lower-side/articleshow/79311539.cms||Piyush Bhusari
November 20, 2020||Delhi||15-year-old tiger dies; Bengal tigress from Kanpur arrives||NEW DELHI: A 15-year-old Bengal tiger, who showed acute symptoms of chronic kidney disorder, died at National Zoological Park on Thursday morning. Ramesh Pandey, director, National Zoological Park, said, “A Bengal tiger named B-2 was not keeping well for the last many months and took his last breath on Thursday. B-2 was brought from Van Vihar Zoo, Bhopal, in 2014 and had completed his average lifespan. The animal was under intensive care for more than 20 days. Best possible treatment and care were given to the animal.” Postmortem of the tiger will be conducted by a panel of doctors. Meanwhile, the Delhi zoo got a six-year-old Royal Bengal tigress from Kanpur zoo for breeding through an animal exchange programme. The zoo got a Bengal tigress after six years. Barkha has been quarantined for 21 days at the zoo. “Barkha will be paired with Karan (6), a Bengal tiger, for conservation breeding,” said Pandey. The zoo also has three pairs of white tigers. Apart from a Bengal tigress, Delhi zoo has recently received five species of animals and birds from Chandigarh zoo. It will soon receive striped hyena from Jaipur zoo in exchange of hog deer and one pair each of Ostrich and Chinkaras from Chandigarh zoo. While talks are under way for the transfer of two rhinos from Patna and Guwahati zoos to pair with two female rhinos. “The total number of species in Delhi zoo has increased from 83 to 88 after a few animals and birds were exchanged or acquired from other zoos. Our target is to house at least 100 species of animals and birds here,” said Pandey. A zoo official had earlier said one of the important functions of a zoo was to ensure captive breeding of animals, especially critically endangered and endangered species.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/15-year-old-tiger-dies-bengal-tigress-from-kanpur-arrives/articleshow/79311562.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Kolkata||KMDA, West Bengal cops turn Dhakuria Lake into fortress, to keep it shut for 39 hours||KOLKATA: All 17 gates (including 10 small ones that allow one person to enter at a time) that lead to the 192-acre sprawling Rabindra Sarobar grounds and lake were barricaded and sealed late on Thursday evening ahead of the midnight shutdown to ensure that there is no violation of the court order prohibiting religious functions at the lake. “We are doing everything to ensure that the court order is followed,” Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA) CEO Antara Acharya said. Within hours of the Supreme Court’s refusal to issue an order allowing Chhath at Rabindra Sarobar, KMDA and Kolkata Police joined hands to deploy private security guards and police personnel inside as well as outside the lake premises. The gates were sealed with corrugated tin sheets. As an added precaution, the entry points were fortified with bamboo poles structures on either side of the gates. Three police patrol teams were posted in traditional trouble spots on Chhath days. Inside the Lake, police patrolled till late evening. “I am happy with the way KMDA and police were working in close coordination to safeguard the Lake. If we can avoid Chhath at Sarobar this time, Sarobar will be full of migratory birds, who have started arriving in big numbers after a gap of six years. We have shrunk their place for hatching eggs. I will be grateful to the administration for complying with the apex court order in letter and spirit,” said Sumita Banerjee, who has been relentless in her fight for Sarobar’s greenery. There was palpable excitement among regular visitors to the Lake — morning and evening walkers, sportsmen and nature lovers — who had sincerely prayed for the judiciary to champion nature over anything else. “We are keeping our fingers crossed and hoping to see the migratory birds again when the Lake reopens on Saturday evening,” said environment activist Somendra Mohan Ghosh. By early Thursday afternoon, a KMDA team had inspected every possible breach point in the long perimeter wall and plugged them with tin sheets. Two tableaus made rounds in the localities where concentration of Chhath devotees were high to reiterate the NGT order and publicize alternative arrangements for devotees. Detailed arrangements were made to ferry devotees from spots around Rabindra Sarobar to ghats of their choice. KMDA is keeping all gates of Sarobar closed till 3pm on Saturday and put up closure notices on all major gates on Thursday afternoon. Officials said two layers of barricade has been set up in all the gates of Sarobar to prevent any trespassing. In fact, people cannot even come close to the gates because of a temporary bamboo fencing being installed at a distance. “If anybody still manages to cross the temporary barricades, they will be confronted with the padlocked gates,” said a KMDA official. On stretches of the Lake where the perimeter wall’s height is low, tall tin barricades have been installed to prevent anyone from crossing over. “There are some places where the boundary wall has been damaged by cylone Amphan. Tin barricades have been put up at those places as well,” the official added. There will be strong police arrangements and KMDA from their end is also deploying all its private security guards. “There will be additional 20 women security personnel at Sarobar to accost a devotee, in case he or she manages to enter the premises,” said the officer. The authorities, however, are also keeping other emergency arrangements ready to prevent any mishap.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmda-cops-turn-dhakuria-lake-into-fortress-to-keep-it-shut-for-39-hours/articleshow/79310508.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
November 20, 2020||Lucknow||Purvanchal expressway to have emergency airstrip for Boeing||LUCKNOW: The underconstruction Purvanchal expressway will have an airstrip like the Yamuna and Agra-Lucknow expressways. Uttar Pradesh Expressway Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA) has begun construction of an emergency airstrip which will have capability to land even jumbo Boeing 747. UPEIDA has also mooted an airstrip for the Ganga expressway near Shahjahanpur and is looking for another airstrip on Bundelkhand expressway due to its proximity to Gwalior and Agra IAF airbase which handle fighter jets and cargo/refueller aircraft. UPEIDA CEO Awanish Awasthi told TOI: “The Construction of 3,300-metre-long airstrip near Kurebhar (between Faizabad-Ambedkar Nagar border) is underway. The airstrip will have capability to land even jumbo 747 who have capacity to fly with 4.39 lakh kg weight.” “There are basically three reasons for building airstrip on expressway. One, defence where military aircraft can make emergency landing or use it during war as alternative airstrip/airbase. Two, state emergency to provide air transport or support in case of flood, earthquake. Third, for medical evacuation or airlift in case of major road accident,” said Awasthi. He said Purvanchal expressway, to be known as the ‘gateway to Delhi’ for people of eastern part of UP and Bihar, will be completed on schedule. “This expressway will provide fastest and direct hassle free connectivity to the national capital,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/purvanchal-e-way-to-have-emergency-airstrip-for-boeing/articleshow/79312396.cms||Arvind Chauhan
November 20, 2020||Pune||Already following ICMR norms: Government officials||PUNE: State health officials on Thursday clarified said Maharashtra was following Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)’s guidelines on plasma use among Covid-19 patients and would continue to use it on requirement basis. The clarification comes a day after ICMR issued an advisory against indiscriminate use of plasma therapy to stated. ICMR spokesperson Dr Rajni Kant Srivastava told TOI that the advisory followed complaints of indiscriminate use and black marketing of plasma. “Besides, ICMR has not found any scientific evidence to support the efficacy of plasma therapy and both the patients as well as doctors should know when it should be given,” Dr Kant said. State nodal officer of plasma therapy Dr Mohammed Faizal said the state’s guidelines were in line with ICMR norms and FDA was keeping a check on the use of plasma in private hospitals. He said the state’s ambitious project, platina trial, would continue. “Our trial is academic and for severe patients,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/already-following-icmr-norms-govt-officials/articleshow/79311591.cms||Nisha Nambiar
November 20, 2020||Hubballi||Public shouldn’t be forced to observe Ballari bandh, says Anand Singh||BALLARI: District in-charge minister Anand Singh has warned of strict action against those who force public to observe Ballari bandh forcefully against the government’s decision to bifurcate the district. This comes in the wake of several organisations giving a call for bandh on November 26 opposing the government’s decision to form Vijayanagar district by dividing Ballari. Speaking to reporters in Hospet on Thursday, Anand Singh said: “In Democracy everyone has the right to protest and to observe bandh, but I am against forceful bandh.” “Vijayanagar district is being created for smooth administration. Government has decided to divide big districts for the smooth functioning of administration. The demand for Vijayanagar district is not new. The government has responded to the demand of the people of western taluks of Ballari district,” said Anand Singh. When asked about Ballari city MLA G Somashekhar Reddy’s opposition to the new district, Singh said the MLA is very calm on the issue, but the media is provoking him to oppose the new district. “Chief secretary of the government, principal secretary of the revenue department and other department higher officials would discuss on taluks to be included in the new Vijayanagar district and Ballari district. New district map is not yet ready yet,” he said urging people support the move. “The chief minister has, in fact, fulfilled a long pending demand of the people of this region,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/public-shouldnt-be-forced-to-observe-ballari-bandh-says-anand-singh/articleshow/79309857.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: After victory in court, greens to keep watch on lakes for next two days||KOLKATA: Green activists, birders and environment lawyers are delighted that both the Supreme Court and Calcutta High Court ruled in the favour of environment protection. But they decided to hold back celebrations and maintain a vigil over the next 36 hours before claiming victory. “We were confident that the courts would rule in favour of protecting the two lakes. This is great news for not just green activists and regular visitors to the Lake but primarily for the flora and fauna there, particularly the migratory birds that have come in large droves this year. The next day and a half are absolutely crucial in determining whether the government and its agencies can uphold the court orders or not,” said green crusader Subhas Datta, whose petition led to the NGT ban order. In the past two years, the NGT order issued in November 2017 against holding Chhath rituals at Rabindra Sarobar was blatantly flouted. Chhath revellers had trampled over KMDA’s feeble attempts at implementing the order in 2018. The following year, KMDA had tried harder and held meetings with stakeholders, including members of Bihari Samaj representing Chhath devotees, local civic councillors and police. But all of it came to naught with a handful of miscreants storming the Lake’s gates on Chhath morning. “We are keeping our fingers crossed. Let’s see how the administration reacts this year. Given that the matter has gone to the Supreme Court and high court this year, it won’t be easy to violate the orders. We are hoping the police and KMDA will secure the Lake by deploying adequate force at the gates,” said Sumita Banerjee, who has been rallying for the protection of Rabindra Sarobar. Environmental lawyers and green activists also hope the twin reversals suffered by KMDA will serve as a lesson for both the agency and the government. “Pro-environment orders usually don’t suit any government. But they don’t contest them because that is not done. Many more people were dismayed when the court ordered the shifting of the book fair from the Maidan. But the government did not go to court. Ditto when the shift happened from 2-stroke engines to 4-stroke in auto rickshaws. By deciding to go against a pro-environment order, they have actually gone against the interests of the larger population,” said Naba Datta, secretary of Sabuj Mancha that represents many green organizations and activists. High court advocate Siddhartha Mitra, who has represented many green cases pro bono, felt the KMDA should never have contested the court ruling as it was not the affected party. Pradeep Kakkar of NGO Public termed the KMDA’s move “Trumpian”. Pointing out the environment was the last priority of governments, he felt the twin rulings should act as a wake-up call to all political parties that the environment was a non-negotiable commodity. “Prior to the last Assembly elections, we had sent out a list of questions on the environment to leaders from different political parties. None except one bothered to reply. That has to change,” he said. Birders hope there won’t be any crowding or crackers at the Lake to shoo away migratory birds. “If the order is respected—we’ve seen the government enforce more difficult orders during Durga Puja and Kali Puja-Diwali—it will be great for the painted storks who have been at the Lake after five years and for many other species, who have arrived from far to nest and roost here,” said birder Sudip Ghosh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-victory-in-court-greens-to-keep-watch-on-lakes-for-next-two-days/articleshow/79311606.cms||Subhro Niyogi
November 20, 2020||Pune||Daily tally rises to a month’s high, toll shrinks||PUNE: The Covid-19 daily tally increased to 859 in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Thursday, its highest in almost a month, taking the region’s total case count above 3.33 lakh. PMR’s daily toll, however, came down to 12 on Thursday after rising to 23 a day before. Besides, the region’s recoveries (603)stayed below new cases even on Thursday. With this, the total recoveries in PMR rose above 3.15 lakh. Among the new cases, the PMC limits added 411, followed by the rural and cantonment areas (269) and the PCMC limits (179). The PMC and PCMC limits continued to report more new cases against the recoveries. The new cases have jumped almost by 500 in two days. On Wednesday, the region had added 722 patients, while 368 cases were recorded on Tuesday. As for recoveries, 316 patients were discharged in the PMC limits, followed by the rural and cantonment areas (204) and the PCMC limits (83). A rise in new cases pushed the active caseload to 9,665 from Wednesday’s count of 9,420, a report released by district health officer Bhagwan Pawar stated. The daily testing increased to 8,348 on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/daily-tally-rises-to-a-months-high-toll-shrinks/articleshow/79311600.cms||Sarang Dastane
November 20, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19: HC slams Delhi government, says delayed action cost many lives||NEW DELHI: Coming down heavily on the AAP government for its flip-flop in taking key decisions to control the surge in Covid-19 cases, including a cap on the number of wedding guests, Delhi High Court on Thursday said a delay of 18 days cost many lives that could have been saved. While hearing a plea on the latest surge in cases, a bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad remarked, “You (Delhi government) saw from November 1 which way the wind was blowing. But you turn turtle now because we asked you some questions. The bell should have rung loud and clear when the numbers were spiralling. What did you do from November 1 till November 11? Why did you wait 18 days to take a decision? Do you know how many lives were lost during this period? Can you explain it to those who lost their near and dear ones?” The court demanded to know why it had to “shake you out of your slumber on November 11” after the government said it had on Wednesday reduced the number of wedding guests from 200 to 50 after approval from the Centre. “It is disheartening to note that the daily number of deaths in Delhi have steadily climbed from 71 as on November 9 to 131 on November 18 with new cases having climbed up to 7,486. There is bound to be immense pressure on the health facilities, which is an equal matter of concern,” the bench observed. The bench further stated, “Delhi government should have put its house in order. You knew Delhi gets worse during this period due to the air pollution. You knew the cold wave along with the rise in air pollution would be a problem for those having breathing problems. It becomes a cocktail of death for those living in Delhi.” It added that Delhi government had anticipated in September itself that cases would rise in October-November during the festive season as it had decided to increase the number of ICU beds to cater to the expected rise in Covid-19 numbers. Yet even in such a scenario, the administration went ahead to open up marketplaces and allowed public transportation to run at full capacity. “You should be alive to the situation. In fact, you should be studying the Covid situation with a magnifying glass as Delhi has topped cities like New York and Sao Paulo in infections,” it noted, adding that even the sero survey report of that month had anticipated the increase in cases. The comments came after Delhi government claimed it was in the process of augmenting ICU beds by an additional 663 beds. Appearing for the government, senior advocate Sandeep Sethi and standing counsel Satyakam submitted that the central government had offered to pitch in with an additional 750 ICU beds, of which 250 would be available next week. While directing that the additional ICU beds be put in place by next week, the court also ordered Delhi government to publicise on its website as well as in news media the requisition of 80% ICU beds in 33 hospitals, so that people would know where to go. It also turned its attention to RT-PCR testing and found that between November 9 and 17 “just about 50% of the total tests were undertaken during this period”. “This court has time and again emphasised that the number of asymptomatic people are huge and the positivity rate has been slowly climbing up, having reached 14% as on date. Delhi government ought to have been alive to the fact that testing through RAT is not serving the purpose and the answer lies in increasing testing through RT-PCR,” the high court further noted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-slams-delhi-govt-says-delayed-action-cost-many-lives/articleshow/79311629.cms||Abhinav Garg
November 20, 2020||Madurai||MP condemns Hindi reply from Union min, insists on English||Madurai: Madurai MP Su Venkatesan has condemned a reply he got in Hindi from minister of state for home affairs Nityanand Rai and sought a reply in English. In his letter, the MP called it a violation of the provisions under the Official Languages (Use for Official Purposes of the Union) Rules, 1976. Hoping that the reply from the minister was likely to be for his request for examination centres in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry for the CRPF paramedical recruitment drive, the MP expressed shock over the same and stated that he could not understand as it was in Hindi. He requested officials of the ministry to respond to letters of MPs from Tamil Nadu in English ‘as per the existing practice’. “This is part of the phased Hindi imposition by the Union government that we have seen since last year. The first was in the second session of the Parliament when circulars were sent only in Hindi. After a strong opposition we started receiving it in Hindi and English. MPs from the ruling party were booing us when we spoke in English and asked us to speak in Hindi,” the MP told TOI. “But for one or two ministers, the rest are responding only in Hindi,” Venkatesan said. He recalled the letter written by late chief minister Jayalalithaa to the Prime Minister (in June 2014) against the use of Hindi for official communication from the Centre. The MP also cited mentions in the Officials Language Rules, 1976 with regard to the communication with non-Hindi speaking states which say whenever a letter from a parliamentarian is in English, the reply in Hindi should be accompanied by an English translation for the convenience of MPs from non-Hindi speaking areas. “The reply from the minister in Hindi without a translation in English is violation of the same,” he said and added that solemn assurances given by former prime ministers Jawaharlal Nehru (in 1963), Lal Bahadur Shastri (in 1965) and Indira Gandhi (in 1967) are honoured by the present government with the unique assurance given to Tamil Nadu and implementation of legal provisions in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mp-condemns-hindi-reply-from-union-min-insists-on-english/articleshow/79312401.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Lucknow||‘Cong behind grand alliance failure in Bihar’||Lucknow: Communist Party of India national secretary Atul Kumar Anjan has blamed Congress’s performance for the grand alliance’s failure to form the government in Bihar. “Had the Congress performed well in Bihar, the grand alliance would have been in power. But some of its leaders ruined the prospects of even the ally Left front candidates by supporting Independents,” Anjan told TOI, adding that the grand old party was suffering from ideological contradiction and confusion. The left front came up with an impressive show in Bihar, winning 16 out of 29 seats it contested. However, Congress could win just 19 out of 70 seats where it was in fray as the grand alliance constituent. Citing examples of two seats, Anjan said, in Madhubani begusarai, the CPM candidates lost their seats marginally because the Congress leaders supported local independent candidates and thus paved the way for the BJP candidates to win. “What a shame for the senior leaders of the Congress party, who were expressing their diverse views on India’s joining the (Regional Cooperation of Economic Platform) and I would greet PM Narendra Modi for rejecting the proposal to join it,” he added. He also attacked the Modi government for its ‘pro-China policies’. The CPI national secretary said that the present establishment was adopting a dual policy by allowing Chinese goods to flood the Indian market and publicly taking an anti stance. “If the country was facing any serious threat on its borders from any country, it was from China only and despite this, the Centre has failed to resolve the issues,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cong-behind-grand-alliance-failure-in-bihar/articleshow/79312402.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 20, 2020||Delhi||Lake Placid: After 5-year break, enjoy boating at Naini Lake, with mask on||NEW DELHI: Delhiites will be able to enjoy boat rides at one of the biggest lakes of the city, Naini Lake, once again. Delhi Tourism and Transportation Development Corporation (DTTDC) will start the facility in Model Town from Friday. North Delhi Municipal Corporation had handed over the site to DTTDC for operation early this week. “Due to the coronavirus pandemic, no official inauguration will take place and the facility will restart at 11 am after a soft launch. Already, 15 paddle boats have been placed here and people can enjoy boating from 11 am to 6 pm on all days of the week,” said a senior DTTDC official. Due to Covid-19 restrictions, only two people will be allowed in one boat at a time, masks will be mandatory while on the premises, visitors’ hands will be sanitised at the entry gate and a fee of Rs 130 will be charged for half an hour. “Lifeguards, jackets, etc, will be made available for safety purposes. Guards deployed there will also organise parking of vehicles outside the complex. We expect the residents’ welfare associations to co-operate and help in successful operation of the facility,” said a DTTDC official. North Corporation horticulture director Ashish Priyadarshi said that the civic agency carried out some maintenance work at the site before handing it to the Delhi tourism. “Revival of the 6.5-acre lake will help us in many ways. Operation of paddle boats will help in cleaning the lake naturally. Further, it will get revenue for us. Also, the general public will get a recreation point,” Priyadarshi said. DTTDC used to conduct boat rides at Naini Lake earlier as well, but stopped it in 2015 for some reason. Lake Area Residents Association (LARA) had then reached out to the local MP, Harsh Vardhan, with a demand to take required steps towards the cleaning of the lake and restarting the boating facility. Finally, union minister Harshvardhan intervened in the matter and visited the site in 2019. “On his direction, National Environmental Engineering Research Institute came forward to look for ways to clean the pond water. It installed floating planters on the lake last year but the project did not succeed,” said Mukesh Agarwal, general secretary of LARA. “We are thankful to deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia for showing interest and giving approval for running the boating facility again. This is the only lake in north Delhi where people can come for recreational purposes,” said Seema Agarwal, president of women wing of LARA. In the middle of the lake is a fountain, which will also be made operational from Friday. “We have assured all support to agencies in smooth operation of the much-awaited project,” said Pushpendra Goel, vice-president, LARA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lake-placid-after-5-year-break-enjoy-boating-at-naini-lake-with-mask-on/articleshow/79311622.cms||Vibha Sharma
November 20, 2020||Kochi||Winning candidates bound by deals within coalition: HC||Kochi: Candidates who win in local body elections are bound to follow any strategic or political equation, such as sharing of posts, formed within a coalition prior to the polls, said the high court. The ruling by a division bench of Chief Justice S Manikumar and Justice Shaji P Chaly came after considering an appeal by Varghese KV alias Thankachan Kanjirakkattu, a Congress leader who was the chairman of Thiruvalla municipality. The appellant had challenged his disqualification for failing to follow the coalition agreement to share the chairman seat with R Jayakumar of Congress. Advocate Joseph George represented Jayakumar at the high court. While upholding the disqualification, the division bench said in the judgment, “We have no hesitation to hold that as in the instant case if any strategic or political equation was drawn for the stability of the governance, all elected candidates owing allegiance to the respective political groups are bound to subscribe to such views, and translate it in the real spirit to sustain the coalition formed prior to the election, which is a significant facet of democracy, required to balance the activities of those in power and to make their governance citizen friendly adhering strictly to the Constitutional values.” The court pointed out that an anti-defection law was introduced in the state in 1999 prohibiting defection among members of local authorities so as to ensure continuance of the elected body, which has a fixed tenure as per the Constitution. Further, the court said, “Moreover, we are of the opinion that if a member or group of elected members of a political party takes a contrary stand from that of the political party... it is nothing short of disloyalty in contemplation of the first limb of section 3(1)(a). The moment one became disloyal, ...the inference is that he has voluntarily given up his membership.”  If there is sufficient proof of disloyalty, courts should adopt a strict approach and interpretation and should not hesitate to act, the court said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/winning-candidates-bound-by-deals-within-coalition-hc/articleshow/79309361.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Madurai||New software helps cops book hundreds without mask||Madurai: The Madurai city police have booked around 1,500 people for violating the face mask rule after they were caught using a special software installed in the existing CCTV cameras to monitor people to ensure they are adhering to the Covid-19 safety norms. The system was installed 10 days ago in the busy streets in the Vilakkuthoon and the Thilagar Thildal police limits.Madurai police commissioner Prem Anand Sinha said that 747 people were booked by the Vilakkuthoon police and 729 by the Thilagar Thildal police till November 18.The software detects people walking without masks and alerts the nearby police officer so that the person can be immediately fined.An official from Thilagar Thildal station, Kavitha said that the number of cases booked has increased due to the software. About 100 to 130 people are booked daily. Since the faces get captured, people cannot deny the charges. People, who just drop their masks to the chin are also booked.An official from technical wing of the city police said that there have not been any glitches in software so far. The system will face an issue only when network connection is slow or the internet gets disconnected, he said. They are in the process of adopting the same software to detect people without helmets and challan them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/new-software-helps-cops-book-hundreds-without-mask/articleshow/79312403.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Pune||15 Pune patients affected by rare temporary paralysis||PUNE: Neurologists in Pune have collectively recorded at least 15 cases of Guillain-Barre Syndrome (GBS) — a condition that causes temporary paralysis — among Covid-19 patients in the past seven months. This was the second highest in Maharashtra — doctors in Mumbai had detected 24 GBS cases among the Covid-infected. In Pune, two patients succumbed to the complication, aggravated by other pre-existing conditions, while the rest have survived. This is a rarely reported [one per million] neurological complication of Covid-19. Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital reported eight cases, while Jehangir hospital recorded six. Jupiter hospital’s neurologist Rajas Deshpande confirmed he saw a Covid-linked GBS patient recently. The experts said they observed GBS not only in active patients, but also among those who had recovered. An onset of weakness and fatigue post-recovery should never be dismissed, they said, and underlined the need for an extensive study to establish a link between Covid-19 and GBS, and how it differs from GBS associated with the dengue/chikungunya and swine flu virus. Deenanath Mangeshkar’s neurologist Rahul Kulkarni said there were two patterns to this complication. “Most cases were early-onset GBS, but quite a few developed GBS either on the road to recovery or post-recovery,” he said. Five of the six patients at Jehangir survived. Five had late-onset GBS, while one developed it during active infection, Jehangir hospitals’s neurologist Sandeep Borse said. “Most patients suffered from the axonal variant of GBS, which has a poor recovery rate unless diagnosed and treated early,” he said.  Acute paralysis and a loss of reflexes without sensory loss characterize the axonal variant. In its earliest stages, GBS can be difficult to diagnose — the signs and symptoms are similar to those of other neurological disorders and may vary from person to person, Kulkarni further added. Experts at Sassoon too observed it in an unspecified number of patients, while Ruby Hall Clinic, Bharati, Sahyadri, and Symbiosis hospitals said they saw none so far. City-based paediatric surgeon Dasmit Singh, who survived this complication in September, vouches for timely treatment. “The virus attacked my peripheral nervous system — I lost movement in both legs within two days. Timely treatment helped me,” Singh said. For five days at Jehangir, he was on intravenous immunoglobulin injections that prevent or block antibodies triggered by SARS-CoV-2, which can damage nerves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/15-city-patients-affected-by-rare-temporary-paralysis/articleshow/79311614.cms||Umesh Isalkar
November 20, 2020||Pune||Virus check confusion among Pune district teachers||PUNE: Utter confusion prevailed among teachers across the city who do not know which Covid-19 test they should be taking before schools reopen for senior students on Monday. “We are not sure if an antibody test is required or RT-PCR test, and how often,” Meenakshi Kadam, a teacher at a private school in the city said. Teachers in Pune district from aided and unaided schools said they did not know where to get tested, if schools would do them, if they were paid or free. District vice-president of the association of teaching staff Prasanna Kotulkar said, “ Those teachers who voluntarily went to the testing centres were told that it was fine to not get tested if they did not have any symptoms,” he added. President of the headmasters’ association in Pune, Harishchandra Gaikwad, said teachers and school managements are waiting to know where to go and who will pay for the tests. Shivaji Daundkar, PMC education officer, said a list of testing centres and contact number of the incharge has been sent to all education officers, deputy director, secondary education officer at Pune zilla parishad. “The testing will start from Friday for PMC school teachers,” he added. Secondary education officer at Pune zilla parishad, Ganpat More, said they have issued instructions to block development officers and taluka heads. “The process will gain momentum from Friday. The teachers must go to the nearest government testing centre and submit their swabs at no cost after showing their school identification," he added||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/virus-check-confusion-among-pune-dist-teachers/articleshow/79311628.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
November 20, 2020||Ludhiana||Hero Motors eyeing Rs 1000 crore revenue by financial year 2022||LUDHIANA: Riding on a strong global demand wave for bicycles, e-bikes and automotive components, leading bicycle and component manufacturer Hero Motors Company (HMC) group is set to cross Rs 1,000 crore in international revenue by financial year (FY) 22. The group has set a target for further trebling this figure by FY-24, banking on high growth in the European and American markets. Pankaj M Munjal, chairman and MD of HMC said “Our vertical integration strategy has created international outposts for sales, marketing and R&D over the past few years through strategic acquisitions such as Insync Bikes in the UK and HNF GmbH in Germany, which is now bearing fruits. Simultaneously, we have built up additional capacities and capabilities to manufacture global quality bicycles and e-bikes in India. The international back-end is now being integrated with Indian factories to shift this manufacturing to India, which was traditionally outsourced to China, Taiwan, Cambodia, Eastern Europe, etc. Banking on this futuristic strategy and a global surge in demand, we are expected to cross Rs 1,000 crore in international revenue by FY 2022,” Munjal added “Having gained a strong international footprint and having integrated it with our manufacturing units in India, we have now set sights on a 3-year roadmap of trebling our international revenue by FY24. We are highly positive about the next round of high growth that is expected from the European, British and American markets. Our group’s Indian manufacturing capacity is set to receive a major boost with the opening of the new international cycle valley plant in Punjab. Our company is set to add a capacity of 4 million units per annum to the current 6 million units through the cycle valley project. The additional capacity will further help us fulfil the growing global demand for bicycles, e-bikes and automotive components.” Meanwhile Hero also is doing good in the automotive components sector as well, according to a spokesperson of the company , “On the automotive front as well, the company has witnessed steady growth, with its components manufacturing also contributing significantly to its international business. The group’s gears, transmission and bike drive train business has steadily built itself by adding key automotive OEMs as its customers. The Group has a robust projects RFQ pipeline of over USD 1 billion spread over the next 8 years. Going forward, the HMC Group is looking at further augmenting its R&D and Business Development activities in European Union in addition to its existing Joint Venture with Hewland Engineering, which is a transmission and hybrid drives supplier to formula racing and high-end cars”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/hero-motors-eyeing-rs-1000cr-rev-by-fy-2022/articleshow/79310520.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Nagpur||Pollsters predict close fight between Cong & BJP in grad contituency polls||NAGPUR: With Shikshak Bharti extending support to Congress candidate Abhijit Wanjari, pollsters backed by the party are predicting a tough contest with the BJP for graduates’ constituency polls for the Nagpur division. It wouldn’t be a cakewalk for the saffron party unlike previous polls. According to them, Wanjari would have an advantage this time in comparison to previous polls as he had managed to get all warring Congress factions together. Earlier, it wasn’t the case with internal feuds being a hallmark in the grand old party. Another factor that would be benefit him is Shiv Sena’s support. Till 2014, Sena votes used to be with the BJP as it was the part of saffron alliance that broke after over two-and-a-half decades last year. The most important factor is entire new list of voters which would actually decide the fate of the new MLC. On other hand, BJP’s Sandip Joshi is banking on his popularity of being a mayor, besides being a four-time corporator. The support of two city-based heavyweights from the BJP — Union minister Nitin Gadkari and leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis — would provide a big advantage to him. The backing of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) cadre may tilt the balance in his favour. Additionally, he will also get support from four BJP MLAs and MLC’s, including former mayor Pravin Datke, pollsters said. Baban Taywade, who fought the 2008 and 2014 graduate constituency elections on Congress ticket, said Wanjari may topple BJP’s apple cart this time as he was working since the last couple of years. In 2008, Taywade lost to Gadkari while in 2014, BJP’s Anil Sole defeated him. “Besides Congress and NCP, now even Sena would be supporting Wanjari. This time, all Congress leaders and activists are working unitedly for him. Wanjari had made extensive contacts and registration since the last one-and-a-half years. On other hand, the BJP’s strength is depleted due to confusion among its own cadres till recently regarding name of candidate. Sole had also worked hard and made many new registrations,” he said. Taywade said in 2014, Kishor Gajbiye contested on BSP’s ticket and secured about 19,000 votes while he polled 22,000 votes. “Our combined tally was more than Sole’s votes. This time, Gajbhiye and me are also supporting Wanjari,” he said. Disagreeing with him, BJP’s election in-charge Chandrashekhar Bawankule said their party’s strength was always its dedicated cadre. “We always rely on planning and organization, which is our forte. We’ve made a maximum of registrations, about 70% of total which would be our advantage. Moreover, a big strength of Sangh cadres would benefit the party.” The former guardian minister added that voters were already disappointed with the MVA government’s step motherly attitude towards Vidarbha. “The MVA government has completely ignored the plight of farmers and flood-hit people in the region. They’ve taken a complete U-turn on reducing power bills for which the BJP is planning to launch a state-wide agitation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pollsters-predict-close-fight-between-cong-bjp-in-grad-contituency-polls/articleshow/79311626.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
November 20, 2020||Madurai||NHAI to revive waterbodies along elevated highway||Madurai: The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), which is executing the Madurai-Natham Road Elevated Corridor project, is in the process of reviving four waterbodies to improve the aesthetics of the highway. Officials said that it was part of the project proposed at a cost of Rs 694 crore. The tanks - Naganakulam, Krishnankovil Teppakulam, Oomachikulam and Karuppan Oorani - will be revived by strengthening the bunds, cleaning and beautifying them. “The beautified waterbodies will have stone pitching, children play area and garden. There will be walkways for people from nearby areas to go on walks. The overall ambience of the area will be improved once the work is finished. Residents can spend some quality time with their family and children in the waterbodies, which will turn into mini parks. This will also address the issue of lack of parks,” an official with the NHAI said. “Work on the revival has begun and expected to be completed in six months. By the time the entire project is completed between May and September 2021, the beautified waterbodies would also be ready. The project was initially planned to be completed in December 2020, but lockdown has delayed the work,” he added. The work will not only enhance the beauty, but also help the waterbodies to hold more water, which will benefit the residents. “At a time when water level is receding in borewells and causing concern, it is important to concentrate on water harvesting. People will be urged to take care of the waterbodies from vandals,” another official said. Meanwhile, work on installing the three-dimensional statues of goddess Meenakshi and lord Kallalagar on the two sides of the pillars supporting the highway corridor and painting of pictures depicting the culture and rich historical past on the other sides, has been expedited. There are around 180 square-shaped pillars along the 7.3km elevated highway, an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/nhai-to-revive-waterbodies-along-elevated-highway/articleshow/79312409.cms||V Devanathan
November 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Govt support to poor in Punjab inadequate: Study||CHANDIGARH: A study conducted in three districts of Punjab — Bathinda, Sangrur and Faridkot — has concluded that the state support to the poor and vulnerable during the Covid-19 was inadequate and ridden by delays and insufficient ration with leakages. The research carried out by assistant professor Baldev Singh Shergill of Punjabi University Guru Kashi campus at Talwandi Sabo found that the state did not provide ration during the first month of lockdown. Whereas the main objective of the public distribution system (PDS) had been to provide ration during scarcity, control private trade, maintain stable prices and improve the wellbeing of the poor by provision of basic food and other essential commodities at reasonable prices. The study, conducted as part of the policy series by the Punjabi University’s Centre for Development Economics and Innovation Studies, highlighted that the poor and vulnerable section of society had faced huge suffering in terms of food, shelter and clothing and public social services comprising safe drinking water, health and education during the early days of the pandemic. Whereas it says that there is no dearth of food availability in the context of buffer stocks at the national level, but it was a case of distributional injustice because of which the poor died due to lack of food. Policy change required Keeping in mind the basic human needs of the marginalised and vulnerable sections of the society, the study finds that the prevailing economic development processes are inadequate to fulfil such needs. “In an emergency situation, there is a need to develop a local food management system which particularly focuses on storage facilities at the block level in the state under local control in the public distribution system. During the crisis, the local public distribution system should be universalised. A striking feature of the functioning of PDS is the diversity across states with Kerala having the most effective and extensive system both in terms of coverage or participation and quantity of food grain distributed,” says the study.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/govt-support-to-poor-in-pb-inadequate-study/articleshow/79311630.cms||Sanjeev Verma
November 20, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: 15-year-old boy taking selfie atop train electrocuted||TIRUNELVELI: A 15-year-old boy was electrocuted when he tried to take a selfie standing atop a locomotive at Tirunelveli Junction railway station on Thursday. The deceased has been identified as M Ganeshwar of Thalaiyuthu in Tirunelveli. His father, Maheswhwaran, is a quality inspector with the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation (TNCSC). Maheshwaran took the boy with him to the junction and was at work. The teenager moved on platform no. 4, which is close to the goods yard, taking photos with his mobile. A railway official said that the boy climbed the locomotive of a goods train and tried to take a selfie, unmindful of the 25,000 volts power line above. The boy, who came in contact with the power line, was electrocuted and fell on the platform. The burnt body was taken to the government Tirunelveli Medical College and Hospital for postmortem. Railway officials said he was not noticed climbing the engine as there was no regular movement of people on platform no. 4. They recalled warnings from the railways that people should refrain from climbing locomotives and coaches and taking photos standing on tracks or close to them, which is a punishable offence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/15-yr-old-boy-taking-selfie-atop-train-electrocuted/articleshow/79312405.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Dehradun||Migrants from Bihar & Purvanchal protest Chhat Puja ban on Ganga riverbanks||HARIDWAR: Migrants from Bihar and UP’s Purvanchal are unhappy with the Uttarakhand government’s decision, banning Chhat Puja celebrations on the Ganga riverbanks in Haridwar and Rishikesh, for fear of Covid-19 spread. They have formally requested the government to review its decision, and to withdraw the order banning Chhat Puja in public. Vikas Kumar, president of Bhojpuri Samaj Kalyan Samiti, told TOI, “Chhat Puja is the main festival of people from Purvanchal, and offering prayers on riverbanks is integral to the rituals. But the government has banned performing puja along the Ganga in Haridwar and Rishikesh, where large number of people from Bihar and Purvanchal live. This is a setback for the community. We’re unhappy with the decision. The government should withdraw the prohibition order.” Meanwhile, the district administration has taken preventive steps and asked police teams to implement the order and other Covid-19 guidelines along the riverbanks. SSP Senthil Avoodai Krishna Raj S told TOI, “We’ve deployed sufficient police force along the river to implement the order. Action will be taken accordingly. We’re also raising awareness among locals regarding the guidelines.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/migrants-from-bihar-purvanchal-protest-chhat-puja-ban-on-ganga-riverbanks/articleshow/79310529.cms||MS Nawaz
November 20, 2020||Madurai||Awareness programmes mark World Toilet Day||Cleared/155 Words Tuticorin: More than 100 women, including those working in the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee scheme and women self-help groups participated in the World Toilet Day awareness programme organised at Iluppaiyurani village by the Tuticorin district clean India movement and Kovilpatti JCI, on Thursday. Activist P Muthumurugan, who organised the event elaborated the importance of not defecating in the open and how use of toilets is not only safe for women but also protects them from contracting diseases. He aslo advised them to use public toilets only in the absence of toilets in their houses. The women took a pledge to use only toilets and against open defecation. Flyers and posters were given to the participants to create awareness in the villages. A similar awareness programme was organised at Koosalipatti village. A signature campaign was organised by Kovilpatti municipality and Rotary Club at Anna Bus Stand in Kovilpatti town to mark the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/awareness-programmes-mark-world-toilet-day/articleshow/79312419.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Lucknow||Pocso court defers hearing on CBI plea for JE’s custody||Lucknow: A Pocso court in Banda on Thursday deferred the hearing on CBI’s plea for custody of a junior engineer (JE) accused of sexually exploiting children to November 24. Additional district government counsel (Criminal) in Banda, Manoj Dixit told TOI that the court extended the judicial custody of accused JE Ram Bhawan to November 30. Dixit said that the court has deferred the hearing because some documents related to the case diary were not available. Dixit said that CBI has found 65 videos and 610 photos of children being exploited from the JE’s house in Kharaunch area in Banda, around 50 km from the irrigation department office in Karwi police station area of Chitrakoot. Earlier on Wednesday the court had deferred the hearing by a day. Defence counsel Anurag Singh Patel told TOI that he had sought a day’s time for the case because CBI had not shared with him the papers pertaining to the case. Meanwhile, sources in the CBI probing the case disclosed that the JE used to lure underprivileged children to his rented house for playing video games and thereafter exploited them. Then he offered them sweets, toffees and cash asking them to visit again and to keep it a secret. Sources said that details of 12 children who were allegedly exploited by the accused have been collected and will be produced before the court. The 40-year-old junior engineerwas arrested on Tuesday by the CBI for sexually exploiting 50 children and peddling videos and photographs on the dark web to paedophiles worldwide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pocso-court-defers-hearing-on-cbi-plea-for-jes-custody/articleshow/79312413.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 20, 2020||Lucknow||Ayodhya cheers Rajasthan nod to lift stone mining curbs||AYODHYA: The Congress-led Rajasthan government’s decision to denotify a portion of Bharatpur’s Band Baretha wildlife sanctuary to clear legal hurdles for mining pink sandstone has triggered cheer in Ayodhya, where supply of the unique pink-shaded stones is vital for construction of the Ram temple. Thousands of tonnes of pink sandstone mined in Bharatpur’s Bansi Paharpur have been sourced for the temple since its ‘shilanyas’ in 1989, but at least 2 lakh cubic feet stones are still needed to complete construction, temple architect Anubhai Sompura told TOI. With the Dholpur variant being no match for the pink standstone, there were concerns in the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) brass that Bharatpur supply could dry up after the mining ban. Over 1 lakh cubic feet of this stone has already been sculpted or stockpiled in the VHP’s Ram Mandir Nirmaan Karyashala over three decades. According to sources, sandstone mining was stopped four years ago, but the pink stone continued to be sold through illegal channels, which was choked by the Bharatpur administration in September when more than 25 trucks stashed with pink stones were seized. Sources in Ram Mandir Trust said, the Rajasthan government asked the state mining department to denotify the Bansi Paharpur block in October. Talking to TOI, Kameshwar Chaupal, trustee of Ram Mandir Trust, said, “The Rajasthan government has taken positive steps to ensure supply of pink stones for construction of temple. The custodian of minerals is the Union government, which too has acted to remove technical hitches under Forest and Wildlife Act.” Talking to TOI, Triloki Nath Pandey, senior VHP leader and decree holder of Ramjanmabhoomi, said, “the Rajasthan government never put hurdles in supply of sandstone and it’s now removing technical problems by taking steps to denotify the block. There has been cooperation from all past governments, including those of Mayawati, Mulayam Singh Yadav and Akhilesh Yadav for uninterrupted supply of building material for the Ram temple.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ayodhya-cheers-raj-nod-to-lift-stone-mining-curbs/articleshow/79312854.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
November 20, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Doctor booked for endangering patient’s life||LUDHIANA: Jamalpur police has booked a doctor for allegedly endangering life of a patient, gunman of district president of the Congress, after he caught an infection allegedly after she injected him with a vaccine. The accused has been identified as Dr Simranpreet Kaur, who works as a doctor at a hospital in Bhamian Khurd. The complainant, Ram Chander, in his complainant said that he was posted as gunman to Ashwani Kumar Sharma, president of PPCC (I) Ludhiana district, and he had got medical treatment from the hospital under the supervision of the accused. He added that he was admitted in the hospital on May 17, and after the medical treatment the accused injected the vaccine. The complainant told the cops that the place where the vaccine was injected had infection and after that he had to get himself operated from another hospital. He added that he had filed an application with the Jamalpur police station but the police did not take any action against the accused. The police later booked the accused under Sections 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the IPC. Police officials said that the accused has not been arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/doc-booked-for-endangering-patients-life/articleshow/79310532.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Kolkata||4,500 policemen to be on duty at 92 Kolkata ghats||KOLKATA: Desperate to avoid last year’s mistakes, Kolkata Police went on an overdrive on Thursday evening to ensure all court rulings are followed when Chhath festivities begin on Friday. Lalbazar has decided to deploy 4,500 footsoldiers at 92 different ghats. But most importantly, almost one-third of this force will be used to keep revellers away from Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar. Local cops in south Kolkata have been tasked to be present at the neighbourhoods — from where mini trucks leave — and direct them to local water bodies and request devotees to avoid Rabindra Sarobar. Similarly, traffic cops deployed around Lake will keep diverting vehicles from afternoon. “We are planning an elaborate arrangement keeping in mind the court orders,” said joint CP (headquarters) Subhankar Sinha Sarkar. At least three DCPs, along with six to nine ACPs and 12 inspectors, will be deployed in the Lake area. “We have decided to fly drones and use backpacks that will allow live feeds. The situation will be constantly monitored from Lalbazar. The deployment figures are being worked out but at least four police stations — Rabindra Sarobar, Lake, Tollygunge and Charu Market — will play a major role in access control. All the senior officers at the gates will have a list of all the alternative sites that have been created nearby and where the devotees can be diverted to,” said an officer.  Taking lessons from the last time, cops have barricaded the gates and put up tin structures in between the bamboo barricades to stop people from slipping through. The maximum attention has been given to gate 3 on the Govindpur side of Rabindra Sarobar that witnessed maximum violations last year. The entry towards the Golpark Crossing, too, has been secured. Most of the six FIRs drawn up last year were based on information from these two spots. At Subhas Sarobar, three DCPs will be posted to take care of the three core sectors — EM Bypass, Narkeldanga Main Road and Suren Sarkar Road. At least six ACPs will look after each sector. “Since Suren Sarkar Road is the most vulnerable entry point, most of our force will be positioned here. KMDA-KMC has set up eight water bodies as alternatives in the Phoolbagan-Duttabad area. All vehicles will be diverted to these spots. There will be single and double barricades at specific points here. We have already got assurance from several community members that they would be avoiding Subhas Sarobar,” said an officer. Narkeldanga and Muchipara police will be camping at local neighbourhoods to counsel citizens to celebrate at home. With both the lakes out of bounds, police expect a higher foot count at the 40 ghats — permanent and temporary ones — on the Hooghly this year. “Besides Disaster Management Group members, speedboats will be on patrol and trained divers will remain stationed at major ghats. All the devotees will be disembarked from their vehicles at a certain distance to try and maintain physical distancing. A large continent will be deployed at local ponds — mostly led by the area ACP, OC and additional OCs, said top officers at Lalbazar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/4500-policemen-to-be-on-duty-at-92-city-ghats/articleshow/79310525.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 20, 2020||Kolkata||IAF conducts familiarisation exercise at Kolkata airport||KOLKATA: Passengers travelling through Kolkata airport were in for a surprise on Thursday morning and again in the afternoon when they saw Indian Air Force (IAF) fighter jets land and take off. They were actually Hawk Advanced Jet Trainers (AJTs) normally based at Air Force Station Kalaikunda (in the east) leaving or returning from sorties. These aircraft will continue to use Kolkata airport on Friday as well, apart from Andal and four more in the eastern sector. A source in the IAF said that this is an annual exercise during which young pilots receive familiarisation with the workings at busy civil airports. The Hawk trainers are flown by those in their final stage of training before being assigned to fighter squadrons. Though primarily used for training, the AJTs can also be armed and used during combat. In October, 2019, IAF Su-30 MKIs had carried out a similar exercise in Kolkata. “IAF coordinated with the ATC at Kolkata airport to conduct their exercise without affecting scheduled commercial flights. Since the IAF planes have low fuel carrying capacity, the time slots for landing and takeoff were precise to ensure that the planes could land as they flew in. At the same time, we ensured that it was not at a busy hour. So passenger flights didn’t have to hover,” an airport official said. While one sortie over Kalaikunda (probably a bombing run at the nearby Dudhkundi range) was conducted around 11.30 am, another took place around 2.30 pm. There was no conflict with passenger flights as the ceiling for the Hawks is about 10,000 feet. This is much lower than the altitude at which passenger aircraft fly. “Our pilots get used to operating from bases they are familiar with. They are guided by fighter controllers at the tower. During War, more assets are based in a certain sector and civil airports are also used (as in 1971 when the Kolkata airport was used extensively). Our pilots need to be prepared for this. The flying at Kolkata is being handled by Air Traffic Controllers with some fighter controllers standing by for any assistance if required. This is also a good training for maintenance crew who operate out of their comfort zones,” an IAF source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/iaf-conducts-familiarisation-exercise-at-kol-airport/articleshow/79312558.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Kolkata||Roofs, balconies turn into eco-friendly Chhath zones||KOLKATA: Key functionaries of Bihari Samaj, an association representing a sizeable section of the community that celebrates Chhath, vowed to abide by the court orders and said they had no contradiction with the need to protect the environment. “It is we who campaigned about performing Chhath at home this year. We have no intention of polluting the water anywhere, be it Rabindra Sarobar or Subhas Sarobar. In fact, Chhath is a very pious and environment-friendly festival. Every ingredient used in the festival is washed at home. Women who perform Chhath go barefoot. There is no requirement to pour oil or milk or any substance in the water. All that one has to do is stand in ankle-deep water—symbolizing a vast water body—to perform Chhath rituals,” said Bihari Samaj president Mani Prasad Singh, who once again urged Chhath devotees to desist from visiting the Lake or Subhas Sarobar. Many have been performing the rituals at home for years. While some who live in stand-alone houses have been building temporary, artificial pools on terraces, many living in high-rises have been creating pools in their balconies. Some use big plastic tubs and some build pools with bricks and mortar. The idea is to see the reflection of the setting sun on Friday and the rising sun on Saturday. “We debated on the issue and decided to set up a big pool in our balcony. We cannot risk the lives of our seniors by going to the ghat,” said Amit Mishra, a businessman who lives on the 16th floor of Ideal Heights on AJC Bose Road. On the terrace of his house at Wellington, businessman Sanjay Tiwari is building a pool with bricks and mortar, so that his large family can perform the rituals there. “We need a big pool for our family of 13. We will dismantle the pool after the pujas,” Tiwari said. The puja by the water body is the most difficult part of the rituals for the vratees or those who are fasting and taking the lead in the puja on behalf of their families, said Rakesh Ranjan, legal head of a corporate house. In most cases, the senior women perform the rites. “Not taking a risk this time, we will use two gallons of Ganga water for the two days. The vratee will stay without food and water right from Friday day break, complete the puja by the pool at sunset as the rays of the setting sun reflect on the water, will continue the fast till the nextday dawn, when the Suprata Arghya puja is done again under the reflections of the rising sun,” Ranjan said. Leading by example in his area, Harendra Singh, chairperson of Dum Dum Municipality, is erecting a makeshift knee-deep water tank on the terrace of his home at Gorabazar in Dum Dum to perform the rituals. He has also invited his neighbours to perform the rituals on his terrace instead of visiting crowded water bodies, increasing the risk of contracting the novel coronavirus. “I have build a 10ftx8ft tub on the terrace which can easily be dismantled after the puja. I appeal to all residents of Dum Dum to celebrate Chhath at home this year to keep themselves and families safe from the virus,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/roofs-balconies-turn-into-eco-friendly-chhath-zones/articleshow/79311634.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
November 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana records 2,212 fresh Covid-19 cases, 20 succumb||CHANDIGARH: Haryana, on Thursday, registered 2,212 Covid-19 positive cases and 20 deaths. With this, the total number of Covid-19 positive cases in the state has reached 2,09,251 and the total number of deaths has reached 2,113. As many as 1,87,559 have been discharged after treatment and 19,579 cases are currently active. The state has a recovery rate of 89.63% and doubling rate is 62 days. A total of 30,74,194 people have been tested till date. Also, 348 persons are currently on oxygen support and 62 are on ventilator support. Gurgaon has the maximum of 36,043 cases, closely followed by Faridabad with 30,205 cases. Hisar is at number three with 11,829 cases and Sonepat at number four with 10,984 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-records-2212-fresh-covid-cases-20-succumb/articleshow/79311632.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Pune||Pune: Girl falls to death from terrace barely 2 days after 12th birthday||PUNE: A 12-year-old girl died of head injuries while her friend and school classmate survived with fractured legs after they fell through the duct area from the terrace of a five-storied building at Nadhenagar in Kalewadi around 6pm on November 16. Nandini Anil Mhetre’s death came barely two days after her family had celebrated her 12th birthday on November 14. The Wakad police said Nandini was staying with her parents and two younger siblings in a rented house while her friend, Dhanashree Kadam (12), stayed in Ganesh Vandana housing society where the accident occurred. Earlier in the day, the Mhetre family had celebrated ‘Bhaubeej’, following which Dhanashree took Nandini to her building for playing on the terrace. Assistant inspector Virendra Chavan of the Wakad police told TOI, “The two girls climbed on a wooden plank that covered the duct area on the terrace. The wooden plank, which was probably worn out, caved in under the weight of the girls and they fell on the ground floor carriage leading to the building’s gate. Nandini took the impact of the fall on her head and died of severe head injuries, while Dhanashree is recuperating at a private hospital in Akurdi.” Citing initial statements by the building residents, Chavan said, “The terrace of the building is well covered and its door is always locked. On Monday, someone had opened the door for drying clothes. The girls took the opportunity to move into the terrace for playing. Dhanashree’s younger brother too was playing with them.” Nandini’s mother, Laxmi, who works as a domestic help, said, “On Monday, Dhanashree came to our house and woke up my daughter. She then told her to come with her for cycling. I was not ready to send Nandini out, but agreed later. That was the last time I saw my daughter.” She said, “Around 7pm, someone called and told me to reach Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial hospital in Pimpri as her daughter had met with an accident. When we reached there we were told she was no more.” Nandini’s father, Anil Mhetre, who works as a plumber said, “Two days before the accident, we had celebrated Nandini’s 12th birthday.” He said Nandini was a good student and wanted to become a make-up artist. API Chavan said a case of accidental death had been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/girl-falls-to-death-from-terrace-barely-2-days-after-12th-bday/articleshow/79311640.cms||Mihir Tanksale
November 20, 2020||Pune||Pune’s night temp rises by 11 degrees in a week||PUNE: The city's night temperature has risen by almost 11 degrees C in a week's time, from 9.8 degrees C on November 12 to 20.3 degrees C on Thursday. The weather has changed so much, so suddenly, that parts of the city reported very light rains on Thursday, with partly cloudy sky conditions to continue on Friday, said IMD. Thursday's minimum was the highest night temperature recorded so far in November this year, and is expected to stay above normal for the next few days. The main reason for the shift in weather has been the wind pattern over Maharashtra, including Pune. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD, Pune, told TOI that easterly winds, which are relatively moist and warm, have been blowing from the Bay of Bengal, coming to Maharashtra via the southern peninsular India. "Upon reaching Maharashtra, these winds are changing to south easterly or east south-easterly direction. Also, northerly winds (from the north /western Himalayan region) are entering Maharashtra after passing via the Arabian Sea, changing to north-westerly /westerly direction. Thus, the state is seeing wind coming in from both these patterns, which are bringing some moisture, too. These winds are also interacting with each other, causing partly clouding and chances of very light rain in isolated parts, especially in the afternoon hours," said Kashyapi. In a day or two, the wind pattern over parts of the state, including Pune, is likely to change into more of a variable pattern, causing partly cloudy skies on Friday, followed by mainly clear skies. "Hence, we expect a marginal fall in minimum temperature around November 21,22, 23. He said that minimums may rise briefly after that once again due to a fresh western disturbance very likely to affect western Himalayan region from November 22. Usually, when a western disturbance affects the western Himalayan region, minimum temperatures rises in plains, but they fall once the system passes away.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/citys-night-temp-rises-by-11-degrees-in-a-week/articleshow/79311657.cms||Neha Madaan
November 20, 2020||Lucknow||Now, 10% of Covid patients in UP are above 60 years||LUCKNOW: From about 6% in April, the proportion of 60 plus Covid-19 patients has increased to 10% in November. Health officials stated though the proportion is smallest among all age groups, it accounts for over 45% of deaths. Stating that age related complications in the elderly increase during winters, health officials urged people to take special care of the older people at home. “The number of elderly in the state has increased steadily. Care needs to be taken of the elderly at home as about 45% of the Covid-19 deaths belong to this category,” said additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad. Experts also pointed out that it is important to take care of the elderly in the ongoing transition of season which usually comes with problems for the ‘grey generation’. Explaining the risk to the elderly, specialist in geriatric health issues, Dr Abhishek Shukla said: “The fact that most elderly suffer from at least one kind of a lifestyle disease such as diabetes, hypertension or cardiovascular condition is an undeniable fact. The change of season makes aged bodies an easier prey to infections than younger persons. This is also a time when the grey generation needs to titrate their medication to cope up with the season specific needs. Therefore, families must continue to take care of their elderly ensure sanitisation and infection control measures around them.” Meanwhile, 2,586 fresh cases were reported in the past 24 hours taking the state tally to 5.19 lakh of which 94.18% have recovered, while 7,480 have died. As on date, the number of active infections in the state is 22,797.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/now-10-of-covid-patients-in-state-are-above-60-years/articleshow/79312420.cms||Shailvee Sharda
November 20, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal CM’s land assurance for Posta traders||KOLKATA: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said state law minister Moloy Ghatak would interact with MP Sudip Bandopadhyay, minister Sashi Panja, MLA Smita Bakshi and Posta Bazar Merchants’ Association representatives to sort out the land issues so that traders can continue their business unhindered. Banerjee said the state had its own land and might seek legal recourse to end the problem. “There are some outsiders who are resorting to bullying. I have instructed police to safeguard you all. We are there for you. If you remember, when the market was closed, I, along with the Kolkata police commissioner and senior officials, came here and met you. We had ensured that work began. This is the largest wholesale market in India. Many people—several from other states, too—work here for their livelihood. Unlike others who come to you only for elections, we are there with you always,” Banerjee said. The CM did not elaborate on the land issue. KopT and the state have some pending legal cases in court, involving the rights and size of land under their respective control. One legal dispute between the KopT and the state involves an area, which is over 12 bighas, in Posta along Strand Road. The other issue is related to identifying land to build a multi-storeyed shopping arcade on state government-vested land to relocate the registered Posta traders and vendors. This proposal mooted by the chief minister herself envisaged decongesting of the trading hub and helping traders, who had been working there for decades but had no land rights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cms-land-assurance-for-posta-traders/articleshow/79311670.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Nagpur||Samant backs Shrikant Deshpande to win teachers’ constituency poll||AMRAVATI: Maharashtra higher and technical education minister Uday Samant expressed confidence about victory of Shrikant Deshpande, Mahaaghadi and Shikshak Aghadi candidate, in teachers constituency poll. Addressing a rally here on Thursday, Samant said he has seen Deshpande fight for issues concerning the teachers. “I have closely seen how he got them resolved after approaching me,” said Samant adding that Deshpande would win on the strength of his work alone. Shikshak Sena state president JM Abhyankar presided over the rally while women and child development minister Yashomati Thakur was the chief guest along with state school education minister Bachhu Kadu. Assuring 100% support of his Prahar organization, Kadu said Deshpande is a teacher of many current and former leaders. Thakur also vowed to work for the victory of Deshpande. MLC Dushyant Chaturvedi, Shiv Sena office-bearers Sunil Kharate, Rajesh Wankhade, ex-MP Anant Gudhe, ex-mayor Vilas Ingole, Rajendra Mahalle, HVPM secretary Madhuri Chendke and Dr Rajendra Gawai were on the dais.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/samant-backs-deshpande-to-win-teachers-constituency-poll/articleshow/79311728.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Madurai||3 washed away while bathing in river||Virudhunagar: Three youths from a village in Virudhunagar district were washed away while taking bath in Peyanaru river near Mamsapuram on Thursday. Police said that they were part of group of five from Kottaipatti village. As there has been increased water flow recently due to copious rains, only two of them managed to swim to safety. The incident took place at around 4.30 pm. The missing youths were identified as Palpandi, 20, Muthu Eswaran, 23, and Gopi, 25, from Kottaipatti. Their friends Sasikumar and Sathyaprakash swam back to safety. A police team from Mamsapuram police station and fire and rescue services team are searching for the missing people. Meanwhile, fake news was circulating on social media that 13 people were washed away in spate in waterfalls near Rakkachiamman temple near Rajapalayam. Virudhunagar SP P Perumal confirmed that it was a fake news and warned action against those who circulate such rumours. Police officials from various district have cautioned people not to venture into waterbodies. The water level and flow have increased in waterbodies in the southern districts, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/3-washed-away-while-bathing-in-river/articleshow/79312421.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 20, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Over 7,500 fresh cases, 98 deaths as patients struggle to find timely care||NEW DELHI: With 98 more deaths in the past 24 hours, Delhi recorded over 90 Covid fatalities in a single day for the eighth consecutive day on Thursday. The total toll in the state due to the infection has now crossed the 8,000 mark to reach 8,041. As many as 131 deaths on a single day, the maximum till date, was recorded on Wednesday. In November alone, over 1,500 people died due to the disease in Delhi. One of the reasons for increased mortality is a surge in the absolute number of infections and, therefore, the number of people suffering from severe symptoms. On Thursday, Delhi recorded 7,546 fresh cases, the highest since November 13 when 7,802 cases were reported, taking the tally to over 5.10 lakh. “Many, who can be saved, are dying due to the lack of timely intervention,” said Prakash Sinha, whose friend succumbed to Covid-19 on Thursday evening. Sinha said his friend, a 71-year-old man who lived in Rajendra Nagar in central Delhi, developed breathlessness in the afternoon, following which his family rushed him to Sir Ganga Ram Hospital. “The hospital said it didn’t have a bed available,” Sinha claimed. The patient’s wife found out there was an ICU bed available at PSRI Hospital in south Delhi. But, before they could reach there, that bed was taken. “I called several government hospitals to inquire about the availability of ICU beds even as they ran from one hospital to another. But my friend died before he could find one,” Sinha said. According to Delhi Corona App, which provides real time updates on availability of hospitals beds, 90% ICU beds with and 86% without ventilator support were currently occupied. There were no ICU beds available at Guru Teg Bahadur, Max (Shalimar Bagh and Patparganj both), Apollo, Vekateshwar, Akash, and Manipal hospitals, among others. “We are getting many requests for these beds, but there are none available,” said a senior doctor at Manipal Hospital. Delhi government and the Centre, both are working actively to add more ICU beds. To meet the increased demand for manpower, the state government has also allowed hospitals to rope in MBBS students, interns and dentists to assist the duty doctors. “A temporary lockdown is the only solution to contain the crisis. If infection continues to spread at the current pace, it may become impossible to handle serious cases. The critical care specialists are overburdened and barely managing to handle the current load,” said a senior doctor. Dr Sumit Ray, chairperson, critical care, Holy Family hospital, said, death rate due to Covid-19 has gone up in the current peak compared with the peaks witnessed in June and September. “This time around, we are seeing more seriously ill patients. Death rate is very high among people suffering from diabetes and obesity,” he said. Testing has increased, which is leading to more cases, said an official. In the past 24 hours, 62,437 people had been tested in Delhi, of which 12.1% (7,546) were Covid-positive, he added. Watch Covid-19: Delhi govt orders private hospitals to reserve 80% of ICU beds||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/over-7500-fresh-cases-98-deaths-as-patients-struggle-to-find-timely-care/articleshow/79311666.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
November 20, 2020||Shimla||Barring one, all test Covid-19 positive in Lahaul village||MANALI: All residents of Thorang village of Lahaul valley in Himachal Pradesh, barring 52-year-old Bhushan Thakur, have tested positive for Covid-19. The Lahaul-Spiti valley has become the worst affected district of the state according to their population. According to officials, Thorang village along Manali-Leh highway has just 42 residents as most people have migrated to Kullu for winter. The villagers had voluntarily decided to get checked for Covid-19 a few days back. Of the total 42 samples, 41 tested positive. “I’m staying in a separate room and have been cooking my own meals for the last four days. I was with my family members until we got to know about the test results. However, I was strict about all protocols like sanitising hands, wearing face masks and maintaining social distancing when in public areas. People should not take this disease lightly. As winter is setting in, people should take extra precaution,” said Bhushan, whose five family members, including his wife, have tested positive. According to sources, the villagers had gathered at one place during a religious programme a few days back. Social gathering is being blamed for the community transmission in the village. A large number of people in the surrounding areas have also tested positive for the disease in the last few days. Lahaul-Spiti chief medical officer Dr Palzor said his team is requesting residents to come forward to get them tested so that the spread of the virus could be controlled. “All residents of Thorang tested positive for the disease and only one person tested negative. The Covid-19 cases are increasing fast in the district for many known and unknown reasons, including changing weather and viral infections. We have also started special awareness programmes,” he said. Lahaul-Spiti has become one of the worst Covid-19 affected districts of the country in terms of population ratio. Lahaul-Spiti has a population of just 31,500 people and many of them have already migrated to other districts to spend winter months. Some 856 people have tested positive so far in the district. Mass infections in Spiti villages too have become a matter of concern. In Spiti, 39 residents of Rangrik village tested positive on October 28. Some 19 persons in the tiny Hurling village of Spiti too have tested positive. Lahaul admin stops tourist movementSurge in Covid-19 cases in Lahaul valley, after which many villages along Manali-Keylong highway turned into containment zones, has forced the district administration to restrict tourist movement to Teling nullah near the north portal of the Rohtang tunnel. Tourists were not allowed to enter Lahaul villages on Thursday and all vehicles were stopped near the tunnel. The villages beyond the tunnel have been turned into containment zones after a large number of Covid-19 cases surfaced in the recent days. “Tourists are being advised not to visit containment zone areas such as Sissu and Koksar,” Lahaul-Spiti superintendent of police Manav Verma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/barring-one-all-test-covid-19-positive-in-lahaul-village/articleshow/79311648.cms||Suresh Sharma
November 20, 2020||Chandigarh||16 coronavirus deaths, 792 cases in Punjab||CHANDIGARH: Coronavirus claimed 16 lives and infected 792 more people in Punjab on Thursday. The overall tally in the state stands at 1,44,177 while the virus has claimed the lives of 4,556 people.  Of the deaths reported in the last 24 hours, five cases were reported in Jalandhar, four in Patiala, two each in Hoshiarpur and Gurdaspur and one each in Bathinda, Patiala and Sangrur. In Mohali, 135 people tested positive, 122 in Jalandhar, 108 in Ludhiana, 71 in Patiala, 66 in Amritsar and 59 in Bathinda.  As many as 39 people were found infected in Gurdaspur, 32 each in Faridkot and Ropar, 29 in Hoshiarpur, 18 each in Muktsar and Fazilka, nine each Moga and Fatehgarh Sahib, eight each in Ferozepur, Nawanshahr and Kapurthala, four in Pathankot, three in Barnala, two in Mansa and one in Tarn Taran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/16-deaths-792-cases-in-punjab/articleshow/79311662.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Pune||Man sets van on fire over parking row||PUNE: A 50-year-old man was booked on Wednesday on the charge of setting his neighbour’s van on fire following a dispute over the parking of vehicles in Ganga Colony in Kalewadi. Police said that the owner of the car, Vasant Bhosale (58), managed to douse off the fire before it gutted the entire vehicle. “The front tyres of the van, however, were damaged,” assistant inspector of the Wakad police Virendra Chavan said. The officer said Bhosale and his neighbour had entered into a heated argument on Tuesday, during which the latter had threatened to damage Bhosale’s vehicle. “Around 2.30am on Wednesday, the sound of dogs barking woke Bhosale up. He opened his front door to check what was wrong and found that his van had been set on fire,” Chavan said. The officer said they would make an arrest after the inquiry was over. “For now, we have booked the neighbour under Section 435 (mischief by fire or explosive substance with intent to cause damage) of the IPC,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-sets-van-on-fire-over-parking-row/articleshow/79311664.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Ludhiana||VAT assessment: Businessmen warn of protest over deadline||LUDHIANA: With just a day remaining for the submission of documents for assessment of VAT cases dating back to 2013-14, a section of business community has threatened to go on a protest if the November 20 deadline is not extended till March 31, 2021. The decision was taken at a meeting at office of the Janta Nagar Small Scale Manufacturers Association (JSMA) on Thursday where businessmen wanted the state taxation department to extend the deadline. JSMA president Jaswinder Thukral said, “For seven years, the state taxation department had been sleeping. Now, it has woken up suddenly and issued notices to thousands of businessmen for assessment of their VAT cases for 2013-14. This is very shocking for us as the department has taken such steps which are totally illogical and aimed at harassing innocent businessmen.” “In these seven years, several businessmen have shut down their businesses while some are no more in this world. How can the department even think that all the businessmen would have such old records? Moreover, what is need for assessment when VAT has been abolished since 2017 and GST has come into effect.” Thukral said, “There is a huge resentment among businessmen against this diktat of state taxation department and therefore we urge chief minister Amarinder Singh to take notice of this issue and act against the officials who passed this order. We also want to warn the department that if the deadline is not deferred till March 31, 2021, we will resort to protests against the department.” Swinder Singh Hunjan, another businessman, said, “No businessman wants to break the law and want to comply with the rules and regulations. But what should one do when the department takes wrong decisions and imposes the same on the businessmen. It is not possible for every businessman to ensure compliance to these assessment notices as it will take time to collect the old record and seek the required forms from the customers with some of whom we don’t even deal anymore.” “Therefore, the department should either extend the date of compliance to these assessment notices till March 31, 2021 or else should introduce one-time settlement (OTS) scheme under which these assessment cases should be settled by paying 1 percent fees. The ball is in the court of the department now and any action to provoke us will be met with equal resistance,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/vat-assessment-bizmen-warn-of-protest-over-deadline/articleshow/79310556.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: Need to reconsider reopening of schools, says Manohar Lal Khattar||KARNAL: After over 150 students tested positive for Covid-19 in schools across Haryana, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said there is a need to rethink the decision to reopen schools. “The decision to reopen the schools was taken as the schools were shut for seven months, but now some students have got infected and the state is witnessing more cases every day. Hence, there is a need to rethink the decision on reopening of schools,” Khattar said on Thursday in Karnal, where he laid the foundation stone of the BJP office. Accompanied by Karnal MP Sanjay Bhatia, Khattar performed ‘bhoomi poojan’ to start the construction work. In his address to party workers, the CM said all the 22 districts of the state would soon have their own BJP offices - seven have been inaugurated and nine are under construction. Khattar said the office is expected to be completed within six months. When asked about the sharp increase in MBBS fee, Khattar said, “Several states have made provision of bonds. Our aim is that after pursuing MBBS, students can work in the state and provide their services to the people of the state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/khattar-need-to-reconsider-reopening-of-schools/articleshow/79311665.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Lucknow||Chhath incomplete without folk songs passed down generations||Lucknow: From Pahile Pahil Chhathi Maiya to Uga hai Suraj Dev and Kabahun Naa Chhooti Chhath, folk songs or Chhath geet hold a special mention. Passed on from generation to generation, these songs dedicated to Surya Dev (Sun God) are an indispensable part of the four-day festivities and are sung by devotees observing fast for the well-being of their sons. Learned from their mothers and grandmothers, devotees say that not only these songs are evergreen, but they also reflect the traditional values of Chhath so that the next generation understand the importance of the festival. Those staying away from home, reminisce their days when they celebrated the rituals with their families. For the past 20 years, Sunita Rai, a homemaker, has been observing the fast during Chhath Puja. While performing the rituals, she hums and recites a few lines of the old devotional songs she learned from her mother when she was a child. Now, she tries to make her two sons understand their importance. “When I was a kid, I used to accompany my grandmother and mother when they performed Chhath on the river banks and sang songs like Uga hai Suraj Dev. I was influenced by the ambience of the festival, spent most of our time near the river in a carefree manner and sang songs with the elders. My grandmother used to make us understand the meaning behind the songs. Now I try to do the same with my two sons so that they take the tradition forward,” said Rai Mridula Singh, a resident of Manasnagar, says traditional songs are evergreen. “These songs narrate the importance of the festival. Though people now try to tune into Youtube to listen to these songs during the puja, the true essence of these devotional songs lies in singing them during the rituals," said Singh. “There is a song called Domin beti soop lele which speaks about social harmony, while a few are sung by devotees telling the Sun God that they have kept a fast, despite hardships,” she added. Dedicated to corona warriors who are not able to visit their family this Chhath, Bhojpuri folk singer Malini Awasthi also released her new song titled Marbo re sugna dhanukh se on Thursday. “This song is dedicated to corona warriors, who are not able to visit their family this Chhath due to Covid crisis,” said Awasthi on her Facebook page. Most popular songs The most popular singer of these devotional songs in Bhojpuri and Maithili is Sharda Sinha (68). Sinha started her career by singing Maithili songs. In her career span, Sinha has sung 62 Chhath songs in nine albums. She was awarded Padma Bhushan in 2018 and Padma Shri in 2015. Other popular singers include Malini Awasthi, Pawan Singh, and Anuradha Paudwal. There are now several applications on Google Play store and Apple store titled Chhath songs, ‘Chhath Geet 2020’, and ‘Vrat Kathas’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/chhath-incomplete-without-folk-songs-passed-down-generations/articleshow/79312429.cms||Aditi Singh
November 20, 2020||Madurai||Army jawan from Tuticorin dies in Ladakh accident||TUTICORIN: Karuppasamy, 34, an Indian Army soldier hailing from Tuticorin, died in an accident within the army area in Ladakh on Thursday morning. According to information reaching here, another soldier also lost his life in the incident. Hailing from Shanmuganagar in Therku Thittankulam near Kovilpatti, Karuppasamy joined the force 14 years ago. Family members said he had come on leave for two months and returned in February. He is survived by wife Thamayanthi and three children, daughters Kanya (7) and Vaishnavi (5), and son Pradeep Raj (1). His body will be flown to Tamil Nadu in a day or two after autopsy. DMK president M K Stalin tweeted his condolence to the family||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/army-jawan-from-tuticorin-dies-in-ladakh-accident/articleshow/79312424.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Lucknow||CBI lodges 2 FIRs to probe UP Shia Central Waqf Board anomalies||LUCKNOW: The Central Bureau of Investigation late on Thursday evening registered two FIRs for alleged anomalies in the sale, purchase and transfer of properties by UP Shia Central Waqf Board. The state home department had sent its recommendations for a probe by the CBI in this regard to the department of personnel and training, New Delhi, on October 11, 2019.  It had also handed two FIRs lodged against former UP Shia Central Waqf Board chairman Wasim Rizvi, registered at Hazratganj (Lucknow) and Kotwali (Allahabad) police stations. On Thursday, the Lucknow unit of the CBI registered two FIRs on the basis of the FIRs lodged at Hazratganj police station on March 27, 2017 and another in Prayagraj registered in 2016. The first FIR was registered on the complaint of one Tauseeful Hasan. Hasan had alleged that despite him being the ‘mutwalli (caretaker)’ of a plot in Kanpur, he was deprived of his rights by Wasim Rizvi and his four aides -- Vijay Krishna Somani, Naresh Somani, Gulam Rizvi, Waqar Raza, who stole original documents. The CBI has booked Rizvi and the four aides for criminal breach of trust by a public servant, cheating and criminal intimidation. In the second FIR, the complainant Sudhank Mishra had accused Rizvi of illegally constructing shops at Imambara on Old GT Road in Allahabad. On the basis of Mishra’s complaints, Rizvi has been booked for criminal trespassing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cbi-lodges-2-firs-to-probe-shia-waqf-board-anomalies/articleshow/79312434.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Pune||Illegal subleasing to cost hawkers’ licence in Pune||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has planned action against around 15% of total hawkers, who have illegally subleased their establishments. The licence holders are expected to conduct trade and be present at their designated business places. However, a number of hawkers have given out their property to other people and are charging rent for the space. Such sub-leasing is considered illegal. Around 3,000 hawkers were found to have illegally rented out their hawks in a survey carried out by the PMC. The civic administration have given notices to the hawkers. If they fail to comply, their licenses would be cancelled. PMC officials carried out drives against illegal hawkers over the last couple of weeks. “Licence holders are supposed to hawk their wares but it was seen that many hawkers have not done so. Instead, they have given the allotted space on rent,” said Madhav Jagtap, head of PMC’s anti encroachment department. He added that the PMC has directed such hawkers to adhere to the norms. On failing to do so, their permits will be scrapped. According to PMC data, around 20,000 hawkers operate in the city officially. They have been allotted license for vending on the road. Around 8,000 vendors operate without a proper registration. A vendor without a proper licence must pay Rs5,000 as fine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/illegal-subleasing-to-cost-hawkers-licence/articleshow/79311735.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Delhi||As Delhi’s case load rises, many in home isolation complain of lack of follow-ups||NEW DELHI: With the number of Covid-infected rising in Delhi, Delhi government appears to be in a bit of a difficulty. An increasing number of people are complaining that the government hasn’t contacted them after testing positive. For a family of nine people in Janakpuri, the wait for the call from government departments took so long that they themselves decided on home isolation for themselves. They also got their house disinfected on their own. Rohini Sharma (28) tested positive after feeling the symptoms of infection on November 10. As a precautionary measure, she got other members of the family tested too. Between November 10 and 12 November, eight members of the returned positive tests. They couldn’t decide whether they should isolate themselves at home or get admitted to hospital. After waiting two days for the government to respond, they decided on home quarantine. “All of us had severe symptoms but the oxygen level remained above 95, so we stayed at home, taking care to have the house disinfected,” said Sharma’s cousin, Sahil Malik. “This was in contrast to what we had heard. We thought a government official would call us and a doctor would guide us on what to do. But none of us got a call from any official.” The Sharmas weren’t the only family being ignored by civic agencies. Pitampura resident Karan Singh said he and four family members tested positive but didn’t get any call from the authorities till 10 days later. “I was exasperated by the time they called and shouted at the caller, demanding to know how they justified the delay. The caller was unperturbed and assured us that we would soon get another call. That call never came,” Singh said. Singh himself made arrangements for home isolation and sanitisation for the fortnight it took for the family to test negative. A 72-year-old man, who was infected by the coronavirus along with his wife, was relying on government intervention, but didn’t get a single official call. “It’s been a week since we have tested positive and our house hasn’t even been disinfected yet,” the senior citizen said. He added, “My wife and I live alone. I am bedridden and there’s not much I can do. She had severe symptoms and couldn’t look after me. This is now how I expected the government to treat the elderly, especially those with existing ailments.” There are other problems too in the management of home Covid patients. As Kunal Kapoor of Rajouri Garden related, “My neighbours tested positive. The same evening, however, we saw them buying vegetables and then heading out on a two-wheeler. Since the system of indicating positive households with Covid posters has been discontinued, people think they can get away without disclosing their status and roam freely.” When asked to respond, a government official told TOI, “Every day we reach out to every patient in home isolation and monitor their health over telephone. If we receive any reports of gaps anywhere, we will take immediate action.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/as-delhis-case-load-rises-many-in-home-isolation-complain-of-lack-of-follow-ups/articleshow/79311775.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
November 20, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh adds 796 cases, 12 die||SHIMLA: Himachal Pradesh on Thursday reported 12 Covid-19 deaths and detected 796 fresh infections, pushing the death toll from the virus to 480 and the tally of cases so far to 32,197, of which 6,980 are active cases. With 704 patients reported cured during the day, the count of recovered patients has reached 24,706, while 23 have moved out of the state. Of the latest cases, Shimla district recorded the highest 212 cases, followed by 124 cases in Mandi and 114 new infections were detected in Kullu. Besides, Kangra district reported 95 new cases, Solan (73), Lahaul-Spiti (46), Chamba (43), Hamirpur (31), Bilaspur (25), Una (14), Sirmaur (13) and six persons were tested positive in Kinnaur district. A total of 364 patients recovered in Mandi district, Shimla (111), Kullu (64), Chamba (50), 28 each in Solan and Bilaspur, Kangra (23), Sirmaur (12), Kinnaur (11), Lahaul-Spiti (8), Una (4) and one patient was declared cured in Hamirpur district. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/himachal-adds-796-cases-12-die/articleshow/79311673.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 20, 2020||Mangaluru||Drugs worth Rs 14.7 lakh seized by Udupi police||UDUPI: Udupi police, as part of their ongoing investigation into a recent drug bust in Manipal police station limits, seized 244 grams of MDMA tables and 14-grams of hydro weed on Thursday. Based on information gleaned in the investigation and a tip off, police recovered 462 MDMA tablets and the weed of foreign origin valued at Rs 14.7 lakh, superintendent of police N Vishnuvardhan, stated adding no additional arrests were made. This is the fifth major seizure of drugs of foreign origin in the district in the last two months. SP said district police have intensified its crackdown against sale and consumption of drugs and the latest recovery is part of the same drive. Teams have been formed to trace supply routes of drugs into the district, the SP said adding that the police is working in tandem with other government agencies including the drugs controller in this endeavour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/drugs-worth-rs-14-7l-seized-by-udupi-police/articleshow/79309399.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Bareilly||Cyclist’s quest to cross tracks before approaching train costs him his life||Bareilly: An attempt to cross the railway tracks before an approaching train proved fatal to a 35-year-old man who was run over by the speeding train near roadways crossing in Shahjahanpur city on Thursday morning. The victim, Mohammed Ishtiaq, was going to his shop with packets of loaf bread when the accident took place. Ishtiaq is survived by his wife and two children.A resident of Dilajaq locality in Sadar area of Shahjahanpur, Ishtiaq used to run a daily need shop in Bajaria market. The railway crossing was closed for Archana Express, but Ishtiaq lost his patience that cost him his life, said police. Government Railway Police SHO Ajit Kumar said, “We have sent the body for autopsy and informed the family. We also spoke to witnesses, and it came to fore that it was an accident.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/cyclists-quest-to-cross-tracks-before-approaching-train-costs-him-his-life/articleshow/79307376.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 20, 2020||Pune||PCMC bans Chhath Puja in public places & rivers||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar in his latest order has instructed that Chhath Puja on Friday will not be allowed in public places or near water bodies in the civic limits. The possibility of the nCoV infection spread is high and the decision to ban the public celebration has been enforced, he said. Every year, the celebrations are grand and generally take place near the ghats of Indrayani and Pavana rivers in Pimpri Chinchwad, along with several other river banks with an attendance of over 50,000 people. People have been advised to celebrate Chhath Puja in their homes with social distancing. Hardikar has said those flouting the orders will be liable for action. Amit Gupta, founder of Akhil Uttar Bhartiya Mahasangh in Pimpri Chinchwad, said around 2-3 lakh people from UP, Bihar, and Jharkhand live in Pimpri Chinchwad civic limits. Many have gone back to their native places for Diwali celebration, hence about 50,000 people would have celebrated the Chhath festival. They have appealed to the devotees to celebrate at home. “A majority of the people live in rented homes. Hence, we had requested the civic body to let at least the women follow their rituals near water bodies. This permission was denied,” he said. Additional commissioner of Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation, Santosh Patil, said the possibility of the spread of infection cannot be ruled out and hence devotees have been told to celebrate the festival at home. “We are keeping a close eye on the migrants returning as well the daily positive patients for the possibility of a second wave of the infection,” he said.  Authorities are concerned that cases, after a decrease, may rise after Diwali. Large gatherings are known superspreaders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-bans-chhath-puja-in-public-places-rivers/articleshow/79311679.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Ludhiana||NGT directs PPCB to seize bank guarantees of Zirakpur, Banur, Nayagaon MCs||MOHALI: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) to seize bank guarantees of Zirakpur, Banur and Nayagaon municipal councils M(C). The committee directed the PPCB to encash Rs 2 lakh bank guarantee of each of the three MCs for failing to collect and manage door-to-door garbage within the time limit of three months. The NGT has also issued a warning to Mohali municipal corporation (MC) of imposing a similar penalty if it fails to meet the deadline of January 31, 2021, for making door-to-door garbage segregation a success and enforcing solid waste management system. These MCs were to collect 100% garbage and file a report with the NGT. The orders were issued by an NGT bench headed by chairman Justice Jasbir Singh as the NGT’s monitoring committee to review solid waste management in Mohali and other MCs, barring Kurali, got a rap for not meeting the deadlines to manage the garbage menace under their jurisdictions. All MCs had been provided the required machines and funds by the government but only Kurali MC had started to treat waste, observed the monitoring committee. The order reads, “The committee has directed the PPCB to encash bank guarantees of various councils under the district for missing the deadlines. Encash Rs 2 lakh bank guarantees of Banur and Zirakpur MCs because both failed to collect and manage door-to-door garbage within the time limit of three months. These MCs were to collect 100% garbage, but they could not meet this promise. Also, encash Rs 2 lakh bank guarantee of Nayagaon MC for not constructing compost pits. This council has been asked to deposit Rs 1 lakh more bank guarantee.” The representatives of Mohali MC received a rapping for not meeting the deadline and have been given warning if it does not complete the deadline of January 31, 2021, for door-to-door garbage collection and enforcing the solid waste management system, then it will have to face a similar penalty. However, the Lalru MC has been given the deadline of December 31 to remove the garbage dumps and has been directed to deposit Rs 1 lakh as bank guarantee. Action against panchayat officers The NGT bench also directed the panchayats falling outside the MC limits in Mohali district to get all drains cleaned and garbage dumps removed and submit the report to the additional deputy commissioner (ADC), Mohali. The warnings have been issued to the administrative officers or panchayat officers that if they fail to perform their duties religiously in getting the area under their jurisdiction cleared of garbage dumps, their inability will be recorded in their annual confidential report (ACR). All MCs in this regard will have to submit to the monitoring committee after getting the garbage removed from the banks of all drains and rivers falling in their respective jurisdiction. The orders have been given to all MCs to start treating garbage at the garbage dump sites by January 31, 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ngt-directs-ppcb-to-seize-bank-guarantees-of-zirakpur-banur-nayagaon-mcs/articleshow/79310568.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
November 20, 2020||Pune||Helicopter travel enquiries double||PUNE: The enquires for helicopter transfers between Pune and Mumbai have almost doubled in the unlock months. “After the Covid-19 outbreak and subsequent lockdown, we have seen a 200% rise in charter enquiries, which is indicative of the fact that consumers have become conscious of hygiene and safety. More people are looking at faster travel options with reduced touchpoints and less crowds,” said Amit Dutta, managing director of BLADE India and managing partner of Hunch Ventures. BLADE India, the urban air mobility firm operating from a helipad in Kharadi, allows Puneites to travel to and from various locations within Maharashtra within minutes. “Since re-launching our by-the-seat services this month, we have seen over 125% increase in inquiries for travel between Mumbai-Pune sector. Currently operational in Maharashtra (Mumbai – Pune – Shirdi), we have witnessed a fabulous response from the business, leisure and pilgrimage segment. The demand between Pune - Mumbai has picked up post lockdown,” Dutta said. Talking about why they chose to travel by helicopter instead of taking a commercial flight, regular flyer Dhaval Shah, director of Jairaj Group, said, “For me, travelling via this mode is for quicker reach to the destination and full and optimal utilisation of my business hours.” Nikhil Thakurdas, CEO of Odyssey Tours and Travels, said, “I had to attend a half day conference in Mumbai and chose to travel via helicopter as it was a convenient option for a day trip.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/helicopter-travel-enquiries-double/articleshow/79311707.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: 14,000 guest lecturers to receive pending honorarium||MYSURU: In a big relief to 14,447 guest lecturers serving in the government first grade colleges in Karnataka, the state higher education department has decided to release their honorarium for the Covid-19 lockdown period between March 23 and August 31. The guest lecturers are appointed for a period of ten months at the government first grade colleges. For two months, their services are availed for valuation and other works. However, this year they lost income as examination and valuation works were not carried out due to Covid-19 fear and lockdown rules. Although the guest lecturers were fighting for only two months’ honorarium, the government decided to sanction the amount for four additional months. The guest lecturers who have completed post-graduation are paid Rs11,000 monthly honorarium. Those who have completed PhD, qualified KSET or NET are paid Rs13,000. The lecturers had been holding a statewide protest demanding honorarium for the lockdown period when they were engaged in online classes for the students. R Mugeshappa, joint director, department of collegiate education (DCE), Mysuru said the government has sought details of the amount to be paid to these guest lecturers. “We have sent the details college wise,” he told TOI. Shivamogga Somashekar, president, Coordination Committee of Guest Lecturers Federation said, they are grateful to the government for the decision. According to Somashekar, although they fought for only March and April honorarium, the government has sanctioned six months honorarium. “We fought for 14 weeks across the state to raise our voice,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/14k-guest-lecturers-to-receive-pending-honorarium/articleshow/79309825.cms||Shrinivasa M
November 20, 2020||Pune||Brain-dead woman’s liver & kidneys benefit three||PUNE: Two daughters of a 53-year-old brain-dead homemaker donated her vital organs, including liver and kidneys, at Sahyadri hospital, Deccan branch, on November 16. The organ donation benefitted three patients with end stage liver and kidney diseases the same day in Pune. "As per the norms, the woman's liver and one of the kidneys was allocated to two patients enrolled with Sahyadri hospital for liver and kidney transplant. Her other kidney was allocated to a renal failure patient enrolled with Ruby Hall Clinic for kidney transplant," said Aarti Gokhale, transplant coordinator of the Zonal Transplant Coordination Committee (ZTCC), Pune branch. The woman's liver has been successfully transplanted into a 62-year-old man who had been suffering from end-stage liver cirrhosis for last one year. "Post-surgery, he is doing fine and is likely to be discharged in two days," said Sahyadri hospital's liver transplant surgeon Bipin Vibhute. The liver recipient is a businessman who hails from Kerala and has been settled in Pune. The woman had a fall inside her residence and sustained brain injury. She was declared brain dead the next day. "The woman's daughters agreed to donating her vital organs," said Sahyadri hospital's transplant coordinator Sharmila Padhye.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/brain-dead-womans-liver-kidneys-benefit-three/articleshow/79311767.cms||Umesh Isalkar
November 20, 2020||Pune||Adulterated furnace oil racket busted||PUNE: The Pimpri Chinchwad police on Wednesday busted a racket and arrested two suspects involved in stealing furnace oil and selling it at a higher rate after adulteration. The police recovered around 19,300 litres of furnace oil, a tanker, an electric motor and generator, collectively worth Rs37 lakh. A social security cell of the Pimpri Chinchwad police led by senior inspector Vithhal Kubade raided the spot in Bhosari MIDC and arrested Sanjay Pawar (40) of Chinchwad and tanker driver Laxman Pokale (40) of Beed district. Kubade said they got a tip-off that some people were selling adulterated furnace oil in the Bhosari MIDC area. “We raided a shed behind a school in the area and found the suspects tampering with furnace oil,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/adulterated-furnace-oil-racket-busted/articleshow/79311787.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: Gian Chand Gupta seeks reply from Huda over delay in report||PANCHKULA: Haryana assembly speaker Gian Chand Gupta has sought a reply from the officials of the Haryana Urban Development Authority (Huda) over the delay in the progress report of the Rajiv Colony Rehabilitation Scheme. Gupta held a review meeting on the progress work of 15 projects at his office at Haryana assembly in Chandigarh. Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, who is also MLA of Panchkula, was angry over the delay in the progress report of Rajiv Colony by Huda. He asked the Huda officials to provide all the necessary information to him at the earliest. Apart from this, other development works, including land allocation for religious institutions, was also found unsatisfactory. He also called town and country planning secretary A K Singh and discussed the matter in detail. Gupta also discussed the entire plan of sectors 20/21, 24/26 route to connect the same with Chandigarh airport via Zirakpur and Peer Muchalla. Huda officials said clearances have been taken from the Punjab government. The work on the project will start soon and people will be able to go to Chandigarh airport via Peer Muchalla and an alternate route to Ambala will also be made. The other issues that were discussed included encroachments, development of the Sector 15 community centre, multi-featured park in Sector 24 and beautification of nullah crossing the Sector 12A. Development of Rajiv and Indira Colony was also discussed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/gupta-seeks-reply-from-huda-over-delay-in-report/articleshow/79310580.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||No. of nominations for local body polls tops 1.5 lakh in Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The total number of nominations for the local body elections have gone above 1.5 lakh in the state. As per the latest data available from the state election commission, 1,52,292 have been received. Among these 1,14,515 nominations were received in grama panchayats. The nominations received in each district are as follows; Thiruvananthapuram (12,982), Kollam (11,880), Pathanamthitta (7,190), Alappuzha (11,614), Kottayam (9,934), Idukki (5,261), Ernakulam (15,723), Thrissur (15,687), Palakkad (11,401), Malappuram (18,612), Kozhikode (12,666), Wayanad (4,281), Kannur (10,155) and Kasargod (4,906). The highest number of nominations received in the corporations is in Thiruvananthapuram 892 followed by 778 in Ernakulam, 665 in Thrissur, 626 in Kozhikode, 469 in Kollam and 413 in Kannur. The filing of nomination had begun on November 12. The scrutiny of the nominations will be held on Friday and the last date for the withdrawal of the nomination is November 23. The polls will be held in three phases on December 8, 10 and 14. The results would be out on December 16. Elections to local bodies in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha and Idukki would be held in the first phase, on December 8. In the second phase, on December 10, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Palakkad and Wayanad would go to polls. During the third and last phase on December 14, northern districts —Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasargod— would vote. The state has 2,76,56,579 voters for the local body polls scheduled to be held in three phases. Among this 1,44,83,668 voters are women and 1,31,72,629 voters are men. The highest number of voters are from Malappuram 33,54,658 and the lowest in Wayanad with 6,25,453 voters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/no-of-nominations-for-local-body-polls-tops-1-5l/articleshow/79309414.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Hubballi||Some Lingayats upset with nomenclature of development board||BELAGAVI: The constituting of a dedicated board for the welfare of Veerashaiva-Lingayats was welcomed by many in the community, many among Lingayats have taken exception with the nomenclature of the same: Veerashaiva-Lingayat Development Board. Seers and prominent members of the Lingayat community are unhappy with the name since they feel it gives to the Veerashaiva sect. They argue that, historically, the Veerashaiva sect has always wielded greater influence in the social, political and cultural arenas. Lingayat is an umbrella term under which there are 86 sub-sects including Veerashaiva Lingayat, Ganiga, Banajiga, et al, they pointed out. Chief organiser of Samasta Lingayata Horata Samiti BM Chikkanagoudara alleged that, notwithstanding the state government’s contention that the board encompassed within its ambit all the Lingayat sects, the reality was that it was restricted to the welfare of Veerashaivas. “The caste survey conducted by the then Congress government in 2015 – the details of which were leaked – clearly indicate that there are 86 sub-sects within the Lingayat community, of which Veerashaiva Lingayat is one. No other sect identifies itself as such,” Chikkanagoudara said. He added that, in caste certificates, most Lingayats identified themselves simply as ‘Lingayat’, and may or may not suffix their sub-sect. “The board, according to its name, does not cover the whole of the Lingayat community. It must have been named Akhanda Lingayat Development Board,” Chikkanagoudara said. Tontadaraya Mutt seer Jagadguru Siddarama Mahaswami opined that the government ought to have named the board after Basavanna, along the lines of the body dedicated to the welfare of Dalits being named after BR Ambedkar. “Basavanna founded the religion, which is distinct from Hinduism, in the 12th century. The central government refused religion status to Lingayat although the state made a recommendation to that effect some 15 years ago. The mistake made by the state government was that the name of the community was indicated as ‘Veerashaiva Lingayat’, and the Centre, assuming that Lingayat was a Shaivite sub-sect, denied to classify it as a separate religion,” Siddarama Mahaswami told TOI. Historically, Veerashaivas broke away from Shaivite tradition, and followed Basavanna, he said. “Moreover, the board will help none but the president, who will enjoy all the government perks,” the seer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/some-lingayats-upset-with-nomenclature-of-development-board/articleshow/79309924.cms||Shreyas HS
November 20, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Two die as speeding truck hits bike||RUDRAPUR: A 26-year old woman and a 21-year man died on the spot after a speeding truck ran over the bike they were riding near Bajaj factory in Pantnagar industrial area of district Udham Singh Nagar on Thursday. According to the police, the decreased have been identified as Jyoti Bhattacharya and Chaman Singh, both residents of Transit Camp area. Both had gone to Pantnagar industrial area in search of jobs. “As they were heading back home, they were on foot and took a lift from a biker to reach a nearby tempo stand. Three people were riding the bike when the accident took place. The bike was hit by a speeding truck near Bajaj factory gate. While two of them suffered grievous injuries and died on spot, the bike driver survived as he was wearing a helmet,” said Anil Upadhyaya, incharge of Industrial area police outpost. The bodies were sent for postmortem and the injured bike driver was admitted to JL Nehru district hospital. The police officers said the errant truck driver managed to flee while the vehicle was impounded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-die-as-speeding-truck-hits-bike/articleshow/79309417.cms||Aakash Ahuja
November 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Social distancing can reduce human, zoonotic transmission of SARS-CoV-2: Study||Chandigarh: It is still not certain whether humans can transmit Covid-19 infection to animals. Also there is no literature to show transmission from infected animals to humans. However, some cats have tested positive for Covid-19. A review study from the PGI, however, recommends social distancing that needs to be maintained with animals as with humans. By doing so one can reduce human as well as zoonotic transmission of SARS-CoV-2, researchers have suggested in the review paper. They have found that there is no literature proving transmission of the virus from infected pets to their owners. The study has been published by Drs Rubal Singla, Abhishek Mishra, Rupa Joshi Sonali Jha, Amit Raj Sharma Sujata Upadhyay Phulen Sarma, Ajay Prakash, and Bikash Medhi from the PGIMER; NIPER, Mohali; and Panjab University. There have been various cases of human to animal transmission indicating the risk of virus to domestic animals or pets. The literature has further revealed that cats and ferrets are susceptible to Covid-19 infection. The study inferred that these infected animals could efficiently spread the virus to naive animals directly in contact with them. There have been evidences that suggested that bats are the primary reservoirs of novel coronavirus and, thus, the major source of infection to humans. Since the SARS-CoV-2 genomic sequence in humans and pangolin has shown significant relatedness, these animals are suspected to be the intermediate host for this infection. “However, there has been no evidence of transmission of Covid-19 from human to animals. But how an animal virus crossed the species boundaries to infect human species , needs lot of studies to discover the precise routes of transmission?” said one of the researchers. Research experts have found that the likelihood of humans contracting Covid-19 from their pets is low. Also according to the international reports, there is no evidence for transmission of the novel coronavirus from companion animals to humans. The major route of transmission appears to be from person-to- person by contact with saliva or other bodily secretions like cough or sneeze. The World Health Organization (WHO) has also advised people to take general precautions while visiting live animal markets, animal product markets or wet markets because there is still uncertainty about the exact origin of this virus. Box: Precautions to be taken Wash hands regularly with soap and potable water after any contact with animals or their products as well as avoid touching eyes, nose or mouth after contact with sick animals or spoiled animal products Avoid any contact with animal waste or fluids on the soil or any other surfaces Any contact with stray animals such as dogs, cats, birds, rodents living in the streets to be completely restricted Even though no research-based evidence has proven the spread of this virus due to intake of seafood, chicken, or mutton, still the intake of any raw or uncooked milk, meat, or any kind of animal organs should be avoided as per the general good food safety practices||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/social-distancing-can-reduce-human-zoonotic-transmission-of-sars-cov-2-study/articleshow/79310593.cms||Shimona Kanwar
November 20, 2020||Lucknow||CM Yogi Adityanath lauds Lucknow University for setting example of ‘Vocal For Local’ in 100th year||LUCKNOW: Lauding Lucknow University for indigenously developing products during the pandemic, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday said, universities need to align themselves with people’s problems, thereby motivating society to be ‘atmanirbahar’ (self-reliant) instead of being ‘pichlaggu’ (follower). “This vision for centres of learning has been envisaged by the prime minister in National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 that calls for amalgamation of theory with practical application. It will enable students, besides earning degrees from university, to be self-dependent and become a pillar of society,” the CM said, after inaugurating LU’s centenary celebrations at Malviya Hall. “The PM's vision in NEP has to be implemented in phases by 2022. If Lucknow University moves in consonance with the spirit enshrined in NEP, it will establish new parameters of progress in society,” he said. He also said, LU set an example of ‘vocal for local’ and ‘atmanirbhar’ by manufacturing sanitisers and promised government support in its future endeavours. “Every institute has a chemistry laboratory. There is a simple formula to make a sanitizer. Then, why wait for the government? Solutions can be found for every problem faced by society,” he added. He also lauded LU’s contribution in the state’s higher education digital library. He said the varsity should celebrate 100 years in a way that it is remembered for the next 100 years and assured support to make its centenary celebrations memorable and grand. “In its 100-year journey, LU has given a President, a chief justice, bureaucrats, politicians to strengthen democracy, academicians and entrepreneurs. The varsity should celebrate its glorious 100 years, but should also evaluate its shortcomings,” he said. He said, all academic institutes should remember that not just teachers and students, but parents and former students have an equal role in development of an institute. The CM also spoke about ‘One District-One Product' initiative to promote local products. Educational institutes can help in the endeavour by providing technical support, he said, adding Uttar Pradesh has the potential to lead the nation in the path of ‘atmanirbhar' and making it a $5 trillion economy. He said several institutes have been established in universities, including some in LU to promote research and elaborated on welfare schemes started by the state and Central government such as Make in India, Start-up India, Stand-up India, Mudra, Vishwakarma Shram Samman and Mati Kala Board to boost employment. Earlier, vice-chancellor Prof Alok Kumar Rai in his welcome address said in its centennial year LU achieved many landmarks such as implementation of choice-based credit system, value-added courses, different research promotion schemes, new PhD and D.Litt ordinances that have been incorporated in the university system in accordance with New Education Policy. Minister of state for education Nilima Katiyar was also present on the occasion. Vote of thanks was given by Prof Nishi Pandey, convenor of Centennial Celebration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-lauds-lu-for-setting-example-of-vocal-for-local-in-100th-year/articleshow/79312436.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Pune||Armed men rob Rs 1.27 lakh from logistics firm in Hadapsar||PUNE: The manager of a logistics-cum-courier firm in Phursungi on Wednesday lodged a police complaint stating that five men armed with sharp weapons and a pistol broke into the company’s office around 11.30pm on Tuesday and robbed Rs1.27 lakh kept in the cupboard. Police stated that as per the manager, Ashish Pawar (25), the incident occurred when around six to seven employees of the firm were sorting out parcels for area-wise dispatches in the company’s office on Tueday night. “According to the complaint, a gang of five men on three two-wheelers arrived and moved inside the office premises. They then started threatening the employees of dire consequences and took away the cash from the office cupboard,” senior inspector Balkrushna Kadam of the Hadapsar police station told TOI. On Thursday, the TOI made repeated calls to Pawar for his comment on the incident, but there was no response. The officer stated that the logistics-cum-courier company provides its services to an commerce website. The firm is located at an isolated area near in Dighe Vasti, he said. “The office of the firm remains open as the employees keep on sorting the packets scheduled for deliveries next day”, he said. Police are collecting the CCTV footages of the cameras located on the residential and commercial buildings on the road joining Dighe Vasti and Phursungi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/armed-men-rob-rs-1-27l-from-logistics-firm-in-hadapsar/articleshow/79311813.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Kozhikode||UDF fields own candidate in Valiyangadi||Kozhikode: Pouring cold water on the RMPI’s plans, UDF has decided to field its own candidate at the Valiyangadi division of the corporation against Muhammad Shuhaib, father of Allan, who was arrested under UAPA for alleged Maoist links. RMPI had expected UDF to reciprocate positively to the gesture, which is seen as a protest against the ‘police raj’ of the LDF government. Allan, who was arrested under UAPA for alleged Maoists links, is now out on bail. UDF leaders had visited Allan’s house to express solidarity with him. DCC president U Rajeevan told TOI that UDF has decided to field its candidate in the constituency. “Congress’s S K Aboobacker will be the candidate from Valiyangadi,” he said. RMPI state secretary N Venu said that Shuhaib’s candidature was announced without having any discussion with UDF. “We thought that UDF would extend support for a political fight that will have a statewide attention,” he said. “RMPI decided to field Shuhaib as part of the political fight against Pinarayi government’s police policy of hunting down youths and human rights activists. But Congress seems to have some internal problems to support us in Valiyangadi,” Venu said. UDF had won the Valiyangadi division last time and it hopes that the presence of Shuhaib will help to dent CPM votes this time. Shuhaib was the branch secretary at Thangal’s Road for many years and he has good connections in the area as it is his native place. UDF has an understanding with RMPI in some local bodies in the district including Onchiyam, Eramala, Azhiyur and Chorode grama panchayats. RMPI leadership said there is a tactical understanding in these panchayats to ensure the defeat of LDF. In some wards in Vadakara municipality there is a triangular contest among LDF, UDF and RMPI. Altogether, RMPI is contesting 20 local bodies in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/udf-fields-own-candidate-in-valiyangadi/articleshow/79309460.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Stuck in Nigeria, AP sailor now at Indian mission||HYDERABAD: A 26-year-old seafarer from Andhra Pradesh, who has been detained for 17 months in Nigeria after his ship unauthorisedly entered the country’s waters, has reached the Indian high commission in Abuja. Jarjana Sankara Rao was brought to Abuja by an official of the commission from Port Hartcourt. “I have been brought to the high commission, but I am yet to know when I can fly out to India and reach home,” Sankara Rao, who hails from Korlam village in Vizianagaram district, said. Sankara Rao said second secretary (consular) Sreenivasan Nair accompanied him on the flight from Port Hartcourt to Abuja. Sankara Rao was on Bonny Island after their vessel MT Apecus was seized by the authorities in April 2019. He escaped from being captured by Somalian pirates. Social worker from Chennai and community development manager of ‘Sailors Society’ Captain Manoj, who was following up on Sankara Rao’s detention, told TOI that the seafarer was finally brought out of the ship and given a temporary passport by the high commission. Mumbai-based social worker Shaheen Sayyed, who took up Sankara Rao’s issue, got a reply from the ship captain that they were prepared to hand over Sankara Rao to the Indian authorities since he was out on bail. Sayyed followed up the matter with the Indian high commission and also arranged for food supplies to Sankara Rao, who was stranded on the ship. In the meantime, Captain Sanjay Prashar of International Maritime Federation gave a detailed account of the incidents leading up to the ship’s seizure to the director general of shipping and ministry of external affairs with a plea that Sankara Rao be helped to return to AP. He termed Rao’s arrest as “criminalisation” of seafarers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/stuck-in-nigeria-ap-sailor-now-at-indian-mission/articleshow/79312438.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
November 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Stuck in Nigeria, AP sailor now at Indian mission||HYDERABAD: A 26-year-old seafarer from Andhra Pradesh, who has been detained for 17 months in Nigeria after his ship unauthorisedly entered the country’s waters, has reached the Indian high commission in Abuja. Jarjana Sankara Rao was brought to Abuja by an official of the commission from Port Hartcourt. “I have been brought to the high commission, but I am yet to know when I can fly out to India and reach home,” Sankara Rao, who hails from Korlam village in Vizianagaram district, said. Sankara Rao said second secretary (consular) Sreenivasan Nair accompanied him on the flight from Port Hartcourt to Abuja. Sankara Rao was on Bonny Island after their vessel MT Apecus was seized by the authorities in April 2019. He escaped from being captured by Somalian pirates. Social worker from Chennai and community development manager of ‘Sailors Society’ Captain Manoj, who was following up on Sankara Rao’s detention, told TOI that the seafarer was finally brought out of the ship and given a temporary passport by the high commission. Mumbai-based social worker Shaheen Sayyed, who took up Sankara Rao’s issue, got a reply from the ship captain that they were prepared to hand over Sankara Rao to the Indian authorities since he was out on bail. Sayyed followed up the matter with the Indian high commission and also arranged for food supplies to Sankara Rao, who was stranded on the ship. In the meantime, Captain Sanjay Prashar of International Maritime Federation gave a detailed account of the incidents leading up to the ship’s seizure to the director general of shipping and ministry of external affairs with a plea that Sankara Rao be helped to return to AP. He termed Rao’s arrest as “criminalisation” of seafarers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/stuck-in-nigeria-ap-sailor-now-at-indian-mission/articleshow/79315532.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
November 20, 2020||Lucknow||Yogi: Congress siding with forces which are against India’s unity||Lucknow: Asking the Congress high command to make its stand clear on the Gupkar Alliance in Jammu and Kashmir, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath accused the party of siding with forces which are against the unity of India. The CM’s attack comes after home minister Amit Shah hit out at the alliance comprising the National Conference, PDP, Awami National Conference, Communist Party of India (M) and Jammu and Kashmir People's Conference, calling it the “Gupkar Gang” which was working against the country’s unity. Calling the Gupkar Alliance itself an attempt to compromise the integrity and sovereignty of the country, the Chief Minister asked what the need was to involve countries like Pakistan and China in India’s issues. “Local Congress members have been part of Gupkar meetings. The party says something in Delhi and has a different stand in Kashmir. The party leadership must clarify its stand on this matter. The nation demands to know what Congress has to say on the Gupkar Alliance, which is promoting separatism, and on the revocation of Article 370,” he said. Yogi Adityanath said that senior Congress leaders like P Chidambaram and Ghulam Nabi Azad had spoken out openly against the abrogation of Article 370 by the BJP-led government in the Centre in August 2019, and supported the cause of separatism and terrorist ideology. “The Congress ruled the country for the most part of the past 70 years after Independence but did nothing for the development of Jammu and Kashmir. In fact, it introduced Article 370 in a surreptitious manner and did not allow for the state to become a part of unified India. We are thankful to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the home minister for abrogating articles 370 and 35A in an effort to bring about development of the state,” he said. The CM said that efforts were being made to hold local body elections in the valley but the Gupkar Alliance was trying to sabotage the democratic process to further their agenda of separatism. “On several occasions, these parties which are a part of the alliance have called upon China for help on Article 370. Congress has never spoken out against this and in fact, its local leaders are now joining the alliance,” the CM alleged, adding that where BJP was trying to implement the idea of ‘Ek Bharat, Shreshtra Bharat’, Congress was intent on sabotaging it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-congress-siding-with-forces-which-are-against-indias-unity/articleshow/79312439.cms||Neha Lalchandani
November 20, 2020||Goa||Battem-Sadolxem residents to get road||POINGUINIM: It is like a dream come true for locals residing of Battem, as there will soon be a road leading to their interior ward of Sadolxem. Locals had been demanding for a road since Liberation, as they had use narrow mud tracks to get to their dwellings. The work of building the new Rs 30 lakh road in the Poinguinim village panchayat was inaugurated by deputy speaker and Canacona MLA Isidore Fernandes on Wednesday. Ulhas Pai Bhatikar, who belongs to one the 13 families who would be benefiting from this, road said that they were facing a lot of difficulties due to absence of access road to their ward. “The senior citizens from here now heaved a sigh of relief as they would get facility for any ambulance to reach here. Our relatives who would visit us always found it difficult to get here. The bakers and fish sellers always avoided coming to our ward as there was no access road,” said Bhatikar. The Battem residents thanked Fernandes for his efforts in getting the road sanctioned. Local panch member Vipin Prabhu, ex headmaster Ulhas Bhatikar, contractor Devendra Naik, BJP mandal president Nandeep Bhagat and PWD’s assistant engineer Euclid D’Souza were present during the function.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/battem-sadolxem-residents-to-get-road/articleshow/79311855.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Mangaluru||Govt to give golf course proposal a relook: Dakshina Kannada deputy commissioner||MANGALURU: Dakshina Kannada deputy commissioner Dr KV Rajendra has decided to give a boost to tourism projects in the district. The DC told TOI that plans are on to develop around 150 acres of land from Tannirbavi to Bengre. “Through the District Tourism Development Committee, we are planning to take up various tourism development projects that will provide a livelihood to the locals with the help of Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation. This is part of the larger plans of creating brand Mangaluru and promoting beach culture,” he said. On the Golf course proposal, the DC said, interest was shown at the global investor meet a couple of years ago. “We need to ascertain, if the earlier agreement is still valid, or else we will plan other tourism promotion projects for the area. I am obligated to promote tourism in Mangaluru and as the chairman of the Coastal Regulatory Zone Authority, I need to look into the regulatory aspect of the Coastal Zone. Balancing both the aspects, the plan is to have temporary shacks, tents, where people can enjoy the nightlife in a controlled manner,” he added. Locals worried Even as the district administration is considering launching various tourism development projects in Bengre, the locals are worried about becoming disconnected with the waterfront. A recent visit by deputy commissioner Dr K V Rajendra and Mangaluru City South MLA D Vedavyas Kamath has left them worried. Protests were staged against proposal Muneeb Bengre, corporator, Bengre ward said that four years ago, Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) had protested against the proposed golf course. Later, locals were involved and the issue was discussed with the then deputy commissioner S Sashikanth Senthil who said the golf course project was not happening. ‘Livelihoods of locals must not be adverseley affected’ “Our only concern is that the livelihood of locals should not be adversely affected by these projects,” he said. The DC said, “Locals will be involved in the planning and other aspects. The development will be taken up without harming nature and culture.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/govt-to-give-golf-course-proposal-a-relook-dc/articleshow/79309447.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
November 20, 2020||Lucknow||Sugar production defies pandemic slowdown; 30% spike than last yr||Lucknow: Sugar production in the current crushing season has defied the pandemic slowdown and registered an upswing in Uttar Pradesh with the state clocking a production of 3.85 lakh tonnes till November 15. This is 30% more than the corresponding period last year when 2.93 lakh tonnes was produced. Data released by Indian Sugar Mills Association (ISMA) show sugar production shot up despite 76 mills in operation in comparison to last year when 78 mills functioned in the same period. Sugar production across India in the current season is 14.10 lakh tonnes till November 15 and the corresponding figure in same period last year was 4.84 lakh tonnes. And as compared to 127 sugar factories crushing sugarcane last year, 274 mills are at work this year in the same period.Sources in UP Sugar Mills Association (UPSMA) said, rise in sugar production can be attributed to more cane reaching mills because of a better crop and rise in cane acreage. Sources said, mills in west and central UP have begun crushing at least 10 days in advance. However, this is not the case in eastern UP, which is witnessing infestation of red rot disease in crop. Industry sources said, higher sugar production could potentially trigger a vicious circle where prices would remain low, resulting in lower payment by millers. Sources said, mills also have significant carry-forward stock because of high production last year. Records show around 12.3 lakh tonnes was produced last year and this is likely to go up given preliminary indications. This comes at a time when the state government is yet to decide the state advisory price (SAP) — the yardstick for payment to cane growers by millers. Sources in the sugarcane department said, the state government is mulling diverting sugarcane juice for production of ethanol, which is directly mixed with petrol. This would enable the government to address a glut, which often leads to dramatic fall in prices of raw sugar. Sources said, a formal policy should be framed to allow production of ethanol directly from cane juice. The Centre, which has already proposed a broader policy framework, is persuading sugar mills to divert sugarcane for ethanol production.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sugar-production-defies-pandemic-slowdown-30-spike-than-last-yr/articleshow/79312467.cms||Pankaj Shah
November 20, 2020||Goa||Tribal commission to hold camp for pending cases from South Goa||MARGAO: Chairman of Goa Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes Commission Ramesh Tawadkar on Thursday announced that the commission would hold camps from November 27-29 in Margao to conduct hearings in the pending cases from South Goa for disposal. After taking over as chairman last month, Tawadkar had announced that the commission would take up justice to the doorsteps of the tribal people by holding temporary courts to resolve cases, some of which are pending since 2013. This is being done to avoid travel for the tribal people all the way to the head office in Panaji for justice, he said. He said the commission has started working in the right earnest and 120 notices have been issued to restart the process of hearing the cases. Explaining the types of cases pending before the commission, Tawadkar said that most are pertaining to service matter and others are of atrocities to the tribal people and land issues. He also spoke of lack of awareness among the tribals about the facilities available to them and also about their rights. “The SC/ST commission is a powerful body and much can be done to help them,” he said. Speaking at a press conference, Tawadkar said having been a minister in the past (was minister for sports and tribal welfare in Manohar Parrikar government), he is in a better position to give justice to the tribal people. He also stated that tribal people need proper guidance to take up their cause and cases to get justice. Tawadkar also spoke of the tribal sub-plan for which the government needs to spent around 12% of the state budget for their welfare. There are complaints that this is not happening in some departments, he said. The former Poinguinim MLA said that he would hold talks with tribal organisations to understand their issues on sub-plan and other issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tribal-commission-to-hold-camp-for-pending-cases-from-s-goa/articleshow/79311874.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Poola Anthony is Archbishop of Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Poola Anthony is the new Archbishop of Hyderabad. Pope Francis on Thursday appointed 59-year-old Anthony as Archbishop to the metropolitan archdiocese of Hyderabad. Outgoing archbishop Thumma Bala in the afternoon announced the papal appointment order from Vatican City at St Mary’s Basilica in Secunderabad. Catholic Bishops Conference of India secretary general Archbishop Felix Machado said: “The announcement of Archbishop of Hyderabad was made public in Rome on Thursday noon.” Bishop was ordained priestBishop Anthony was ordained as a priest in February 1992. Later, he was appointed as bishop of Kurnool in February 2008. He was born in Chindukur village in AP’s Kurnool district. He joined the minor seminary in Kurnool and then studied at St. Peter’s pontifical major seminary in Bengaluru. Anthony served as chairman of Youth Commission, AP Social Service Society, SC/BC Commission, secretary general and treasurer of Telugu Catholic Bishops Conference. The Pope earlier accepted the resignation of Thumma Bala as he had reached the retirement age of 75 in April 2019. Archbishop Bala headed the archdiocese for nine years since 2011 after his transfer from Warangal. Hyderabad archdiocese is spread over Hyderabad, Rangareddy, Medchal and surrounding districts of Hyderabad. It has influence over other diocese of Adilabad, Kadapa, Khammam, Kurnool, Nalgonda and Warangal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/poola-anthony-is-archbishop-of-hyderabad/articleshow/79312479.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
November 20, 2020||Ludhiana||Reject review pleas filed by Punjab CM Amarinder Singh, son in tax evasion cases: I-T department||LUDHIANA: The income tax department on Thursday urged the court of additional district and sessions judge to dismiss the revision petitions filed by Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh and his son Raninder Singh challenging a lower court order that allowed the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to inspect fresh records in three alleged tax evasion cases against them. Additional sessions judge Atul Kasana has fixed December 4 as the next date of hearing. On September 18, the court of judicial magistrate Jasbeer Singh had allowed the economic intelligence agency to inspect fresh I-T records related to the cases of CM and his son on September 28. However, on September 25, the court of additional sessions judge, admitting two review petitions filed by the CM and his son against the lower court order, had ordered a stay on the inspection of records by ED. I-T department counsel advocate Rakesh K Gupta said they would not comment on whether ED should be allowed to inspect the IT records, as it is for the court to decide. He said they have submitted in the reply that the revision petitions should be dismissed. Gurmukh Singh, who is representing Raninder in the case, said that on the next date of hearing they expect the matter to come up for consideration of arguments on the I-T department’s reply. In an application filed by ED in the court of judicial magistrate on August 14, the agency had pleaded that it was seeking permission for inspection of documents filed by the I-T department in all the three ongoing cases against Amarinder and his son. Since the subject matter is under Foreign Exchange Management Act (Fema), 1999, ambit, it is authorised to probe the matter, it had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/reject-review-pleas-filed-by-capt-son-in-tax-evasion-cases-i-t-dept/articleshow/79311882.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Bareilly||Ganga Rejuvenation: Survey of river Gomti's biodiversity begins in Pilibhit||PILIBHIT: The Wildlife Institute of India (WII) has initiated a survey of the biodiversity in river Gomti in Pilibhit, where it originates, under the Ganga rejuvenation project. The survey is aimed at preparing an action plan for the river's conservation. A study of river water quality will also be undertaken. The survey will cover the entire length of around 900 km of the Gomti, starting from its origin at Phulhar lake at Madhotanda village in Pilibhit up to its confluence with river Ganga, near Jaunpur district. According to the project associate of WII, Vipul Maurya, who is playing a pivotal role in the survey, the work on river Gomti will be completed by the end of December and the report will be filed to the National Mission for Clean Ganga. Based on this report, the WII will chalk out an action plan for the conservation of biodiversity and the prevention of various threats to it. Association of local communities as 'Ganga Prahri' will be a major component of the plan. This action plan will be sent to the Union ministry of water resources, river development and Ganga rejuvenation for formulation of a policy, Maurya said. “The survey under the rejuvenation project will be conducted in all the 16 tributaries of the Ganga across five states, including the two prime rivers originating in UP – Gomti and Ghaghra,” Maurya added. The survey will study the current status of various species of aquatic animals, including fish, turtles, crocodiles, otters and others in these rivers and identification of their hotspots, he said. The study will include various threats such as uncontrolled fishing, poaching and illegal trading and , habitat loss confronting the aquatic species, Maurya explained. A team from the department of toxicology will test water quality of the Gomti. The team will also identify various pollution sources of the river such as discharge of industrial effluents, use of poisonous substances for fishing and application of chemical fertilizers and sprays in agricultural fields adjoining the river banks. Earlier, Pilibhit district magistrate Pulkit Khare had written to the WII director for sending a team from the remote sensing department to Phulhar lake to examine the status of its artesian wells and restoration of natural water discharge from the lake's natural springs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/ganga-rejuvenation-survey-of-river-gomtis-biodiversity-begins-in-pilibhit/articleshow/79307433.cms||Keshav Agarwal
November 20, 2020||Lucknow||Petition seeks FIR against Obama for Rahul remarks||Prayagraj: A Pratapgarh-based lawyer has filed a petition before a local court seeking registration of FIR against former US President Barack Obama for 'insulting Congress former president Rahul Gandhi and former PM Manmohan Singh' in his latest book 'A Promised Land’. Lawyer Gyan Prakash Shukla filed the plea on Thursday before Lalganj civil court of Pratapgarh district, which will decide its maintainability on the next date, December 1, 2020. According to the petition, former US President Barack Obama has said in his book that Sonia Gandhi picked Manmohan to be the Prime Minister of India because he posed no threat to her son Rahul Gandhi, whom she was grooming to be her heir. About Rahul Gandhi, Obama has written, “Rahul Gandhi has a nervous, unformed quality about him, as if he were a student who'd done the coursework and was eager to impress the teacher but deep down lacked either the aptitude or the passion to master the subject.” The petitioner, who claims to be the national president of All India Rural Bar Association, has demanded that an FIR be lodged as according to him, the book insults the leaders and hurts the sentiments of their followers. "It's also an attack on the sovereignty of the country," the petition says. Shukla has claimed that there are millions of supporters of these leaders and they feel hurt by the remarks made in Obama's book. He warned that if the FIR was not lodged, he along with his supporters, will stage a protest outside the US embassy at New Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/petition-seeks-fir-against-obama-for-rahul-remarks/articleshow/79312491.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
November 20, 2020||Goa||TCP notifies 43 applications for zone change under 16B||Panaji: The town and country planning department on Thursday notified 43 applications for change of zone under Section 16B of the TCP Act and has given stakeholders two months to voice objections.  Of the 43 applications for change of zone, 40 proposals wanted their land to be classified as settlement zones. TCP has rejected just one of the 43 applications, a proposal by Watermark Properties to convert 2241sqm of paddy fields and settlement land into complete settlement zone in Cavelossim. TCP has also permitted the change of zone from orchard to industrial land at Verna for Amona Shipyard Pvt ltd. “The Chief Town Planner (Planning) hereby notifies the requests for change of zone in respect of the Regional Plan for Goa-2021, and recommendations of the Town and Country Planning Board for information of the persons likely to be affected,” said chief town planner (planning) Rajesh Naik. Naik said that copies of the maps and notes containing the proposed changes are available for inspection in the TCP office for a period of two months “All objections and suggestions to the said requests and proposals and recommendations of the Town and Country Planning Board if any, may be forwarded to the Chief Town Planner (Planning) before the expiry of the two months so that they can be referred to the Town and Country Planning Board for consideration,” said Naik. TCP has conducted surveys and examined the various requests and proposals received under Section 16B, before putting up the requests, along with his report, to the Town and Country Planning Board. The 43 proposals were cleared at the 171st meeting held on September 29 and gave its recommendations which have also been notified. While accepting the proposals for change of zone, the TCP Board has directed the Naik to notify the 43 proposal under Section 13(1) of TCP Act and to obtain comments from agriculture department and forest department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tcp-notifies-43-applications-for-zone-change-under-16b/articleshow/79311917.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Goa||Smart City to focus on Ribandar devpt, CCTV project may be nixed||PANAJI: Panaji MLA Atanasio Monserrate has asked Imagine Panaji Smart City Development Limited (IPSCDL) to take up certain projects, particularly in Ribandar, on priority. While revival of St Inez creek may receive renewed focus, the Rs 181 crore integrated command and control centre (ICCC) project is likely to be shelved. Chief minister Pramod Sawant along with Monserrate and Corporation of the City of Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar met on Thursday for the first IPSCDL board meeting in 18 months. “We may shelf some projects, and some projects, which are more important for the city, we will prioritise,” said Monserrate after the meeting. “St Inez creek is one of the major projects that we want to take up, and then Ribandar area, which has been totally neglected.” According to Madkaikar, the proposed municipal market at Ribandar, a football ground and the primary health centre at Ribandar are some of the projects that Monserrate is keen on completing. The Panaji MLA also said that the proposal for a full-fledged health centre at Ribandar has yet to move ahead as Sawant has yet to give the nod for the main building of the hospital to be used for the facility. The CCP elections are around the corner and are likely to be held around February end or early March. Monserrate denied suggestions that the elections, which are due in four months, influenced the projects that he wants IPSCDL to take up on priority. “The works are not for a particular purpose, like municipality elections coming up. It is nothing like that. We have these projects in our manifesto and the works have to be done,” said the Panaji MLA. However, Sawant’s statement suggested otherwise. “There will be another meeting to identify which projects need to be given priority in the coming three to four months,” said the chief minister. Meanwhile, Monserrate said he was confident that BJP would sweep the civic polls and win all 30 council seats. Monserrate said that he would field new candidates in most of the wards for the coming civic polls. “I am gearing up for the CCP elections, and this time BJP will get all the 30 seats. We will be having many new faces, 80% of the faces will be new,” said the MLA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/smart-city-to-focus-on-ribandar-devpt-cctv-project-may-be-nixed/articleshow/79311896.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Varanasi||Covid eclipses Kashi’s annual cultural fest Ganga Mahotsav||Varanasi: Ganga Mahotsav, the mega cultural fest that bagged a global tag two years ago, will not be held this year in Varanasi due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The district administration is, however, gearing up to hold Dev Deepawali on a grand scale with lighting of over 10 lakh earthen lamps even though tourist arrivals in the city have been low this year. The five-day Ganga Mahotsav begins on Prabodhini Ekadashi in the Hindu calendar month of Kartik and culminates on Dev Deepawali on the day of Purnima. Divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal told TOI on Thursday, “No cultural events that are part of Ganga Mahotsav will be held this year on the banks of the Ganga due to Covid-19 restrictions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/covid-eclipses-kashis-annual-cultural-fest-ganga-mahotsav/articleshow/79311905.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
November 20, 2020||Hubballi||After September high, Covid-19 cases fall steeply at JSW Steel plant in Ballari||BALLARI: The number of Covid cases has fallen steeply at JSW Steel Vijayanagar Works, Ballari, bringing cheer to employees and their families. The first case was reported on June 4, when a worker contracted the infection from his mother who had travelled to Tamil Nadu. Thereafter, cases rose steadily and peaked in September when the plan reported 150 to 250 cases daily. More than 1,700 cases have been reported till date. Manjunath Prabhu, senior vice-president, JSW Steel Vijayanagar Works, said the situation was challenging. “We implemented all precautionary measures as suggested by the government,” he said. “We took strict measures like reducing staff and ensuring only 40% employees on site for emergency work. We blocked all entry points to prevent outsiders.” He added: “We made arrangements for employees to stay in our townships and intensified testing of all employees and their family members. We ensured social distancing, wearing of masks, use of hand sanitisers and other precautionary measures. Our hospital was converted into a Covid facility to provide treatment to the infected.” He said the strict measures have greatly helped curb the spread of the virus. “We have about 23,000 employees on site, of which more than 18,000 and their family members were tested.” Work at the plant is slowly returning to normal. Deputy commissioner SS Nakul said, “Cases have fallen and we have asked JSW authorities to follow workplace norms laid down by the government to curb spread of the virus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/after-september-high-cases-fall-steeply-at-jsw-steel-plant-in-ballari/articleshow/79309672.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
November 20, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Women, kids need no Metro e-pass from 11am to 5pm||KOLKATA: From Friday, women and children below 15 years can board the Metro without e-passes from 11am till 5pm. Metro Railway on Thursday relaxed rules to help more people use the city’s transport lifeline, a day after it clocked 1-lakh ridership. The e-passes have become the key to control crowd at the gates of Metro stations for smooth operations in the new normal times. The digital passes must be generated from a link in advance to access any of the 24 stations of the north-south line, which is India’s oldest Metro with the highest passenger density. For e-passes, the 8am-10am operations have been divided into 14 one-hour slots while only 400 people are allowed to board at a time. In the pre-pandemic times, 6.5 lakh rode every day and 3,000 travelled in an eight-coach train at a time. A day after it resumed services following a 176-hiatus because of Covid-induced lockdown, Metro had exempted senior citizens from downloading e-passes during afternoons. Later, the rule was completely relaxed for senior citizens. Now, women and children can also travel without e-passes between 11am and 5pm. They just need the smart cards for the six-hour window (no tokens are being issued due to the pandemic). “Children must furnish age-proof. They can carry their school ID card,” said a Metro Railway official. Even as the carrier attained its much-awaited milestone, ferrying 1,00589 passengers on Wednesday, there’s room for another 15,000, in keeping with the physical distancing provisions. “By using the dynamic algorithm that takes into account the continuous boarding and disembarking, Metro can accommodate around 1lakh passengers daily,” said Sanjay Chatterjee, who has been appointed by the state government to develop the e-pass technology. Around 1.5 lakh e-passes were booked on Wednesday, Chatterjee said. “The gap between bookings and actual trips is currently around 50,000. We keep studying the booking graph to understand the actual passenger demand,” he added. In its graded resumption, Metro Railway has been adding trains, tweaking timings to accommodate peak-hour passengers’ volume. There were 110, instead of 284 services, when Metro services resumed on September 14. Since last Wednesday, as suburban train services resumed, the number of daily trains has gone up from 152 to 190, to meet the increased demand. Most of the added trains started from Dum Dum, which shares its premises with the railway station. Despite the 25 % increase in services, it took a week to reach the 1-lakh milestone. On the first day, 53,000 passes were booked while only 20,900 commuters had travelled. The low footfall at that time was attributed to the newly introduced technological barrier. Senior citizens complained against the ordeal of downloading the digital passes on their smart phones through a link, so they were excused. For Line 2 or the East-West Metro launched only in February, this year, e-passes are not required because the footfall hovers around a paltry 500.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/women-kids-need-no-metro-e-pass-from-11am-to-5pm/articleshow/79310652.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
November 20, 2020||Kolkata||Girl from red-light area takes up child panel reins for an hour||KOLKATA: A 17-year-old student of Class-XI at Mahakali Vidyalaya, who hails from an underprivileged background in a red-light area of Kolkata, was made the chairperson of the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights (WBCPCR) for an hour on Thursday. A purple belt in karate, the girl has virtually interviewed Nobel laureate Malala Yousufzai and Michelle Obama. As the chairperson of the commission, she laid down her plans and proposed changes in the existing government policies. Asked about what she would like to change in government policies and what could be the alternatives, she demanded security for children at home and on the roads through the day. She added that schools should extend the mid-day meals for children from Class-VIII to Class-XII. Proposing to appoint a counsellor in each school for looking after the mental health of students from red-light areas, the teenager pointed out that serving nutritious and healthy food is also important. “At schools, these children should be served breakfast. They will then be able to grasp their lessons better,”she said. The girl also demanded a library in each school that should be accessible to the children. Chairperson of the Commission, Ananya Chakraborti, said, “We thought that since we are celebrating the Child Rights Week, it is important to hear their voices, especially the underprivileged children. We wanted to know the changes they want. Children from the red-light areas have very specific problems. So, we selected someone from the area, who could tell us what they want for a healthy life.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/girl-from-red-light-area-takes-up-child-panel-reins-for-an-hour/articleshow/79310672.cms||Somdatta Basu
November 20, 2020||Goa||Ex-Goa cricket chief to be grilled in cheating case||PANAJI: The economic offences cell (EOC) of Goa police has summoned former Goa Cricket Association (GCA) president Chetan Desai on Friday for questioning in an alleged Rs one crore cheating case. When contacted, EOC PI Praveen Kumar Vast confirmed that Desai has been summoned for questioning. EOC has registered the case under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). In his complaint, Nilesh Prabhudesai had stated that as per the audit report to the GCA members by chartered accountant Patil Manickrao, an amount of Rs one crore which was paid by BCCI by cheque is not reflecting in GCA’s balance sheet in the financial year 2006-07. He also said that a total amount of Rs four crore was paid towards advance of TV subsidy for the year 2005-06. The said amount was bifurcated into three cheques. Two cheques, each of Rs I.5 crore, and one cheque was of Rs I crore. The two cheques were credited in GCA account at the Panaji branch of a private bank which reflects in the balance sheet. The third cheque of Rs 1 crore is not credited in any of the bank accounts which are listed as GCA’s banking accounts in the balance sheet from 2006-till date. “I suspect that the above amount of Rs one crore has been deposited in the name of GCA other than GCA’s authenticated bank accounts, and this way the fraud was committed,” Prabhudesai stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ex-goa-cricket-chief-to-be-grilled-in-cheating-case/articleshow/79311941.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Bareilly||23-year-old dies, 2 hurt after high-tension live electric wire falls on house in Budaun||BAREILLY: A 23-year-old man died in a bid to save her sister after a faulty overhead naked high-tension live electric wire snapped and fell on their house in Kareempur village in Allapur area of Budaun district on Thursday morning. The injured were undergoing treatment at the district hospital. According to sources, Manjana, wife of Suresh Kumar, was sitting in the terrace when the high-tension live wire fell on her charpoy. Hearing his sister’s screams, her brother Avnish Kumar along with neighbour Jaiveer rushed to rescue her, but they got electrocuted. All three were rushed to the community health centre, where Avnish died while the other two were referred to a higher medical centre. Alapur SHO OP Gautam said an FIR would be registered under IPC section 304 (culpable homicide) after receiving a written complaint from the victim’s family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/23-year-old-dies-2-hurt-after-high-tension-live-electric-wire-falls-on-house-in-budaun/articleshow/79307464.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 20, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Lawyer withdraws Vinay Kulkarni’s bail plea||DHARWAD: The advocate representing ex-minister and Congress leader Vinay Kulkarni withdrew the bail application filed in the third additional Sessions court here on Thursday. The court, which had fixed the hearing on Wednesday had adjourned it to Thursday after the CBI counsel requested a day’s time to file objection. Before the CBI counsel could file objection on Thursday, Kulkarni’s advocate gave a letter to the court that he was withdrawing the application. It was not immediately known why the plea was withdrawn. Kulkarni was arrested by CBI in connection with ZP member Yogeeshgouda Goudar murder and is in judicial custody till November 23. He is now lodged in Hindalaga jail on the outskirts of Belegavi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/lawyer-withdraws-vinay-kulkarnis-bail-plea/articleshow/79310179.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Goa||Azossim panchayat directed to inspect waste dumping site||Panaji: Block development officer (BDO), Tiswadi has directed the secretary of Azossim-Mandur panchayat to hold an inspection at the site of illegal dumping at Parpotikodde, Azossim while villagers have demanded a extradordinary gram sabha to discuss the issue. The dumping site on the hill, not far from Mandur church, is in an isolated place and garbage is being allegedly offloaded and burnt for many weeks. The issue came to light after some villagers and local politician, Ramrao Wagh walked to the site and also found an illegal structure for a cowshed being built nearby. The direction to hold the inspection follows a memorandum submitted by Wagh. On Wednesday evening, villagers had gathered at the panchayat to discuss the dumping issue and consensus evolved that a gram sabha be held to discuss the issue of garbage and illegal cowshed. Wagh, Mahendra Shirodkar and a few other villagers spoke at the meeting outside the panchayat. Former sarpanch, Francis Po who was the only panchayat member present said the garbage being dumped at the site and the cowshed were illegal activities. Further, he said that a proposal to allot comunidade land for housing of villagers had been proposed some years back. A recquistion for a gram sabha is being signed by villagers to be submitted to authorities to also allow discussion on housing for villagers on comunidade land at Parpotikodde and a big project coming up under survey number 8 at Azossim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/azossim-panchayat-directed-to-inspect-waste-dumping-site/articleshow/79311932.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Lucknow||Students sway to sufi, folk songs at Awadh Ki Chowki||LUCKNOW: Under milky moonlight on Thursday, the Arts Quadrangle of Lucknow University resonated with musical compositions of Sufi singer Amir Khusrau, Bhajans of Lord Ram and folk songs like Kesaria Balam in Awadhi style sung by renowned folk singer Malini Awasthi with poet Yatindra Mishra, both former students of LU. The event kickstarted the centenary celebrations of the university. Awasthi, who completed MA from LU in 1987, responded to loud cheers from students by saying, “Kabhai humai tumha jai thae, abb ban gai hain tumhari amma (I was once among you, now I am like your mother).” “Those who can sing amid hooting can sing anywhere,” she added. Her beautiful voice and her Awadhi interactions with students electrified the atmosphere at the performance titled Awadh ki Roshan Chowki. Students danced while faculty members cheered in excitement. Talking about ragging in her time, Awasthi said, “Those were the best days of my life, when ragging meant I had to sing. On winning music competitions, I had to treat students and how ‘juloos’ or processions were taken out.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/students-sway-to-sufi-folk-songs-at-awadh-ki-chowki/articleshow/79312521.cms||Mohita Tewari
November 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Police arrest 11 for cyber fraud in Sirsa||CHANDIGARH: Haryana police has busted two online cyber fraud gangs in Sirsa and arrested 11 persons on the charges of defrauding several people. A spokesperson of Haryana police said the cops had also seized 607 SIM cards of different mobile companies, 22 mobile phones and two laptops from the possession of the accused. While one gang with four members was operating from Ding Mandi area, another gang of seven members was active in Sherpura village of the district. Till now police investigation has revealed that the accused used to get SIM cards of various companies on fake documents. Later, they used defraud people by themselves availing cash benefits to be given to the general public by online companies. The police had received a tip off that some people were defrauding people by getting SIM cards on fake IDs and documents. Based on reliable inputs, police managed to nab 11 accused in two separate operations. In the first operation, police arrested Ramesh Kumar, Vinod Kumar, Subhash and Rajesh and recovered 280 SIMs, 11 mobile phones and one laptop from their possession in Ding Mandi area. Those arrested in the second raid have been identified as Ajay Kumar, Sanjay, Govind Singh, Vikas, Darshan Singh, Sanjay and Harsh. As many as 327 SIM cards, 11 mobile phones and a laptop were also recovered from them. A case was registered against all accused and further interrogation is underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/police-arrest-11-for-cyber-fraud-in-sirsa/articleshow/79311926.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Agra||Rainfall helps improve Agra AQI but still worse than last year||AGRA: Air quality in Agra showed a marked improvement on Thursday though it continued to be in the “poor” category. It improved significantly, thanks to the rainfall and wind conditions that prevailed after Diwali. The 24-hour average air quality index (AQI} monitored by Central Pollution Control Board across the nation recorded Agra’s AQI at 253 on Thursday. This was a drastic improvement since Sunday, when AQI was at 347 (very poor), which can cause respiratory disorders on prolonged exposure. However, last year on the same day, air index value was 66, which falls in “satisfactory” category. It can cause minor breathing discomfort among sensitive people. According to experts, the air pollution usually gets worse during these months due to unfavorable wind speed, stubble burning by farmers and bursting of firecrackers in the festive season. Pollution in the city had almost disappeared earlier this year after the Centre imposed a countrywide lockdown to combat the spread of Covid-19 due to bare minimum vehicular traffic and closure of all industries. But pollution has resumed after the government began lifting restrictions phase wise. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 “severe".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/rainfall-helps-improve-agra-aqi-but-still-worse-than-last-yr/articleshow/79309472.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Agra||5k visitors at Taj 1st time ever since reopening after Covid lockdown||Agra: The footfall at the Taj Mahal on Thursday touched the cap of 5,000 for the first time ever since its reopening after the Covid lockdown. The day also marked the first day of the World Heritage Week and the Archeological Survey of India (ASI) had decided to give visitors free access to protected monuments across Agra on Thursday. As figures indicate, the number of tourists reached 5,800, including 800 children – there is no ticket for kids up to 15 years – on Thursday. Similarly, the footfall at the Agra Fort also touched the cap of 2,500 on Thursday. However, the average daily footfall at the Taj and Agra Fort used to be 25,000 and 15,000 respectively, in pre-Covid days. Superintending archaeologist, ASI (Agra circle), Vasant Swarnkar told TOI that the World Heritage Week is being celebrated from November 19 to November 25 and the number of tourists visiting the monument reached 5,000 much before the closing time. He said that all Covid protocols were followed as per the health ministry’s guidelines. A photo exhibition on the World Heritage sites in India was also organised on the occasion.The two Mughal-era monuments had reopened for public on September 21, after a gap of 188 days with a cap on entry of 5,000 and 2,500 visitors per day in two shifts.Usually, Indian visitors have to pay Rs 50 per ticket for visiting the Taj Mahal and visitors from the SAARC and BIMSTEC countries have to pay Rs 540 each. Visitors from all other countries are charged Rs 1,100 each to enter the monument. To visit the main mausoleum, tourists have to pay Rs 200 extra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/5k-visitors-at-taj-1st-time-ever-since-reopening-after-covid-lockdown/articleshow/79309496.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
November 20, 2020||Chennai||SHRC asks Tamil Nadu govt to pay Rs 50,000 relief to ex-cop who was assaulted||CHENNAI: The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has directed the Tamil Nadu government to pay Rs 50,000 as compensation to a retired police sub-inspector who was allegedly assaulted by the Valasaravakkam police over a civil dispute. It also recommended the state to initiate appropriate disciplinary action against the sub-inspector of the station. SHRC acting chairperson D Jayachandran passed the order while partly allowing the complaint made by N Boopalan. The complainant retired as a sub-inspector in 2015 after serving the state police force for 32 years. He resides with his family in Karambakkam and has a dispute with his younger brother N Chandrasekaran over an ancestral property. A civil suit is also pending on the same. According to the complainant, though he had made several complaints against his brother since he made frequent quarrels over the property dispute, police failed to take any action against him since his wife is a relative of MLA M K Mohan of Anna Nagar constituency. While so, on August 27, 2018, the complainant was summoned to the Valasaravakkam police station for inquiry. When he visited the station the then sub-inspector P B Theerthagiri snatched his mobile phone and other documents. The complainant alleged that he was assaulted by the SI and the inspector in the station in front of his brother and was threatened to settle the property dispute with his brother. Denying the allegation, the police officers submitted that the complainant was taken to the station for causing nuisance and was let off after registering a case. However, considering the oral and documentary evidence, the commission concluded that the human rights of the complainant had been violated at the hands of the police. The commission then ordered the compensation to be paid by the then sub-inspector Theerthagiri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/shrc-asks-govt-to-pay-rs-50000-relief-to-ex-cop-who-was-assaulted/articleshow/79310674.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Goa||Shristhal gets new sarpanch||Poinguinim: Pandurang aka Datta Gurkho Gaonkar was on Thursday elected unopposed as the new sarpanch of seven-member Shristhal village panchayat. As there was just one nomination paper filed, Anil Naik from the Canacona block development office declared Gaonkar elected unopposed. The post of sarpanch fell vacant after Ganesh Gaonkar tendered his resignation as per a mutual understanding between the panchayat members. Speaking to TOI, the newly elected sarpanch said his priority would be to get the water woes faced by the the village resolved. He said he would discuss the problem with the deputy speaker and Canacona MLA Isidore Fernandes. Gaonkar also said he would highlight the issue of educated youth being unemployed and also the pot-holed interior roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/shristhal-gets-new-sarpanch/articleshow/79311951.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Dr Reddy’s faces complaint in Ukraine over 'improper benefits' to healthcare professionals||HYDERABAD: Less than a month after it became the target of a ransomware attack, Hyderabad-based pharma major Dr Reddy’s Laboratories finds itself facing yet another challenge. An anonymous complaint has alleged the company gave “improper benefits” to healthcare professionals in Ukraine and potentially other countries in violation of US laws, Dr Reddy’s informed the bourses on Thursday. The company said it has roped in an independent US law firm to probe. Sources said the anonymous complaint was made by a whistleblower from within the company’s operations in Ukraine to the ombudsman appointed by the company. Complaint originated from Ukraine, confirms Dr Reddy’sWhen contacted, Dr Reddy’s president and CFO Saumen Chakraborty confirmed that the complaint originated from Ukraine, which is the primary focus of the investigation. “This is a whistleblower (complaint). We have a policy of ombudsman. Our chief ombudsman is chairman of the audit committee. Then it goes to our chief compliance officer. We encourage people to report if there is anything. We take these matters seriously and thought we should give a voluntary disclosure,” he said. However, he refused to divulge any other details including the name of the law firm probing the allegations. “This is to inform you that Dr Reddy' s Laboratories Limited has commenced a detailed investigation into an anonymous complaint. The complaint alleges that healthcare professionals in Ukraine and potentially in other countries were provided with improper benefits in violation of US laws. The investigation is being carried out by a reputed independent US law firm,” the company said in a regulatory filing to the Indian and US bourses. Apart from the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) and National Stock Exchange (NSE) in India, the generic drug maker is also listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). The whistleblower complaint comes even as the company, which is gearing up to conduct Phase II/III trials of Russian Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V in India along with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), is investigating the ransomware attack that took place in the wee hours of October 22 and disrupted its global operations. For the data breach the company has engaged external, international cybersecurity experts. The cyberattack on Dr Reddy’s came a week after it got approval to conduct the human trials for Sputnik V in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dr-reddys-face-plaint-in-ukraine-over-benefits/articleshow/79312528.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
November 20, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: VS Achuthanandan’s ex-personal staff Latheesh B Chandran to take on CPM||ALAPPUZHA: Latheesh B Chandran, the former personal staff of CPM leader V S Achuthanandan, will take on CPM candidate J Jayalal as an independent from ward number 12 of Muhamma grama panchayat in Alappuzha. Chandran, who was arrested in connection with the attack on P Krishna Pillai memorial, was acquitted by the Alappuzha district and sessions court in July this year. Though he was let off in the case, Chandran was expelled from the party. The former CPM activist faces a tough road ahead as the ward has always stood with the CPM. When contacted, Chandran refused to make any comments on his decision to contest the elections. “Muhamma is a CPM bastion. This grama panchayat has 16 wards and a majority of them have always stood with the Communist party. In its history, the panchayat has never been ruled by any other party. People of ward number 12, with about 1,000 voters, too have always stood by CPM. We will definitely win in this election,” said Jayalal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/vss-ex-personal-staff-latheesh-to-take-on-cpm/articleshow/79309527.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Chandigarh||HC upholds Haryana board call to hold diploma exams||CHANDIGARH: Upholding the decision of the Board of School Education Haryana to conduct the annual examination for the students pursuing Diploma in Elementary Education (DElEd) course, the Punjab and Haryana high court has observed that while the outbreak of pandemic Covid-19 has resulted in unprecedented difficulties in all aspects of life, “ultimately the life has to go on”. “In our opinion, though there is a pandemic situation, ultimately life has to go on and the career of the students cannot be put on peril for long and a full academic year cannot be wasted,” the HC observed. Incidentally, the examinations are already underway after commencing in the last week of October. Earlier, the same were to be held in July, but the board had deferred them in the wake of the pandemic. The HC observed that the decision to hold the examination was taken by the board after taking into consideration all facts and circumstances. “Counsel for the petitioner is unable to point out any ground for this court to interfere in the policy decision so taken by the respondent – Board. Future of the students, who are not even before this court, cannot be put in peril by setting aside the scheduled examinations or making the same contingent upon an option being provided to the students to take the examination online,” observed the court. Justice Lisa Gill of the HC passed the order while dismissing the petition filed by the Association of NCTE Approved Colleges Trust, seeking quashing of the schedule of exams for DElEd notified earlier by the board. The petitioner body had prayed that an option should have been offered to the students to take the examinations in online mode due to the outbreak of the pandemic, as a large number of DElEd candidates are from states like UP, Bihar, Rajasthan and other distant places. Responding to the petition, the board had, however, claimed that 98 examination centres would be set up for a total of 37,836 students and all necessary precautions would be taken to maintain social distancing. Exams were to be held in JulyThe examinations are already underway after commencing in the last week of October. Earlier, the same were to be held in July, but the board had deferred them in the wake of the pandemic. The HC observed that the decision to hold the examination was taken by the board after taking into consideration all facts and circumstances. Justice Lisa Gill of the HC passed the order while dismissing the petition filed by the Association of NCTE Approved Colleges Trust, seeking quashing of the schedule of exams for DElEd notified earlier by the board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-upholds-haryana-board-call-to-hold-diploma-exams/articleshow/79311952.cms||Ajay Sura
November 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: Parole of 4,500 prisoners extended||CHANDIGARH: The Haryana government has approved to extend special parole or interim bail of as many as 4,585 prisoners till December 31 in view of the prevalent Covid-19 situation. It includes 1,459 undertrial prisoners and 3,126 convicts. An official spokesperson said chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, on the recommendation of a high-powered committee headed by Justice Daya Chaudhary of the Punjab and Haryana high court, had approved a proposal in this regard at a meeting held on November 12. These prisoners have been granted special parole or interim bail on the directions issued by the Supreme Court on March 23. Authorities concerned shall be free to cancel the special parole or interim bail, as the case may be, in case any complaint regarding misuse of special parole or interim bail is received against any convict or undertrial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/parole-of-4-5k-prisoners-extended/articleshow/79311954.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Lucknow||SIT to investigate tampering of LDA’s online property records||LUCKNOW: A Special investigation team (SIT) has been formed to probe the alleged tampering with online property records of the the Lucknow Development Authority. The SIT will comprise LDA officials and cyber crime experts of Lucknow police. LDA officials claim that around 50 cases have come to the fore in which information related to a particular property was changed in the online records. Since there are apprehensions that the number could be much more, the SIT under LDA joint secretary Ritu Suhas has been constituted. On LDA’s request, Lucknow police has nominated assistant commissioner of police, cyber cell, Vivek Ranjan to help in the probe. Ranjan will be assisted by five more members of the cell. LDA system executive SB Bhatnagar said, “LDA maintains online records of every property transaction to ensure transparency. Buyers are allotted unique ID with a password to keep a tab. In October, we received a complaint from one of the buyers that his property shows the name of another person as owner. A probe was ordered when more such complaints were received. So far, we have come across 50 cases in which property records have been changed like name of the owner, address, cost, date of purchase and unique ID.” These properties included 34 housing units (24 underconstruction), 10 commercial and six plots located in Gomtinagar, Kanpur Road and Sarojininagar areas. Their total cost is around Rs 30 crore. An FIR was lodged with the Gomtinagar police station on November 8. Only clerks and computer operators working in the cell have access to all unique IDs. “Though there is a possibility of an insider hand in the scam, we can also not rule out hacking, hence help of the police's cyber cell was sought.” Bhatnagar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sit-to-investigate-tampering-of-ldas-online-property-records/articleshow/79312524.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Goa||‘Repay coop bank loans or face action’||BICHOLIM: Cooperation minister Govind Gaude on Thursday warned those who owe money to cooperative banks of stringent action if they do not repay the loans. Gaude said the government is planning to frame a new law to punish loan defaulters in the state in order to support the cooperative societies and banks which are facing losses due to non-payment loans “by those who were helped by these societies during their crucial time”. He urged the defaulters to pay their loans by taking advantage of the special one-time settlement (OTS) scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/repay-coop-bank-loans-or-face-action/articleshow/79311956.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Ban on, ghats go barren on Chhath||NEW DELHI: The Yamuna ghats wore a desolate look on Friday due to the restrictions imposed by the government on celebration of Chhath Puja at public places. India Gate and Yamuna Pushta near Geeta Colony had been barricaded by police to stop people from entering the area. At India Gate, the waterbodies had been emptied out and barricaded on one side to stop people from gathering there to offer prayers to the Sun God at sunset and sunrise. People had made temporary arrangements at their homes or neighbourhoods to celebrate the two-day festival. At Badarpur, a group of devotees had dug a temporary pond on a vacant plot for conducting the rituals. “Since public gathering is not allowed, we have decided to utilise a vacant plot for offering puja. The pandemic has not only impacted our lives, but also deeply affected the way festivals are celebrated,” said a local resident. Till last week, Ranjit Ram, a resident of Ghondli near Krishna Nagar, and his family members were hoping to perform puja on the Yamuna banks. They decided to make alternative arrangements after the restrictions were imposed by Delhi Disaster Management Authority and Delhi High Court at ghats and temples due to increasing cases of Covid-19. “Performing puja in a tub would have been difficult for the three women in our house, so we bought a huge children’s swimming pool. People should abide by the norms because that is the only way to avoid spreading infection,” said Ram. Reva Chichani, a resident of Mukherjee Nagar SFS Flats, said, “Every year, we perform puja in a swimming pool constructed in the middle of the colony. Usually, it is decorated beautifully for the festival. But this year everyone made up their mind to not gather there because maintaining social distancing becomes difficult during festivities.” She performed the puja in the tub. “Apart from praying for the well-being of the family, we also prayed for the novel coronavirus to end,” said Aprajita Saran, another resident. On Friday, Delhi Police distributed tubs among people living in the slum clusters of Khizrabad and Taimoor Nagar so that they could perform Chhath Puja in their homes. New Friends Colony SHO inspector Suman Kumar, under whose jurisdiction the areas fall in, said the move was aimed at preventing people from going to the Yamuna ghats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ban-on-ghats-go-barren-on-chhath/articleshow/79330886.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Lucknow||No cultural shows this year||Lucknow: All-India Bhojpuri Samaj has decided not to organise any cultural programme during the Chhath Puja this year due to Covid-19. Samaj president Prabhunath Rai said his organisation has been organising Chhath Puja at the Lakshman Mela ground on the Gomti banks for the past 36 years. Lauding CM Yogi Adityanath for extending full help to them in orgainsing the Chhath Puja, he said that this year every devotee visiting the ghat for puja would have to follow the Covid-19 protocols.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/no-cultural-shows-this-year/articleshow/79312529.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Radio lessons planned for classes 1-3 in govt schools||BENGALURU: The department of public instruction is planning to launch radio programmes for government school children in classes 1-3. While students from classes 5-10 are occupied with TV classes, those in lower grades are not engaged through any sort of virtual class. “Initial rounds of discussions are on,” confirmed Anbu Kumar, commissioner for public instruction. “It’s not advisable to have TV classes for the lower sections due to the strain it may have on the eye. We therefore decided against any TV programmes. We had broadcast a small programme through All India Radio on Children’s Day. We plan to expand on it.” The department of state education research and training (DSERT) will plan the content and it is in the process of identifying resource people. “Unlike TV, radio programmes do not offer visuals and therefore preparing scripts requires more effort to make it effective,” said MR Maruti, director, DSERT. “Resource persons will also identify lessons from the Nali-Kali scheme that can be converted to radio programmes. While the reach of television is huge, Aakashavani says the reach of radio too is as wide. It can even be accessed on low-cost mobile phones.” The expert committee, that had submitted a report on continuity of learning in the state amidst the pandemic, had suggested a combination of TV and radio, along with other mediums to impart lesson. While TV classes were launched for high school students, sources say it took time to extend it to lower classes as there was no time slot available. Also, the department had challenges with other logistics like lack of studios. “Karnataka has a history of interactive radio instruction (IRI) when it was launched in Chamarajanagar, Raichur and Kalaburagi in 2005 as a pilot,” said Maya Menon, founder director, Teacher Foundation. “There were some positive outcomes too. However, IRI was not leveraged much, even when teachers were in classrooms for interactive sessions based on radio lessons. Radio can be a great platform and it has been used globally to reach geographically remote locations. However I feel it’s rather late in the day for the government to launch it now. It should have been considered eight months ago when the schools went first into the lockdown. It’s important to devise ways in which lesson can be imparted instead of just tinkering with approaches.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/radio-lessons-mooted-for-students-in-classes-1-3-in-govt-schools/articleshow/79309742.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
November 20, 2020||Kolkata||New port app with real-time truck data||KOLKATA: Soon, fewer trucks will leave the Kolkata port premises empty after dropping off containers. On Wednesday, Vinit Kumar, chairman, Syama Prasad Mookerjee Port Trust (SPMPT), launched a web and mobile app based transport solution in association with Gocon Logistics Pvt Ltd, that will help importers connect with transporters directly. Around 800 trucks/trailers enter and exit Kolkata Dock System (KDS) daily. A large number of them travel one-way empty. The app will provide real-time visibility of available trucks/trailers around KDS to port users. “They can then be booked by users online, thereby increasing back-loading at the port and reducing the number of empty vehicles plying on the dock roads. The platform will will improve the vehicle utilization for transporters and reduce the process time, congestion and logistics cost for users,” a port official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-port-app-with-real-time-truck-data/articleshow/79310676.cms||Jayanta Gupta
November 20, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh further restricts indoor event attendance||SHIMLA: Amid spike in Covid-19 positive cases and deaths, Himachal Pradesh has decided that in closed spaces outside the containment zone only 100 people can gather while wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. Those involved in catering will have to undergo Covid-19 test not earlier than 96 hours before the event. The chief secretary-cum-chairman of the state executive committee issued a detailed order on Wednesday on fresh standard operating procedures (SOPs) for indoors functions in the state. Earlier, in the SOP issued on October 17, the government had enhanced the limit of gathering of people for for social, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious, political and other congregations to 200 in closed spaces. While in open spaces the gathering was allowed to exceed 200 persons depending on the size of ground or space in view. Now, in the fresh order it has been stated that in closed spaces, in areas outside the containment zone, a maximum of 50% of the hall capacity will be allowed, with a ceiling of 100 persons. Wearing of face masks, maintaining social distancing, provision of thermal scanning and use of hand wash or sanitiser would be mandatory in all such venues. In gatherings where community kitchen or dham or professional catering are to be arranged, the managers and catering staff as far as possible, will be required to undergo tests through rapid antigen test kit for Covid-19 with the help of local health officials not earlier than 96 hours before the event. “They will also ensure adherence to highest level of personal and environmental hygiene all the time, especially at the time of preparing, serving or eating meals and disposal of waste,” said the order. Respective district administrations have been directed to implement these orders with the support of panchayati raj institutions and urban local bodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/hp-further-restricts-indoor-event-attendance/articleshow/79311962.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Goa||In night-long drive, CCP penalises parking violators||PANAJI: The traffic cell and Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) penalised owners of 71 vehicles for parking violations along the Patto-Fontainhas stretch on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday. In a crackdown that lasted seven hours, officials clamped 17 private four-wheelers, and towed 54 two-wheelers, which also included rent-a-bikes parked at Joao Castro road. Officials collected Rs 28,000 in fines. “The vehicles were parked on the footpath or at ‘No Parking’ zones at night. CCP staff along with the traffic cell started rounding up the vehicles up at 8pm and continued to do so till 3am. Majority of these vehicles, especially two-wheelers, belong to casino staff,” city mayor Uday Madkaikar said. The night-long drive was taken up after several residents in the vicinity complained of their gates, main doors, besides footpaths and lanes congested due to irresponsible parking. On Thursday, CCP held a meeting with Panaji MLA Atanasio Monserrate along with CCP commissioner Sanjit Rodrigues, DySP traffic Salim Shaikh and other officials. Stringent fines will be imposed on wringly parked vehicles, while regular drives will be carried out at night from Friday, Madkaikar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-night-long-drive-ccp-penalises-parking-violators/articleshow/79311960.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 20, 2020||Goa||Accident: Usgao village road claims third life within 36 hours||PONDA: With the death of Vithal Fonde, 27, a resident of Bolkarnem-Sancorda in Dharbandora taluka, the Usgao village road has claimed a third life within 36 hours. Incidentally, all three youths who have died were bikers in their 20s. In the recent case, Fonde who was riding to Sancorda collided head-on with a tempo at Par-Khandepar, Khursakade, in Usgao on Thursday evening, less than 3km from Wadakade where two youths were killed in another road accident on Wednesday morning. Ponda police said Fonde, who was employed with a housekeeping firm and posted at the ITI in Borda-Margao, was returning home at 7pm when the accident occurred. The impact was such that Fonde was thrown off the bike and sustained grievous injuries. The two-wheeler was totally mangled. Fonde was rushed to Dharbandora primary health centre (PHC), but medical officers on duty declared him ‘dead on arrival’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/accident-usgao-village-road-claims-third-life-within-36-hours/articleshow/79311966.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Chennai||HC to AICTE: Can pvt college teachers have min wages?||Chennai: A Trichy-based activist has moved the Madras high court for a direction to Tamil Nadu government to disburse salaries of private school, college teachers from the state treasury. Petitioner K M Karthik also wanted the court to reduce the fee structures of private schools and colleges as much as possible after a detailed audit by the income tax department. Admitting the plea, a division bench of Justice M Sathyanarayanan and Justice R Hemalatha directed the All India Council of Technical Education (AICTE) to file a detailed report on fixing a minimum wage for teachers in private institutions. According to the petitioner, though the court has permitted the institutions to collect fees from parents of students for the lockdown period, many institutions have failed to pay salaries of their staff including the teaching staff. Pointing out that private schools are not governed by any legislation that specifies a salary structure for teaching faculty, the petitioner submitted that in some institutions, teachers are paid as low as Rs 5,000 a month. Though private colleges are mandated to follow AICTE guidelines, according to which every teaching staff is entitled to a salary of Rs 68,000, most of the colleges do not follow the rules as the monitoring mechanism is poor, the petitioner said. “In these unprecedented times, teachers do not demand pay as shown in records of the colleges. All they ask for is their salary,” he added. The petitioner also wanted the court to intervene and direct the state to reduce the fee structure of all private schools and colleges in the state after conducting a thorough income tax audit of the educational institutions. Recording the submissions, the bench adjourned the plea to February 5 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-to-aicte-can-pvt-college-teachers-have-min-wages/articleshow/79310678.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Kochi||Congress, CPM pit siblings against each other||KOTTAYAM: Reminding one of the political satire film ‘Sandhesham’ released way back in 1991, two brothers representing Congress and CPM are fighting against each other in a panchayat ward here. Unlike the warring brothers Prakasan and Prabhakaran in the film, Janeesh J, 43, and Sajath S, 44, said that they are friendly and never discuss politics at home. Janeesh is a staunch Leftist and Sajath a hardcore Congress worker and both are ready to do whatever their party asks them to do. Both brothers were asked to contest by their respective parties. After the Congress fielded Sajath, the very next day CPM asked Janeesh to fight against his brother.  Though the brothers term their fight as a healthy one, their mother V S Sarasu is in a dilemma. “It’s a difficult situation. One of my sons will win and one will lose. I am happy as well as sad,” said Sarasu, who retired from BSNL. Her husband Krishnankutty had died when the children were very young. She said that both her sons are grown up and she can’t stop them from taking on each other. The siblings are contesting for ward 11 of Vijayapuram panchayat, a traditional LDF fort. Sajath was a KSU activist during his campus days and was elected as councillor on two occasions while studying polytechnic in Kanhangad. He was the mandalam secretary of Youth Congress from 1998-2007 and since 2007 was an active Congress worker. He is into electronics business. Meanwhile, Janeesh started with SFI during his college days. He became the unit president of DYFI in Manganam. Currently, he is the branch committee member of CPM. Janeesh is an electrician by profession. “Though we both had different political leanings right from our childhood we never fought each other over it,” said Sajath.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cong-cpm-pit-siblings-against-each-other/articleshow/79309567.cms||Jaikrishnan Nair
November 20, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: DVAC to probe all police telecom tenders since 2008||CHENNAI: The Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) is set to probe all major purchases made by the telecommunication and police modernisation wing of the Tamil Nadu police since 2008. The directorate, around two weeks ago, sent a letter to the state director general of police’s office asking for details required. The development comes nine months after the agency began a probe against M Anbuchezian, superintendent of police (SP), technical, in the DGP’s office for alleged corruption in various procurements by the wing. On February 8, searches were carried out at 18 places including Anbuchezian’s residence and office as well as premises of other government officials and private parties suspected to be involved. “We have clinching evidence of kickbacks transferred to Anbuchezian’s wife’s accounts. It is a solid case,” a DVAC source privy to the investigation told TOI. The FIR of the case, however, has not yet been uploaded to the agency’s website till date. Police sources said Anbuchezhian is now posted at Elcott. The DVAC has sought from the DGP details of all purchases and work incurring cost of more than Rs 5 lakh made since January 1, 2008. It has also sought a list and chronology of officials/ officers responsible for implementation of various schemes such as Police Modernisation, TN Innovation Initiatives, from the level of additional inspector general (AIG) to DGP. The information must include name of the works, file number, total amount spent, year of execution, name and details of company, firm or individual who executed the work, details of the tender inviting and accepting authority and details of officials involved in the process. In the case on hand, the agency is looking into 13 officials other than Anbuchezian and two private firms. The scam came into light after allegations of irregularities in purchase of technical gadgets such as mobiles, CCTV surveillance systems, tablet PCs, GPS and spare battery for VHF sets from 2016-18 cropped up. TOI had first reported this in September 2019 based on a letter written by then home secretary Niranjan Mardi ordering a DVAC probe into the irregularities. This was after an initial inquiry by the DGP’s office showed prima facie irregularities and misconduct by certain officials including Anbuchezhian. Tenders worth around Rs 300 crore were under scrutiny by DVAC, sources had then told TOI. Anbuchezian was also part of tender scrutiny committees that decided on the eligibility of bidders for police modernisation equipments like Digital Mobile Radio (DMR) systems, APCO, CCTV systems and related electronic items. Documents available with TOI showed that a particular company was favoured in most of the tenders and that there would be only one bidder for the tenders. Documents also showed that Anbuchezhian had overruled concerns raised by senior officials in tender deliberations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/dvac-to-probe-all-police-telecom-tenders-since-2008/articleshow/79310712.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
November 20, 2020||Dehradun||State records 386 new Covid cases, 6 more deaths||DEHRADUN: The state’s coronavirus tally reached 69,693 with 386 fresh cases being reported on Thursday. With the end of the festive season and people returning to their jobs after vacations, the health department has strengthened screening at railway stations. During the Covid-19 review meeting on Thursday, health secretary Amit Negi said that the state should set a target of testing 10,000 to 12,000 people every day. “With the festival season and winters fast approaching, every district should have a plan to tackle the spurt in cases. Special screenings should be conducted near bus stands, airports and railway stations to check every traveller,” he added. According to the health department, around 10,179 samples were tested on Thursday out of which 386 were positive. “Dehradun reported the highest number of Covid cases (137) followed by Nainital (53), Pithoragarh (37), Haridwar (35), Pauri (29), Udham Singh Nagar (25), Chamoli (21), Tehri (13), Bageshwar (13), Rudraprayag (8), Almora (6), Champawat (5) and Uttarkashi (4 ) district,” said Abhishek tripathi from the Covid-19 control room. With six deaths being reported on Thursday, the death toll reached 1,133 in the Himalayan state, while the total recoveries reached 63,808 with 388 patients recovering from the infection. The Shri Mahant Indiresh Hospital authorities have now dedicated a separate wing of the hospital for the treatment of Covid-19 and non-Covid patients. “We have done this so that the patients and their attendants are not hesitant in visiting the hospital for treatment. The same has been done as we have seen an increase in the number of patients of super speciality services, like neurology, neuro surgery, urology, gastroenterology, cardiac, dialysis, breast and endocrine surgery, kidney-related diseases, pediatric surgery, plastic and cosmetic surgery. Similarly, there has be an increase in number of patients of general medicine, general surgery, obstetrics and other treatments,” said medical superintendent Dr Anil Kumar Dhawan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/state-records-386-new-covid-cases-6-more-deaths/articleshow/79309565.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 20, 2020||Chandigarh||B S Ghuman quits as Punjabi University vice-chancellor||CHANDIGARH: No financial support from the Punjab government to the university during such a crisis had disappointed academia, Shiromani Akali Dal (Democratic) leader Parminder Singh Dhindsa said on Thursday while reacting to the resignation of Punjabi University vice-chancellor (VC) B S Ghuman. Ghuman resigned from his post on Tuesday, citing personal reasons. He was granted extension around two months back to run the university and had been facing a number of protests by the university faculty members over issues of salaries and clearance of dues of late. Guest faculty lecturers were also protesting against the university authorities over non-clearance of dues. “The state government was going to set up a new sports university in Patiala. However, abandonment of Punjabi University, which has made the Malwa region immensely rich in the field of education, is an indication that the government is not serious about important institutions,” said Dhindsa. Dhindsa, MLA from Lehra, also appealed to the alumni living in the country and abroad to come forward to save the university. He said he was saddened by Ghuman’s resignation, who was an expert in the field of education. “The VC had sought financial help from the Punjab government but he decided to resign as there was no response,” added Dhindsa. He said he would do his utmost to save the university and would submit a memorandum to Punjab governor V P Singh Badnore, who was the chancellor of the university, seeking financial assistance for the institution. Hailing from Arkwas village of Sangrur district, Ghuman studied in Punjabi University and was a professor of public administration at the Panjab University, Chandigarh. He was appointed as the VC of the Punjabi University in August 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ghuman-quits-as-pbi-varsity-vc/articleshow/79311969.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh: NGT; ensure remedial action in two months||SHIMLA: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the secretary, urban development department to ensure remedial action in two months and file a compliance report on the issue of violation of Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 and Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 at Dughneri village of Hamirpur district. The order has been issued on a petition filed by Rita Sharma and a few others who stated that due to failure to handle waste, it is being burnt, causing air pollution beside resulting in diseases, loss of livestock and forest fires. Petitioners alleged that the waste has led to increase in the population of monkeys, feral dogs and scavengers like crows and vultures, etc. The dump site is overflowing and contaminating the water body, which is a source of irrigation, they said. The applicant also produced relevant photographs and letters. The Tribunal, on January 14, sought a report from the deputy commissioner, Hamirpur, municipal council, Hamirpur and Himachal Pradesh State Pollution Control Board. The joint inspection report filed by the state pollution control board before the Tribunal on November 13 stated that the joint inspection committee (JIC) had directed the MC to join the corners of the RCC retaining wall with the hill side to avoid spillage of solid waste and provide proper fencing to prevent entry of stray animals inside the facility. The report said directions were also issued to construct a storm drain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/ngt-ensure-remedial-action-in-2-months/articleshow/79311971.cms||Anand Bodh
November 20, 2020||Hubballi||Hubballi: Many patients did not develop antibodies, says KIMS doctors||HUBBALLI: Many symptomatic patients, who recovered from Covid-19 infection, did not develop antibodies even 60 days later, doctors at Karnataka Institute of Medical Science (KIMS), Hubballi have observed. Doctors say they discovered this when recovered patients — many of them PG students working in KIMS — turned up to donate plasma. While conducting the IgG test, they noticed the lack of antibodies. IgG antibody is a protein the body produces in the latter stages of infection and may remain for some time after a person has recovered. Officials at KIMS said 107 people have donated blood samples for IgG test, which is mandatory to donate plasma. Of these, only 56 were reactive – or they had developed antibodies. The remaining donors were turned away because of the lack of antibodies. Dr Ram Kaulgud, associate professor, KIMS, said even people who have recovered from Covid-19 should remain vigilant. “We noticed that in many people who had recovered, antibodies which protect one from reinfection were absent. This means recovered patients could catch the infection again and should not let their guard down. They should wear a mask, maintain hand hygiene and follow social distancing. Generally, everyone should stay vigilant till a vaccine is found. They should not feel that Covid cases are dropping and the disease is vanishing. We could witness a second wave at any time.” Kaulgud said some people who have recovered from Covid and who have high titration for antibodies, have caught a second infection, which is worrying. Dr Ramlingappa, KIMS director, said he is aware recovered patients have not developed antibodies, but could not give an exact figure on the number of people who did not develop antibodies. “But taking precaution is always good,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/many-people-who-recovered-did-not-develop-antibodies-say-kims-docs/articleshow/79309803.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
November 20, 2020||Kochi||Alappuzha: Polls give video editors a new lease of life||ALAPPUZHA: The lockdown had given video editors sleepless nights due to job losses. But the local body polls have given them a fresh lease of life. Young video editors are now busy making campaign videos for candidates to be uploaded on social media. Hundreds of such videos of candidates with background music from films like Ramaleela, KGF, Kalki and Bahubali are put up on Whatsapp status, Facebook and Instagram. Due to the Covid protocol, candidates and their supporters are unable to visit every house in their wards seeking votes. They are now preferring WhatsApp and other social media videos for reaching out to the voters. The video editors have come forward with various video packages for the candidates. “I have to finish at least 100 videos for the candidates of LDF, UDF and NDA. I never expected this many orders during Covid times. I have two package options. The first package for Rs 1,500 comprises 30 second Whatsapp status video and one-minute FB and Insta video and a clear still of the candidate from the video. The second package is related to 2D-animation videos and the cost for one such video is Rs 1,000. I have done 50 videos so far for the candidates from Ernakulam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha and Kottayam districts,” said 30-year-old Sonu R, hailing from Cherthala. This time, all political parties have given priority to youth candidates. According to video editors, this is also a reason for the high demand of social media videos for attracting voters. They said that this is the first time that they are getting so many orders and revenue during election time. “The videos should have attractive BGM of films, colourful stills of the candidate and catchy words,” said 29-year-old Harijith H, who takes orders from political parties for social media campaigning videos. According to Sreejith CP, a UDF candidate from Kanjikuzhy grama panchayat, people are not comfortable if the candidates visit their houses seeking their support. “So, we are giving importance to online campaigning. We are depending on video editors for campaigning videos and such videos are getting good viewership in social media. In my ward, there are 1,427 voters. I and my supporters are ensuring that all my videos reach my voters,” said Sreejith.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/polls-give-video-editors-a-new-lease-of-life/articleshow/79309606.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Meerut||Temperatures dip but 40% of UP govt school students are yet to get sweaters; deadline shifted to Nov 30||Meerut: Winter season is already here, but so far only 60% of Uttar Pradesh government school students have been given sweaters. The initial deadline for sweater distribution was fixed as October 31. With 40% sweaters yet to be distributed, the deadline has been shifted to November 30. The state government has warned that stretching beyond this deadline will lead to action against the authorities concerned. According to government norms, sweaters are distributed among government school students every year free of cost. Despite schools being closed due to the Covid-19 lockdown, the sweater distribution exercise was continued uninterrupted. “It has come to the fore that only 60% sweaters have so far been distributed. In fact, eight districts of the total 75 districts of the state have not even completed the procurement of the sweaters. Strict instructions have been given to all the districts to ensure that all the sweaters are distributed by November 30 or else action will be taken against the authorities concerned,” said Vijay Kiran Anand, managing director, school education, UP, in a letter. The sweaters are to be distributed among a total number of 1.59 crore students. It has to be ensured that each sweater costs Rs 200 and does not exceed the limit. “Instructions have also been given to the districts where sweaters have been disbursed among very few students to expedite the distribution and ensure it is completed in the said deadline,” said Anand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/temperatures-dip-but-40-of-up-govt-school-students-are-yet-to-get-sweaters-deadline-shifted-to-nov-30/articleshow/79307517.cms||Ishita Bhatia
November 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Excise helpline number evokes positive response||CHANDIGARH: The helpline launched by the Punjab excise department to curb the trade of banned liquor has evoked positive response. People can report complaints relating to excise crimes on the helpline number 9875961126. A department spokesman said any person can give information on this helpline number by voice call, SMS message or WhatsApp message. A total of 265 complaints have been received since August 8 and action has been taken on 250 of these, the spokesman said. He added that on the basis of these complaints, 22 FIRs have been lodged and two persons have been arrested. Also, 414 illicit liquor bottles, 19 cases of liquor, 295 litres of illicit liquor and more than 97,200 kg of lahan has been seized, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/excise-helpline-number-evokes-positive-response/articleshow/79311972.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Dehradun||Just over 3 lakh visited Char Dham in the year of Covid, lowest turnout since 2013 Kedar tragedy||Dehradun: The portals of Badrinath and Madmaheshwar (considered ‘second Kedarnath’) temples closed on Thursday, marking the end of the Char Dham Yatra this year. Only 3.1 lakh people went on the yatra amid pandemic, which is the lowest turnout since the 2013 Kedarnath tragedy. Last year, the Char Dham Yatra had seen around 38 lakh pilgrims leading to earnings of around Rs 40 crore. This year, the temple earnings were barely Rs 8 crore. According to the officials of the Devasthanam Board, around 4,500 devotees were present in Badrinath at the time of the temple’s closing ceremony performed at 3.35 pm on Thursday. The temple was opened at 4.30 am and a series of rituals were performed as part of the closing ceremony presided over by the chief priest of the shrine. A special blanket made by the women of Mana, the last Indian village in Chamoli, was offered to Lord Badri Vishal. Uttarakhand Devasthanam Management Board chief executive officer Ravinath Raman told TOI that the Char Dham Yatra began late this year -- in the first week of July (it usually commences in April) -- because of the Covid threat. “According to the latest figures till Thursday, over 1.45 lakh devotees visited the Badrinath temple followed by 1.34 lakh in Kedarnath, 23,837 in Gangotri and 7,731 in Yamunotri. We have issued a total 3.5 lakh e-passes,” said Raman, adding that initially just 800 to 1,200 pilgrims were allowed to visit each temple (till August), which was increased to 3,000 per day after Unlock 5. Portals of Gangotri temple were closed on November 15 while Yamunotri and Kedarnath temples were closed for winters on November 16. In 2014, a year after the Kedarnath tragedy, around 3.2 lakh pilgrims had made the pilgrimage. Kedarnath was visited by 40,835 devotees while 1.8 lakh had visited Badrinath that year. Yamunotri and Gangotri temples were visited by 59,704 and 38,244 people respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/just-over-3l-visited-char-dham-in-the-year-of-covid-lowest-turnout-since-2013-kedar-tragedy/articleshow/79309588.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 20, 2020||Ranchi||1k cops, NDRF teams to man waterbodies in Ranchi||Ranchi: As many as 1,000 cops will be stationed across all ghats in the city for keeping an eye on the devotees as they take their holy dip as part of arghya on Friday. In addition to this, four teams from the National Disaster Relief Fund will be deployed at the big water bodies to avert incidents of drowning while local divers, called ‘apda mitra (disaster protection friends), will be stationed at the smaller ghats. City SP Saurav said, “Even though Chhath remains mostly peaceful in the city, we have formed quick reaction teams to handle emergencies, if any.” Meanwhile, the district administration stated that ghats like Dhurwa Dam, Kanke Dam, Bada Talab, Chadri Talab and Buton Talab will be scanned with the help of drone cameras to see to it that arghya is performed in a smooth manner. The administration has asked circle officers and the officers-in-charge of several police stations to inspect the ponds and rivers frequently on Friday and make sure that the safety guidelines issued by the disaster management department are followed by the devotees. Rural SP Naushad Alam said, “A section of our police personnel has been tasked with reminding the devotees to follow the safety norms pertaining to Covid-19. They will use persuasion to prevent people from crowding around the water bodies.” Police are also talking to the puja committees to ensure that devotees wear masks and maintain social distancing during arghya. Meanwhile, the traffic department issued an order, prohibiting the movement of heavy vehicles within the city from 8am to 8:30pm on Friday and from 2 am to 10pm on Saturday. “Vehicular movement is prohibited on the roads leading up to the ghats,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/1k-cops-ndrf-teams-to-man-waterbodies-in-ranchi/articleshow/79309683.cms||Sanjay Sahay
November 20, 2020||Ranchi||‘Drunk’ elephants attack foresters’ team in Chandil; 1 dies, another injured||JAMSHEDPUR: A forest department officer was killed and another sustained injuries when a team out on patrol to help villagers was attacked by a herd of elephants, who had apparently consumed country liquor, at Balidih forest in Dhunaburu village under Chowka police station area in Chandil range area in adjoining Seraikela-Kharswan district on Wednesday night. Chandil range officer Ashok Kumar said an elephant in the herd of five trampled on Haricharan Mahato (45) and seriously injured Durgacharan Mahato, who is in his early forties. “Haricharan was the leader of the team that was formed to drive away the elephants from the foothills. Durgacharan, also a part of the team, is recuperating at Tata Main Hospital in Jamshedpur,” he said. Kumar said the team had gone to the village on receiving a call from the villagers that a herd of elephants had attacked the hamlet, damaging houses and destroying food grains stored in sacks. “The team rushed to the village and tried to make the herd retreat, but the elephant attacked the foresters. An elephant trampled on Haricharan while Durgacharan suffered injuries when he tried to rescue his team leader,” he said. “I suspect the elephant that attacked our team had consumed mahua (country liquor),” Kumar said, adding that elephants herd normally do not attack teams of rangers that are trained to drive them back into forests. Chowka police station in-charge Satyaveer Singh said an investigation will be conducted to ascertain the exact cause of the incident. Incidentally, three persons have died in elephant attacks in the Chandil and Kharaswan forest range in the last six months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/drunk-elephants-attack-foresters-team-in-chandil-1-dies-another-injured/articleshow/79309859.cms||B Sridhar
November 20, 2020||Ranchi||No data on post-Covid deaths, doctors worried||RANCHI: The state government does not have any data on the number of Covid-19 patients who die soon after being declared cured of the infection. There are many such patients, the most high profile being Haji Hussain Ansari, a minister in the Hemant Soren cabinet, who died of a cardiac arrest on October 3 hours after he tested negative for the virus. Like Ansari, recently cured patients who die of “other complications or comorbidities” are not included in the state’s tally of pandemic deaths and doctors have expressed concern over the lack of this key data, particularly with discharge norms being revised. As per the new protocols, a person who does not show Covid symptoms can be declared recovered without a confirmatory test. For instance, a 70-year-old woman, admitted to the Covid-19 ward at Rims Ranchi, died on Wednesday evening, 15 days after testing negative for the virus at the hospital. However, she was not included in the Covid death count. “Her lungs were damaged while she battled the infection,” said a source at Rims. Talking to TOI, a senior doctor and a member of the Indian Medical Association’s state chapter, said, “Most of these complications are triggered by the coronavirus infection and to not include them in Covid-19 deaths is not a correct practice as it conceals how vicious this virus really is. Moreover, not having any data on such casualties will only make people complacent, as has been seen across the country and in Ranchi during the festive season.” Health experts suggest the number of people who have succumbed because of Covid is much higher than the number the government is reporting. As per the state’s daily bulletin, Jharkhand has lost 934 people to the infection till November 18. However, the monthly casualty figure has been falling since August, when Jharkhand recorded 313 deaths. Doctors expressed surprise that the figure fell to 289 in September and 172 in October. The toll this month is likely to be lesser, possibly in double digits, as the state has recorded just 50 Covid deaths in the first 18 days of this month. When contacted, a senior doctor and public health expert said, “A Covid patient is defined as one who is infected till he tests negative. Once negative, he no more a Covid case. A patient testing negative may require ICU care further, but if they die, they are not reported as post Covid-19 deaths. Trust on the healthcare machinery is the biggest casualty in all this. Data should reflect reality and not be a tool for one-upmanship among states, districts and hospitals.” Some doctors, who spoke to TOI on condition of anonymity, say the absence of data helps show the state government’s handling of the pandemic in good light. Even hospitals can show a low mortality rate and bereaved families are spared of the stigma as bodies can be taken home for last rites. Offering a solution, the expert added “Post covid surveillance should be started immediately as the first wave has already came to an end. IDSP officials should start follow up of recovered patients at least on phone calls for 15 days to one month and should keep a tab on their health condition. These numbers will become critical to our understanding of the pandemic and how to deal with the next one when it arrives.” he said. State IDSP official Dr Praveen Karn did not respond to calls and text messages from TOI for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/no-data-on-post-cov-deaths-docs-worried/articleshow/79311005.cms||Gaurav Pandey
November 20, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand government’s unique kitchen gardening scheme picks up pace||RANCHI: The Jharkhand government’s unique kitchen gardening scheme titled, Didi Badi Yojana, which aims at ensuring food security, tackling malnutrition and providing a source of livelihood to the rural households is gaining momentum across the state. The scheme was rolled out under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) and promoted by the Jharkhand State Livelihood Promotion Society (JSLPS) in September this year for rural development and to promote kitchen gardening among women across 484 blocks of the state. Under the scheme, rural women, who are willing to take up kitchen gardening in plots sized between one decimal and 2 decimals within their households, farms and neighbourhoods will be assisted with seeds and saplings from government nurseries. They will be paid according to the rates of MGNREGA and will be trained by JSLPS. Highlighting the scheme, rural development minister Alamgir Alam said, "The government is already running three schemes — Birsa Harit Yojana, Nilamber-Pitamber Jal Samriddhi Yojana and Poto Ho Khel Yojana) to generate employment at rural areas under MGNREGA since the return of lakhs of migrants to their homes during the lockdown. However, we felt the need for Didi Badi Yojana from the viewpoint of adequate nourishment for women and children since schools and anganwadi centres were closed." Alam said the rural womenfolk can plant vegetables and lentils in their plots, which will supplement their nutrition. “The application process for the scheme has been kept simple. Interested beneficiaries can apply at the office of their respective blocks. Besides provision for seeds and training, the government will set up fences around their crops so that they are not damaged by animals and other livestock,” he said. So far, 18,000 women have availed the scheme benefits. The highest number of beneficiaries are in Pakur (2,107), followed by Chatra (1,853), Godda (1,731) and Simdega (1,520). Alam added that the state government will apprise Union minister of agriculture and food processing Narendra Singh Tomar at a video-conferencing on Friday and seek central assistance for the scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/state-govts-unique-kitchen-gardening-scheme-picks-up-pace/articleshow/79311012.cms||Dhritiman Ray
November 20, 2020||Ranchi||Curbing illegal mining activities not primary job of police: Jharkhand DGP||DUMKA: DGP M V Rao on Thursday said curbing illegal mining is not the primary mandate of the police and checking such activities is the job of mining, forest and transport departments. Rao's remarks came in the wake recent criticism of the police from several quarters that the force is silent against the illegal mining in the Santhal Pargana region. He said, "The basic job of the police is to maintain law and order. Curbing illegal mining activities is the primary duty of mines, forest and transport department. They can seek assistance from the police but should not transfer the entire responsibility to them." The DGP was in Dumka, part of the Santhal Pargana which comprises six districts, to take a stock of the law and order. He also reviewed the anti-Naxal operations in the area. He said, "Police have zero tolerance towards any kind of anti-social elements or activities. They will have a free hand in dealing with the Maoists and other forms of crime." In recent months, the police department was facing flak after several incidents of rape, murder and loot among others took place. In one of the recent cases, a local gangster identified as Munna Rai had attempted to kill a stone trader, Manoj Bhagat, in Shikaripara area. On November 12, Rai’s men allegedly shot at Bhagat for not heeding to their extortion demands. Bhagat is currently undergoing treatment and the incident had sparked fear among the traders. The police force came under the public ire for not being able to nab the culprits so far. Rai, in an audio clip doing the rounds on social media, claimed that he is a close aide of newly elected Dumka MLA and chief minister Hemant Soren's younger brother Basant Soren and threatened the traders to give in to his demands. While Basant has refuted the claims of Rai, opposition BJP has been targeting him and the government for the "lawlessness".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/curbing-illegal-mining-activities-not-primary-job-of-police-jharkhand-dgp/articleshow/79309817.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
November 20, 2020||Ranchi||IMA urges all to follow Covid norms||Jamshedpur: The Jamshedpur chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has expressed concern over a possible spike in Covid cases after Chhath Puja. The IMA members said as per the new directives announced by the state government, devotees can offer arghya at public water bodies and this may compromise social distancing norms and, in turn, lead to a spurt in positive cases. The former president of IMA Jamshedpur unit, Dr R L Agarwal, said Chhath devotees opting to perform puja at public water bodies should have been tested for Covid-19 a day before the festival. Dr Agarwal added that nearly 15,000 people were tested for Covid in Jamshedpur on a single day during a special drive, so the same could have been done before Chhath too. The IMA members have urged devotees to use masks and sanitizers at the ghats and other public places during the festival. They also added that the East Singhbhum district administration must ensure that no firecrackers are burst at the Chhath ghats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ima-urges-all-to-follow-covid-norms/articleshow/79309756.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
November 20, 2020||Ranchi||Ghats ready to host Chhath devotees today||RANCHI: After 48 hours of extensive sanitization by the Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC), ghats across the city are all set to welcome the Chhath devotees for morning and evening arghya from Friday. RMC’s deputy municipal commissioner Shankar Yadav said, “A total of 79 small and big ghats have been cleaned. We have also installed lights on the roads leading up to the water bodies so that the devotees don not face any inconvenience.” The civic body has also decided to put up barricades at danger points in the water bodies. Asked about the garbage dumps that were spotted near a few ghats on Wednesday, Yadav said, “Some devotees had dumped trash after Kali Puja but they have all been cleared now. I am personally supervising the entire sanitisation exercise to ensure that the ghats are squeaky clean.” The devotees are expected to throng the ghats for arghya by Friday afternoon and a dedicated sanitization team has been asked to spray 1% sodium hypochlorite solution at all the ghats before the devotees’ arrival. “Soon after arghya is done, the same team will sanitise the ghats on that night itself before the devotees arrive for arghya again on Saturday morning,” Yadav said. RMC, in collaboration with the district administration and social outfits, has also installed portable hand sanitizer dispensing machines at the ghats and put up banners and posters, urging the devotees to maintain social distancing and other safety norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ghats-ready-to-host-chhath-devotees-today/articleshow/79309913.cms||Gaurav Pandey
November 20, 2020||Ranchi||MP plans book banks in Ranchi, begins collection drive||RANCHI: BJP’s Ranchi MP Sanjay Seth has launched an initiative to set up book banks in his parliamentary constituency, which covers six assembly segments, in order to encourage people to read more and help underprivileged students who are unable to attend online classes owing to their inability to buy smartphones. While commencing the collection drive on Thursday, he appealed to the people to donate books which will be made available to the public free of cost. “On the occasion of Chhath Puja, let us all vow to read for social and personal enlightenment,” he said, adding, “Reading habit is on the wane, all thanks to social media and that’s why it is important that we encourage people to read more and more. Moreover, with schools resorting to online classes, students living in remote areas or those coming from a humble background are finding it difficult to follow their lessons. In such a situation, a book bank will be immensely helpful to them.” Seth has a set a target of collecting around one lakh books by the end of December. “I am not asking anyone to buy new books neither am I asking anyone to contribute money for this initiative. All I am asking is that you give away the books that you no longer require,” he said. Explaining the details as to how one will go about donating the books, Seth said, “For donations, one can call at 0651-2240060/2240054 to find out the nearest drop points. If required, we can also arrange for picking up the books in case the donor is unable to come to the drop point.” He added that people can also donate at samadhan kendras (facilitation centres) which have been set up by him in all the six segments under his constituency. “The banks should start functioning soon after the collection drive ends in December. Once done with the reading, people need to return the books to the bank,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/mp-plans-book-banks-in-ranchi-begins-collection-drive/articleshow/79311022.cms||ASRP Mukesh
November 20, 2020||Ranchi||Pandemic fallout make kids more vulnerable to trafficking||RANCHI: Even as the world gears up to celebrate International Children’s Day on Friday, experts have raised concerns over the increase in violations of child rights in the state during the Covid-19 pandemic. From being trafficked to lack of education and physical violence and sexual assault, children have become the most vulnerable section under the prevailing circumstances, organisations working for their cause said, appealing to the state government to step up its focus on safeguarding children. While a helpline number run by state resource centre (SRC) received only 37 calls related to child labour from January to October this year, they were flooded with complaints about several issues related to the outbreak. Among others, there were 89 complaints related to child trafficking, 156 regarding migration, 123 about closure of schools, 54 on collection of school fees and 134 about lack of school education. Sanjay Mishra, secretary of Bal Kalyan Sanghm which runs the SRC, said, “Due to large scale unemployment in rural areas, deprivation of benefits of government schemes and other adversities, parents are handing over their children to traffickers promising decent wages and living conditions to them.” He added that there 30,000 to 35,000 children from the state who are vulnerable to trafficking at the moment. NGO Save the Children also reiterated that the problem of trafficking has aggravated in the state due to the pandemic. Chittapriyo Sadhu, deputy director - programme management (East), said, “Traffickers are active in villages, looking for an opportunity to exploit families facing economic hardships.” Quoting the National Crime Records Bureau Report of 2019 which states that Jharkhand reported 373 cases of trafficking, of which 314 were minor girls, Sadhu said the state was already regarded as a hub for traffickers and with minimal income opportunities and closure of schools, children, particularly girls, have become more vulnerable. Child Welfare Committee, Ranchi, chairperson Rupa Verma said she has received a considerable number of complaints related to Pocso and other child rights violations in the recent months. She said, “In many cases of trafficking, the parents of victims seemed to be the least concerned. Whenever an inquiry is made, they express ignorance about where their child is or who took them and for what. This is probably a reflection of weak family bonds.” She added that there are also numerous instances when parents refused to come forward and register cases against traffickers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/pandemic-fallout-make-kids-more-vulnerable-to-trafficking/articleshow/79311033.cms||Sanjay Sahay
November 20, 2020||Ranchi||As mercury dips & passenger count soars, Ranchi railway div sets up kiosks to sell bedrolls||RANCHI: Ever since the viral outbreak in India, railways withdrew the bedrolls it traditionally offered to those on board its air-conditioned coaches citing a possible contamination of the deadly virus. However, as the mercury has started dipping with the onset of winter, the Ranchi railway division has set up kiosks in Ranchi station where the passengers can purchase bedrolls for their onward journeys. The move comes as Bihar-bound festive special trains are running at full capacity owing to Chhath Puja. As of Thursday, nearly 1,100 passengers waited for confirmation of their tickets on board the Ranchi-Patna festive special train, scheduled to depart on Friday. The waiting list for the train’s Saturday’s journey stood close to 1,090. The passengers can purchase a blanket at Rs 180 and a pillow at Rs 110. Linens are priced at Rs 50 per piece. “A private agency has been roped in to ensure that the passengers can purchase bedrolls at cheap rates,” a senior divisional officer requesting anonymity said. He added that the kiosk has been set up on an experimental basis and the service might continue depending on the response they get. Meanwhile, when asked about the measures being taken to manage the festive rush, chief public relations officer Niraj Kumar said, “Only those with confirmed tickets are being allowed to board the trains. Social distancing and other protocols are being followed while boarding and de-boarding.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/as-mercury-dips-passenger-count-soars-ranchi-rly-div-sets-up-kiosks-to-sell-bedrolls/articleshow/79310381.cms||Dhritiman Ray
November 20, 2020||Ranchi||State Cov toll at 937, cure rate nears 97%-mark||Ranchi: Jharkhand recorded three Covid deaths, 230 new infections and 266 recoveries on Thursday, taking the state’s cumulative caseload to 1,06,972. Of these, 1,03,435 (96.69%) have recovered and 937 (0.88%) have died. The three deaths were reported from Bokaro, Dhanbad, and East Singhbhum. Of the 230 cases detected on Thursday, 66 were from Ranchi alone while other Bokaro and East Singhbhum reported 30 and 33 respectively. The seven-day growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.16% against the national average of 0.37%. The doubling rate of the virus in the state crossed the 400-day mark with 433 days against the national figure of 186.9 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/state-cov-toll-at-937-cure-rate-nears-97-mark/articleshow/79310333.cms||Gaurav Pandey
November 20, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara sees steady rise in Covid cases||VADODARA: The fears of another Covid-19 surge due to the festive season seem to be coming true with a steady rise in Covid-19 cases in the city and district sine Monday this week. The health officials were already wary of the situation in the wake of heavy rush in the city ahead of Diwali. The city had registered 92 new Covid-19 cases on Monday. This increased to 97 on Tuesday and another rise of a case a day to reach 99 on Thursday. The trend is expected to continue in the coming days. Sources in the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) said that extensive travelling, meeting and greeting people as well as large gatherings in markets, malls and gardens are major contributing factors. In several places, particularly in the rural areas, many were seen moving around without masks or face covers. With the fresh cases on Thursday, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the city reached 16,842. On Thursday, 150 patients were discharged from various hospitals or home quarantine in the city taking the total number of discharged persons to 15,483. According to the VMC data, 1,142 persons remained under treatment due to the disease either at home or in hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-sees-steady-rise-in-cases/articleshow/79309404.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Vijayawada||Smugglers booked under PD Act||Tirupati: Kadapa police invoked the Preventive Detention (PD) Act against two notorious interstate red sanders smugglers, Sheik Chimpathi Lal Basha (36) and his younger brother Sheik Chimpathi Zakeer (27), on Thursday. The PD Act was invoked against them in 2015 and 2016 too. Kadapa SP K K N Anburajan said Lal Basha and Zakeer used to mobilise red sanders woodcutters from the Javvadi Malai hill region near Tiruvannamalai in Tamil Nadu, and bring them to AP to cut red sanders trees in Seshachalam and Nallamala forest areas spread across Kadapa, Chittoor and Kurnool districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/smugglers-booked-under-pd-act/articleshow/79309779.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Vijayawada||TTD chairman donates necklace||Tirupati: Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams chairman Y V Subba Reddy and his wife Swarnalatha Reddy presented a golden necklace to Goddess Padmavathi Ammavaru on the auspicious occasion of Panchami Teertham at the Tiruchanoor temple on Thursday. The Lakshmi Kasula Haram, weighing 55.150 grams and worth Rs 3 lakh, was presented to EO K S Jawahar Reddy at the main temple. Later, the jewel was adorned to the goddess by temple priests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ttd-chairman-donates-necklace/articleshow/79309818.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Vijayawada||Speaking books launched||Tirupati: TTD chairman Y V Subba Reddy launched speaking books on Hanuman Chalisa and Bhagavat Gita in Tirumala on Thursday. The innovative products, which come with a portable talking pen, have been designed by a New Delhi-based company to help the elderly, children, uneducated and vision-impaired to listen to spiritual content in their preferred language. While the Gita audio is available in Hindi, English and Sanskrit languages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/speaking-books-launched/articleshow/79309837.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Gurgaon||Trio wanted in 100 cases held for techie’s murder in Gurugram||GURUGRAM: After 15 days of investigation, scanning footage from over 400 CCTV cameras and interrogating more than 200 people, police on Thursday said they had arrested the killers of software engineer Pooja Sharma, who was shot in the head on a lane off the Southern Peripheral Road on November 3 while on a drive with her boyfriend. The probe, however, appears to have veered right back to the carjacking theory that the special investigation team (SIT) set up to probe this case had initially believed to be implausible – the three suspects taken into custody are wanted in around 100 cases of snatching and robbery between them. The three allegedly committed one more murder in the city after that, on November 14. Pooja (26) was driving her boyfriend’s Creta when they were ambushed by three men on a dimly lit road leading towards DPS International School in Sector 65. They were headed towards M3M Skycity — where Sagar Manchanda, to whom Pooja was supposed to get married in December had booked a flat – but had turned around. That was when they were waylaid. Pooja and Sagar were asked to roll down the windows. The attackers fired a shot through the windscreen that missed Sagar and through the driver’s window right into Pooja’s head. She succumbed to a critical brain injury on November 5. Pooja, an employee of a leading multinational IT company, had returned to her hometown, Chhattisgarh’s Dhamtari, earlier this year to work from home. She was based out of the IT major’s Gurugram office. She had come to Delhi-NCR on October 25 to plan her wedding and get her official laptop changed. The arrested trio — Hariom alias Kuldeep, Irshad alias Golu, and Jitender alias Jitu — was nabbed by the Sector 40 crime unit. Police said they were the ones who had stopped Pooja and Sagar with the intent of snatching the Creta. The suspects are also allegedly involved in the murder of a youth, Gaurav, in the Shivaji Nagar area (on November 14) over “personal enmity”. Police said the three were picked up from Dev Nagar in Bhondsi on Wednesday and produced in court on Thursday. Police have obtained their remand for further interrogation. The biggest clue, said a police officer, was three men seen on multiple CCTV cameras near the crime scene riding a bike on the wrong side of the road around the time the Pooja was shot. They had returned to the spot where they shot Pooja a couple of hours later the same night, this time in a car, which has been seized. The registration number of both vehicles (motorcycle and car) are said to be fake. “The three of them were doing rounds on their motorcycle with the intent of robbing someone. They spotted Pooja Sharma and her friend in the car and stopped them,” said ACP Preet Pal Sangwan, who headed the SIT.  He added they had gone back to the crime spot to see if Pooja was alive (Sagar had driven to the hospital and admitted Pooja). Irshad and Jitender are residents of Balawa in Mahendergarh, while Hariom from Indergarh in Madhya Pradesh’s Datia. Irshad and Hariom were staying in Bhondsi while Jitender was living in Saraswati Enclave. Cops said after shooting Pooja, they checked newspapers to find out if the crime had been reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/3-wanted-in-100-cases-held-for-killing-techie/articleshow/79312423.cms||Shubhra Pant
November 20, 2020||Business||Stay off gencos’ plea for loan relief: Govt to SC||NEW DELHI: Encouraged by the Supreme Court's intervention through a PIL to get compound interest on loans up to Rs 2 crore waived off, power generating firms Thursday pleaded for loan restructuring during pandemic and extension of deadline from December 31 till March 31. Appearing for gencos, A M Singhvi told a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R S Reddy and M R Shah the Centre and RBI had unfairly left out power generating companies from the purview of loan restructuring. He said unpaid dues of gencos had increased from Rs 75,000 crore in October 2019 to Rs 1.22 lakh crore. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta said fiscal policy falls in the domain of the Union government and the SC should not interfere in such matters. "These are extraordinary times. Power generating companies have huge arrears due from power distributing companies. They are facing the brunt because discoms are not paying up for the power they have drawn from generating companies and yet the latter is excluded from restructuring of loans," Singhvi told a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R S Reddy and M R Shah. He said tweaking a few provisions of RBI's August 6 circular on loan restructuring to provide relief to gencos. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta read out a host of financial packages announced by the government to provide relief to many sections of industry as well as common people. "Fiscal issues are complex by their very nature. Fiscal policy falls in the exclusive domain of the Union government, which is taking measures periodically after domain experts examine the impact of such decisions on the overall economy and financial climate of the country. There is a mechanism in place for dealing with sector-specific grievances. The SC should not interfere in such matters beyond what has been already announced by the Centre," he said. On waiver of compound interest on loans up to Rs 2 crore, the bench asked the SG in a lighter vein, "Will it be prudent to give this relief to people who have availed loans to buy luxury cars worth crores of rupees?" Senior advocate V Giri, appearing for RBI, said the writ petitioners could not keep on expanding their demands for relief during every hearing and there should be an end to the ongoing hearing on debt relief and other pleas made in the writ petitions. The bench asked the writ petitioners, including the power gencos, to give their suggestions to the Centre and the RBI within two days and asked the government and the banking regulator to give their response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/stay-off-gencos-plea-for-loan-relief-govt-to-sc/articleshow/79313408.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
November 20, 2020||Vijayawada||Brahmotsavams end at Tiruchanoor||Tirupati: The nine-day annual Brahmotsavams of Goddess Padmavathi reached a grand crescendo with the conduct of the revered Panchami Teertham ritual at Tiruchanoor temple near Tirupati on Thursday. TTD chairman Y V Subba Reddy, EO K S Jawahar Reddy and additional executive officer A V Dharma Reddy handed over the sacred gifts on behalf of Lord Venkateswara to TTD’s Tirupati JEO P Basant Kumar at Alipiri, from where they were carried in a grand procession to the Tiruchanoor temple. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/brahmotsavams-end-at-tiruchanoor/articleshow/79309871.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Amaravati||Soon, AP to get five new police commissionerates||VIJAYAWADA: Andhra Pradesh will soon see five new commissionerates come up as part of the state-wide restructuring of police units. As per the proposals of the expert committee in the home department, these new commissionerates will cover densely-populated urban areas like Kakinada, Rajamahendravaram, Guntur, Nellore and Tirupati. According to police sources, the new commissionerates will be headed by DIG-rank officers as commissioners with at least four deputy commissioners working under them. The expert committee has also proposed further expansions of the Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam commissionerates with the addition of at least two sub-divisions from neighbouring police units. For Vijayawada, Nadigama and Nuzvid sub-divisions would be added to the commissionerate while Visakhapatnam will get Araku and Anakapalle regions. With the addition of the new commissionerates and district units, police units in the state will increase from 18 to 29. Except Vizianagaram and Srikakulam, each district will now be divided into two or police units. Going by the existing proposal, East Godavari, the most populated district will have four police units — Rajamahendravaram commissionerate, Kakinada commissionerate along with Rampachodavaram and Amalapuram units. Krishna district will continue to have two police units — Krishna and Vijayawada commissionerate — while the four Rayalaseema districts will house three police units in each. West Godavari and Prakasam will be split into two police units. Guntur will have three units, including Guntur urban commissionerate while Prakasam will be divided into Bapatla and Ongole units. Tirupati and Chittoor will have three units each and Nellore, Kadapa, Kurnool and Anantapur will get two units each. The move is part of the government’s plan to split the existing 13 districts to 32 for administrative convenience in order to ensure efficient implementation of welfare measures. Currently, there is a temporary transfer ban imposed on all police units across all ranks by the DGP. Sources said there would be a major reshuffle and reallocation of police force as per the requirement of the restructured units. “The crime scenario has been changing in Andhra Pradesh and this restructuring would help give a more concentrated approach in areas which are least patrolled or accessible,” a senior police official in the AP police headquarters explained. Other benefits include better traffic management more accessible district police headquarters for grievance redressal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/soon-ap-to-get-five-new-police-commissionerates/articleshow/79313939.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
November 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Soon, AP to get five new police commissionerates||VIJAYAWADA: Andhra Pradesh will soon see five new commissionerates come up as part of the state-wide restructuring of police units. As per the proposals of the expert committee in the home department, these new commissionerates will cover densely-populated urban areas like Kakinada, Rajamahendravaram, Guntur, Nellore and Tirupati. According to police sources, the new commissionerates will be headed by DIG-rank officers as commissioners with at least four deputy commissioners working under them. The expert committee has also proposed further expansions of the Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam commissionerates with the addition of at least two sub-divisions from neighbouring police units. For Vijayawada, Nadigama and Nuzvid sub-divisions would be added to the commissionerate while Visakhapatnam will get Araku and Anakapalle regions. With the addition of the new commissionerates and district units, police units in the state will increase from 18 to 29. Except Vizianagaram and Srikakulam, each district will now be divided into two or police units. Going by the existing proposal, East Godavari, the most populated district will have four police units — Rajamahendravaram commissionerate, Kakinada commissionerate along with Rampachodavaram and Amalapuram units. Krishna district will continue to have two police units — Krishna and Vijayawada commissionerate — while the four Rayalaseema districts will house three police units in each. West Godavari and Prakasam will be split into two police units. Guntur will have three units, including Guntur urban commissionerate while Prakasam will be divided into Bapatla and Ongole units. Tirupati and Chittoor will have three units each and Nellore, Kadapa, Kurnool and Anantapur will get two units each. The move is part of the government’s plan to split the existing 13 districts to 32 for administrative convenience in order to ensure efficient implementation of welfare measures. Currently, there is a temporary transfer ban imposed on all police units across all ranks by the DGP. Sources said there would be a major reshuffle and reallocation of police force as per the requirement of the restructured units. “The crime scenario has been changing in Andhra Pradesh and this restructuring would help give a more concentrated approach in areas which are least patrolled or accessible,” a senior police official in the AP police headquarters explained. Other benefits include better traffic management more accessible district police headquarters for grievance redressal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/soon-ap-to-get-five-new-police-commissionerates/articleshow/79313937.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
November 20, 2020||Vijayawada||Soon, AP to get five new police commissionerates||VIJAYAWADA: Andhra Pradesh will soon see five new commissionerates come up as part of the state-wide restructuring of police units. As per the proposals of the expert committee in the home department, these new commissionerates will cover densely-populated urban areas like Kakinada, Rajamahendravaram, Guntur, Nellore and Tirupati. According to police sources, the new commissionerates will be headed by DIG-rank officers as commissioners with at least four deputy commissioners working under them. The expert committee has also proposed further expansions of the Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam commissionerates with the addition of at least two sub-divisions from neighbouring police units. For Vijayawada, Nadigama and Nuzvid sub-divisions would be added to the commissionerate while Visakhapatnam will get Araku and Anakapalle regions. With the addition of the new commissionerates and district units, police units in the state will increase from 18 to 29. Except Vizianagaram and Srikakulam, each district will now be divided into two or police units. Going by the existing proposal, East Godavari, the most populated district will have four police units — Rajamahendravaram commissionerate, Kakinada commissionerate along with Rampachodavaram and Amalapuram units. Krishna district will continue to have two police units — Krishna and Vijayawada commissionerate — while the four Rayalaseema districts will house three police units in each. West Godavari and Prakasam will be split into two police units. Guntur will have three units, including Guntur urban commissionerate while Prakasam will be divided into Bapatla and Ongole units. Tirupati and Chittoor will have three units each and Nellore, Kadapa, Kurnool and Anantapur will get two units each. The move is part of the government’s plan to split the existing 13 districts to 32 for administrative convenience in order to ensure efficient implementation of welfare measures. Currently, there is a temporary transfer ban imposed on all police units across all ranks by the DGP. Sources said there would be a major reshuffle and reallocation of police force as per the requirement of the restructured units. “The crime scenario has been changing in Andhra Pradesh and this restructuring would help give a more concentrated approach in areas which are least patrolled or accessible,” a senior police official in the AP police headquarters explained. Other benefits include better traffic management more accessible district police headquarters for grievance redressal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/soon-ap-to-get-five-new-police-commissionerates/articleshow/79309921.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
November 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag: World Fisheries Day to see launch of aqua hub project||VISAKHAPATNAM: With chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy scheduled to inaugurate aqua bazaars and aqua hub project on Saturday, Visakhapatnam is getting ready to house its first outlet of the sort at RTC Complex. A total of 150 state-of-the-art fish markets are slated to come up under this project. Joint director fisheries K Phani Prakash said, “November 21 is celebrated as World Fisheries Day. On that day, our chief minister will inaugurate the project.” As per the project plan, these fish markets will be known as ‘aqua bazaars’ in rural areas while a hub-and-spoke model would be adopted in urban areas. Aqua hubs will come up in big cities from where produce would be distributed to retail outlets. Aqua bazaars and outlets will essentially have four parts: a live fish section, ice fish and prawn section, frozen section and a dressing section to clean, cut and pack. State fisheries minister Seediri Appalaraju said, “Despite being one of the largest fish and prawn producing states in India, almost all our produce is exported globally. Fish consumption in Andhra Pradesh is very low. This project is supposed to increase the rate of fish consumption in the state and use the state’s fish and produce within the state more.” A senior fisheries department official said that the state has started forming Fish Farmers Producers Organizations (FFPOs) under the MACS Act of 1995 or Companies Act of 2013. These FFPOs would be of three types: marketing, pre-processing and processing; and will take care of the supply chain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/world-fisheries-day-to-see-launch-of-aqua-hub-project/articleshow/79309937.cms||Arpit Basu
November 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Illegal laterite mining operations busted in Vizag||VISAKHAPATNAM: The regional vigilance squad of the mines and geology department has found two leaseholders at Sarugudu panchayat area in Visakhapatnam district in violation of laterite mining permits and performing illegal quarrying. A penalty of around Rs 17crore has been imposed on them. The irregularities in laterite mining operations came to light during raids carried out by the squad led by assistant director R Pratap Reddy. Laterite is present on hills of tribal pockets at Torada and Sundarakota villages. Two tribals — Killo Lova Raju and Singham Bhavani — became leaseholders of laterite mining in the area, allegedly backed by some political forces. Speaking to TOI, assistant director Pratap Reddy said that Killo Lova Raju, a leaseholder of a 20-acre laterite quarry since 2016, obtained a permit to mine 3.76 lakh metric tonnes of laterite from 2016-18 but excavated only 3.26 lakh metric tonnes. Further, a 4km-long road was laid to the quarry without permission, he said while adding that a penalty of Rs 7.52crore was imposed on him. Upon obtaining concrete clues about illegal mining in the region, the vigilance squad trekked the hilly terrain for days and conducted a comprehensive survey of the area using Electronic Total Station (ETS). At another laterite quarry at Sundarakata village, leaseholder Singham Bhavani obtained permission to mine 4.09 lakh metric tonnes of laterite but is said to have mined only 2.81 lakh metric tonnes. Further, the ‘mining mafia’ has also been found indulging in illegal mining of low-grade laterite from other areas. It is being alleged that 18,942 metric tonnes of laterite was mined near Sundarakota without permission. Pratap Reddy said that a penalty of Rs 9.33crore has been imposed. Meanwhile, the vigilance squad found that while permission had been given for laterite mining across 35 acres in Asangiri village of Nathavaram mandal, tribals have opposed mining activities in the area. Tribals claim that there are some historic caves in the area where legendary freedom fighter Alluri Seetarama Raju stayed during the freedom struggle. “We have written to the government to cancel the mining lease at Asangiri to protect the caves,” Pratap Reddy added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/illegal-laterite-mining-ops-busted-in-vizag/articleshow/79309965.cms||Nalla.Babu
November 20, 2020||Vijayawada||Child-friendly police centre in Machilipatnam||VIJAYAWADA: In a novel initiative, the Krishna district police launched a child-friendly police centre within Machilipatnam police station limits on Thursday. The centre sports cartoons drawn by kids and has toys surrounding the place. The intent of creating such a space is to provide children — delinquents or victims — a comfortable atmosphere. A caretaker has been hired who will aid in the rehabilitation of rescued children with the help of the woman and child welfare department. Krishna district SP M Ravindranath Babu, who launched the centre, said that the district police will launch five such child welfare police centres across the district. “The child welfare police station has been set up with the objective of protecting children’s rights using a friendly policing system so that kids feel comfortable coming to the police station to complain about injustices that befall them,” the SP said. The SP inaugurated the place by inviting children rescued recently under Operation Muskaan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/child-friendly-police-centre-in-mpatnam/articleshow/79309994.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Vijayawada||31-year-old home guard kills self, leaves behind heartfelt note||VIJAYAWADA: A 31-year-old home guard committed suicide by hanging himself at his residence at Amara Reddy Nagar in Tadepalli town of Guntur district on Wednesday. According to the police, the deceased — identified as Rajesh — left behind a suicide note wherein he declared his love for his wife Durga Bhavani. Further investigation by the police found that Rajesh first dropped off his wife at Old Toll Plaza as she was heading to her father’s home in Vijayawada. Before going, Durga Bhavani noted her husband’s behaviour as ‘suspicious’. She said that he had asked her to take care of the children. Afraid that something was off, wife Durga Bhavani cancelled her plans of going to Vijayawada and rushed home only to find her husband hanging from the ceiling fan. The note left behind by Rajesh, addressed to his wife, reads: “Sorry, I love you. I know how hard you work. Take care of the kids.” Police suspect that Rajesh might have taken the extreme step due to several accumulated debts. A case was registered under section 174 of CrPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/31-yr-old-home-guard-kills-self-leaves-behind-heartfelt-note/articleshow/79310028.cms||---
November 20, 2020||India||Best movers, not 1st mover, score more in digital age: PM Modi||BRNGALURU: PM Modi said that in the current digital world, it is the best mover that has the advantage, not the first mover, which was a characteristic of the Industrial Age. India, he said, is uniquely positioned to move ahead in this era as the government's Digital India mission has ceased to be another regular initiative but a way of life that has impacted people directly. He referred to the direct benefit transfer scheme, the rapid growth of online payments, and Ayushman Bharat. Citing the example of the direct benefit transfer scheme, the PM, while inaugurating the 23rd edition of the Bengaluru Tech Summit, said millions of farmers in India are receiving monetary support in one single click. "Using technology on such a large scale has brought about several benefits for our citizens. Our government has successfully created a market for digital and tech solutions and it has made technology a key part of all schemes," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/best-movers-not-1st-mover-score-more-in-digital-age-pm-modi/articleshow/79313428.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||On a walking mission to raise Covid-19 awareness||VISAKHAPATNAM: He has walked over 5,000 kilometres in the last three months, covering all four metro cities, to raise awareness on Covid-19. After completing his golden quadrilateral tour, Thakurdas Sasmal, aka Dasu da, is now in Vizag on his way back to Kolkata. The 59-year-old farmer, who founded the Village Bikers Club at Udaynarayanpur in Howrah in 2003, had earlier toured India on bike and on cycle, championing the cause of organ donation. This time he commenced his tour on August 25, walking around 50 to 60 kilometres daily, usually staying in tents and mostly cooking his own food, to spread awareness among people about Covid-19. A helper on cycle accompanies him with his luggage. “I do not have much formal education. I studied till class VII and got into agricultural activities in my village. But I have a passion to see my country and take up some important cause to raise awareness as I travel. In 1994, I toured India with my brother on motorcycle. On August 15, 2018, I had embarked on a golden quadrilateral tour on cycle for 59 days, promoting the need for organ donation. I have also done biking tours in Nepal and Bhutan. In 2020, we had plans for an international biking trip through Myanmar, Thailand till China but due to Covid-19 it got cancelled,” he says. Speaking about hos Village Bikers Club, Dasu da said the club, which had started in 2003 with just a dozen members, now boasts of around 800 members hailing from various villages and districts of West Bengal and other states. “Hundreds of members from across India meet annually at WB Riders Meet every January. We have 40 active members, who have sponsored my trips. We are also in touch with other riding communities. Like in Vizag, it is the Naked Wolves Biking Community with whom I coordinated this time,” says Dasu da. The 59-year-old farmer, who founded the Village Bikers Club at Udaynarayanpur in Howrah in 2003, had earlier toured India on bike and on cycle, championing the cause of organ donation. This time he commenced his tour on August 25, walking around 50 to 60 km daily||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/on-a-walking-mission-to-raise-covid-19-awareness/articleshow/79310040.cms||Sulogna Mehta
November 20, 2020||Thane||After a fortnight, daily Covid cases in Maharashtra go past 5,500||MUMBAI: The state as well as the city witnessed a considerable jump in fresh detections of Covid-19 cases over 24 hours. On Thursday, Maharashtra added 5,535 cases to take its overall tally to 17,63,055. It was after a fortnight that the state added more than 5,500 cases in a 24-hour cycle; it had recorded 5,011cases on Wednesday. Deaths too rose to 154 on Thursday, after witnessing a slump for the past several days, when the toll had dropped to as low as 46 on November 10. In fact, Thursday’s was the highest addition in the last 13 days during which the daily mortalities have largely remained under 150. Officials, however, said of the 154 deaths, 60 had occurred within the last 48 hours while 39 had occurred last week. The remaining 55 deaths were recorded in previous weeks and were only added to the state’s toll now, officials said. Maharashtra’s toll has touched 46,356 now. The cases in Mumbai rose to 924 on Thursday after 871 on Wednesday and 541 on Tuesday. If compared to Monday, when the cases had dropped to a six-month low of 409, cases on Thursday have more than doubled post-Diwali. The city’s overall tally of coronavirus cases has reached 2,72,455. AMC Suresh Kakani said daily testing numbers have risen to 15,000, and that could have contributed to more cases. “As part of testing potential spreaders, we have started testing vendors, people working in marketplaces, bus drivers and conductors,” he said, adding a surge could be expected till November 28, which marks the end of a 14-day cycle after Diwali. Testing had dropped to under 4,000 during the Diwali weekend. Deaths, however, in the city continued to be under control. On Thursday, a dozen deaths were attributed to the virus that has so far claimed 10,627 lives in Mumbai. Dr Niteen Karnik, head of medicine at Sion Hospital, said deaths are now predominantly seen in individuals with multiple comorbidities, such as kidney disease, diabetes, obesity etc. Of the 12 victims on Thursday, 10 had comorbidities. Worryingly, 11 of the 12 deaths were among people above the age of 60 years. State officials said CM Uddhav Thackeray had directed the administration to ensure enough beds and medical facilities were available. Of the 5,535 cases, Mumbai circle contributed nearly 2,000 and 46 deaths. Kalyan-Dombivli registered a spike, reporting 184 patients and four deaths. (Inputs by Pradeep Gupta)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/after-a-fortnight-daily-covid-cases-in-maharashtra-go-past-5500/articleshow/79313432.cms||Sumitra Debroy
November 20, 2020||Mumbai||After a fortnight, daily Covid cases in Maharashtra go past 5,500||MUMBAI: The state as well as the city witnessed a considerable jump in fresh detections of Covid-19 cases over 24 hours. On Thursday, Maharashtra added 5,535 cases to take its overall tally to 17,63,055. It was after a fortnight that the state added more than 5,500 cases in a 24-hour cycle; it had recorded 5,011cases on Wednesday. Deaths too rose to 154 on Thursday, after witnessing a slump for the past several days, when the toll had dropped to as low as 46 on November 10. In fact, Thursday’s was the highest addition in the last 13 days during which the daily mortalities have largely remained under 150. Officials, however, said of the 154 deaths, 60 had occurred within the last 48 hours while 39 had occurred last week. The remaining 55 deaths were recorded in previous weeks and were only added to the state’s toll now, officials said. Maharashtra’s toll has touched 46,356 now. The cases in Mumbai rose to 924 on Thursday after 871 on Wednesday and 541 on Tuesday. If compared to Monday, when the cases had dropped to a six-month low of 409, cases on Thursday have more than doubled post-Diwali. The city’s overall tally of coronavirus cases has reached 2,72,455. AMC Suresh Kakani said daily testing numbers have risen to 15,000, and that could have contributed to more cases. “As part of testing potential spreaders, we have started testing vendors, people working in marketplaces, bus drivers and conductors,” he said, adding a surge could be expected till November 28, which marks the end of a 14-day cycle after Diwali. Testing had dropped to under 4,000 during the Diwali weekend. Deaths, however, in the city continued to be under control. On Thursday, a dozen deaths were attributed to the virus that has so far claimed 10,627 lives in Mumbai. Dr Niteen Karnik, head of medicine at Sion Hospital, said deaths are now predominantly seen in individuals with multiple comorbidities, such as kidney disease, diabetes, obesity etc. Of the 12 victims on Thursday, 10 had comorbidities. Worryingly, 11 of the 12 deaths were among people above the age of 60 years. State officials said CM Uddhav Thackeray had directed the administration to ensure enough beds and medical facilities were available. Of the 5,535 cases, Mumbai circle contributed nearly 2,000 and 46 deaths. Kalyan-Dombivli registered a spike, reporting 184 patients and four deaths. (Inputs by Pradeep Gupta)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/after-a-fortnight-daily-covid-cases-in-maharashtra-go-past-5500/articleshow/79313431.cms||Sumitra Debroy
November 20, 2020||Navi-mumbai||After a fortnight, daily Covid cases in Maharashtra go past 5,500||MUMBAI: The state as well as the city witnessed a considerable jump in fresh detections of Covid-19 cases over 24 hours. On Thursday, Maharashtra added 5,535 cases to take its overall tally to 17,63,055. It was after a fortnight that the state added more than 5,500 cases in a 24-hour cycle; it had recorded 5,011cases on Wednesday. Deaths too rose to 154 on Thursday, after witnessing a slump for the past several days, when the toll had dropped to as low as 46 on November 10. In fact, Thursday’s was the highest addition in the last 13 days during which the daily mortalities have largely remained under 150. Officials, however, said of the 154 deaths, 60 had occurred within the last 48 hours while 39 had occurred last week. The remaining 55 deaths were recorded in previous weeks and were only added to the state’s toll now, officials said. Maharashtra’s toll has touched 46,356 now. The cases in Mumbai rose to 924 on Thursday after 871 on Wednesday and 541 on Tuesday. If compared to Monday, when the cases had dropped to a six-month low of 409, cases on Thursday have more than doubled post-Diwali. The city’s overall tally of coronavirus cases has reached 2,72,455. AMC Suresh Kakani said daily testing numbers have risen to 15,000, and that could have contributed to more cases. “As part of testing potential spreaders, we have started testing vendors, people working in marketplaces, bus drivers and conductors,” he said, adding a surge could be expected till November 28, which marks the end of a 14-day cycle after Diwali. Testing had dropped to under 4,000 during the Diwali weekend. Deaths, however, in the city continued to be under control. On Thursday, a dozen deaths were attributed to the virus that has so far claimed 10,627 lives in Mumbai. Dr Niteen Karnik, head of medicine at Sion Hospital, said deaths are now predominantly seen in individuals with multiple comorbidities, such as kidney disease, diabetes, obesity etc. Of the 12 victims on Thursday, 10 had comorbidities. Worryingly, 11 of the 12 deaths were among people above the age of 60 years. State officials said CM Uddhav Thackeray had directed the administration to ensure enough beds and medical facilities were available. Of the 5,535 cases, Mumbai circle contributed nearly 2,000 and 46 deaths. Kalyan-Dombivli registered a spike, reporting 184 patients and four deaths. (Inputs by Pradeep Gupta)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/after-a-fortnight-daily-covid-cases-in-maharashtra-go-past-5500/articleshow/79313433.cms||Sumitra Debroy
November 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Less than 100 cases in 8 districts 3 days in a row||VISAKHAPATNAM: With eight districts in Andhra Pradesh reporting less than 100 new Covid-19 cases for the third consecutive day on Thursday, Andhra Pradesh registered 1,316 infections, taking the total tally to 8,58,711. The toll increased 6,910 with 11 more persons succumbing to the pandemic virus. According to the media bulletin, 75,165 samples were tested on Thursday. West Godavari continued to report the highest number of cases in the state. It registered 227 cases. Guntur district reported 206 cases, Chittoor 198, Krishna 196, and East Godavari district 183 cases. The lowest number of 14 infections was reported from Kurnool, followed by 18 in Vizianagaram. While Srikakulam reported 28, Nellore 40, Prakasam 43, Visakhapatnam 45, Kadapa 58 and Anantapur reported 60 cases. With 14 more cases, the positive tally in Kurnool district has increased to 60,012. The overall recoveries increased to 8.35 lakh with another 1,821 patients getting cured on Thursday. Now, the state has only 16,000 active Covid-19 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/less-than-100-cases-in-8-dists-3-days-in-a-row/articleshow/79310049.cms||Nalla.Babu
November 20, 2020||Vijayawada||AP HC: Follow SC guidelines while arresting accused||VIJAYAWADA: The AP high court on Thursday said that following Supreme Court guidelines in arresting the accused in any case is mandatory. Resuming its hearing on a batch of habeas corpus petitions on Thursday, the high court bench comprising Justice Rakesh Kumar and Justice J Uma Devi observed that non-compliance of apex court guidelines would amount to contempt of court. The bench further observed that they are getting more cases where police are involved in civil matters. Senior counsel S S Prasad told the court that the state government has introduced a grievance redressal program called ‘Spandana’ in which police officials receive applications of all types. As they used to receive all types of complaints, they will segregate and send those which are civil in nature to the departments concerned. The high court, while asking what was the need of civil courts when police are settling civil matters, observed that it is because the police are involving themselves in civil matters that the courts are getting more cases. The bench also wondered why no one has challenged this scheme. Prasad clarified that the scheme is to address the problems of people and to guide them to get their grievances resolved through proper mechanism. He requested the high court to issue guidelines to the police in arresting people. The bench said that there are set guidelines by the apex court and rules in CrPC. “When the police are not following Supreme Court guidelines, we cannot expect that they will follow our guidelines,” said the bench. Further hearing of the case has been posted to Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hc-follow-sc-guidelines-while-arresting-accused/articleshow/79310072.cms||Srikanth Aluri
November 20, 2020||Business||Not ruling out iron ore export ban: Pradhan||Kolkata: The Centre is not ruling out the possibility of a ban on iron ore export following crisis of ore in domestic market. This was indicated by Union steel minister Dharmendra Pradhan at the AGM of MCCI. The minister was interacting with the members of the chamber through a webinar. The representative of steel industries present at the meeting sought intervention of the ministry to solve the shortages of ore. “There has been unprecedented rise in iron ore prices and almost no availability. Lot of iron ore mines which were auctioned recently are not operating. I only have raw material for 15 days. We are not getting ore in domestic market but it is being exported,” said a leading industrialist, who has interest in steel. While replying, Pradhan said, “It is a good suggestion to stop export. We are talking to concern stakeholders. We are also concerned about supply and already spoken to OMDC,” he added. Pradhan has also urged state governments like Jharkhand to cooperate with the Centre in this issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/not-ruling-out-iron-ore-export-ban-pradhan/articleshow/79311293.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Vadodara||100-year-old Corona’s beauty erases fears, instils imagination||VADODARA: Corona not only lived her times and wowed all with her beauty then, she still bewitches onlookers down the ages more than a century later. However, had she been christened with the moniker now, she would have settled for her real name, Kate. And yet the bard said, “What’s in a name?” With pandemic writ large on our minds, Corona seems to be a synonym for fear with people shunning anything slightly resembling the dreaded virus’ spherical particle adorned with deadly red spikes. But not this Corona with her infectious smile at the Baroda Museum and Art Gallery (BMAG). In fact, she has been luring art-lovers with her radiance for a quick selfie, up and close! This painting has been adorning a wall in the museum for more than 100 years now, but needed a pandemic to propagate her fame. “Ever since pandemic struck, my interest in Corona seems to have spiralled with me visiting the museum several times to watch the mesmerizing oil painting in the last few days,” chuckled Chandrashekhar Patil, an art-curator. The original artwork on canvas by Italian-British painter Charles Perugini is on display in the European paintings section in the museum. “The lady is the daughter of famed novelist Charles Dickens and also the wife of Perugini, who is devoted to her beauty. He made several paintings of his wife, who was also known as Kate. Mesmerized by her bewitching looks, he titled this painting Corona as it resembles the expression of crowning,” explained Sandip Joshi, art-historian who gave a talk on Indian-European painting styles in the city on Thursday. BMAG curator Vijay Patel, who too said that Corona is gaining popularity, stated that the museum houses 210 oil paintings, and has the largest collection of European paintings in south-east Asia. “I was eager to walk through the European paintings gallery in the museum’s 19th century paintings. But my curiosity shot up when I heard about Corona and attended the walk. I was completely mesmerized by the artwork and her beauty,” said Rohit Khindkar, owner of a Pune-based software firm, who is in the city to attend the ongoing heritage week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/100-year-old-coronas-beauty-erases-fears-instils-imagination/articleshow/79310234.cms||Tushar Tere
November 20, 2020||Goa||For second time in six days, Goa sees zero Covid deaths||MARGAO: No Covid deaths were reported in Goa on Thursday, the second time in six days, since the last four months. The total number of deaths now stands at 670. The state reported 157 recoveries and 136 new cases on Thursday. The recovery rate stood at 95.7%. The total number of active cases in the state now stands at 1,343. Forty-one new infected patients were admitted to Covid hospitals on Thursday while 100 preferred home isolation, as per the medical bulletin issued by the health department. Goa’s positivity rate stood at 8.4% with 1,621 samples tested on Thursday. Ponda primary health centre had the highest number of active cases in its jurisdiction at 111, while Cansarvanem had the lowest with 9 cases. The number of active cases at the Panaji, Porvorim, Margao, Vasco and Cortalim primary health centres stood between 80 and 100. Chimbel and Porvorim had witnessed a spike in cases for a prolonged period of over two months. With new cases on the decline and most patients preferring home isolation, the occupancy in Covid care centres in both North and South Goa are reporting a corresponding low figure. Out of the total capacity of 275 beds in North Goa, only 78 are currently occupied, while in South Goa, only 21 beds out of the 232 bed capacity are occupied.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/for-2nd-time-in-six-days-state-sees-zero-deaths/articleshow/79311336.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Goa||Goa: 108 paramedic delivers baby in ambulance||PANAJI: A baby was delivered on a 108 ambulance on November 2. Since January, 100 successful deliveries have been carried out by 108 paramedics. The ambulance catering to the Netravali area received a call at 9.40am from a location that was 23km away. The woman, Anjita Kunjur, 30, was in Konir Pirla, Quepem. The ambulance arrived at the patient’s residence at 10.07am and found her to be in labour. By 10.20am they were on the way to the hospital. “The hospital was 13km away. On the way, the woman’s pain increased and the ambulance staff could see the crowning,” sources said. The 108 staff then decided to carry out the delivery themselves. While the pilot (ambulance driver) stationed the ambulance at a safe spot for the mother’s comfort, paramedic Vithal Naik carried out the delivery inside the vehicle. Praising the paramedic team, health minister Vishwajit Rane posted on his social media handle: “The 108 team has always been working relentlessly towards timely response. Thanking paramedic EMT Vithal for successfully delivering a baby boy in the ambulance. The 108 team is doing an excellent job of providing state-of-art emergency care services to the public.” The baby boy along with the new mother were then admitted to the Balli PHC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/108-paramedic-delivers-baby-in-ambulance/articleshow/79311352.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 20, 2020||Goa||Pay no attention to AAP’s Delhi MLAs: Goa CM||BICHOLIM: Chief minister Pramod Sawant has said that people should not pay attention to “misunderstandings created by AAP MLAs from Delhi”, and also to MLAs from opposition parties in Goa. He also called on locals from Mollem to support the power transmission project “without paying heed to the people from London”. Sawant added that the government is committed to fighting and winning the Mhadei battle against Karnataka. The chief minister was speaking after inaugurating the Rs 12 crore 8 MLD sewage disposal plant at Sakhali on Thursday. PWD minister Deepak Pauskar said sewage projects will be implemented in all talukas. He said so far 130 Sakhali households have been connected to the project, while 1,400 more will be within the next three years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-pay-no-attention-to-aaps-delhi-mlas/articleshow/79311376.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Mumbai||Rs 20-crore cocaine smuggling ring busted, Africans among 4 held||MUMBAI: The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) has busted an international drug racket and seized half a kg of cocaine worth Rs 3-4 crore that was smuggled into the country in an iron through a courier service from Trinidad and Tobago. Officials said the syndicate had cleared multiple consignments of cocaine, totalling over 3.3kg since August, with a market value of over Rs 20 crore. Four persons, including two Indian women and two Africans, were arrested from Mumbai, Navi Mumbai and Rajasthan under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, and searches are on in Mumbai and Navi Mumbai, said an official. Cocaine smuggled in iron through courier serviceThe Indian women who are among the four arrested by the DRI in the cocaine smuggling racket have been identified as Sania Khan and Hazel Correa. While three of the accused were remanded in judicial custody till December 3, one who was arrested in Rajasthan is being brought to Mumbai on a transit remand. Sources said DRI, Mumbai, received an intelligence input from “a reliable source” about cocaine being smuggled to Mumbai from Trinidad and Tobago through courier services. An operation with the code name Calypso ensued for three days, with DRI intercepting a woman who had come to collect a parcel that had arrived from Trinidad and Tobago in a Mumbai suburb. “We first intercepted the consignment and ascertained the presence of cocaine and then kept a discreet watch. When a woman came to pick up the consignment on November 17, we apprehended her,” said an officer. Sources said that after collecting the parcel, the woman was to deliver it to two South African nationals in Navi Mumbai. DRI deployed several teams in Navi Mumbai, laying a trap with the apprehended woman. To make it look realistic, the woman was sent under supervision to the designated spot in an app cab. While the woman waited for her contacts, a DRI team kept watch, hiding close by. After nearly an hour, a man approached the woman’s cab. When he claimed the parcel, he was overpowered by DRI officers. The man later turned out to be an African national. Seeing his arrest, his accomplice, waiting at a distance, fled in an autorickshaw. DRI officials gave him a 2km chase and arrested him. Questioning of the two led the investigators to the key accused, a woman who was holidaying in Rajasthan. She was arrested from a three star hotel in Udaipur, on Wednesday morning with the help of local police, a DRI official said. The seized drug was smuggled in an iron through a courier service. In March, state home minister Anil Deshmukh said that the use of courier services to transport drugs had become a new challenge in controlling the menace. “This is an issue before the authorities, whether it is customs, DRI or NCB,” he told the state council replying to a calling attention motion raised by Congress MLC Anant Gadgil. Deshmukh had also said that Thane and Navi Mumbai were hubs of the drug trade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rs-20-crore-cocaine-smuggling-ring-busted-africans-among-4-held/articleshow/79313461.cms||S Ahmed Ali
November 20, 2020||Goa||AAP questions govt’s budget spending||Panaji: Delhi MLA and AAP functionary Raghav Chadha has questioned the Goa government on where the budgetary funds are being spent and why the citizens still have to pay huge taxes. Stating that the annual budget of the AAP government is roughly Rs 60,000 crore for a population of 2 crore people in Delhi, he said this comes to roughly Rs 30,000 spent per annum, per person by them. In Goa, the annual budget is Rs 21,000 crore for a roughly 15 lakh population which comes to Rs 1.4 lakh per person. “In Rs 30,000, we can give each citizen in Delhi free electricity, water, state-of-the-art schools and the best hospitals in the country. Why cannot the Goa government do so within Rs 1.4 lakh per head?” Chadha said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aap-questions-govts-budget-spending/articleshow/79311399.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Goa||Locals stop railway work at Davorlim||MARGAO: Upping the ante against the Railway’s double tracking project, locals forced railway officials to stop the ongoing work of double-tracking at Sao Jose de Areal on Thursday. Agitators told the officials that the work was being carried out in land beyond the property of the Railways, and therefore, they must stop work until they produce land documents in support of their claim that work was being done in acquired property. The railway officials were also forced to remove the goods and materials of the Railways lying in private lands until the issue is settled. On Wednesday, protesters had attempted to stop the double tracking work at Davorlim. On Thursday, Goencho Ekvott held a protest meeting at Davorlim to oppose the project. They demanded that MLAs voice their support for the people’s agitation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/locals-stop-railway-work-at-davorlim/articleshow/79311415.cms||---
November 20, 2020||India||Kharge's advice to dissidents: Strengthen the Family, not RSS||NEW DELHI: Coming out against criticism of the party brass post the poor electoral show in Bihar, Congress veteran Mallikarjun Kharge said senior members should strengthen the hands of the Gandhi family and comments targeting the brass have "distressed and demoralised" the workers in difficult times. The Karnataka veteran warned it was a long-held desire of RSS to weaken the party's "first family" and everybody should be mindful of it. Referring to the eventful Congress Working Committee meeting in August where a decision was taken to set up a panel on organisational matters, Kharge told TOI, "Everybody together decided that Sonia Gandhi should remain Congress president till a new president is elected at the AICC session." "This is pandemic time and we are unable to carry out normal activities. In such times, issuing statements critical of the leadership has distressed and demoralised party workers. This is not in the interest of Congress," he said. "If the Gandhi family is damaged, Congress would be destroyed. It is an old wish of RSS-BJP. They will criticise and tease Congress. But we should be careful and we should stay together and speak together to strengthen the party," he warned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kharges-advice-to-dissidents-strengthen-the-family-not-rss/articleshow/79313506.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Goa||Jellyfish strike Baga-Candolim beach belt, sting 65 visitors||CALANGUTE: A large number of tourists have been stung by jellyfish over the last two days in the Baga-Candolim beach belt, lifeguarding agency Drishti Marine, said. The Calangute-Baga stretch saw 55 cases, and the Candolim-Sinquerim stretch witnessed 10. While most of the incidents were minor, one person who was stung while parasailing at Baga had to be hospitalised after he experienced chest pain and breathing problems. He was first given oxygen by lifeguards as they waited for the ambulance to arrive. Drishti Marine said it has been advising tourists about the possible presence of jellyfish in the water. If any tourist is stung by jellyfish, they should immediately approach the lifeguards for assistance, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/jellyfish-strike-baga-candolim-beach-belt-sting-65-visitors/articleshow/79311533.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra nears 10 million in coronavirus tests but relies more on rapid antigen kits||MUMBAI: Maharashtra is set to cross the 10-million (one crore) mark in coronavirus tests, a milestone that three states—Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Bihar—have crossed so far. Maharashtra accounts for 8% of tests in the country, but has the highest caseload and positivity rate. Experts say, statistically, the state has tested 7-8% of its population, but a positivity rate of 18% warrants a higher testing ratio. At the outset of the pandemic, Maharashtra accounted for up to 40% of tests carried out nationally, but gradually it fell behind. UP has carried out highest number of tests (1.74 crore) followed by Bihar (1.3 crore). TN comes third (1.13 crore) while Maharashtra is fourth (99.65 lakh) as on Thursday. The other three states have a positivity rate lower than Maharashtra’s. A significant volume of the state’s testing capacity for the gold standard RT-PCR test still remains underutilised; most districts make a beeline for the less accurate rapid antigen test. A senior doctor-cum-official said dependence on antigen tests has increased since September. “RT-PCR kits are centrally procured, whereas antigen kits are purchased locally at district levels, which could be driving its use”. In an analysis of 94 lakh tests in the state, 65lakh samples were through RT-PCR and nearly 30lakh through rapid antigen kits. The state’s public health department had released a testing algorithm on August 21 spelling out the use of the three formats—RT-PCR, rapid antigen and TrueNat/ CBNAAT— for different categories of patients and population. It said patients coming to hospitals with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) or influenza-like-illnesses (ILI) and in need of immediate hospitalisation should be tested with rapid antigen kits that give an outcome in 30 minutes. Officials had said this was to get results promptly, but doctors say it sent a signal that antigen was the primary testing tool. About underutilisation of public labs, Dr TP Lahane, who heads the Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER), said labs have a capacity to carry out almost 60,000 tests a day. But, at present, only 15,000 tests are being carried out. “We are trying to increase daily testing in government labs to 30,000 in a day,” he said. On Thursday, a total of 65,000 tests were done in public and private labs put together. Private labs that were carrying out an equal share of tests in the state have fallen behind. Analysis by the medical education wing shows they have performed less than 35lakh tests compared to more than 61 lakh tests in public labs. A state official argued that Maharashtra cannot be compared with Bihar, where less than 8% tests were carried out using RT-PCR. However, a senior doctor pointed out that TN has done only RT-PCR tests. In Maharashtra, Mumbai has carried out the highest number of tests at 17lakh, followed by Pune district (15lakh) and Thane district (12lakh).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-nears-10-million-in-coronavirus-tests-but-relies-more-on-rapid-antigen-kits/articleshow/79313515.cms||Sumitra Debroy
November 20, 2020||Goa||Dhillo: Velip women’s celebration of their bond with earth||KERI: Goa village abound in eco-feministic rituals. In the talukas of Quepem and Sanguem, tribal Velip women celebrate Dhillo as a way of expressing their thanks to Mother Earth for a successful paddy harvest. The festivity falls in Ashwin-Kartik, the seventh and the eighth month of the lunar calendar. The forest dwelling tribal Velips, who rely on agriculture and cattle rearing, celebrate with folk songs and dances like fugdi, chakra fugdi and dhalo and folk games, which not only serve as entertainment but also as encouragement for the hard work they put into the monsoon crop. The Dhillo is also a pause before beginning the next agricultural season when the tribal Velips grow vegetables. They also take the opportunity to pray for another smooth cultivation season and a bountiful crop. “For generations we have been celebrating Dhillo. The songs we sing express gratitude to Mother Earth, the son, moon and folk deities. We live in hilly areas and face a number of odds. However, we are happy as we enjoy peace of mind in the midst of nature,” Shraddha Velip, from Vavurla told TOI. As part of the celebration, clay is sourced from either the vicinity of the ‘maand’ (the sacred ground) or from an anthill. The women decorate the wet clay with marigold flowers and this is known as the Dhillo. It is placed near the ‘tulsi vrindavan’ — pedestal holding the holy basil plant — and women offer lit incense sticks and flowers. They pray for the well being of their family after which they recite the melodious Dhillo folk songs. Surekha Velip, a visually impaired folk singer, sings folk songs on the Pandavas from the Hindu epic, the Mahabharata. In Badde, Canacona, the tribal Velips hold their celebrations at a sacred place away from their settlement in the midst of the forest. In Vavurla, Quepem, the sacred place is situated within the village and has substantial tree cover. The women recite the ‘naman’ in praise of the various folk deities. “Our village life is greatly influenced by the forest environment and our eco-feministic festival describes our relationship with nature. We want to continue this tradition as it keeps our culture and tribal identity alive,” Tanuja Krishna Velip said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dhillo-velip-womens-celebration-of-their-bond-with-earth/articleshow/79311621.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
November 20, 2020||Goa||Goa, Delhi need to discuss solutions to tackle sex-trafficking between two: NGO||PANAJI: While vice chairman of the Delhi Jal board and AAP MLA Raghav Chadha wants Goa power minister Nilesh Cabral to have a debate on the power models in Goa and Delhi, Goa-based NGO Arz (Anyay Rahit Zindagi) urged both the Goa and Delhi governments to discuss sex-trafficking as it is major issue in both places. Arz is appointed by Goa Police as the nodal NGO of the anti-human trafficking unit of the police. Arz said Delhi is developing as a major source of sex trafficking and there is a need for the government there to take steps in collaboration with the Goa government to prevent trafficking and provide rehabilitation to rescued victims. “I hope that the present governments in Delhi and Goa debate about sex trafficking and come out with solutions,” Arz director Arun Pandey told TOI. He said that he believes that one of the important components of good governance is welfare of its citizens, especially of the exploited, the underprivileged, the stigmatised and the marginalised. Victims of sex trafficking are one of the important groups which require support, protection and rehabilitation. “With the aim to prevent sex trafficking from Delhi to Goa, Arz had submitted a detailed report to the chief minister of Delhi and the Delhi commission for women (DCW) for necessary action, in July 2016, and in the last four years we have not seen any difference,” he said. Pandey also said that a report published by Arz in 2019 regarding sex trafficking shows that, since the report was submitted to the Delhi government, the number of girls rescued by Goa police has increased from 4% to 10%. “There has not been much difference regarding psycho-social and livelihood services in Delhi. Arz has to still depend on the NGOs in Delhi for rehabilitation and protection of the victims from Delhi rescued in Goa,” Pandey said. He also said that in the past they have shared with DCW the ‘Swift Wash model’ for the rehabilitation of victims of sex trafficking in Delhi. The model refers to a fully mechanised laundry unit in Sancoale for providing employment to victims of commercial sexual exploitation. “Chairperson Swati Maliwal had visited Swift Wash, but it appears that no concrete steps have been taken to set up centres or formulate schemes to provide livelihood to the rescued victims from Delhi, which is one of the reasons for re-trafficking,” Pandey said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-delhi-need-to-discuss-solutions-to-tackle-sex-trafficking-between-two-ngo/articleshow/79311686.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Fine for not wearing mask in Delhi hiked from Rs 500 to Rs 2,000||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Thursday that in view of the fact that many people were not wearing masks and exposing themselves and others to the Covid-19 virus, the government has decided to make the fine a deterrent by increasing it from Rs 500 to Rs 2,000. Earlier in the day, the Delhi high court had told the AAP government that the fine of Rs 500 for the first offence and Rs 1,000 for the second was hardly a deterrent. To deal with the shortage of beds, the state government has directed private hospitals to increase non-ICU Covid beds to 60% from 50% for a few days and reserve 80% ICU beds for Covid patients. Covid-19 hospitals have been allowed to rope in fourth and fifth-year MBBS students, interns and BDS (Bachelor of Dental Surgery) doctors. Meanwhile, district magistrates have been asked to double the number of testing centres in the city. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Thursday the increase in the fine for not wearing masks in public from Rs 500 to Rs 2,000 to deter careless behaviour when Covid-19 infection has spiked in the city. At the all-party meeting on the pandemic, Kejriwal appealed to all political parties and social and religious organisations to promote the wearing of masks and to distribute them to the public. The CM also requested people to celebrate Chhath Puja at home instead of in water bodies in public areas. The decision to increase the fine for not wearing masks was taken in a meeting between Kejriwal and lieutenant governor Anil Baijal where the two agreed the enhanced penalty would work as a deterrent and sensitise people to the usefulness of masks in prevention infection. "The LG and I both agreed that even though many people are following the Covid protocols, there are others who are not wearing masks and thus exposing themselves and others to the risk of infection,” Kejriwal said. “Sometimes, when words do not help do the task, imposing restrictions becomes necessary.” After his meeting with the CM, Baijal directed city officials to implement the decisions taken at the meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah to boost testing, augment hospital infrastructure and human resources, carry out house-to-house surveys and review the home isolation arrangements. At the meeting held in Delhi Secretariat on Thursday, Kejriwal explained to the representatives of the city’s political parties that wearing a mask lowered the chances of infection. The meeting also discussed the ban on Chhath Puja in public places. The CM said, “Of 200 people going into a pond, even if one is Covid-positive, everyone else will get infected. Experts have said the coronavirus can be transmitted through water. We have only disallowed the puja in a public area or a waterbody. We have not disallowed celebrating the festival.” He claimed that the AAP government had always allocated a separate budget for Chhath arrangements, but pointed out the Gujarat government had also restricted the festival this year in Surat and Ahmedabad, Haryana government in Panchkula and Maharashtra government in Mumbai. “Chhath is the purest of festivals, but Covid is a big threat. Let us not indulge in politics on the matter,” appealed Kejriwal. Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta and Delhi Congress chief Chaudhry Anil Kumar strongly opposed the steep hike in the fine for not wearing masks. Gupta, accompanied by Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, leader of Opposition in Delhi Assembly, however, assured the state unit of BJP would deploy its workers to distribute free masks and create awareness among people. Gupta accused Delhi government of not making adequate arrangements for managing the pandemic, forcing the Union home minister to intervene. Kumar was critical of the government's plans to temporarily shut down certain markets, saying such a solution would devastate the prospects of businessmen. He also said the all-party meeting, had it been held eight months ago, might have led to early interventions in curbing the spread of Covid in the city. Watch Covid-19: Delhi to impose fine of Rs 2000 on those not wearing masks, says CM Kejriwal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fine-for-not-wearing-mask-in-city-hiked-from-rs-500-to-rs-2000/articleshow/79313436.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Goa||Digambar Kamat dares Goa CM to prove he enhanced coal capacity at MPT||PANAJI: Opposition leader Digambar Kamat said here on Thursday that instead of making baseless allegations, chief minister Pramod Sawant should produce official documents to back the claim that he played a role in increasing coal handling capacity at Mormugao Port Trust (MPT) A week earlier, Sawant blamed the Congress-led government in 2011 for granting permissions for expansion of coal handling at MPT, a charge that Kamat vociferously refuted. “Let them show at least one document signed by me during my tenure as chief minister to allow increasing of coal handling capacity at Mormugao Port Trust ,” said Kamat while talking to reporters at the party head office. “Keeping documents in the pocket and simply making allegations do not serve any purpose.” Kamat said that BJP has tried to threaten him several times by levelling false allegations. “I have been threatened several times...everyone knows about it,” he said referring to the several cases filed by the Manohar Parrikar government. “I don’t want to name anyone who is no more in this world,” Kamat said. “Produce the document signed by Digambar Kamat as chief minister of this state. Who has signed the document, what has been signed, let the government show. I have documents that I will show at the right time.” Poriem MLA Pratapsingh Rane also rose to the defence of Kamat and said that Sawant should back up his allegations with documents. “Why make allegations? Are there any documents? If the government has guts, stop the transportation,” said Rane. A week earlier, Congress released a letter showing that Kamat had written to the Centre expressing concern over moves to enhance coal handling capacity at Mormugao Port Trust. Congress has also said that it has documentary proof to show that the Goa state pollution control board (GSPCB) allowed Mormugao Port Trust to increase coal handling this February.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/kamat-dares-sawant-to-prove-he-enhanced-coal-capacity-at-mpt/articleshow/79311742.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 20, 2020||Goa||ISL officials to give business to locals: Congress||PANAJI: Congress’ disruptive efforts forced Indian Super League (ISL) officials to meet with senior Congress office bearers at the party head office on Thursday to discuss ways to amicably resolve concerns. A day after the party blocked the Mumbai FC team bus, senior ISL officials met with Congress office bearers and agreed to the demand to give logistic contracts to Goan businessmen. “Our problem is that Goan businessmen are not being given any business. We fully support ISL, but don’t snatch the bread and butter of Goans. This was our plea,” said opposition leader Digambar Kamat. He said that ISL officials called him and asked him for the meeting. Congress workers had blocked the Mumbai FC bus at Nagoa and had prevented the players from practising. “These matches are in Goa so Goans should get business,” said Congress vice-president Sankalp Amonkar. ISL officials have reportedly agreed to hire local buses and taxis. The officials have also agreed to employ locals for ground staff, security and other logistics. “They agreed to hire generators and sound system from local companies. Even security agencies and staff will be taken from Goans. They have agreed to an extent and we hope to see the change. If they don’t keep their word, then we can disturb them at every match,” said Amonkar. While party general secretary Amarnath Panjikar said Congress is happy, Mardolkar said the message should go out that business should be given to locals first.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/isl-officials-to-give-biz-to-locals-cong/articleshow/79311781.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Goa||Social distancing takes devotion of Ven Fr Agnelo online||PANAJI: Hundreds of devotees thronging the Pilar hillock every Thursday over the past decades — their number only rises during mid-November — has been an indication of their deep devotion to Venerable Fr Agnelo D’Souza. This year, however, the crisis created by the pandemic has affected religious practices. Although the faithful who visit Fr Agnelo’s tomb to pray for his sainthood, among other things, are keeping away, devotion to him continues in the digital mode as services are being streamed in several Indian languages. The novena Masses interlinked to the pastoral theme, ‘Venerable Agnelo, a missionary and witness of hope’, are being viewed by thousands each day on the Pilar Society’s YouTube channel and other channels. “This shows how many people have devotion to Fr Agnelo. For the first time, we are also live-streaming masses in Bengali, Kannada, Punjabi, Tamil and Marathi, besides Konkani and English,” Fr Tony Fernandes, vice-postulator for the cause of Fr Agnelo, said. On the saintly priest’s death centenary on November 20, rector of Rachol Seminary, Fr Aleixo Menezes will be the main celebrant at the 7am Mass to be held with all standard operating procedures, but not for members of the the public. Fr Sebastian Mascarenhas, Superior General of the Society of Pilar, will be the main celebrant at the Mass in English at 6.30pm. More masses in other languages — 10.30am in Marathi, 11.30am in Hindi and 3pm in Malayalam — will be held at Pilar, where the Anjuna priest’s tomb has been opened for the public from 9am to 1pm and from 3pm to 8pm until November 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/social-distancing-takes-devotion-of-ven-fr-agnelo-online/articleshow/79311819.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Mercury at 9.4°C, season’s lowest||NEW DELHI: The lowest minimum temperature of this season was recorded at 9.4° Celsius, three notches below normal, on Thursday. The maximum temperature was 25.6° C, two notches below normal. Before this, the lowest minimum temperature in the capital was recorded at 10° Celsius on November 3. The normal average minimum temperature for November is 12.9 degrees. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at India Meteorological Department and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “After the western disturbance passed, the wind direction changed and cold air started coming to Delhi from hilly areas. The hilly areas have received snowfall. Due to lack of rain, there was no cloud cover, which caused warm days but cold nights.” This October was also the coldest in 58 years with an average minimum temperature of 17.2° Celsius for the month. November had its coldest night in 26 years on Wednesday when the minimum temperature dropped to 12.5 degrees Celsius. IMD has forecast the minimum and maximum temperatures to be around 25° and 9° Celsius, respectively, on Friday. Met officials have predicted mainly clear sky for Friday along with mist in the morning. “The minimum temperature will hover around 9° Celsius for the next two days. However, it is likely to drop to 8° Celsius by November 22,” said Srivastava. The lowest minimum temperature in November in 2019 and 2018 was recorded 11.4 degrees Celsius and 10.5 degrees Celsius, respectively. Though the lowest minimum temperature in November 2017 was 7.6° Celsius, it was recorded in the last week of the month. Meanwhile, air quality remained in the “poor” category with an Air Quality Index (AQI) of 283. System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR) said 967 fire counts were observed after a dip during Diwali. The share of stubble burning in the capital’s PM2.5 was 20%. “Wind speed is favourable for transport of stubble fire smoke. AQI is set to deteriorate and forecast to be in the very poor range for Friday. However, it will marginally improve to lower end of the very poor category on November 21 and 22, mainly due to accelerated local surface winds and slight lowering of inversion layer height, leading to relatively better ventilation conditions,” stated SAFAR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-mercury-at-9-4c-seasons-lowest/articleshow/79313504.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Goa||Urfan Mulla’s leaving is painful: Congress||PANAJI: The unexpected exit of former minority cell chairman Urfan Mulla, though painful, will not affect Congress, said state party president Girish Chodankar. Chodankar also brushed aside criticism levelled by Mulla, calling the latter’s statements “scripted” and false. Former chief minister Pratapsingh Rane also said that individuals who come and leave the party will not damage the party. “In Congress many people have come and gone but Congress is still here,” said Rane. Chodankar said that Mulla’s immediate induction into BJP explains Mulla’s criticism. “If he had any issues and resigned on principle and kept himself out of politics, then whatever he has said would have some value,” said Chodankar. “The moment you join BJP, they give you a script, what to speak and what not to speak. It is all scripted,” Chodankar said. Chodankar accepted that it is “painful” every time a Congress member leaves the party but the party continues to thrive. “When 13 MLAs left, it did not affect because Congress is the people’s party,” said Chodankar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/urfan-mullas-leaving-is-painful-cong/articleshow/79311848.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Goa||‘Cooperative staff should work unitedly’||Saligao: Employees of the co-operative sector need to work unitedly to pose a strong challenge to the private sector, stakeholders said during an event to celebrate National Co-operative Week. “All transactions in the co-operative sector should be transparent. Members of the sector need to work with a sense of social commitment,” said Paresh Sirsat, professor of Mapusa-based Dnyanprassarak Mandal's College.  Sirsat was the keynote speaker at a function organised by the cooperation department at Mapusa, recently. “It is important for the co-operative society to train its members and employees by imparting knowledge about cooperatives,” Sirsat said. BJP state president Sadanand Tanawade, who was the chief guest, said the Covid-19 pandemic has had an adverse effects on all sectors. However, at the same time, a sense of unity was created, he said. “The co-operative sector supported many people, and the concept of self-realisation began. Local items and artisans started getting importance, which is in line with the Centre’s call for vocal for local,” Tanavade said. During the pandemic, everyone realised that Goa should be self-sufficient and self-reliant, and hence, for this year’s Diwali, people boycotted China-made goods, he added. Arvind Khutkar, registrar of cooperative societies, said, “If the cooperatives work hard, then the power to create a glorious India will come from the cooperative sector.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cooperative-staff-should-work-unitedly/articleshow/79311879.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Goa||Vasco MLA reviews MMC functioning||Vasco: MLA Carlos Almeida on Thursday reviewed the functioning of the Mormugao Municipal Council (MMC). Among those who attended the meeting were Mormugao deputy collector Sachin Desai, MMC chief officer Santosh Kundaikar and technical staff of the municipality. The Vasco MLA told Kundaikar to initiate measures to generate income as the body was facing a financial crunch. When Almeida pointed out to the garbage, he was told that door-to-door collection was done regularly but was not being cleared by municipal vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/vasco-mla-reviews-mmc-functioning/articleshow/79311916.cms||---
November 20, 2020||India||How info-warriors in rural India are busting fake news||Always glued to his smartphone at a Covid care centre in Shopian town of south Kashmir, Adnan Tak drew the curiosity of other patients. "I told them that I was letting people in the district know about the facilities at the government-run centre and countering rumours on social media about a spike in the number of Covid cases," says Tak, who was himself down with the novel coronavirus disease then. Read the entire story on TOI+How info warriors are busting fake news across rural India||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/how-info-warriors-in-rural-india-are-busting-fake-news/articleshow/79313527.cms||Yudhajit Shankar Das
November 20, 2020||Kolkata||TMC man killed, BJP office gutted in West Bengal's North 24 Parganas||BARRACKPORE: A Trinamool Congress activist was hacked to death by miscreants at Jagaddal in North 24 Parganas late on Wednesday and a BJP party office was gutted in a fire at Titagarh’s Koyrapur early on Thursday, sparking a blame game between the rival political parties. Akash Prasad, 26, was from ward 12 of Bhatpara Municipality that is on BJP MP Arjun Singh’s turf. “My son got a call on his cellphone on Wednesday night asking him to step out of the house, which he refused. A local youth, Ashoke Shaw, barged in and dragged my son out of the house. His body was recovered late in the night,” said the victim’s father Arun Prasad. Shaw’s neighbours from Jagaddal’s Palghat Road said the incident took place around 11.30pm. Akash’s body was found lying in a pool of blood in an abandoned field, barely 300 metres from his house. Multiple injury marks indicated that assailants had used sharp weapons, said a Jagaddal police officer. They apparently also burst bombs on Akash to ensure he was dead. Main accused Ashoke Shaw has been arrested. “We are trying to find out if there is any record of old rivalry that may have led to the murder. We are looking for other suspects,” said a senior police officer of the Barrackpore Commissionerate. North 24 Parganas’ Trinamool chief Jyotipriya Mullick pointed a finger at Arjun Singh. “The murder was done by people on the instructions of BJP MP Arjun Singh,” he alleged. “Akash was a Trinamool activist from ward 12, where BJP had no foothold. Akash became the target after he brought as many as 123 BJP supporters into the Trinamool fold,” Mullick added. The BJP MP rubbished the charge and claimed the victim was a drug peddler and snatcher. “He was lynched by a mob after being caught red-handed in a theft case,” Singh said. In Koyrapur, BJP supporters accused Trinamool of setting the party office on fire. They blocked Kalyani Expressway in protest for over half an hour. Trinamool Congress’s Nirmal Ghosh denied the allegation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tmc-man-killed-bjp-office-gutted-in-north-24-parganas/articleshow/79312578.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
November 20, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal chief secy holds meet on Gangasagar Mela||Kolkata: Chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay on Thursday held a meeting with senior officials to take stock of the preparations for Gangasagar Mela, which will be held in mid-January. The state government will also arrange for e-darshan and e-snan for those who will not be able to attend due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Bandyopadhyay held discussions on how to take precautions for pilgrims. He wanted special attention to be given to Covid testing and arranging safe homes for those who test positive. The government will run a toll-free helpline for pilgrims and staff deployed at the mela will get Covid insurance coverage. The fire department will frequently sanitise the grounds and different assembly points on the way. Officials also discussed traffic management from Howrah, Sealdah and Outram Ghat. They felt Majerhat Bridge would be reopened to traffic by the end of 2020 which would aid the movement of pilgrims. The irrigation department was asked to complete dredging around Gangasagar, which had been devastated by Cyclone Amphan, to increase navigability.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-chief-secy-holds-meet-on-gangasagar-mela/articleshow/79312569.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 20, 2020||Kolkata||Twin legal wins at SC, Calcutta HC: Ban on Chhath Puja at Kolkata lakes stays||KOLKATA: The city’s environment scored two huge wins on the same day with the Supreme Court and Calcutta High Court refusing to allow Chhath at Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar, respectively. The Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority, which had appealed to the two courts for a go-ahead for Chhath but had to go through the ignominy of suffering two legal setbacks, issued a notification announcing the closure of the city’s two biggest lakes for 39 hours — all of Friday till 3pm on Saturday — immediately after Thursday’s verdicts. Times ViewFollowing green norms strictly this year is important. It works two ways: one, it is an attempt to reduce environmental pollution this season and, consequently, preempt a possible spike in Covid cases (as poor AQI has been linked to more cases and more serious cases); two, it lays the groundwork for cleaner celebrations in future years. The city needs more responsible celebrations.Environmental activists, regular visitors to the lakes and birders hailed the decisions and hoped the KMDA would now focus its attention on securing the lakes and preventing a rerun of last year’s NGT order violation at Rabindra Sarobar, when revellers had the run of the place, instead of challenging orders meant to protect the city’s environment. A repeat of the 2019 fiasco appeared to be unlikely after the two court orders, with the entire state machinery throwing its weight behind them. State chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay on Thursday repeated CM Mamata Banerjee’s appeal for a safe Chhath and “offering the puja from home or at neighbourhood ponds or rivers (but without processions)” and following all court orders. Kolkata Police, too, fin-alised its plans to secure the lakes, engaging senior officials and 1,500 personnel for the job. Before that, however, the KMDA counsel pleaded with the SC in favour of Chhath at Dhakuria’s Rabindra Sarobar; it would abide by the National Green Tribunal’s conditions laid down prior to the ban order and ensure social distancing during the ceremony, it said. And, at the Calcutta HC, state advocate-general Kishore Datta moved a modification plea for Chhath at Beliaghata’s Subhas Sarobar, arguing that the NGT had banned Chhath at only Rabindra Sarobar as mentioned in the November 10 high court order. The efforts failed in both Delhi and Kolkata. Environmentalist Subhas Datta’s counsel in SC questioned why the KMDA had not brought the issue to the apex court’s notice for the past two years but had done so only when state elections were round the corner. “An agency whose job is to protect the lake against any pollution is pleading for pollution to be allowed,” senior Supreme Court lawyer R Venkatramani said, accusing it of “votebank politics”. The SC bench comprising Justice Uday Umesh Lalit, Justice Vineet Saran and Justice S Ravindra Bhat refused to pass any order. “This means the NGT order remains in force. There is a ban on any religious activity, including Chhath Puja, at Rabindra Sarobar,” a KMDA lawyer said. The HC division bench of Justice S Banerjee and Justice A Banerjee, too, refused to modify its earlier order banning Chhath at Subash Sorobar. Both lakes were important for the environment and served as the city’s lungs, and hence, should be protected, the bench said. “The state government must be commended for the manner in which the prohibition on firecrackers was implemented, at least in and around Kolkata. There were, doubtless, disturbing pockets and the stray use of fireworks; but, by and large, it was a sound- and smoke-free Kali Puja and Diwali,” the bench said, hoping that this would “continue in the same vein for the rest of the month, including during Chhath Puja, Jagaddhatri Puja and Guru Nanak Jayanti celebrations”. The bench also observed all festivals were required to be obseved in a restricted manner because of the current pandemic situation and asked the state adminsitration and police to ensure that norms were followed during Chhath. Environmentalists said the twin decisions vindicated their stand and were a fitting rebuttal to the KMDA’s decision to challenge an NGT order meant to preserve the lake’s environment. “This is the victory of right over wrong. The lakes’ flora and fauna will thrive if KMDA and the government protect both Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar,” environmentalist Datta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/twin-legal-wins-at-sc-cal-hc-ban-on-chhath-puja-at-city-lakes-stays/articleshow/79312549.cms||Subrata Chattoraj
November 20, 2020||Kolkata||Oil find, just 47km from Kolkata, holds commercial potential||KOLKATA: After decades of claims by oil and natural gas exploration agencies, Bengal finally looks set to find a place on the oil map of the world. Union minister for steel, petroleum & natural gas, Dharmendra Pradhan, has confirmed the commercial viability of an oil and gas reserve discovered in 2018 by ONGC in Ashoknagar of North 24 Parganas, just 47km from Kolkata. For the past two years, stakeholders had kept their excitement in check as several similar claims of oil finds in Bay of Bengal near the Sunderbans had later turned out to be commercially unviable. But putting to rest speculations, the petroleum minister announced on Thursday that “going by experts”, the ONGC find “can be commercially exploited” and added that samples from the exploration field in Ashoknagar had recently been taken to Indian Oil’s Haldia refinery for further analysis. “Next week I would come to Bengal and may visit the place. This would be a first-of-its-kind for Bengal,” Pradhan said while addressing the annual general meeting of MCCI over video link. According to sources, the capacity of the block could be one lakh cubic metre per day of gas and an equal quantity of oil in litres. “Two exploratory wells have been dug there,” the sources said. Besides Assam, no eastern or northeastern state has an operating oil field. Neither is there an operating natural gas field in the region. But Bengal and Jharkhand have operating coal bed methane (CBM) fields which can be used to produce CNG (compressed natural gas). The eastern region has a huge potential for shale gas as most CBM reserves are located here. The CBM players in Bengal, Essar Oil & Gas Exploration and Great Eastern Energy, will soon start exploration for shale gas on the instruction of the petroleum ministry. . Essar Oil has a recommended reserve of 1.5 trillion cubic feet of shale gas in its block near Raniganj. The estimated shale gas reserve in the region is around 96 trillion cubic feet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/oil-find-just-47km-from-city-holds-commercial-potential/articleshow/79312568.cms||---
November 20, 2020||Kolkata||Six killed as blast tears through Malda plastic recycling factory||SUJAPUR: Six persons, including two minors, were killed and four others seriously injured when an explosion ripped apart a plastic recycling factory at Sujapur in Malda on Thursday. One of the victims is the co-owner of the factory.  It is prima facie suspected that a 45HP plastic processing machine, run on electricity and used to compress and cut plastics, overheated and exploded. The West Bengal government announced Rs 2 lakh compensation for the next of kin of those killed and Rs 50,000 for the injured. State urban development minister Firhad Hakim air-dashed to the spot to meet the grieving families. The incident triggered a face-off between the governor and the Bengal home department after Jagdeep Dhankhar suggested, immediately after the explosion, that it was time for chief minister Mamata Banerjee to “proactively contain illegal bomb making and ensure professional non-partisan investigations”. The government responded that the incident “is related to manufacturing process issues and has got nothing to do with illegal bomb-making, as suggested non-responsibly by some quarters”. Malda police superintendent Aloke Rajoria, who was at the spot, ruled out explosives. “Prima facie, the machine exploded due to mechanical fault. Forensic experts are probing the cause of explosion, whichwas huge; machine fragments were found several metres away,” he said. The SP added that four persons were killed on the spot and two on way to hospital. A deafening explosion was heard in crowded Sujapur around 11.30am, completely damaging the factory of one Abrul Sk in Kaliachak police station limits. Locals rushed in on seeing people writhing in pain. The victims were sent to Malda Medical College and Hospital. While police did not officially confirm identities of the dead, locals said they were Md Mostafa (26), Sariful Haque (29), Abdul Rahman (17), Ajijul Rahman (13) and Rajib Khan (28). Among the injured in hospital were three women — Pramila Mandal, Julekha Bibi and Juli Bewa; the two others were Abu Sayed and Musa Sk. Locals claimed that at the time of explosion, around 20 people were working. Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay said the state administration was in constant touch with the Malda district magistrate and SP. “The blast took place when work was going on on a plastic processing machine. On the CM’s instruction, a high-level meeting has taken place,” he said. BJP MP Khagen Murmu, however, demanded an NIA probe. “In July, a similar explosion at English Bazaar in a Toto had killed a person and damaged his vehicle. We are yet to know the cause. This is another case of hushing up the truth. We want a probe by NIA,” he said. Reacting to it, Hakim said: “NIA is an important agency that protects the country. This is a plastic factory blast. BJP should not misuse central agencies for political reasons.” Prima facie, he added, the cause was machine fault. At Kolkata airport, Hakim said the state government would stand by the bereaved families. State minister Chandrima Bhattacharya said: “The blast was at a plastic factory. Police are probing.” Locals claimed plastic recycling was a big business in the region and finished products were sold even in northeastern states. Some had no licence, said the district administration, and hence did not follow adequate safety measures and even employed minors. Such faults, if any, would be probed, police said. (Written with inputs from Debashis Konar in Kolkata)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/6-killed-as-blast-tears-through-malda-plastic-recycling-factory/articleshow/79312468.cms||Subhro Maitra
