November 21, 2020||Mysuru||Weekend plays are back at Mysuru's Rangayana Repertory Theatre||There’s good news for lovers of all things theatre. The Rangayana theatre repertory has resumed staging weekend plays amid strict pandemic safety protocols. While they had started with a two-actor play in October, a new play called Dahana that will have 5-6 actors on stage will be performed on Sunday. RETURNING BACK TO THEATRE (Marali Rangake) As theatre activities had come to a standstill in March, a special event called Returning back to theatre was designed by members of the troupe to welcome audiences to theatre again. “Like every other sector in society, even theatre has taken a beating due to the Coronavirus pandemic. When we were able to resume operations, we began with an experimental play like Door No 8, which required only two actors on stage. That worked for us to some extent and has given us the confidence to try out slightly bigger productions. We had also reduced ticket prices to get audiences to come back,” says Addanda C Cariyappa, director of Rangayana. SEATING CAPACITY REDUCED TO MAINTAIN SOCIAL DISTANCE “The seating capacity of Bhoomigeetha, the venue inside Rangayana premises, where plays are staged is 240, but in keeping with new norms, we are restricting that to 110 now. This will allow us to keep every alternate seat vacant to maintain social distance. While the hall will be thoroughly cleaned before any play, thermal screening and hand sanitisation will be mandatory for patrons,” he adds. NEW NORMS HAVE HIKED PRODUCTION COST The problem with the reduced seating capacity, and other safety measures, is that it increases overall production costs. “Not only have our overheads increased, but we are also not able to generate enough revenue owing to the reduced ticket rates and decreased seating capacity. In the long run, it will be difficult to sustain this model and we will be forced to increase ticket rates for bigger productions,” says Cariyappa. Watch Rangayana resumes staging weekend plays amid safety pandemic protocols||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/weekend-plays-are-back-at-mysurus-rangayana-repertory-theatre/articleshow/79325084.cms||Vinay Lokesh
November 21, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru goes green; records low levels of air pollution this Deepavali||Bengaluru, it would seem, has paid attention to the fact that the city’s air quality has been on the mend since the lockdown and did not let the festive spirit disturb that. Deepavali, which is seen as a time of the year when air pollution levels increase substantially owing to the bursting of firecrackers, was different this year, with the city registering lower levels of air pollutants compared to 2019. In a bid to check the impact of fire crackers on the city's air quality this Deepavali, the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board had recorded the ambient Air Quality Index (AQI) data from their monitoring stations at seven locations across the city. The comparative data reveals a considerable drop in the AQI index from 2019. "The ambient air quality measured at our stations reveals that the Air Quality Index (AQI) values for 2020 has decreased by 30.34 %, when compared to Deepavali 2019," says Srinivasulu, Member Secretary Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB), adding that the average AQI for the three days of Deepavali (November 16 - November 18) also showed a 46.7% reduction compared to a regular day. "The COVID-19 experience triggered an awareness regarding air pollution and its impact on the respiratory system. Also, the Karnataka High Court issued directions about using green crackers only, which was strictly implemented by KSPCB, police department and BBMP, which has contributed to the reduction in the pollution levels," says Srinivasulu. He adds that the trend over the past few years has been positive. "Since 2017, there has been a decrease in air pollution and a reduction in the AQI levels and the board has to appreciate Karnataka and Bengaluru, in particular, as the level of awareness regarding the situation is higher compared to other cities," sums up Srinivasulu. Box AQI on Deepavali 2019 - 81.29 AQI on Deepavali 2020 - 55.62 Reduction (in %) - 30.34%||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-goes-green-records-low-levels-of-air-pollution-this-deepavali/articleshow/79325422.cms||Joyeeta Chakravorty
November 21, 2020||Bengaluru||With cinema halls open, Bengalureans make the most of their movie outings||Movie premieres used to be a big thing in Bengaluru’s social circuit, until, of course, the pandemic changed life as we knew it. After months of no operations, cinema halls in the city opened doors amid strict safety protocols in October and only 50 per cent capacity, and playing films that already had theatrical runs. This week, though, that changed, with several new releases across languages hitting theatres, one of which revived the premiere night concept on Thursday. Sixty lucky movie buffs got to catch the first show of a new film in town at a city multiplex. Organised by Rubin Raj, the event was conducted in keeping with safety measures. “Although the hall has a seating capacity of 157, we invited only 60 to be a part of this show. At the entrance, the name of each guest was noted down, along with the temperature check reading. They would then be asked to sanitise their hands before heading to the screening hall,” said Rubin. We spotted several families on this outing, most of who professed to have not only missed the experience of watching a film on the big screen, but also the treats from the food counters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/with-cinema-halls-open-bengalureans-make-the-most-of-their-movie-outings/articleshow/79326512.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Lucknow||Awadhi music sets the stage in Lucknow University||The Arts Quadrangle at the Lucknow University reverberated with Kajri, Banna, Badhai Mubarakbadi, Nakta, Phaag and other Awadhi folk songs as Padmashri Malini Awasthi lent her voice to them, accompanied by a narration of the history and anecdotes related to the music by renowned writer, author, poet Yatindra Mishra on Thursday evening at the centenary celebrations of the institution. Dr Rakesh Dwivedi (L) and Dr OP Shukla (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)Dr Rakesh Dwivedi (L) and Dr OP Shukla (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) Prof Alok Kumar Rai and Nishi Pandey (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)Prof Alok Kumar Rai and Nishi Pandey (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) Harshita Saroj (L) and Gauri Todariya (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)Harshita Saroj (L) and Gauri Todariya (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) (L) Neelima Katiyar (R) Rakesh Chandra (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)(L) Neelima Katiyar (R) Rakesh Chandra (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) At the event titled Awadh Ki Roshan Chowki, Awasthi enthralled audience with songs like Saiya Mile Ladkiyan Main, Hamari Atariya Pe, Badhaiyan Are Dashrath Ghar Sohar Ho, Siya Ram, Mujhse Naina Mila Ke and more. However, Kesaria Balam in Awadhi style sung by her was the highlight of the evening. Students were seen dancing while faculty members cheered. Politician Neelima Katiyar was the chief guest on the occassion. — Vishnu Jaiswal Abhishek Mishra (L) and Savrabh Rai (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)Abhishek Mishra (L) and Savrabh Rai (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) Ayush Shukla and Yashika Yadav (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)Ayush Shukla and Yashika Yadav (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) <p>Bhawana Rai (L) and Sangeeta Rai (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)<br></p>Bhawana Rai (L) and Sangeeta Rai (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) (L) Dr Archna Singh (R) Dr Keya Pandey (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)(L) Dr Archna Singh (R) Dr Keya Pandey (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) Dr Durgesh (L) and Dr Puneet Misra (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)Dr Durgesh (L) and Dr Puneet Misra (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/awadhi-music-sets-the-stage-in-lucknow-university/articleshow/79324011.cms||---
November 21, 2020||India||BJP hits back after Gehlot's 'love jihad' attack||JAIPUR: Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday criticized BJP over 'love jihad', accusing it of "manufacturing the word" to "divide the nation and disturb communal harmony". Gehlot's attack came in a series of tweets, after BJP-governed states of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh said they are considering enactment of laws to curb such marriages. And, while the Karnataka government said it would watch steps taken by UP and Haryana, BJP in Assam has promised to bring in a law if re-elected in the state assembly elections next year. Gehlot accused BJP of violating the Constitution and citizens' personal liberty in choice of marital partners. "Bringing a law to curb it is completely unconstitutional and will not stand in any court of law. Jihad has no place in love," he tweeted. "They are creating an environment where consenting adults would be at the mercy of state power..." They are creating an environment in the nation where consenting adults would be at the mercy of state power. Marria… https://t.co/SExIO21JDD— Ashok Gehlot (@ashokgehlot51) 1605854832000Reacting to Gehlot's tweets, Union jal shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat accused him of supporting love jihad under the garb of personal liberty and termed this Congress's "communal agenda." He tweeted: "Dear Ashokji, love jihad is a trap that has many young women believing that marriage is a personal affair, where later it turns out it isn't. Also, if it is a matter of personal liberty, then why are the women not free to keep their maiden name or religion?"||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-hits-back-after-gehlots-love-jihad-attack/articleshow/79330926.cms||---
November 21, 2020||India||Amid sniping, Congress puts critics on new panels to aid Sonia||NEW DELHI: Amid fresh squabbling over the direction of the party following the poor showing in Bihar, Congress on Friday constituted three panels on economic affairs, foreign affairs and national security, falling back on former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh to head them while accommodating some of the G-23 dissenters. The panels are intended to help Congress chief Sonia Gandhi and the party respond to current developments. Interestingly, the panel on economics comprises former finance minister P Chidambaram while the one on foreign affairs comprises Anand Sharma and Shashi Tharoor besides being headed by Salman Khurshid. Sharma and Tharoor are signatories to the G-23 letter calling for a full-time leader who is available to deal with party matters. The foreign affairs panel, however, may be seen as a part snub to the G-23 since the AICC foreign affairs department is headed by Anand Sharma and in the arrangement announced on Friday, Salman Khurshid is the convener. The committee on national security includes leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad who is the leading figure in G-23 and veteran Veerappa Moily who also signed the dissenting missive. Read Also'Those unhappy free to leave': Cong vs Cong out in the open, againThe Bihar assembly poll results have triggered another round of infighting in the Congress, bringing to the fore the deep divide within the grand old party. After the party's dismal performance in Bihar elections and the bypolls across the country, some senior leaders have once again questioned theThese panels, which are to brief the Congress president on important issues, come after the party in August formed a committee of advisors to help Sonia Gandhi in day to day affairs. Congress has decided to hold the AICC elections for the next party chief, as was decided in the CWC meeting in August. It is to be seen if these appointments in any way stem the public commentary by senior members critical of the leadership, arguing that the top brass is in denial that the party is in decline and facing serious existential crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/amid-sniping-congress-puts-critics-on-new-panels-to-aid-sonia/articleshow/79331170.cms||---
November 21, 2020||India||At 46,328, fresh Covid cases in India at nine-day high||Fresh Covid-19 cases spiked to new peaks in two states on Friday - the first time in November that any state reported its highest-ever single-day count - even as the day's tally of new infections nationally rose to a nine-day high. India reported 46,328 fresh cases on Friday, the highest since November 11, as the trend of rising cases continued for the fifth day running. The day's death toll was 563, staying above 550 for the third day although the number had reduced from Thursday's high of 589. For the second time within the last seven days, active cases in the country did not register a decline on Friday, another sign that the pandemic could be rising again. The count of active cases remained unmoved at 4,45,804 on Friday while it had increased by 346 last Saturday (November 14). That was the first day since October 1 that the count had not registered a decrease, as per TOI's data based on state government numbers.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); Across north and central India, there were signs that the Covid-19 pandemic was surging again post-Diwali. While Haryana (3,104 fresh cases) reported more than 3,000 cases in a day for the first time, Rajasthan too reported its highest ever addition of 2,762 infections. Uttar Pradesh recorded 2,858 fresh cases, the highest since October 17 while Gujarat it's highest single-day addition of cases since September 25 af 1,420. in Madhya Pradesh, 1,528 infections were detected on Friday, the highest number since October 14.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); Delhi, however, saw the daily count of cases reduced from 7,546 on Thursday to 6,608. The capital, however, reported a surge in deaths with 118 patients succumbing to the virus in the last 24 hours. For the second day in a row, Maharashtra added more than 5,500 cases of Covid-19 on Friday, with the 5,640 new cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/at-46328-fresh-covid-cases-in-india-at-nine-day-high/articleshow/79331396.cms||---
November 21, 2020||World||Isro to launch Bhutan’s satellite next year, train its space engineers: Modi||NEW DELHI: In a bid to build space infrastructure of India’s friendly neighbours under the ‘Act East’ Policy, PM Narendra Modi on Friday announced that the country will launch a satellite for Bhutan next year and train its space engineers for the purpose. In a virtual address to Bhutanese leaders, Modi said, “Work is going on a fast track in Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) to send a Bhutan satellite to space next year. For this purpose, four brilliant space engineers of Bhutan will go to Isro (centre) in December for training.” “India has always been using space technology for development purpose. Last year, I had inaugurated a satellite ground station in Bhutan (set up with Isro’s technical assistance). With the help of this station, Bhutan is able to effectively access the South Asia Satellite (launched on May 5, 2017 by India for Saarc nations) for TV broadcast and disaster management,” he said. The PM also disclosed that the two countries on Thursday signed a framework agreement to encourage cooperation in the peaceful usage of outer space. The pact will also boost cooperation between different agencies of both the countries. He used the occasion to also talk about drastic changes ushered in the space sector in the country, saying India opened its space sector for private enterprises recently that would give a boost to capacity-building, innovation and skills. Though India has launched 328 foreign satellites till now, this will be the first time the country will be launching a full-fledged satellite for its long-time friend and neighbour Bhutan in its continuous effort to promote ‘Act East Policy’. Under the South Asia Satellite or Gsat-9 project, India continues to provide Bhutan and other friendly Saarc countries, except Pakistan, free satellite services for DTH and VSATs, tele-education, tele-medicine and disaster management purposes. “I know that the Bhutan king gives importance to the use of space technology for the development of his country and shows personal interest in promoting such technologies. To fufil his vision, India is ready to share its experience and expertise in the space sector and give access of its space technology to Bhutan,” Modi told the Bhutanese audience. Bhutan is yet to develop the capability to launch its own satellites and that is the reason its first satellite BHUTAN-1 (a nano satellite) was launched in 2018 by US private satellite launcher SpaceX. During the virtual meet, Modi, along with his Bhutanese counterpart Lotay Tshering, also launched RuPay card phase-II that will allow card holders from Bhutan to access the RuPay network in India. The PM said, “India supports setting up of an ITC-enabled knowledge-based society, and welcomes a third international internet gateway in Bhutan with the help of an agreement with BSNL”. Amid the Covid pandemic, he also assured Bhutan “all help in these tough times”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/south-asia/isro-to-launch-bhutans-satellite-next-year-train-its-space-engineers-modi/articleshow/79331538.cms||Surendra Singh
November 21, 2020||India||In a 1st, India to build commercial tech for mobile base station||BENGALURU: In a first, India will be developing technologies for mobile base stations that can be commercialised, which will boost a host of private firms including small and medium industries, academia research labs and make 5G services — yet to be launched — more affordable. The technology will be developed as part of a Rs 150-crore national project that officially kicked off earlier this month in Bengaluru. A Technology Innovation Hub (TIH) established as a Section-8 (not-for-profit) company at the International Institute of Information Technology-Bangalore (IIIT-B) will lead the R&D collaboration. This government-funded project — under the national mission on interdisciplinary cyber physical systems (NM-ICPS) — will also build other advanced communications and cyber physical systems technologies relating to, but not limited to, 5G. Prof Debabrata Das from IIIT-B, where the TIH has come up, told TOI: “It’s high time India entered the base station business given that we have the second highest number of mobile users. So far, all technologies of base stations were proprietary and majorly owned by foreign firms. What we’ll be doing is to develop technology indigenously using open source architecture.” TOI spoke with multiple officials from the department of science and technology (DST), which is funding the project, who confirmed the project details. Prof Ashutosh Sharma, secretary, DST said that the TIH will build an array of technologies relating to advanced communications and will play a crucial role in not just indigenising technology and creating a knowledge hub but also encouraging private firms. A senior DST official said: “IIIT-B has demonstrated capabilities to do this. We’re also looking at software-defined 5G networks which can augment existing technologies and redefine them. While this would be the primary focus of this TIH, it would also allow industries to co-develop technologies or products and push for commercialisation. Spin off of start-ups and other companies will also be encouraged. In the future, the TIH may address other challenges, including those in the field of quantum communications.” Das further explained that the base station technology will be built on ORAN (Open Radio Access Network), which is a new open source architecture that is in focus around the world. “ORAN, a base station architecture that will have a modular structure, will allow different modules such as radio band, base band, access control modules, radio link control modules and control planes, base stations management planes, to be independently developed. These modules will be interconnected by open interfaces, as a result, any company or academia's research labs can develop one or more of these modules, and need not build all of them together.” Das said. He added this will expedite the process of innovations and products in these areas and allow customers also to pick different firms for different modules. “This is an important aspect given the PM’s call for Atmanirbhar Bharat. Right now all the base stations in India, lakhs of them, are majorly imported. And with 5G, you will need more stations than 4G because although 5G has a higher bandwidth it’ll have a lower coverage area due to possible use of higher frequency range. For example, if a 4G station can cover a 1,000 meters radius, a 5G station will only manage 500 metres in urban areas. One can estimate the value of having such technologies built indigenously and commercialised,” Das said. It is noteworthy that two big telcos, Reliance Jio and Bharti Airtel have also announced plans of developing various technologies relating to 5G.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-a-1st-india-to-build-commercial-tech-for-mobile-base-station/articleshow/79331625.cms||Chethan Kumar
November 21, 2020||India||Pakistan-based Jaish trying to target J&K polls: PM Narendra Modi||NEW DELHI: A clear and irrefutable link establishing Pakistani origins of the four terrorists killed on Thursday in Nagrota has emerged , leading Prime Minister Narendra Modi to directly name “Pakistan-based terrorist organisation Jaish e Mohammad” behind efforts to wreak major havoc and destruction to “target grassroots level democratic exercises in Jammu & Kashmir”. In view of the large and unusual cache of weapons and explosives recovered from the slain terrorists – 11 AK 47 rifles, 24 AK 47 magazines, one UBGL, 3 pistols, 6 pistol magazines, 29 grenades, 5 rifle grenades, detonators, 7.5 kg of RDX and 20 meters of IED wire – the prime minister on Friday, in a rare intervention, reviewed the situation in J&K in the light of what is seen as a Pakistan- inspired plot to create mayhem. The review was attended by home minister Amit Shah, NSA Ajit Doval, foreign secretary as well as top officials of the intelligence establishment. After the review, PM took to social media, again an unusual move, to highlight the efforts by Pakistan-based terror outfits to target grassroot-level democracy in J&K and commend the security forces for thwarting these plans. Prime minister's tweets were seen as aimed against Pakistan's ISI which uses jehadi terror outfits like Jaish and Lashkar to hurt India. “Our security forces have once again displayed utmost bravery and professionalism. Thanks to their alertness, they have defeated a nefarious plot to target grassroots level democratic exercise in Jammu & Kashmir,” he tweeted, indicating that the Pakistani-based Jaish was out to disrupt district development council polls and destablise the situation in J&K with what police sources described as a “big attack coinciding with the anniversary of 26/11”. Our security forces have once again displayed utmost bravery and professionalism. Thanks to their alertness, they h… https://t.co/dSDW3SvuY4— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1605866927000Some key recoveries made from the dead Jaish terrorists, who had freshly infiltrated from the international border in Samba, were cited by intelligence sources as "unimpeachable” proof of the Pakistani origins of the slain terrorists who with a veritable armoury at their disposal could have caused havoc in J&K. These include a digital mobile radio manufactured a Pakistani company named Micro Electronics. Messages on the DMR set clearly show that the intruding terrorists were in constant touch with their handlers across the border. These handlers were following the location of terrorists en route to Kashmir and asking if they faced any problems. Also, a smartphone from a Pakistani company Q Mobile; medicines such as Flagyl, Surfi tablet, Dicloran, Panadol etc, manufactured in Karachi; and shoes manufactured in Pakistan are among the key recoveries that point to complicity of terrorist outfits enjoying a safe haven in Pakistan. A wireless set and a GPS device were also recovered. Sources in J&K police told TOI that the terrorists, after crossing the international border and reaching a predesignated point on the national highway south of Samba, were headed to the Valley. “The huge quantum of weapons clearly indicates that the plan was to disrupt the effort to restore normalcy in the trouble-torn part,” said an officer. It has been clear for some time that the Pakistani agencies have been disconcerted by India's efforts to ensure that there was no eruption or upsurge in Kashmir in the wake the constitutional changes of Aug 5, 2019. There have, of course, been desperate attempts by Pakistan to use terrorists to strike at vulnerable and soft targets like political leaders and civilians. “All such attempts have been successfully thwarted with the cooperation of the people of J&K,” said an officer. Inputs indicate that the impending DDC polls in J&K, which will establish the third and final tier of the local bodies for governance, have unnerved terrorists and Pakistani agencies, sources told TOI. The elections have already seen massive participation in terms of nominations and public response. Agencies believe it was this process of democratic decentralisation that the Pakistani terrorists killed at the Ban toll plaza in Jammu were trying to thwart with the huge quantity of weapons they were carrying. The elimination of the four terrorists has added further to the high numbers of terrorists killed by the security forces in intelligence-based operations since Article 370 was abrogated in J&K. As per figures shared with TOI, over 200 terrorists, including 30 foreigners, have been gunned down in the UT since August 2019. Watch PM Modi lauds security forces for thwarting nefarious plot of Pak-based terror outfit JeM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pakistan-based-jaish-trying-to-target-jk-polls-pm-narendra-modi/articleshow/79331978.cms||Bharti Jain
November 21, 2020||World||Pfizer files Covid-19 vaccine application to US FDA||Pfizer Inc applied to US health regulators on Friday for emergency use authorization (EUA) of its Covid-19 vaccine, the first such application in a major step toward providing protection against the new coronavirus. The application to the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) comes just days after Pfizer and German partner BioNTech SE reported final trial results that showed the vaccine was 95% effective in preventing Covid-19 with no major safety concerns. Pfizer chief executive officer Albert Bourla confirmed the application had been made in a video posted on the company's website on Friday afternoon. Pfizer's shares were up 1.3% and BioNTech shares up 9.3% in New York late on Friday afternoon, as the possibility of a vaccine soon raised hopes for the end of a pandemic that has claimed more than a quarter of a million lives in the United States and over 1.3 million worldwide. The application also includes safety data on about 100 children 12-15 years of age. The company said 45% of US trial participants are 56-85 years old. If the data is solid, "we literally could be weeks away from the authorization of a 95% effective vaccine," US Health and Human Services secretary Alex Azar said on CBS's "This Morning." The companies expect the FDA to grant the EUA by mid-December and said they will begin shipping doses almost immediately. Pfizer has said it expects to have 50 million vaccine doses ready this year, enough to protect 25 million people. An FDA advisory committee tentatively plans to meet Dec. 8-10 to discuss the vaccine, a source familiar with the situation told Reuters, though the dates could change. The final trial data showed the vaccine provided a similar level of protection across different ages and ethnicities - an encouraging result as the disease disproportionately hurts the elderly and minorities. Of the 170 volunteers who contracted Covid-19 in Pfizer's trial involving over 43,000 people, 162 had received only a placebo, meaning the vaccine was 95% effective, far higher than originally expected. The US FDA had set minimum bar for efficacy of 50%. Pfizer said nearly 42% of global participants and 30% of US participants in the Phase 3 study have racially and ethnically diverse backgrounds. "Filing in the US represents a critical milestone in our journey to deliver a Covid-19 vaccine to the world and we now have a more complete picture of both the efficacy and safety profile of our vaccine," Bourla said in a statement. Moderna Inc is expected to be the next company to seek a US emergency use nod for a Covid-19 vaccine. An initial analysis of data from its late-stage trial showed the vaccine was 94.5% effective. Final results and safety data are expected in the coming days or weeks. Both the Pfizer/BioNTech and Moderna vaccines work using a new technology to trigger an immune response known as synthetic messenger RNA that can be produced at scale much more quickly than traditional vaccines. Of dozens of drugmakers and research institutions racing to develop Covid-19 vaccines, the next late-stage data is expected to come from AstraZeneca Plc, which is working with the University of Oxford, in November or December. Johnson & Johnson said it expects to have data needed to seek US authorization for its experimental vaccine by February. Watch Covid-19: Pfizer seeks emergency use of vaccine in US||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/pfizer-files-covid-19-vaccine-application-to-us-fda/articleshow/79332013.cms||---
November 21, 2020||India||Covid-19: Surge in north, central India; schools closed, night curfew back||NEW DELHI: As daily Covid-19 cases hit all-time highs in Haryana and Rajasthan on Friday and surged elsewhere in north and central India, several states moved to re-impose restrictions while ruling out a total lockdown. Haryana, (3,104) reported over 3,000 cases in a day for the first time and announced closure of schools till Nov 30, while MP clamped night lockdown in five districts and Gujarat extended indefinite night curfew ordered in Ahmedabad to Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot. In Rajasthan, where daily cases hit a new high of 2,762 on Friday, prohibitory orders (section 144) were clamped in 33 districts. UP sounded an alert for a possible second wave, with the health department advising people to stay indoors after a spike in cases. Coronavirus pandemic: Live updatesIn Maharashtra, though the state had allowed schools to reopen for classes IX to XII on Nov 23, the civic bodies of Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai and Panvel on Friday directed all schools in these cities to remain shut until the end of the year due to rising cases and the possibility of a second wave. The state is also planning to restrict flights and trains coming from Delhi.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); Night curfew in MPMadhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced that night curfew was being imposed in five districts — Bhopal, Indore, Gwalior, Ratlam and Vidisha — where Covid positivity rate was higher than 5%. MP added 1,528 cases on Friday, the highest single-day count since October 14. Chouhan said business and industrial activities would continue but schools will remain shut, with only students of classes 9 to 12 allowed to go to their classes to clear doubts. From November 21, no one will be allowed out of their homes between 10pm and 6am in these five districts. Read AlsoCovin App to track, schedule Covid vaccine rolloutThe Covin App developed by the Centre will be a key part of India's vaccine rollout as it will streamline data on Covid-19 vaccine procurement, distribution, circulation, storage and dose schedules besides also notifying the first set of vaccine recipients when their shots have been scheduled.In Haryana, daily cases crossed 3,000 for the first time ever on Friday. The state government’s order to shut schools came after a rise in Covid-19 cases was reported among school students. “Considering the health of students in view of the increase in infection due to Covid-19, it has been decided to close all government and private schools in the state for students as well as teachers. The head of the school shall be held responsible for noncompliance of these orders,” the order issued by Haryana’s directorate of school education said. The order came a day after Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the state was rethinking on holding regular classes for students. Read AlsoAs race for vaccine nears last lap, Modi reviews India’s strategyPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday held a review of India’s vaccination strategy amid indications that the fast-developing Oxford-AstraZeneca shot may be eligible for emergency use authorisation in India as early as next month. The PM reviewed the aspects of emergency use authorisation andGujarat too is witnessing a surge in the pandemic with Friday’s fresh cases at 1,420, the highest since September 25. Even as the state government imposed night curfew in Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot from Saturday night till further notice, Ahmedabad braced itself for a weekend curfew from Friday night to Monday morning. Massive crowds threw social distancing norms to the wind and thronged Kalupur and Jamalpur wholesale vegetable markets in the city and flooded neighbourhood grocery stores to stock up on essentials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/haryana-closes-schools-night-curfew-in-some-mp-gujarat-towns/articleshow/79332109.cms||---
November 21, 2020||India||House panel doesn’t buy Twitter’s ‘we’re just a platform’ logic||NEW DELHI: Members of the joint committee of Parliament on the data privacy bill strongly disputed social media giant Twitter's bid to distinguish itself as a "platform" rather than a "publisher" which would enable the firm to evade responsibility for content posted on its site. At Thursday's discussions of the panel, members told Twitter representatives that there was a need for accountability for content posted by various handles and which could be transmitted and replicated several times over. Senior BJD MP Bhartruhari Mahtab, who runs a newspaper, said he had been a journalist for several years and knew he could be held to account for anything published in the newspaper. The panel was also surprised to learn that Twitter had paid just Rs 33 lakh by way of taxes in a particular financial year. Given the firm's scale of operations in India, its expenditure would itself be a considerable amount. The hair splitting over "platform" as against "publisher", committee sources said, was a key aspect of the panel's deliberations over social media and allied platforms. In many ways, the content is news taken from various publications and replicated without any consent of the original news generator. Then, there is other unverified content that can have serious implications for law and order or social harmony. The deliberations held so far have convinced many panel members that policies and functioning of social media outlets leave much to be desired. At times, Twitter representatives said content would not be removed unless by court order but there was no clarity about how certain posts were removed by the firm itself. Similarly, Twitter's policies on cooperating with law enforcement do not always reflect a consistent pattern.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/house-panel-doesnt-buy-twitters-were-just-a-platform-logic/articleshow/79332127.cms||---
November 21, 2020||India||TRP scam: Based on cops’ FIR, ED files laundering case||MUMBAI: Over a month after the city police launched a probe into the TRP manipulation scam, the Enforcement Directorate based on the police FIR has registered a money laundering case. An FIR is a prerequisite for ED to register a money laundering case as mandated under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. The ED case, known as the Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR), rests on the FIR which had named Vishal Bhandari, a former employee of Hansa Research, as an accused. Hansa Research was contracted for the work of installing barometers in the homes of select audiences to gauge their TV viewing pattern by the Broadcasting Audience Research Council or BARC. The ED's ECIR is a replica of the Mumbai police FIR. The probe will begin with those mentioned in the FIR and will extend to those who were arrested, probed or being probed by the city police, sources said. The police registered a case on October 6. The ED collected the FIR copy from the Mumbai police recently and has requested the police to provide other case-related documents. This will include the details of the investigation carried out till date that covers the financial audits of those under scanner. Police had claimed to have found a money trail linking payments by former employees of Hansa Research, private persons who acted on behalf of the channels and the entities who finally handed over the amounts to households. Six channels - Republic TV, Fakt Marathi, Box Cinema, Mahamovies, News Nation and Wow music - are being probed by the city police. The police have so far arrested 13 persons, including owners of Fakt Marathi and Box Cinema. The last person to have been arrested was Ghanshyam Dilipkumar Singh (44), the distribution head of Republic TV; he is currently in judicial custody. The city police probe will continue its probe to unearth the entire criminal conspiracy irrespective of the ED's findings. The ED's probe will focus on the financial aspects to establish laundering of money and thus identifying the 'proceeds of crime' generated from the criminal activity. If the FIR in a case closes, the ED case also collapses. A legal expert stated that generally, the ED names only those accused named in the police FIR as accused in their case, or adds additional names if they have some specific input about some other accused connected to the case. In the Mumbai police FIR, it was alleged that Bhandari had offered money to households where barometers were installed for watching specific channels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/trp-based-on-cops-fir-ed-files-laundering-case/articleshow/79332217.cms||Vijay V Singh
November 21, 2020||India||Covid-19: Delhi gets another 205 ICU beds||NEW DELHI: As many as 205 ICU beds have been added in Central government, Delhi government and private hospitals of the national Capital and 116 extra oxygenated beds are functional in Central government hospitals and AIIMS, following directions issued by home minister Amit Shah on November 15 to augment the medical infrastructure in Delhi in view of the recent spike in Covid-19 cases. Sources in the home ministry told TOI that Uttar Pradesh government, as per a suggestion of the Union home ministry, shall conduct a survey of private hospitals in its NCR regions like Noida, Ghaziabad, etc. A similar direction was issued by the home ministry to the Haryana government as well. The survey, on the lines of one already conducted in Delhi, will help to assess the bed utilisation and testing capacity as well as to identify extra ICU beds, in private hospitals of NCR region. Meanwhile, 125 of the 250 ventilators sent by Bharat Electronics Ltd from Bengaluru have reached Delhi. A house-to-house survey has begun in national Capital to assess the spread of the pandemic as well as containment strategies. As directed by the home minister, who had on November 15 said RT-PCR testing would be doubled in Delhi, the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) has augmented its RT-PCR testing capacity from 27,000 to 37,200 tests. Already, there has been a quantum jump in RT-PCR tests being conducted in Delhi; from 12,055 tests done on November 15, these went up to 30,735 tests on November 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-delhi-gets-another-205-icu-beds/articleshow/79332274.cms||Bharti Jain
November 21, 2020||India||Kerala Congress leadership issue: HC upholds EC order||NEW DELHI: The Kerala High Court has upheld the order passed by the Election Commission in the internal dispute in Kerala Congress (Mani), which recognized the faction led by Rajya Sabha MP Jose K Mani as the real party and “entitled” it to the use of ‘two leaves’ symbol. The order was passed by EC on August 30 by 2:1 majority, with election commissioner Ashok Lavasa being the dissenting voice. Jose Mani, son of party founder K M Mani, had been locked in a bitter factional feud with rival and Kerala MLA P J Joseph, working chairman of the party, after K M Mani passed away in April last year. The EC order was challenged in the Kerala High Court. On Friday, the high court upheld the order in the light of Sadiq Ali judgment of Supreme Court. It ruled: “As both the lists produced by the rival factions were unreliable, the Election Commission proceeded to decide the numerical strength based on majority of members admitted by both sides. Such action of the Commission cannot be found fault with, in the circumstances of the case. It is further to be noted that the Commission based on its decision, not only considering the support of undisputed State Committee members, but also on the numerical strength of legislative party members of the party. Therefore, the Election Commission was justified in adopting a course available to it, in the facts and circumstances of the case.” On August 30, chief election commissioner Sunil Arora and election commissioner Sushil Chandra in their majority order had cited the test of majority support principle upheld by Supreme Court in the Sadiq Ali (supra) case, “which is a touchstone for deciding such disputes” in terms of Para 15 of the Symbols Order, to recognise the faction led by Jose Mani, Lavasa in his dissenting order held that it would be hazardous to apply test of majority as the very basis of determining the “majority” appears muddled and difficult to rely upon. Citing the affidavits submitted in support of Mani as well as Joseph, EC in the majority order put out a table that, after excluding the 5 members who had submitted "common" affidavits, gave the group led by Mani backing of 2 Kerala MLAs, 2 MPs and 174 state committee members. On the other hand, three MPs and 117 members were supporting the group led by Joseph. “A mere look at the figures...will evidently demonstrate that Jose K Mani enjoys majority support,” held EC. Lavasa, in his dissenting order passed a day before end of his stint at EC -- marked by his dissenting views on model code complaints against PM Narendra Modi and then BJP chief Amit Shah during 2019 Lok Sabha poll -- held that neither of the two factions can be recognised as Kerala Congress (Mani) until fresh affidavits of support are called for by EC. Lavasa had on July 2 suggested to EC to seek fresh affidavits of support, which was not accepted by Arora and Chandra on the grounds that assembly polls were less than a year away and there could be horsetrading.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kerala-congress-leadership-issue-hc-upholds-ec-order/articleshow/79332332.cms||Bharti Jain
November 21, 2020||India||Govt proposes allowance for home trip for migrant workers||NEW DELHI: The labour ministry notified draft rules under the Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions (OSHWC) Code, 2020, on Thursday, inviting objections and suggestions from stakeholders within 45 days. Key provisions of the code include capping the maximum number of working hours per day at 12 hours, with a maximum of 4 hours worth of overtime, not exceeding 48 hours per week. The code also says that even 15 minutes of overtime above the mandated 8 hours of work per day will be counted as overtime of 30 minutes. In the earlier provision, less than 30 minutes of overtime did not make a worker eligible for overtime wages. Labour minister Santosh Gangwar said the draft rules provide for operationalisation of provisions in the OSHWC Code relating to safety, health and working conditions of dock workers, building and other construction workers, mine workers, inter-state migrant workers, contract labourers, working journalists, audio-visual workers and sales promotion employees. Key provisions include mandatory appointment letters for every category of employee. It mandates an annual health checkup of every worker who has completed 45 years of age, to be facilitated by the employer. In a crucial learning from the distress faced by migrant workers during the pandemic-induced lockdown, the rules provide for one to-and-fro journey allowance a year, and toll-free helpline numbers for inter-state migrant workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-proposes-allowance-for-home-trip-for-migrant-workers/articleshow/79332347.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Lucknow||Basketball court revives fond memories as past meets present||Lucknow: Memories came alive as alumni of Lucknow University walked into the campus on Friday to participate in the centenary sports festival and other activities. Some had come only to see their alma mater basking in the glory of the 100th-year celebrations. The sports festival was inaugurated by former UP minister Arvind Singh Gope, who was also the general secretary and president of the students’ union while studying in LU. After getting acquainted with the teams, vice-chancellor Prof AK Rai and the chief guest also played basketball. Later, basketball matches of men and women were played between students and alumni.  The latter also had some national-level players. Both matches were won by alumni teams in what was symbolic of the coming together of two different generations. “The young boys are very well equipped and seem really passionate about sports. The court is better furnished now but the zeal that we had back then came alive as the same on the ground,” said Atul Gupta, an alumnus. Many alumni who visited the campus were nostalgic about their student days. “Some traditions of our time have managed to survive and when I talk to current students, I feel happy that even they are equally proud about how this institution has contributed to the freedom struggle,” said Aditya Varma, who graduated in 1993. “The stunning evening lights on the ground have transformed the university to a glorious memorial,” said another alumnus. Another said, “Just like Ganjing, visiting the university campus is a must every time we are in Lucknow.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/basketball-court-revives-fond-memories-as-past-meets-present/articleshow/79331759.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Kolkata||‘Physical distancing’ to help curb social stigma||Kolkata: If it is about maintaining distance, it is “physical distancing” and not “social distancing”. The Centre has clarified that it has started using the term “physical distancing” in the guidelines and SOPs being issued by the Union ministry of health and family welfare where “physical distance is the parameter being described”. The Centre has that said in such cases the use of that term is more appropriate than “social distancing”. Trinamool MP Santanu Sen had first raised this debate during a special mention in the Rajya Sabha on September 15. He had argued that social distancing is promoting social stigma, and even boycotting of Covid patients. He said it basically should imply a distance of six feet between two persons. Union minister of state for health and family welfare Ashwini Kumar Choubey recently wrote to Sen saying the term “social distancing” is standard parlance for non-pharmaceutical intervention (NPI) — not only for Covid, but for all epidemic-prone diseases where NPI is relevant. This is used by all international agencies, including Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and WHO. “The distancing is implemented to avoid or decrease contact between those who are infected with the disease-causing pathogens and those who are not, to stop or slow down the rate and extent of disease transmission in a community. This eventually leads to decrease in spread, morbidity and mortality due to the disease,” the letter read. The Union minister wrote that where physical distancing is the parameter being described the term “physical distancing” may be appropriate. The Centre, he indicated, has therefore started using the term. “During the initial days of the fight against Covid, Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee had raised the issue. She had said it is physical distancing and not social distancing. The Indian Medical Association (IMA) also held the same view. I then raised the issue in Parliament,” said Sen, who is also the IMA Bengal secretary and IMA past nati-onal president. “Kudos to Sen for bringing this change in the nomenclature. It will help reduce the stigma associated with Covid-19 to a large extent,” said Sanjib Bandyopadhyay, assistant professor and in charge of the post-Covid clinic at ID Hospital in Beliaghata.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/physical-distancing-to-help-curb-social-stigma/articleshow/79329357.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
November 21, 2020||Business||Shriram Credit buys CCD’s Way2Wealth||Chennai: Coffee Day Enterprises has announced it has entered into a share purchase agreement with Shriram Credit Company Limited with respect to its stakes in Way2Wealth Securities Pvt Ltd and subsidiaries. The share purchase agreement, which was executed on Thursday, has consideration of Rs 65 crore. CCD said, a portion of the consideration is subject to receipt of receivables, and a portion of the consideration shall be withheld and released subject to conditions agreed upon in the share purchase agreement. CCD said, “Sale of the company’s shareholding of 32.7% and Tanglin Development Limited’s shareholding of 52.8% in Way2Wealth Securities Pvt Ltd (aggregating to 85.5% of the shareholding in Way2Wealth Securities Pvt Ltd), and consequently, interest in identified subsidiaries of Way2Wealth Securities Pvt Ltd, viz. Way2Wealth Brokers Pvt Ltd, Way2Wealth Insurance Brokers Pvt Ltd, and Way2Wealth Commodities Pvt Ltd.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/shriram-credit-buys-ccds-way2wealth/articleshow/79330182.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 21, 2020||Rajkot||Contacts of Rajkot patients’ to be traced with call records||Rajkot: The Rajkot police will obtain call detail records (CDR) of all people testing positive in a bid to trace the persons they could have come in contact with.Police commissioner Manoj Agarwal told reporters on Friday that cops will be keep a very close watch on those violating social distancing and mask rules."We will obtain the CDRs of those testing positive. Those who have come in contact with the infected persons will be informed about the rules," Agarwal said.Patrolling will be intensified in public places like paan shops, tea kiosks, malls, restaurants etc to ensure that there is no crowding of people.The Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) will be given details about all those persons caught without masks. Those caught violating home quarantine rules will be taken straightway to government quarantine facilities, said the commissioner.Agarwal said those home quarantined shoujld download Safe Rajkot App and upload their status.Till now, as many as 1.9 lakh cases of mask rule violations have been lodged.Meanwhile, the RMC will start seven rapid antigen testing booths at seven places in the city. These include RMC central zonal office, Trikon Baug, Kishanpara Chowk, Balak Hanuman on Pedak Road, Raiya Chowkdi, KKV Hall and Balaji Hall on 150 ft Ring Road. The testing will be done from 9am to 5am.RMC has appealed people not to venture out without wearing masks.Also, four hotels and two paan shops were sealed for week for violating social distancing norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/contacts-of-rajkot-patients-to-be-traced-with-call-records/articleshow/79327766.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Business||Tatas, Aditya Birla look to reopen banking account||MUMBAI: Two of India’s largest conglomerates — Tata and Aditya Birla — have decided to evaluate applying for a banking licence, if RBI guidelines favour them. On Friday, an RBI committee recommended offering such licences to industrial houses by making necessary amendments in banking laws. It has also recommended allowing NBFCs, owned by industrial houses, with an asset size of over Rs 50,000 crore, to be converted into banks. Read AlsoAllow large corporate houses to set up banks, says RBI panelThe RBI committee has also recommended that after 15 years, promoters should be allowed to hold up to 26%, instead of the current cap of 15%, a move that will help the promoters exploit the upside in a bank. Currently, there are at least three private lenders with over 26% promoter holding.Tata’s NBFC arm, Tata Capital, has an asset size of over Rs 74,500 crore, while Aditya Birla’s NBFC unit Aditya Birla Capital, has an asset size of over Rs 59,000 crore. While it will be some time before the final RBI guidelines are rolled out, the two conglomerates have always had banking aspirations. In 2013, the two companies had submitted applications for banking licences when the RBI issued new guidelines for opportunities in the private sector. But Tata Sons, the holding company of the Tata Group, withdrew its application after it found out that RBI’s conditions were restrictive and adhering to them would impact its other businesses. Aditya Birla Group, on the other hand, did not get a licence as the RBI refused to grant permissions to industrial houses. Only IDFC First Bank and Bandhan Bank had managed to acquire licences. The RBI had said then that all eligible applicants may not be allowed to promote banks. Several other industrial houses, like Bajaj and Larsen & Toubro, who had shown interest to acquire banking licences in 2013, are expected to evaluate options this time too. These conglomerates have NBFCs that are larger than many mid-sized banks in India. “We welcome the report of the RBI’s internal working group on the ownership guidelines and corporate structure for Indian private sector banks. NBFCs with a proven track record, supported by the brand values of reputed corporates, can play a key role in bringing the benefits of banking and economy to the underserved and newer segments of India,” said an Aditya Birla Group spokesperson. For Tata and Birla, it will be a second coming if they win banking licences. In 1917, Tata established the Tata Industrial Bank but the latter ran into trouble and had to be amalgamated with Central Bank of India in 1923. It was the first merger in India’s banking history. Birlas, meanwhile, established United Commercial Bank (UCO) in 1943, which was nationalised in 1969. G D Birla, Kumar Mangalam Birla’s great grandfather, stayed the chairman of UCO for long before handing over the charge to M P Birla, during whose term the bank was taken over by the Indira Gandhi government.In 2013, Tata Sons had said that RBI rules were coming in the way of its international operations, which account for two-thirds of its multi-billion-dollar revenue. The rule it found restrictive was the RBI’s requirement for conglomerates to transfer their financial services business to a non-operative financial holding company. But Aditya Birla, in an attempt to procure the licence, had agreed to abide by the rule and proposed to transfer its financial services business to a non-operative financial holding company. In fact, group chairman Kumar Mangalam Birla had stepped down from the board of the RBI in 2013 to avoid conflict of interest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tatas-aditya-birla-look-to-reopen-banking-account/articleshow/79332020.cms||Reeba Zachariah
November 21, 2020||Surat||Regional films to boost diamonds||Surat: For the first time, the Gems and Jewellery export Promotion Council of India (GJEPC) has launched a series of short promotional films on the social media to boost demand for diamond jewellery. The market in India is pegged at about $7 billion per annum, said sources in the industry. However, there is a huge vacuum when it comes to marketing diamonds and jewellery in India. Office-bearers of GJEPC stated that five short films are in Hindi but have been dubbed in regional languages like Bengali, Telugu, Tamil, Kannada, Malayalam, Gujarati etc to cater to consumers across different states. Talking with TOI, Colin Shah, chairman of GJEPC said, “This is the first GJEPC is promoting diamonds through films. We are driving the message of gold as investment and diamond jewellery as ultimate gifting option.” Vipul Shah, vice-chairman of GJEPC said, “The diamond companies and jewellery retailers can also personalise the films with their logos and designs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/regional-films-to-boost-diamonds/articleshow/79328369.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Stop Sanjay from campaigning in civic elections: TRS to SEC||Hyderabad: The TRS has sought the State Election Commission (SEC) to order immediate arrest of BJP state president Bandi Sanjay and bar him from campaigning in the GHMC polls. It said Sanjay had violated the model code of conduct under the Representation of People Act and the Indian penal Code during the election campaign. TRS general secretaries — Palla Rajeshwar Reddy and Bharat Kumar — met SEC chief C Partha Sarathi on Friday and said the utterances of Sanjay were not only indecent, but also come under the serious offences of various Acts. In the complaint copy, the TRS said that Sanjay made extremely communal, unconstitutional and hate statements against CM K Chandrasekhar Rao calling him as ‘desh drohi’ and ‘anti-Hindu’. These attributions were made with an intention to demean and defame the chief minister with a specific purpose to have electoral gains in the GHMC elections, they said. The party leaders said the SEC should restrain him from making hate speeches and statements hereafter. Hyderabad: Hours after the TRS complained against it, the BJP also filed a complaint with the SEC, seeking action against CM K Chandrasekhar Rao for his remarks against PM Narendra Modi.“KCR made abusive and unwarranted comments against the Prime Minister. These remarks were in bad taste,” the party said in its complaint. It said, “Without any basis, he (CM) charged that the BJP was creating communal tension in the country for political gains. He said the BJP had done damage to the farmers and working class without any iota of truth.” BJP further said in its complaint that the CM had also mocked the Prime Minister. “He said the chaiwala in a railway station is trying to sell the railways itself,” it said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/stop-sanjay-from-campaigning-in-civic-elections-trs-to-sec/articleshow/79331931.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 21, 2020||Business||Ashok Leyland clears VRS plan||Chennai: The board of directors of Ashok Leyland have announced a voluntary separation scheme for its employees. In a communication to BSE, the company said, “The VRS will be implemented over a period of 9 months at the company offices/factory locations. VRS upon implementation and execution will help optimize the capacity and resources of the company.” The company has 5,700 employees and the scheme is open for all those who have completed a minimum one year service with the organisation. The contours of the scheme will be announced in a couple of days, said N V Balachandar – president HR of Ashok Leyland. “We have announced a one-time VRS for our staff. This scheme will help create an efficient organizational structure. The current landscape of the global pandemic provides scope for people to pursue flexible career opportunities and this will provide a window for the same. There have been many requests from our employees for early retirement, and this scheme provides them with a viable exit,” he said in a statement. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ashok-leyland-clears-vrs-plan/articleshow/79330101.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Kolkata||Chhath crowd surges at Hooghly riverfront||KOLKATA: Police and officials of KMC and KMDA put their best foot forward on Friday to manage the surge of devotees at 40 odd ghats along the Hooghly. With Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar out of bounds, around 1,500 vehicles lined at these ghats — stretching from Prinsep Ghat to Nimtolla Ghat — and the celebrations went off more or less smoothly, barring a couple of stray incidents. At Doi Ghat, for example, things were methodical as cops prepared barricades for entry and exit. No one was allowed to linger at the ghats. But at Prinsep Ghat, for a brief few minutes, the crowd broke down barriers as they tried to surge foward. The situation was immediately brought under control as elders from the community and cops intervened. At Nimtolla and Baje Kadamtala ghats, the police, the civic officials and volunteers struggled to make thousands to follow social distancing norms after 5pm. There were around 700 vehicles in the Babughat sector and another 550 in the Nimtolla sector. “The crowd was thin around 3.30 pm, almost one-fifth of the usual yearly devotees here. But an hour later, there was a sudden surge and maintaining distancing became difficult. But they dispersed quickly,” said an officer. According to a KMC parks department official, the crowd surge was more than it was anticipated. “More people chose the river after the ban at Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar,” he said. (With inputs from Amit Moulick)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/chhath-crowd-surges-at-hooghly-riverfront/articleshow/79329432.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 21, 2020||Mangaluru||This publisher tours villages across South India selling Kannada books||MANGALURU: There are very few people who can live their passion, and 65-year-old Shankara Kulamarva is one of those rare individuals who has been doing precisely that for the past three decades. Intent on taking Kannada literature to the remotest villages across South India, and cultivate among the rural populace the habit of reading, Kulamarva, a native of Vittal town in Dakshina Kannada, has been selling books door-to-door. Kulamarva credits his high school teacher P Venkataraj Punichitthaya for kindling in him an undying passion for literature. “I worked in a letterpress for nearly two decades after which I launched a small business, selling cassettes, mostly devotional albums and those on Yakshagana. I even visited schools to introduce children to Yakshagana through my cassettes. But my business suffered following the arrival of CDs and I switched to the book trade. With the support and guidance of Bolanthakodi Eshwar Bhat, we launched ‘Mane Mane Granthalaya (A library in each home)’,” Kulamarva told TOI. He received support from various publishers including Janana Ganga Bookstore, and in 2000, he was able to set up a publishing house ‘Sadabiruchi Prakashana’. “I started out by printing books that cost Rs 10 to Rs 20. The idea was to encourage people to read simple but useful books. We may not have published many titles, but the few books we did, we were able to sell large numbers of them. Some of the books we have published include ‘Tips on Healthy Living’ by Dr Nadibailu Udayashankar, ‘Rasa Ramayana’ by Subraya Sampaje. I continue to visit villages, taking not just those I have published, but other titles too. This is an attempt on my part to give a fillip to the book trade,” said Kulamarva, adding that his publishing firm was being run in his wife’s – Shanta – name. The most recent publication from Kulamarva’s stable was the ‘Kodagu Quiz Book’ by Subraya Sampaje, released on November 14, containing 1,724 questions on the hilly district. His efforts in popularising Kannada books and his aim of cultivating the habit of reading among the people have earned Kulamarva the title ‘Mane Mane Saraswathi’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/this-publisher-tours-villages-across-south-india-selling-kannada-books/articleshow/79328028.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
November 21, 2020||Goa||Mhadei issue: MGP, AAP hit out at BJP, Congress for appointing Karnataka observers||PANAJI: MGP and AAP on Friday said that Goa would be at an disadvantage in the Mhadei water diversion issue as both the Congress and BJP have appointed their state in-charges from Karnataka. Reacting to the appointment of leaders from Karnataka as Goa in-charge for Congress and BJP in Goa, senior MGP leader Ramkrishna Dhavalikar on Friday said that it proves that Karnataka will not allow Goa to win the Mhadei battle and people of the state should wake up now to save Mhadei. Congress has recently appointed Dinesh Gundu Rao from Karnataka as Goa desk in-charge and BJP has appointed CT Ravi, MLA from Chikmagalur, Karnataka. AAP convenor Rahul Mhambre said it’s apparent that by appointing of their respective state observers from Karnataka, both BJP and Congress “have sacrificed Goans for their national politics”. Both the national parties, he said, have played with the sentiments of the people on Mhadei Dhavalikar said that Mhadei has started going dry and for that the credit goes to both BJP and Congress. “People should stand behind MGP in the next assembly election to save Mhadei,” he said, adding, “First credit goes to Congress who gave a letter to Karnataka and now BJP because they have the government in state, Karnataka and centre.” He also said that in a few months the waterfall at Mollem and Collem will run dry due to the diversion of water. In October, the Goa government filed a contempt petition in the Supreme Court against Karnataka for illegal diversion of Madhei water to the Malaprabha basin. TOI was the first to report a fortnight ago that Goa would file a contempt petition against Karnataka within 15 days for diverting the Mhadei waters into the Malaprabha basin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mhadei-issue-mgp-aap-hit-out-at-bjp-cong-for-appointing-ktaka-observers/articleshow/79330923.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Victim of trafficking gets Rs 9 lakh to rebuild life||KOLKATA: In the biggest compensation awarded to any trafficked victim by the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA), a 17-year-old has been given Rs 9 lakh. The usual amount ranges between Rs 2.5 lakh and 3.5 lakh, pointed out those familiar with such cases. However, in the past year, compensations in Bengal have regularly crossed Rs 5 lakh, one of the best across the nation, they said. In this particular case — one of inter-state trafficking — the victim was around 13 years old when she was trafficked from Odisha and sold to a brothel in the Sonagachhi area for commercial sexual exploitation in 2016. She was rescued on May7, 2016 by officers of the Anti-Human Trafficking Unit of the detective department. Three perpetrators, of whom one was a minor, were arrested. However, in this case, the charge-sheet was submitted without the relevant POCSO sections. This case, thus, stands out as an example. “The compensation is a result of the combined efforts of police, courts and the department of child development and women development in Bengal,” said Saptarshi Biswas, director of legal solutions, International Justice Mission, the NGO that had assisted in this case. In 2018, Calcutta High Court passed a judgment in favour of granting compensation to victims whose fundamental rights have been violated while also observing that the two requirements of Section 357A of the Code of Criminal Procedure need not be satisfied for granting compensation. Based on the latest judgement and the fact that while trial was yet to begin, a compensation application was filed before DLSA, Kolkata under Section 357A of the Code of Criminal Procedure and provisions of the West Bengal Victim Compensation Scheme in February 2019. A prayer for enhancement of compensation under the said scheme was also made since the girl was under 14 at the time of the incident. The DLSA, Kolkata, then forwarded a recommendation report to the Criminal Injuries Compensation Board for passing the final order. Anti-trafficking activists have been critical of how compensation are awarded for a long time. “Most prominently, the compensation amount for victims of trafficking varies from as low as Rs 10,000 to Rs 10 lakh, unfairly basing the right of the victim to a dignified compensation on the geographical area of the crime. Further, the schemes provide varying amounts of compensation under different categories, such as trafficking, grievous physical or mental injury and sexual assault. However, many allow for compensation to be sought only under any one category, operating under the erroneous assumption that crimes operate in isolation and ignoring the realities where victims of trafficking are also significantly likely to be exposed to sexual assault and grievous physical injury,” said a legal expert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/victim-of-trafficking-gets-rs-9l-to-rebuild-life/articleshow/79329386.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 21, 2020||Hubballi||Flight services pick up at Hubballi airport||HUBBALLI: Flight operations are slowly gaining momentum at the Hubballi airport and private airlines are resuming their services to various destinations. Indigo and Star Air airlines are now operating flights to Mumbai, Kunnur, Chennai, Hindon, and Bengaluru from Hubballi. Now, Star Air is planning to resume service to Tirupati from January. Airport director Pramod Kumar Thakare told TOI that flight activities, which were stopped following Covid-induced lockdown, are now picking up. All safety protocols including thermal screening and social distancing measures are being strictly followed at the airport ans flights and the measures have gained appreciation from passengers, he said. He said IndiGo is operating two flights a day to Bengaluru and Kannur three days in a week, Chennai seven days, Bengaluru six days and Mumbai three days in a week. Sources said some airlines are in the process of finalising their schedule to operate flights to Goa and Ahmedabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/flight-services-pick-up-at-hubballi-airport/articleshow/79327574.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
November 21, 2020||Hubballi||Miscreants create fake profile of Haveri doctor to get money||HAVERI: Cyberpolice in Haveri are investigating a case wherein a fake Facebook profile of a famous Haveri-based paediatrician Dr Rajkumar Marol was created to seek money from the doctor’s friends and well-wishers. Miscreants who created the doctor’s profile on the social media portal sent messages to his friends, requesting them for money – Rs 8,000 to be credited through digital wallets. It was only when a few friends called to inquire him about his troubles, necessitating financial assistance did Dr Marol learn of a fake profile having been created. “The miscreants sent ‘Friend’ requests to those in my original profile, and started asking them for money. They sought money from 30 people, of whom two, lulled into believing that the request was from me, deposited the money to the digital wallet of the miscreants,” Dr Marol said. In order to prevent more of his friends or relatives from being duped, he uploaded a post, wherein he warned them against giving any money since the pleas for money were being made from a fake account. Dr Marol proceeded to lodge a complaint at the cyber police station. Dr Marol’s friend Santosh Aladakatti, who is the secretary of the BJP’s Haveri unit, was one of those whom the imposters requested money from. “The hacker asked for Rs 8,000 to be credited to the PhonePe account, and shared the mobile number. When I checked the number on TruCaller app, I learnt it was a West Bengal number, and realised that the Facebook account was fake,” Aladakatti said. Cyber police station inspector Santosh Pawar said that miscreants, in addition to creating fake profiles on social media, were also trying to hack the original accounts. “There is always the chance of people ending up donating money when the miscreants use the name of someone as prominent as Dr Marol. We have started a probe into the case already,” Pawar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/miscreants-create-fake-profile-of-haveri-doctor-to-get-money/articleshow/79327121.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
November 21, 2020||Kolkata||Mercury may slide by 5°C in Kolkata by Monday||KOLKATA: The city is set to experience its first winter bite next week as the northwesterly wind starts flowing in from Sunday, which is likely to pull down the mercury by 5°C. The minimum temperature could plunge to 17°C-18°C Celsius by Monday, according to the Met office. But the chilly spell is set to end by Wednesday as the northwesterly is expected to lose strength. Kolkata recorded a minimum temperature of 23.8°C on Friday. “It’s already quite cool in north India and once the northwesterly starts flowing in, the mercury will drop. We expect a gradual drop in minimum temperature from Sunday. It could slide to 18°C by Monday,” said Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) director GK Das. He added that a high-pressure system has been pulling in moisture that has led to clouds. It is expected to move away by Sunday. While some south Bengal districts have received thunderstorms and light rain under its impact, Kolkata may receive a drizzle on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mercury-may-slide-by-5c-by-monday/articleshow/79329441.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Varanasi||Hoteliers, boatmen slash prices,still grapple with few bookings||Varanasi: For the first time in the past two and half decades, the pricey hoteliers and boatmen in Varanasi are offering bookings on highly concessional tariffs on the occasion of Dev Deepawali, earmarked in international tourism calendar, falling on November 30 this year. The same hoteliers and boatmen used to start dynamic pricing for Dev Deepawali bookings every year. Dev Dipawali celebrated on Kartik Purnima for centuries became globally popular about 25 years ago with addition of glamour and has been drawing tourists from across the country and abroad in large numbers. “Our industry is already suffering badly due to Covid-19 pandemic, lockdown and other restrictions besides negligible arrival of foreign tourist. After seven months of almost zero bookings, about one third of over 700 hotels located near ghats of the Ganga have started getting bookings from tourists. We are also offering discounted tariffs in these tough times as having something is better than nothing,” said Gokul Sharma, president of Banaras Hotels Association. Similarly, the boatmen, who used to charge fares starting from Rs 10,000 for small to giant boats, are also agreeing to bookings on highly bargained amounts. “Compared to last few years, less than 30% bookings are coming and we are finalising the deals on four to five times less than the fares charged earlier. This virus from China has impacted the economy and people of all countries and created situations which were difficult to even dream of earlier,” said boatman Pramod Sahani. Chhotu Majhi said bookings by government institutions, corporates and institutions used to be done in advance. This year, no such bookings have been done and boatmen are willing to bargain with individuals, he added. The boatmen said customers were also hesitant in booking as they doubt whether boat operations will be permitted on the day. Divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal, however, made it very clear that no restrictions will be imposed on boat operations on Dev Deepawali. Travel company owner Pradeep Chaurasia said, “The hoteliers and boatmen are getting some business, but we have nothing to do as no international tourist has to come due to ban on visa issuance in view of Covid-19. We are expecting business only after September 2021 now.” The hoteliers are competing in offering discounted prices as mainly those tourists planning to come to Varanasi by road are showing interest in Dev Deepawali, said Sharma mentioning that rare bookings are being done by those, who will come by trains or flights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/hoteliers-boatmen-slash-pricesstill-grapple-with-few-bookings/articleshow/79311821.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Kanpur||Webinar on challenges faced by MSMEs||Kanpur: The TiE UP chapter in association with Technopark@iitk organized an hour-long webinar to address the challenges faced by the MSMEs and the various collaboration opportunities that exist with IIT-Kanpur for product upgradation and technical solutions. The main speaker for the event was Reema Mittal, chief operating officer, Technopark@iitk who highlighted the philosophy behind setting up of IIT-Kanpur Research and Technology Park (Technopark@iitk). Conceived under ‘Make in India’ and ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ vision, research parks in India are supported by governmentto accelerate industry-academia collaborations and to take them to next level, she added. MSMEs or any other company can engage with Technopark by either setting up their R&D base in its premises or availing annual membership. And this collaboration will open IIT-K research ecosystem, built over 60 years, for the industry to tap into. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/webinar-on-challenges-faced-by-msmes/articleshow/79331370.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Varanasi||Man, 3-year-old son found dead at home; cops suspect black magic link||Prayagraj: A man was found dead with his private parts damaged along with his three-year-old son under mysterious circumstances at their home in Chail block, under Pipri police station, in Kaushambi district on Friday morning. The man’s wife was also found unconscious in another room of the house. Police suspect that the family might have been practising black magic as a pit was found dug up inside the house and some lemons were also spotted at the crime scene. The deceased were identified as Vakeel alias Nause (35) and Arham (3). Vakeel was a tailor by profession and his wife Gulnaz (30) is undergoing treatment at a hospital in Prayagraj. Deputy SP (Manjhanpur) Krishna Gopal Singh said. “The neighbours told the police that the three members of the family had locked themselves up in their house since the past three days. One of Vakeel’s close relatives Babloo had been seen living with the family since the past four days, but fled later. A police team is looking for him.” Babloo is a resident of Khaga area. Local residents alleged that Babloo had been involved in performing black magic. On Thursday evening, one of Vakeel’s relatives had tried to enter the house by attempting to break the main gate, but the family had scolded the woman and asked her to leave. However, she took away two of Vakeel’s kids — Wajeeh (four) and Mahra (three months) along with her. Local residents also told the police that they had heard a woman screaming and seeking help on Thursday midnight, but no one was willing to help her due to the rigid attitude of Vakeel and his family. On Friday, locals informed the police when they found the main gate of the house open. “On entering the house, we spotted Vakeel and his son’s body in a room and Gulnaz lying unconscious in another. We also spotted a pit dug up inside the house and some pieces of lemons strewn around. Vakeel’s private parts were damaged and his intestines were spilling out of his stomach,” Singh said. Police said that the minor was strangled to death. “We would be able to confirm the cause of Vakeel’s death only after a postmortem examination,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/man-3-year-old-son-found-dead-at-home-cops-suspect-black-magic-link/articleshow/79330977.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Business||E-hearings boost insurance plaint clearances to 150%||Mumbai: Going digital due to Covid-19 has helped the offices of insurance ombudsman clear up pending cases during the pandemic. In the current fiscal, rate of clearance has been 150% as complainants have been allowed to send documents and attend hearings electronically and through WhatsApp video calls with the complainant. According to B C Patnaik, secretary general of the executive council of insurers, of the 17 offices across the country, 14 have managed to clear the backlog. He added that they have achieved the government-notified target of passing an award within three months of the receipt of documents. The council facilitates the institution of insurance ombudsman across the country. “The rate of disposal has been better than during the pre-lockdown period. Out of the 17 ombudsman offices, 14 have managed to clear cases pending over three months,” he said. The three centres that did not meet the three-month target failed to do so because of a backlog due to delayed appointment. This was despite the number of complaints going up to 13,000 from 11,000 last year. “We were able to dispose cases faster as we conducted hearings over video. The insured were also allowed to mail the documents. This enabled us to complete the hearing speedily,” said Milind Kharat, insurance ombudsman for the Mumbai region. “In the current year, number of cases up to October 2020 are 1,940, out of which 1,660 are disposed,” said Kharat. Of the total complaints received, 25% pertained to life insurance and 75% were non-life. Among the non-life complaints, 70% were in respect of health insurance. Kharat said that the ombudsman used a web application for conducting hearings, but for convenience of customers, they held hearings over WhatsApp video calls as well. There were around 40 complaints for Covid-19 claims and most were in respect of short-payment by insurance companies. Given the pandemic situation, priority was given to senior citizens, critical illness claims and Covid-19 claims. According to Vinay Sah, the insurance ombudsman for Pune, which covers most of Maharashtra, it would be a good idea to institutionalise hearings electronically as the disposal of cases have been more efficient. “We get complaints from places that are as far as Nagpur. After registering a complaint, we call for a self-contained note from the insurance company, which includes the proposal and the policy document, based on which the hearing takes place,” he said. According to Sah, of the life insurance claims, around 60% are from private insurers and most of which are for mis-selling. “At the same time, we have had some complainants from rural Maharashtra, who did not want to use the online hearing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/e-hearings-boost-insurance-plaint-clearances-to-150/articleshow/79332033.cms||Mayur Shetty
November 21, 2020||Business||Guidance TN Bureau to roll out 188 more G2B services||Chennai: Guidance Tamil Nadu Bureau will roll out 188 G2B services across 37 departments. Forty-seven of these services will go live by the end of November, 2020 and the rest by the end of May, 2021. The bureau will also launch a Central Inspection System, which will integrate four departments — the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board, directorate of Industrial Safety and Health, Labour Department and directorate of Boilers. Speaking at a virtual event — TN Ease of Doing Business 2020 — organized by the CII, minister for industries MC Sampath said, “These measures will aid transparency in the business clearance process and give confidence to investors and businesses.” He said the TN government had signed 54 MoUs with an investment potential of Rs 40,719 crore, since the outbreak Covid-19 pandemic. This investment has the potential to create about 70,000 jobs. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/guidance-tn-bureau-to-roll-out-188-more-g2b-services/articleshow/79330269.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Jaipur||Kota: 2 excise officers in ACB net for taking bribe||KOTA: The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) in Bundi arrested a patrolling officer and a constable of excise department on Friday for allegedly accepting bribe of Rs 10,000 from a liquor contractor who operates three composite liquor shops at separate villages in Keshoraipatan area of Bundi. Deputy superintendent of police (DSP), ACB, Bundi, Tarunkant Somani said a licenced liquor shop contractor Hari Sigh Hada, a resident of Sunwasa village in Bundi, approached ACB on Thursday and lodged a report that patrolling officer of excise department, Shivpratap Singh Rana (46), a resident of Kota, who also holds additional charge of excise inspector at Keshoraipatan and constable Ramniwas Jat (48), a resident of Tonk district, currently posted in Keshoraipatan circle had demanded Rs 15,000 monthly for smooth operation of his three liquor composite shops in Keshoraipatan area. The two officials had already extorted Rs 1.10 lakh for the past seven months, the liquor shop contractor alleged in the report, the DSP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-excise-officers-in-acb-net-for-taking-bribe/articleshow/79329620.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Kolkata||Woman found in sack was murdered: Cops||KOLKATA: A day after 20-year-old Saba Khatoon’s body was found inside a cement sack in the Kidderpore area, the homicide section of the detective department has confirmed she was throttled and murdered. The police said her call details have led them to four suspects, all of whom are being questioned. The murder, claimed cops, was due to personal enmity. Sources indicated that at the core of the problem might be Rs 50,000 in cash that Saba claimed to have received sometime earlier. She spent Rs 25,000 on a phone and the rest on a trip to Mandarmoni and Digha. Her friend Sonam and Sonam’s mother Reshma — with whom she was staying for the past two months — have confirmed it. Besides the mother-daughter duo, the cops have started questioning two men — while one allegedly asked Saba to meet him on Wednesday, the other lives next to the spot where the body was found. Both claimed that it was the other who had called Saba over. The victim’s family members told cops that she was close to both. Cops have asked Saba’s family to join the probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/woman-found-in-sack-was-murdered-cops/articleshow/79329369.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 21, 2020||Mysuru||Doctors recruited under compulsory service policy in Karnataka||MYSURUt: In a big relief to the overburdened doctors working at government hospitals in Karnataka, health department has started recruiting specialists or General Duty Medical Officers (GDMOs). The recruitment is being carried out to fill for vacancies under the Karnataka Compulsory Serving Training by Candidates Completed Medical Courses Act 2012 (Karnataka act of 26 of 2015). The recruited candidates — dermatologists, ophthalmologists, orthopedics, ENT specialists, gynaecologists, general surgeons, paediatricians, and general surgeons — will serve in the designated government hospitals for a year’s period. According to the health department data, as many as 18 GDMOs from various specialties have been recruited under the scheme for for Mysuru district. Four anaesthesiologists have been appointed for the district hospital while Nanjangud, T Narasipura and HD Kote hospitals have also received anaesthesiologists. Similarly, the four community health centres of the district will also get their services. Two GDMOs have been appointed at Nanjangud, KR Nagar, T Narasipura, HD Kote, Hunsur and Periyapatna. Radiologists have been appointed at Nanjangud and Periyaptna taluk hospitals. Four general surgeons have been recruited for the Mysuru district hospital. According to Shivamogga district health officer (DHO) Dr Rajesh Suragihalli said the arrival of these young doctors will boost the health infrastructure at the government hospitals. “We have physical infrastructure. However, the shortage of qualified doctors was a big challenge. Arrival of these young doctors as per the compulsory one year service rule will help us to provide good treatment for the patients,” he said. “This service period will also help the young doctors to understand the health care sector scenario and national health schemes. As this drive is carried out annually we get new hands regularly,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/doctors-recruited-under-compulsory-service-policy/articleshow/79328245.cms||Shrinivasa M
November 21, 2020||Business||Sebi seeks lower promoter dilution for large IPOs||MUMBAI: A Sebi panel has proposed easier public float norms for large IPOs with a post-offer market capitalisation of more than Rs 10,000 crore. It said such offers could be limited to just 5% of the equity of the company. At present, this limit is set at 10% for all companies with a post-issue capital of over Rs 4,000 crore. The panel also proposed that promoters of companies with market capitalisation of Rs 1 lakh crore can take up to five years to dilute their stake so that minimum public shareholding (MPS) could be raised to the 25% level. Currently, Sebi gives three years to promoters of all companies to reach the MPS level. The regulator said there could be instances where large and very large issuers may not be able to meet the 10% MPS at the time of listing. So the panel has now proposed such large companies with a market cap of between Rs 10,000 crore and Rs 1 lakh crore to reach 10% MPS in 18 months from listing and 25% MPS in three years. It also proposed that very large companies with market cap of at least Rs 1 lakh crore could take two years to reach the 10% limit and five years to reach the 25% limit. If these suggestions are accepted, the proposed large IPOs by companies like LIC and Reliance Jio would benefit, industry players said. The new set of proposals came after several market participants had communicated to the regulator about the hurdles the large companies faced in meeting the 10% MPS within three years of listing. For one, several such companies had private equity players who are designated as public shareholders even at the time of the IPO. Also, there were instances where diluting 10% at the time of IPO put extra pressure on the promoters to dilute their stakes. Sebi said that the securities market, including the market for IPOs, was a dynamic one and needed to keep pace with the evolving market conditions, and hence the new proposals. Sebi said that it was in 2014 when the IPO norms relating to post-issue shareholding were changed. Currently, for all companies going for an IPO and having a post-issue market cap of less than Rs 1,600 crore, they have to offer at least 25% at the time of the offering. The regulator has put up this consultation paper on its website and the public could send in their comments by December 7. Once the comments are in, the regulator will deliberate on those and then the final set of rules will be published.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sebi-seeks-lower-promoter-dilution-for-large-ipos/articleshow/79332025.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Dehradun||Over 65k village representatives in U’khand to be trained in online services||Dehradun: Over 65,000 elected representatives of gram panchayat and officials in the state are set to join the “smart” league with a training programme, to be held virtually, on shifting operations online. To be launched by the department of panchayati raj, the e-learning programme will focus “on use of IT solutions for developmental and governance tasks and projects”. The aim is to “raise an entire generation of digitally-literate village heads for a ‘Smart India’”, officials said. “The e-learning programme will be designed to promote e-governance at panchayat level and achieve administrative efficiency and improve service delivery,” said Harichandra Semwal, director, panchayati raj department. Over the next six months, batches of 30 learners each will pick up basic IT skills and learn how to issue online birth and death certificates, maintain digital copies of family registers, monitor the Swachh Panchayat dashboard etc. In a detailed document on its official website, the directorate of panchayati raj has invited agencies and firms to help design and implement the training programmes. The state has already received the budgetary sanctions. Elaborating further on the project, Semwal said, “Unlike traditional training programmes for panchayat members, an online programme will enable better accountability regarding the sessions and their impact. The training is expected to start in December. A team of representatives from the panchayati raj department of Jammu and Kashmir will also visit Uttarakhand to witness our initiatives.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/over-65k-village-representatives-in-ukhand-to-be-trained-in-online-services/articleshow/79328454.cms||Abhijeet Singh
November 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Advocate stabbed in his chamber at court complex||AMBALA: A 40-year-old advocate was stabbed by his two neighbours in his chamber at the district court complex in Ambala city on Friday. The condition of Salinder Mohan of Kailash Nagar is stable, police said. Salinder said, “I am practising for 15 years at Ambala court. At 9 am, a youth with his face covered entered my chamber and asked me my name. He called two more persons. They said they had come to discuss some case. The persons covered the transparent glass at the entry door with a cloth and started assaulting me. One of them was my neighbour Raju, son of Gurcharan of Kailash Nagar.” “They gagged me and stabbed me with a knife. As I fell unconscious, they left, presuming me to be dead. Raju and Gurcharan have an old rivalry with me,” added Salinder. Ambala City police station house officer (SHO) inspector Ram Kumar said, “Both the parties are neighbours and have a dispute related to a wall at their properties. Both the accused are absconding. Efforts are being made to apprehend them.” Police registered a case against Raju and Gurcharan Singh under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous), 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement), 452 (trespassing), and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Ambala City police station on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/advocate-stabbed-in-his-chamber-at-court-complex/articleshow/79329657.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Goa||Digitally-signed survey plans to be available online in Goa||PANAJI: The state government on Friday launched a service where digitally-signed survey plans would be issued online. Revenue minister Jennifer Monserrate said that Goa is the first state in the country to offer this service. The online survey plans, which will be available in portable document format (PDF), will ensure that citizens no longer require to stand in a queue or wait for a long time to get copies of their property plans. The service is being provided by the directorate of settlement and land records through Goa Electronics Ltd (GEL), and will be available on https://goaonline.gov.in. During the launch, Monserrate said that digitisation is the way forward, and added that given the challenges being faced during the pandemic, the government is determined to make citizen-centric services available to the people of the state. “The department of settlement and land records will work towards making facilities available to the citizens easily,” she said. “For this, there will be a strong digital presence.” Over the past couple of years, the department emerged with online services making certain other documents available online. Monserrate praised the work done by revenue secretary Sanjay Kumar and director of settlement and land records Johnson Fernandes, and their teams, in making the digital survey plans available online. Kumar said that this facility will save lot of time of the office as well as applicant. Superintendent of survey and land records Domiana Nazareth and chief executive officer of GEL Revati Majumdar were among those present for the launch function in the secretariat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/digitally-signed-survey-plans-to-be-available-online-in-state/articleshow/79331564.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Additional supply allows MC to shut 60 tubewells||CHANDIGARH: The engineering department of the municipal corporation (MC) has closed around 60 tubewells feeding the waterworks from where water is supplied to residents. The move has been taken after the city started receiving 29 MGD (million gallons per day) additional water supply from Kajauli canal last year that led the municipal corporation (MC) to restart afternoon supply. Another reason was the depleting groundwater level. However, as many as 210 tubewells supplying water directly to consumers are still operational. They too will be closed in a phased manner and consumers belonging to different categories like residential, commercial, and institutional would receive only water from Kajauli canal. Shailender Singh, chief engineer, MC said, “Additional water supply and depleting groundwater table are the main reasons to shut down around 60 tubewells. Initially, we closed the tubewells supplying to the waterworks. Since we now have adequate water, all tubewells will be phased out from the city.” The city is getting around 28 MGD potable water supply from tubewells, according to records of the engineering department. Closing 60 tubewells means there will be drop of hardly less than 1 MGD. 28MGD CONTRIBUTION Chandigarh was earlier receiving around 86 MGD water, out of which 58 MGD came from the Bhakra canal through Kajauli, while the rest 28 MGD from tubewells located in different areas of the city. The city started receiving additional water supply of 29 MGD from October last year Spending Rs 208cr Although the municipal corporation (MC) increased the water tariff recently, the gap between the expenditure to provide water supply to consumers and incurring revenue is huge. The MC is spending around Rs 208 crore to bring and supply water to consumers annually. With increased tariff, it will now get a revenue of around Rs 150 crore||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/additional-supply-allows-mc-to-shut-60-tubewells/articleshow/79329635.cms||Deepak Yadav
November 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Expose BJP’s tall claims, KTR tells TRS candidates||Hyderabad: TRS working president KT Rama Rao dared BJP leaders to get Rs 1 lakh crore package for Hyderabad from the Centre. While asking the party candidates and leaders to expose how the Centre has not done anything for Telangana, KTR also urged them to highlight what the TRS government has done for the people in the last six years. “The Centre has shown empty hands to the state when it sought flood relief. State BJP leaders have promised to give Rs 25,000 to each flood-affected family. The state BJP chief says if their party wins the election, the GHMC will clear pending traffic challans in the city. In Gujarat, is the party doing the same?” he wondered. KTR, who released ‘Hyderabad Development Report’ and addressed the party candidates at Telangana Bhavan on Friday, asked them to visit every house and generate a debate on development vs divisive politics. “This is a crucial election for the TRS,” he said. He said since there is less time for campaigning, the candidates must strive hard to secure at least 100 wards. The party had won 99 wards in the 2016 elections. In the development report titled ‘Hyderabad, the rising global city,’ the TRS highlighted developmental works costing Rs 67,149 crore in infrastructure, road development, housing, police and law and order, link roads, green Hyderabad, lakes conservation, parks development, power supply and water supply, basti dawakhanas, T-Hub, IT growth, industries and Annapurna canteens, besides Strategic Road Development Plan. He urged the candidates to explain to people how the state government had taken steps to make Hyderabad a true global city. “We should tell anybody can make a livelihood in Hyderabad without fear. I am also not a Hyderabadi but I have settled here,” he said. The TRS working president said the government has covered all the sectors and wings for inclusive development. “The state government provided free rail transport to migrant labourers during the pandemic whereas the Centre collected money from the workers. You should highlight this during meetings with voters,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/expose-bjps-tall-claims-ktr-tells-trs-candidates/articleshow/79330932.cms||Koride Mahesh
November 21, 2020||Goa||Cong alleges theft of iron ore at MPT, wants probe||Panaji: Alleging that iron ore is being fraudulently sold by private firms without necessary clearance from the directorate of mines and geology (DMG), Congress on Friday urged the authorities to initiate an inquiry and unload the iron ore that was loaded on a ship to ascertain its quality. Congress vice president Sankalp Amonkar said that Kodee Resources, which had permission to export 1,965MT iron ore of below 55% grade, collected 58% grade iron ore lying at Mormugao Port Trust’s plot and loaded it onto the vessel MV Aviona. “Even if the ore has been lying on the plot and it has been identified now, MPT has to bring it to the notice of DMG first, who will then e-auction the cargo and sell it to the highest bidder,” Amonkar said. He added that the ore was loaded onto the vessel without being weighed, which is evidence of misappropriation. “The company has attempted to extract ore from the ground within the port premises, which is of 58 grade, in substitution of the previous bid ore which is of about 50 grade. This amounts to a clear case of theft and misappropriation,” Amonkar said. Congress has demanded that the cargo should be unloaded and weighed and a thorough enquiry be conducted by DMG and the crime branch. Amonkar said that the cargo is being shipped by Essar Minmet, while MN Construction is the firm responsible for loading and unloading the cargo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-alleges-theft-of-iron-ore-at-mpt-wants-probe/articleshow/79331804.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 21, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Positivity rate in schools, colleges a minuscule 0.3%||VISAKHAPATNAM: Over two weeks after schools in the state were reopened, 1,481 cases of Covid-19, including 1,023 teachers and 458 students, have been detected. The cases were reported after tests were conducted on nearly five lakh teachers and students at around 40,000 schools. However, only 10 college lecturers and students were diagnosed with Covid-19 among the 1.8 lakh who underwent testing in the last two weeks at about 5,500 colleges. The overall case positivity rate among students and teachers translates to about 0.3 per cent, a minuscule percentage compared to the overall case positivity rate of Andhra Pradesh that stands above 9 per cent. Commissioner, health and family welfare, Katamneni Bhaskar said the health department has stuck to its strategy of large-scale testing, early detection and timely treatment. “Despite the increasing case numbers, we believed in this strategy. The reason why you see such a low positivity rate in educational institutions is because we have already tested as many as 94 lakh people. There are only some 16,000 active cases, despite the state reporting more than 8.5 lakh cases. We will continue to work towards winning the war against the virus,” said Bhaskar. Classes 9 and 10, junior colleges and higher educational institutions resumed conventional classroom teaching on November 2 after a near seven-month shutdown of all campuses. With a student turnout of only 40 per cent on the first day, the numbers gradually rose to touch the 50 per cent mark in schools. However, student turnout continues to hover in the 30 to 40 per cent range in junior colleges and higher educational institutions. Since the day educational institutions were reopened, the health department has been conducting random tests on the students and faculty. It has so far covered about 45,000 institutions in the state. Meanwhile, students of classes 6 to 8 are scheduled to start face-to-face instruction from November 23 while primary classes are scheduled to start December 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/positivity-rate-in-schools-colleges-a-minuscule-0-3/articleshow/79328484.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Jaipur||BSF jawan detained for aiding smuggling||JAISALMER: A BSF jawan was detained for facilitating smuggling of heroin and weapons from Pakistan into India. Punjab police detained the jawan, who is also a resident of Punjab. A jawan from a battalion of BSF adjoining Ganganagar, has been found to be helping in the smuggling of heroin and weapons from Pakistan into India. In the search campaign, two packets of around 700gm heroin, a 9mm pistol, three magazines, 65 rounds of 9mm and two mobile phones were recovered from the barrack where the jawan was staying at the border outpost. The jawan has been dismissed by the BSF. The accused Virendra Singh is a resident of Punjab and allegedly had contact with drug smugglers in Punjab and Ganganagar for a long time. It is being investigated as to how much drugs and weapons have been brought from Pakistan with his help. According to sources, on November 17 Shahkot police team of Jalandhar, Punjab arrested four heroin smugglers and recovered 11kg heroin and Rs 11.25 lakh cash. During inquiry, it was revealed the heroin was smuggled from Ganganagar border and Virendra Singh deployed at BSF Majiwala border outpost on Ganganagar border helped the consignment to enter India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bsf-jawan-detained-for-aiding-smuggling/articleshow/79329712.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Jodhpur||Draft electoral roll issued: 4.8 crore voters in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Chief Electoral Officer Praveen Gupta on Friday while issuing the draft publication of electoral roll as a part of summary revision for 200 assembly constituencies stated that there are 4.88 crore registered voters in the state. Of the total voters, 2.54 crore are male voters and 2.34 are female voters. Currently, there are 52,009 polling booths at 36,161 locations across 200 assembly constituencies. The eligible voters, who attain 18 years of age on January 1, 2021, can get their names added to the voters’ list from November 20 to December 21 by submitting Form-6. For making changes on the electoral roll (spelling/name/address), one can apply by filling up Form-8. All application forms can be submitted to the booth level officer, electoral registration officer, assistant electoral registration officer or can be submitted online on voterportal.eci.gov.in and through mobile app. ‘Put on hold transfers of 2 IAS officers’: The state election commission on Friday wrote to the department of personnel (DOP) urging it to put on hold the transfers of two IAS officers – Tina Dabi and Amit Yadav – in view of the panchayati raj and municipal elections in Ganganagar and Bharatpur. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/draft-electoral-roll-issued-4-8cr-voters-in-raj/articleshow/79333993.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Puta protests against delay in holding meet for CAS promotions||CHANDIGARH: The Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) executive held a dharna in-front of the vice chancellor’s camp office on Friday. They protested against the sudden postponement of meeting of the selection or screening committees for pending cases of Career Advancement Scheme (CAS) promotions scheduled in November and December, by the VC. The protesting members said when the office-bearers of PUTA executive met the VC on Wednesday, he had assured them that he would work on holding online meetings instead of physical meetings and communicate to PUTA president by Thursday morning. However, having received no such communication from the VC office in this regard till 3 pm on Friday, the members expressed deep anguish and disappointment over the callous and indifferent attitude of the vice-chancellor towards teachers, who have been desperately approaching the PUTA executive. It was shared that online meetings of the selection committees for CAS promotions have recently been conducted at Punjabi University, Patiala, among many other universities across the country and therefore, there is no justification for not sticking to the schedule which was finalised by the VC himself after the PUTA executive staged a dharna on November 3 and the VC held a meeting the same day. “In view of the anti-teacher attitude of the vice-chancellor, it was unanimously resolved that the PUTA executive will start an agitation till the matter is resolved and to press for holding online/blended meetings of the selection or screening committees for CAS promotions,” they said. Further, it was also decided that the PUTA executive will participate in every protest organised in future against the vice-chancellor’s decision of not holding senate elections and syndicate meeting, creating a crisis in the Panjab University governing process. On Friday evening, another protest was organised regarding delay in conducting senate elections. The protestors included alumni and students. They alleged that the PU senate elections are being deferred without any intention of being conducted. The protest was conducted at the students’ centre on the PU campus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/puta-protests-against-delay-in-holding-meet-for-cas-promotions/articleshow/79329690.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Dehradun||Union min Nishank to be conferred with Vatayan International Summit Award||Dehradun: Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ will be conferred with the Vatayan International Summit Award on Saturday by the United Kingdom-based Vatayan Organisation for his literary works and also for his role his role in the formulation of the National Education Policy, 2020. The minister, who is also an MP from Haridwar, has written more than 75 books on a wide range of issues and several of them have also been translated in foreign languages. According to the communication by the Vatayan Organisation, this year’s event will completely be held in the online mode. The ceremony was held in the House of Lords or the Nehru Centre in London till last year. The Vatayan Organisation was established on the birth anniversary of English poet William Blake in 2003. Other Indian personalities who have been presented with the award in the past include — Prasoon Joshi, Javed Akhtar, and Nida Fazli, among others. Amish Tripathi, director of Nehru Centre at London, will be among the distinguished guests on this occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/union-min-nishank-to-be-conferred-with-vatayan-international-summit-award/articleshow/79328472.cms||Mohammad Anab
November 21, 2020||Pune||Anjani Mashelkar awards announced||Pune: The Anjani Mashelkar Inclusive Innovation Award (AMIIA) was announced on Tuesday. The award is annually given to breakthrough innovation across the country by the Anjani Mashelkar Foundation. This year’s recipient of the award was Dozee. The Dozee device is an innovation by Audit Dandawate and Gaurav Parchani. It aims at continuous, contact-free vitals monitoring with remote monitoring capabilities and alert systems that convert any bed into a step down ICU in less than two minutes. The second winner of the award was Savemom, an IoT-based maternal health care solution that monitors a mother’s health using smart wearables.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/anjani-mashelkar-awards-announced/articleshow/79329661.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Goa||Don’t worry about your crop, agriculture minister tells cane growers||PONDA: The government seems to be in no hurry to decide the future of the state’s lone sugar factory at Dharbandora, as agriculture minister Chandrakant Kavalekar reiterated on Friday that farmers cultivating cane would get compensation for their standing crop till the time the factory does not start operations. “Chief minister Pramod Sawant has already told the farmers that the government would pay them for their standing crop and that the farmers are free to decide what to do with the crop. They are even free to sell the crop to whoever they choose to,” said Kavalekar after a visit to the Sanjivani sugar factory on Friday. Accompanying the agriculture minister was the president of the NRI Commission, Narendra Sawaikar, under whose chairmanship the government has constituted a committee to decide over future of the factory. Sawaikar said that the visit to the factory “was to understand views of all stakeholders”, which would help the committee to decide about the factory’s future. It may be recalled that the sugar factory has been generating losses for last several years despite spending a large amount on its repairs, and although the state shut operations during the last crushing season, the factory as usual procured canes cultivated by local farmers and sent them to Karnataka and Maharashtra sugar factories for crushing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dont-worry-about-your-crop-agri-min-tells-cane-growers/articleshow/79330927.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Ajmer||Draft electoral roll issued: 4.8 crore voters in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Chief Electoral Officer Praveen Gupta on Friday while issuing the draft publication of electoral roll as a part of summary revision for 200 assembly constituencies stated that there are 4.88 crore registered voters in the state. Of the total voters, 2.54 crore are male voters and 2.34 are female voters. Currently, there are 52,009 polling booths at 36,161 locations across 200 assembly constituencies. The eligible voters, who attain 18 years of age on January 1, 2021, can get their names added to the voters’ list from November 20 to December 21 by submitting Form-6. For making changes on the electoral roll (spelling/name/address), one can apply by filling up Form-8. All application forms can be submitted to the booth level officer, electoral registration officer, assistant electoral registration officer or can be submitted online on voterportal.eci.gov.in and through mobile app. ‘Put on hold transfers of 2 IAS officers’: The state election commission on Friday wrote to the department of personnel (DOP) urging it to put on hold the transfers of two IAS officers – Tina Dabi and Amit Yadav – in view of the panchayati raj and municipal elections in Ganganagar and Bharatpur. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/draft-electoral-roll-issued-4-8cr-voters-in-raj/articleshow/79333994.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Born in Lahore, a young PEC eyes eventful century||Punjab Engineering College (PEC), a pride of Punjab and the first academic institution to come up in the new capital city of Chandigarh in 1953, has entered its 100th year this month as the foundation stone of its pre-cursor Moghulpura Technical College at Lahore was laid on November 9, 1921 by then Lt Governor of Punjab. In terms of its heritage as a professional technical college, the Chandigarh College is not far behind the oldest engineering college of the British India, namely, the Thomason College of Civil Engineering, i.e., the present day Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Roorkee, established 173 years ago in 1847. The college at Roorkee was necessitated to implement the gigantic Ganga canals project to facilitate link between the Ganga and the Yamuna rivers. The British had no interest in promoting higher education in technical subjects to promote industrial development in India. In Punjab, a traditional Government College was started at Lahore in 1864. The Punjab University Oriental College, as a constituent college of the Calcutta University (CU), came into being at Lahore in 1869, and the Mayo School of Industrial Arts got established as a part of it in 1875. The iconic J J School of Art in Bombay was initiated in March 1857 as the university was established there. A scholarship was awarded to a bright student, Ganga Ram, of the Government College Lahore in 1871 to enable him to study civil engineering at Roorkee for two years. Roorkee gold medalist Ganga Ram on return to Punjab accepted to teach civil engineering at Mayo School from 1875 onwards. Sir Ganga Ram (1851-1927) is credited to have converted 200-square-km of leased barren land in Montgomery district into lush green irrigated fields within three years by virtue of his innovations in lifting water by a hydroelectric plant set up on his own. Revered as the father of modern Lahore, his monumental life time contributions all across the North West India are comparable to those of Sir M Visveshwarya (1860-1962) all across South India. The latter was honoured with Bharat Ratna in 1955. A separate government school of civil engineering was created in the Panjab University (PU) system in 1906, however, that also folded up in 1916. Lahore was the node of numerous railroad companies in Punjab. The North West Railway came into being by amalgamation of all of them in 1905 during the tenure (1899-1905) of Viceroy Lord Curzon. By 1904 itself, a large well equipped Railway Workshop was functional at Mughalpura in Lahore and mechanical artisans were trained there. An Indian Industrial Commission (IIC), chaired by Sir Thomas Holland, submitted after two years of deliberations a detailed report in 1918. One of the important recommendations of the IIC was to impart adequate academic training to the apprentices. Scheme for an engineering college at Mughalpura, thus got initiated for the apprentices of the Railway Workshop. In 1919, a tumultuous year, a new Lt Governor of Punjab, namely, Sir Edward Douglas MacLagan, took over. Edward’s father Major General Robert MacLagan of ‘The Royal Engineers’, had been serving as the Chief Engineer of Punjab at the time of his birth in 1864. Prior to it, R MacLagan had served as the first principal of the Roorkee College from 1847 to 1861. Governor of United Provinces especially invited Lt Governor E D MacLagan for the convocation of Roorkee College in July 1923, where on that solemn occasion he presented a portrait of his father, principal Col R Maclagan, which even now hangs in the convocation hall of the Roorkee institution. MacLagan was elevated as the first (full) Governor of Punjab before his retirement and return to England in 1924. The Moghalpura Technical College which commenced admitting students in October 1923 transformed to MacLagan College of Engineering on the day of its formal opening on March 19, 1924 as a tribute to the MacLagan-duo for their services to the technical education in India. It is interesting to recall that in a similar vein, the Roorkee College had been assigned (in 1854) the surname of its founder, Sir James Thomason, the Lt Governor of then NWP (1843-53) as a prefix to its name. Then Punjab government had continued to sponsor and pay for a large contingent of students from Punjab for studies in civil engineering at Roorkee till mid-1920s. The word ‘civil’ was dropped from the name of the Roorkee College in 1946. The Thomason College of Engineering at Roorkee became the cradle to re-commence another engineering college in November 1947 for those students, who had to cross over to India as a result of the partition of Punjab. The British principal of their engineering college at Lahore E R Bartlum was murdered in October 1947 as he was reported to have had his sympathies with the Hindus. Initially, the PU in Lahore was expected to function for the whole of Punjab till June 1948, however, the unfortunate killing of the registrar (examinations), Prof M G Singh, at the university office in Lahore dashed all such arrangements, and an independent East Panjab University commenced functioning from Shimla from October 1, 1947. Maclagan College, like its peer Thomason College, ran two types of classes - A and B. The students of superior class A got permission to appear for the examination of the engineering degree of PU in its golden jubilee year in 1932. Thus, the Lahore College started to teach students for BSc degree in engineering disciplines, just four years after the Roorkee College had done the same. The name of the Lahore College was once again changed to Punjab College of Engineering and Technology in 1939. During Independence in 1947, as the concerns of the engineering students enrolled at Lahore, who crossed over to India needed urgent attention, then Government of East Punjab requested its counterpart in the state of UP to let these students be taught at the Roorkee campus, under the overall supervision of a visionary civil engineer of Punjab, namely, Rajinder Nath Dogra, who had himself studied at the famous Imperial College as well as at the University of London, and was also associated with the Bhakra Nangal Project and the Capital Project Chandigarh. Dogra brought East Punjab Engineering College (EPEC) from Roorkee to Chandigarh as the present day PEC in 1953. After re-commencing PEC as a vibrant college, he moved to Delhi in 1961 to create another College of Engineering and Technology in collaboration with the UK government and the Federation of British Industries (FBI). Arun Grover is ex-VC and Raja Ramanna Fellow and Emeritus Professor at PEC Rajesh Kochhar is honorary professor of history of science at department of mathematics, PU||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/born-in-lahore-a-young-pec-eyes-eventful-century/articleshow/79329704.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Jaipur||Draft electoral roll issued: 4.8 crore voters in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Chief Electoral Officer Praveen Gupta on Friday while issuing the draft publication of electoral roll as a part of summary revision for 200 assembly constituencies stated that there are 4.88 crore registered voters in the state. Of the total voters, 2.54 crore are male voters and 2.34 are female voters. Currently, there are 52,009 polling booths at 36,161 locations across 200 assembly constituencies. The eligible voters, who attain 18 years of age on January 1, 2021, can get their names added to the voters’ list from November 20 to December 21 by submitting Form-6. For making changes on the electoral roll (spelling/name/address), one can apply by filling up Form-8. All application forms can be submitted to the booth level officer, electoral registration officer, assistant electoral registration officer or can be submitted online on voterportal.eci.gov.in and through mobile app. ‘Put on hold transfers of 2 IAS officers’: The state election commission on Friday wrote to the department of personnel (DOP) urging it to put on hold the transfers of two IAS officers – Tina Dabi and Amit Yadav – in view of the panchayati raj and municipal elections in Ganganagar and Bharatpur. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/draft-electoral-roll-issued-4-8cr-voters-in-raj/articleshow/79329692.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Udaipur||Draft electoral roll issued: 4.8 crore voters in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Chief Electoral Officer Praveen Gupta on Friday while issuing the draft publication of electoral roll as a part of summary revision for 200 assembly constituencies stated that there are 4.88 crore registered voters in the state. Of the total voters, 2.54 crore are male voters and 2.34 are female voters. Currently, there are 52,009 polling booths at 36,161 locations across 200 assembly constituencies. The eligible voters, who attain 18 years of age on January 1, 2021, can get their names added to the voters’ list from November 20 to December 21 by submitting Form-6. For making changes on the electoral roll (spelling/name/address), one can apply by filling up Form-8. All application forms can be submitted to the booth level officer, electoral registration officer, assistant electoral registration officer or can be submitted online on voterportal.eci.gov.in and through mobile app. ‘Put on hold transfers of 2 IAS officers’: The state election commission on Friday wrote to the department of personnel (DOP) urging it to put on hold the transfers of two IAS officers – Tina Dabi and Amit Yadav – in view of the panchayati raj and municipal elections in Ganganagar and Bharatpur. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/draft-electoral-roll-issued-4-8cr-voters-in-raj/articleshow/79333992.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 3 months on, F&CC meet clears backlog in 2 hours||CHANDIGARH: The Finance and Contract Committee (F&CC) of the Chandigarh municipal corporation on Friday passed around one-and-half dozen agenda items. Since the F&CC meeting was held after a gap of almost three months, it took around two hours to clear the lined up agenda items. Most of the items were related to policy decisions and issues of urgent requirements of different departments. However, the agenda items related to developmental works could be presented for consideration due to the ongoing financial crunch. The meeting discussed and passed to repair a thick paver block in Maloya at an estimated cost of Rs 31.71 lakh. The committee also approved inviting expression of interest (EOI) for operation and maintenance of Maloya Gaushala. The committee also approved to fix the rent for the telephone exchanges in Khuda Lahora and Khuda Alisher areas at Rs 42,159 per month. The F&CC also gave its nod to the proposal to run two canteens at MC building and RLA building on contract basis after inviting tenders. There is no canteen facility in the civic body building for the past many months. The F&CC also approved the work of providing additional pipeline for disposal of sewerage of Khudda Lahora Colony No. 1 at an estimated cost of Rs 25.15 lakh. Since the non-disposal of sewage had been a major issue for several months now, the civic body had put this agenda under urgent category. The committee also gave it nod for renewal of the licence of Chandigarh Washerman Workshop Cooperative (Regd.) Industrial Society Ltd, Sector 15-D, Chandigarh from 1-10-2020 to 30-09-2021 with an increase of 10% in the licence fee. The committee also extended the contract for supply of 16 security guards and three supervisors at the dumping ground, garbage processing plant and the motor garage. Besides, the committee also cleared the proposal for transportation of legacy waste from garbage processing plant to the dumping ground in Dadumajra at an estimated cost of Rs 48 lakh, and also nodded the work for rejuvenation of the ponds at Kaimbala, Sarangpur and Khuda Ali Sher villages at an estimated cost of Rs 48.94 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/3-months-on-fcc-meet-clears-backlog-in-2-hours/articleshow/79329669.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: New air quality monitoring station at Okhla plant||NEW DELHI: In a positive development, Okhla waste-to-energy plant, which has been a source of much discontent for flouting pollution norms, is now getting an air quality monitoring station that will display real-time readings and violations. Track the pollution level in your cityCentral Pollution Control Board (CPCB) had earlier highlighted several shortcomings in the operations of waste-to-energy plants run by the three municipal corporations during its last inspection a few months ago. The Okhla plant was asked to install a continuous ambient air quality monitoring system (CAAQMS) after pollution levels around it emerged as a concern, while the Ghazipur plant, which already has a CAAQMS, was asked to ensure it was functioning 24x7 and displayed readings outside on an electronic board. A South Delhi Municipal Corporation official confirmed that CAAQMS at Okhla plant was under installation and commissioning. “Besides monitoring station, we have started mist spray systems at critical locations and are complying with the norms,” the official said. CPCB had also asked the plant to look at solutions to utilise 100% fly ash instead of dumping it at landfills. The official said they had a working fly ash brick production plant, “but we are unable to sell these bricks due to non-availability of market. We seek support from PWD and other bodies.” The pollution control body had also red flagged high cadmium levels in the fly ash at Ghazipur and Narela-Bawana waste-to-energy plants. According to experts, cadmium is highly toxic. At Bawana, the cadmium content in fly ash was found to be 5.12 mg/l against the standard of 1 mg/l and lesser. Similarly, at Ghazipur plant, the cadmium content was.75 mg/l during inspection. An East Delhi Municipal Corporation official said several repeat tests were carried out and batches of garbage checked, but level of cadmium was not high. “It may have been one odd batch of garbage. We are not dealing with industrial but only domestic household waste, in which chances of cadmium is very low,” the official added. In terms of PM2.5 and PM10 concentration, readings were observed to be the highest outside the Bawana plant, which were around three times the safe standards. while it was below the prescribed limit at Ghazipur. Despite repeated attempts, no response was received from the Bawana plant authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/new-air-quality-stn-at-okhla-plant/articleshow/79330963.cms||Paras Singh
November 21, 2020||Pune||Woman held on charge of kidnapping baby girl in Pune||PUNE: The Hadapsar police rescued a four-month-old baby girl from the clutches of her kidnapper following the arrest of a woman from Manjari on Friday. The baby was kidnapped from Hadapsar on November 17. “We are yet to investigate the motive of the woman behind the kidnapping. The court has granted police custody for the woman till November 24,” Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta said here in a press conference on Friday. Deputy commissioner of police (zone V) Namrata Patil said on November 17, the complainant had left her house in Loni Pravara in Ahmednagar district following a quarrel with her husband. “The woman had lodged an FIR against her husband with the Loni police. She boarded an MSRTC bus to reach her relative’s house in Satara. The woman did not have money with her. Seeing her with a baby, passengers in the bus contributed for her ticket,” Patil said. She said the suspect, who was travelling in the same bus, befriended the woman and convinced her to leave the latter’s husband and go to Pune with her. “The women got down at Swargate and reached Hadapsar by PMPML bus. As the complainant was hungry, the suspect ordered her food at an eatery. She then took hold of the baby and told the that she was going to the nearby paan stall. The woman did not suspect anything and allowed her to go with her daughter,” Patil said. When the suspect woman did not return, the woman lodged a complaint with the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/woman-held-on-charge-of-kidnapping-baby-girl/articleshow/79329628.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Business||Allow large corporate houses to set up banks, says RBI panel||MUMBAI: An internal committee of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday proposed an overhaul of the licensing policy for private banks and suggested allowing large corporate and industrial houses to float banks in India after suitable amendments to the Banking Regulation Act, which should be aimed at preventing concentration of risks and unabated lending among group companies. For years, the question of allowing conglomerates to float banks has been a contentious issue with the banking laws barring it and large corporates pushing back. The RBI committee has also recommended that after 15 years, promoters should be allowed to hold up to 26%, instead of the current cap of 15%, a move that will help the promoters exploit the upside in a bank. Currently, there are at least three private lenders with over 26% promoter holding. Read AlsoTatas, Aditya Birla look to reopen banking accountIn 1917, Tata established the Tata Industrial Bank but the latter ran into trouble and had to be amalgamated with Central Bank of India in 1923. Birlas, meanwhile, established United Commercial Bank (UCO) in 1943, which was nationalised in 1969.Further, large and well-managed non-banking finance companies (NBFCs), with assets of over Rs 50,000 crore, may be allowed to convert into banks, the five-member committee said. The committee said that such NBFCs, with at least a 10-year track record, may be allowed to convert into banks. It also made it easier for payments banks to convert to small finance banks (SFBs) by reducing the track record to three years from five years now. “The idea is to ensure that there is enough capital for private sector banks in line with the vision of a $5 trillion economy. In addition, we have sought to ensure a level-playing field between the new entrants and existing players,” Sachin Chaturvedi, a member of the panel, told TOI. In the past several of the large corporate houses in India had applied for banking license but had either backed out or were denied by RBI. The committee has also proposed a review of the “fit and proper” norms, which is the deciding factor in the regulator allowing or rejecting an application. Over the years, RBI has been selective in issuing fresh bank licences. The question of higher ownership for promoters of private banks has also been a highly contentious as well as a contested issue. In 2018, the promoters of Kotak Bank, Uday Kotak & family, had moved the Bombay high court against RBI rule to impose a 15% cap on the promoters’ holding. Earlier this year, after the RBI allowed the family to hold up to 26% stake in the bank with the voting rights capped, the court case was withdrawn. On June 12 this year, the RBI set up the panel to have a fresh look at the ownership structure of all private sector banks. Industry watchers said that it would take about six to nine months for the proposals to be made into rules. Once the rules are made on the lines of the proposals, there would be 3-4 NBFCs which could apply to become banks while another 3-4 finance companies promoted by large business houses could become banks. For large companies to float banks, the law has to be changed which could take longer, they said. The panel also suggested that the current rule of the promoters of a bank has to hold a minimum of 40% in the lender for the first five years, should continue. The panel, while proposing a hike in promoter holding in private banks to 26% also said that the promoters could voluntarily choose to bring down their holding further after the five-year lock in. “No intermediate sub-targets between 5-15 years may be required. However, at the time of issue of licences, the promoters may submit a dilution schedule which may be examined and approved by (the RBI),” the panel said. The report also suggested that the promoters should not be allowed to pledge the bank’s shares during the lock-in period, since this “amounts to bringing the unencumbered promoters’ shares below the prescribed minimum threshold.” The panel also proposed that the initial paid-up voting equity share capital, net worth required to set up a new universal bank, may be increased to Rs 1,000 crore. It also said the initial paid-up voting equity share capital, net worth required to set up a new SFB, may be increased to Rs 300 crore. And for urban cooperative banks transiting to SFBs, the initial paid-up capital or net worth should be Rs 150 crore which has to be increased to Rs 300 crore in five years. Watch Allow large corporate houses to float banks: RBI panel||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/allow-large-corporate-houses-to-set-up-banks-says-rbi-panel/articleshow/79331805.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Varanasi||Coronavirus grips 98 more in Varanasi, tally 18,165 now||VARANASI: As many as 98 more persons tested positive for the novel coronavirus infection in the Varanasi district on Thursday, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 18,165. The number of fatalities also rose to 292 with one more patient succumbing to the disease. According to the medical bulletin, as many as 50 patients recovered from the disease on Thursday increasing the number to 17,247. Presently, there are 626 active cases of Covid-19 in Varanasi. In Ballia district, seven persons tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday increasing the number of positive cases to 6,641. Eight patients recovered from the illness. So far 6,454 patients have recovered, while 93 patients have lost their lives due to the coronavirus infection. Presently, Ballia has 94 active cases of Covid-19. The Chandauli district reported nine new cases of coronavirus infection increasing the number of positive cases to 4,096. 13 patients were declared cured increasing the number of recovered patients to 3,902. Chandauli has so far reported 48 deaths due to Covid-19, while 146 patients are still under treatment. Earlier, Sonbhadra district reported 24 new cases of coronavirus on Wednesday increasing the total number of positive cases to 4,210. With the recovery of 38 patients, the number of cured patients increased to 3,956. One patient died on Wednesday increasing the number of fatalities to 64, while there are 190 active cases of Covid-19 in Sonbhadra. The Jaunpur district reported 20 new cases of Covid-19 increasing the number to 6,052. As many as 13 patients were declared cured increasing the number of recovered patients to 5,812. So far the coronavirus has claimed 90 lives in Jaunpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/corona-grips-98-more-in-varanasi-tally-18165-now/articleshow/79311974.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Former boyfriend abducts HP woman at knife-point, booked||CHANDIGARH: Two persons have been booked for allegedly abducting a woman from Himachal Pradesh and bringing her to the city for marrying. The woman escaped with the help of a shopkeeper and informed the police about the incident. Both the accused fled from the spot after leaving the woman in the market. Sector 17 police recorded the statement of the woman and registered a zero FIR against both the accused and forwarded the case to Himachal Pradesh police for further investigation. In her complaint, a 30-year-old woman stated that she works as an assistant manager with a private bank in Hamirpur and her former boyfriend Vivek Soni along with his friend Rohit Choudhary abducted her at knife-point from Hamirpur and brought her to Chandigarh on Thursday. They reached the Sector 22 market to buy cosmetics and other items for marriage, where the complainant indicated to a shopkeeper about her kidnapping and asked him for help. The shopkeeper called on the 112 helpline and informed the cops. Both the accused came to know that the police were informed and they fled from the spot. Sector 17 police reached the market and recorded the statement of the woman and registered a case under sections 365 (kidnapping or abduction with intent secretly and wrongfully to confine person) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the IPC against both the accused and also informed the Hamirpur police about the incident. The police said the accused Vivek Soni wanted to marry her, but due to some reason, their marriage could not be solemnised. On this, the accused abducted her and brought her to Chandigarh to marry her forcibly. The woman alleged that the accused also threatened her to kill if she would not marry him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/former-boyfriend-abducts-hp-woman-at-knife-point-booked/articleshow/79329714.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Sun worshippers make cops sweat||CHANDIGARH: On the third day of Chhath Puja, as devotees swarmed the New Lake in Sector 42 for offering prayers to the setting Sun, this crowd surge to the barricades incapacitated the cops. Looking at the Covid-19 pandemic, the organisers had invited only fasters to the lake, that too in batches. Apparently, no one cared. Ordered to let only the fasters through for a holy dip, the cops hadn't expected to see entire families walk in behind the fasting women, to guard their jewellery from the snatchers at the fords. What started as a small wave around 3.30 in the afternoon swelled into a big tide by 4.30 and then the crowd size went out of proportion, leaving no foothold at the lake. All this rush was to reserve a few good spots. Families brought their newborns and aged members, not minding their low resistance to coronavirus. Asked to show permission letters when they had no clue about this rule, people argued with the cops, shoved them, and wheeled the barricades aside. No special courtesy was shown to the women in khaki. Social distancing barriers broke and the jostle was making it worse. Outnumbered 15 to 400, the cops thought it wise to withdraw. At the first light of Saturday, the crowd will be back, although in a shorter wave, since early risers are rare. Looking at 351 new cases of Covid-19 on Friday, the UT administration braces for a super spread one or two days after Chhath Puja. Confronted about the general lack of awareness on the permit rule, UT adviser Manoj Parida said: "The conditional permission for Chhath Puja was given to organisations, not individuals. We had made it clear to their office-bearers that they'd have to do all the crowd management and we'd be around only for support. If any serious violation comes to my notice, the organisers will pay." South division additional superintendent of police Shruti Arora said: "We had 180 cops, including a DSP and some SHOs (station house officers) deployed at the Sector 42 lake and around. They had no confusion about the entry rule and there were no such orders for limiting every batch to 100 worshippers. A few verbal spats might have occurred at some spots but the force did a good overall job of crowd management, the proof of which lies in no report of any untoward incident. We held our posts till the crowd dispersed." Every Chhath Puja, more than 1 lakh devotees worship at the New Lake. This year, the numbers were low because of the pandemic. The air still reverberated with the mantra 'Om Suryaye Namah'. Each worshipper offered 51 items to the Sun God. Women in saris carried decorated puja thalis into the shallows for a simple ritual that needs no pandit or complex chanting. Many regulars skipped coming to the lake this year and celebrated the festival on their rooftops. Suraj Singh of Sector 31 said: “We had kept water buckets on the rooftops. A second wave of Covid-19 is about to start and only caution can save us from contracting the virus.” (With inputs from Pritam Thakur)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sun-worshippers-make-cops-sweat/articleshow/79329725.cms||Kamini Mehta
November 21, 2020||Varanasi||HC bars govt action against accused in Jauhar varsity case||Prayagraj: The Allahabad high court on Friday directed the state government not to take any coercive action against Mohd Fasih Zaidi, one of the accused in 27 land grabbing cases related to the land of Mohd Ali Jauhar University of Rampur district. Last year, as many as 27 FIRs relating to land grabbing were registered against senior Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Azam Khan and his associates. In March this year, the name of the petitioner, Mohd Fasih Zaidi, was added during investigation by the police. Consequently, on September 16, the summons were issued against the petitioner in all the 27 cases by the trial court at Rampur district. Hence, the petitioner challenged the summons issued by the trial court in the present petition before the high court. Hearing a petition filed by Mohd Fasih Zaidi, Justice Suneet Kumar further directed that he will cooperate in the trial of the case. In the present petition, the petitioner has sought quashing of summons issued against him by the trial court at Rampur district court. Appearing on behalf of the petitioner, senior advocate Manish Tiwari argued that the applicant is not named in the FIRs. Applicant was a member of the society and his name was implicated during investigation by the police. However, there is no evidence of culpability or complicity of the applicant in the commission of the alleged offence. “The primary allegation in the FIRs were against the co-accused and not against the petitioner that they coerced some of the farmers to transfer their holdings in favour of the society, against their free will. The criminal prosecution against the petitioner is abuse of the process of court,” added the senior advocate. However, the additional advocate general, representing the state government, raised the preliminary objection regarding the maintainability of the petition assailing summoning order in all 27 cases and sought time to address the court on the question of maintainability of the petition before the high court. On which the court fixed January 11, 2021 as the next date of hearing in the case and directed the state government and police not to take any coercive action till then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/hc-bars-govt-action-against-accused-in-jauhar-varsity-case/articleshow/79331061.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Kanpur||Man booked for blackmailing, raping woman in Kanpur Dehat||KANPUR: A man was booked for blackmailing and raping a woman in Mangalpur area of Kanpur Dehat district on Thursday. According to police, the man allegedly filmed the woman while she was taking a bath and later used the clip to blackmail her. The clip used by the accused was allegedly recorded by him in May this year. The accused has been identified as Rohit alias Babu. The woman lives with her in-laws in a village under Mangalpur police station, while her husband works in a private firm in New Delhi. Rohit, resident of the same locality as hers, had filmed her video while she was taking a bath in her house. The same night Rohit barged into her house and threatened to make her video viral on social media if she did not get sexually involved with him. “When she tried to resist, Rohit threatened her of dire consequences, pointed a gun on her and then raped her,” said police sources. When the woman watched the clip, she realised that she was filmed by Rohit from the top as her bathroom does not have a ceiling. Following this, she apprised her husband about the matter. Her husband arrived from New Delhi and approached the local police, but the police did not pay heed to their complaint, said the woman. They then filed a case in the court. In her complaint, the woman accused Rohit of blackmailing and raping her, and threatening her and her husband of dire consequences. The police lodged a complaint on Thursday and started an investigation into the matter. “On the instructions of the court, an FIR has been lodged against Rohit and further investigations are underway in this regard,” said inspector, Mangalpur police station, Amod Kumar Singh. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/man-booked-for-blackmailing-raping-woman-in-kanpur-dehat/articleshow/79312301.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Pune||Pune: Nigdi woman set ablaze after scuffle over affair||PUNE: A 33-year-old woman, who poured petrol on herself to threaten self-immolation, was set ablaze by two sisters at Nigdi Ota scheme on Thursday. The incident occurred following a quarrel that broke out with the victim accusing one of the women of being in a relationship with her husband. “The victim is in hospital with 50% burns,” assistant commissioner of police (Pimpri division) Sagar Kavade said. The police have registered an attempt-to-murder offence against the two sisters. The offcer said no arrest was reported till Friday afternoon. Kavade said, “The victim had soaked herself in fuel and visited the woman’s house and picked up a quarrel. She was also carrying a matchbox with her. In the ensuing scuffle, the matchbox fell from the victim’s hands. The woman collected the matchbox and lit a stick. As the victim was already soaked in petrol, she immediately caught fire. The suspect woman’s sister aided her in the act.” The Pimpri Chinchwad police had on Tuesday arrested a milk supplier (31) on the charge of setting a security guard (41) on fire on the premises of an engineering firm at Bhosari MIDC. The guard had objected to the milkman urinating near his employer’s luxury car.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/nigdi-woman-set-ablaze-after-scuffle-over-affair/articleshow/79329679.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra transport department gears up to spot 11 lakh 15-year-old vehicles||PUNE: The state transport department has told the regional transport office (RTO) to look out for around 11 lakh vehicles that might be running in the city without re-registration after 15 years of age. Pune RTO records revealed that around 41 lakh vehicles are registered in the city. “However, on the Parivahan portal, which is under the ministry of roads and transport, the number of total registered vehicles in Pune is around 30 lakh,” a transport department official said. “There is a discrepancy and there is a suspicion that many vehicles are plying in Pune illegally, without any registration,” the official told TOI. A Pune RTO official said there was a fair chance that the rest of the vehicles were old and had not been re-registered with the transport office. “The transport regulations state that once a vehicle has completed 15 years, it needs to be re-registered. While the investigations are taking place, we do suspect that around 11 lakh vehicles are in this category. There is a big chance that the owners have not cared to re-register these vehicles or might have even been sold them as junk,” the official said. The RTO has launched a drive to identify such vehicles. “The number of vehicles coming in for re-registration in the Pune RTO office has increased following the drive,” the official said. “There is a difference of around 11 lakh vehicles if one goes by the Parivahan portal data and the Pune RTO figures. Around 3 lakh to 4 lakh vehicles are plying without registration. The rest of the vehicles might have either been sold as junk or some might have been turned into antiques by the owners,” he said. “The number of people visiting the RTO for re-registration of vehicles has increased since a fortnight. Earlier, around 30 to 40 vehicle owners would daily visit the RTO on an average. Now the figure is nearly 100,” he said. Pune deputy regional transport officer Sanjay Sasane said, “We appeal to the people to complete all steps and procedures to ensure that their vehicles are re-registered so that they don’t have to visit the Alandi Road facility of the RTO.” Once a vehicle is above 15 years old, its owner has to pay ‘green tax’ to the RTO during the re-registration process. “This tax is different for various kinds of vehicles and ranges between Rs1,500 and almost Rs5,000. Some of these vehicles might be so old that the owners think that it will be better to sell them as junk rather than paying the ‘green tax’,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/transport-dept-gears-up-to-spot-11l-15-yr-old-vehicles/articleshow/79329697.cms||Joy Sengupta
November 21, 2020||Goa||As schools partially reopen in Goa, most students to stay home||PANAJI: On day one of school reopening for Classes X and XII, less than 50% of the altogether 35,000 students enrolled are expected to return. While some parents have not consented to send their children to school, in the case of high enrolment institutes, the school managements have decided to restrict the number of students per day to between 35 and 50 to avoid the risk of crowding. Most high enrolment institutes in the state have not taken the directorate of education’s suggestion of conducting classes in morning and afternoon shifts to be able to accommodate all students. Institutes felt this would be an added burden on teachers. Instead, they have divided each division into four to five batches, restricting student numbers between 10 and 12. The batches have been given a schedule that will see then attending school only for a maximum of three times a week. “The partial reopening is scheduled on a Saturday. Most parents are likely to prefer sending their children to school starting from Monday due to the Sunday break in between,” former president of the Goa Headmasters’ Association, Vithoba Desai, said. Satyesh Kakodkar of New Educational Institute, Curchorem, said that only parents of 75 of the 215 enrolled in Class X have consented to send their children for physical classes. “Many students, who are academically strong, have said they can manage with the online classes only. Only 30% parents have consented to send their students to school,” Kakodkar said. One school in the capital has decided to delay opening and to instead wait and watch how the SOPs work in other institutes. “Parents have been told that classes will begin from November 28. We will also get a week’s time to decide based on how the classes go in other schools,” a parent said. Many institutes have also decided to continue classes online, while only using the physical classes for practical work in the laboratories. “Initially, we will focus on practicals as it has not been held so far. Students will come in batches of 12. For arts and commerce, they will come with difficulties and teachers will hold quizzes, etc, to test students on how much they have understood from the online classes so far. We are getting time up to December 23, around a month, before the Christmas break begins. We will utilise this time to revise the portion and will continue with online classes,” managing trustee of People’s High School, Panaji, Rahul Deshpande said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-schools-partially-reopen-most-students-to-stay-home/articleshow/79331515.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
November 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Inferior feed killed 71 Mansa Devi cows, finds committee||PANCHKULA: A poor-quality feed of yellow instead of green leaves killed the 71 cows at two cattle pounds managed by Mata Mansa Devi Gaudham. Not mixing the forage with dry hay caused prussic acid poisoning and asphyxiation. The inquiry committee has given its report to deputy commissioner Mukesh Ahuja, who said the law required technical opinion before final action. District rural development agency chief executive officer Nishu Singhal, assistant commissioner of police Raj Kumar, and animal husbandry department deputy director Dr Anil Kumar state in their report that the forage had turned yellow, which shows a high concentration of hydrocyanic acid (HCN), the common name of which is hydrogen cyanide. A source said: “After the herds died on October 27, the DC-appointed inquiry committee asked the Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Board management for the papers of its contract with Gaudham Gaushala Trust. The committee put the trust on notice for buying inferior forage and feeding it to the cows without proper testing.” A senior scientist at Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), Ludhiana, said on the condition of anonymity: “Green fodder leaves turn yellow either due to low watering or some insect. It increases the concentration of prussic acid, also called hydrogen cyanide. Hydrocyanic acid (HCN) poisoning is common in livestock that graze sorghum-type grass. When drought, freeze, herbicides, insects, or mechanical injury damage this plant, a cyanogenetic glycoside called dhurrin comes into contact with enzymes as the plant tissue degrades to form the toxic HCN compound.” He said: “Once cows eat this grass, the HCN enters the animal’s bloodstream, prevents oxygen absorption in the cells, and asphyxiates the animal to death.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/inferior-feed-killed-71-mansa-devi-cows-finds-committee/articleshow/79329745.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
November 21, 2020||Varanasi||SUV rams truck on Pratapgarh highway, 14 killed on the spot||PRAYAGRAJ: Fourteen persons, including six children died on the spot after the SUV in which they were travelling crashed into a truck on Prayagraj-Lucknow highway around Thursday midnight.  The accident took place near Deshraj Ka Inara village near Manikpur police station of Pratapgarh district. Superintendent of police, Pratapgarh, Anurag Arya, said the accident happened around 11.45pm and all 14 passengers died on the spot. “Initially, police recovered five bodies, but later extricated nine more after an earthmoving machine was deployed to pull out the mangled vehicle from under the truck,” the SP said. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath expressed grief and directed senior police and administrative officials to provide help to families of victims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/suv-rams-truck-on-pratapgarh-highway-14-killed-on-the-spot/articleshow/79331080.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Kanpur||Dubey’s kin, aides booked for using fake stamp papers||Kanpur: Slain Bikru gangster Vikas Dubey’s father and brother were booked along with seven others by police on Thursday for allegedly procuring firearm licences by using fake stamp papers. Police has registered an FIR against gangster’s father Ram Kumar Dubey, brother Deep Prakash Dubey and latter’s wife Anjali Dubey, besides his aides Vishnupal, Amit, Dinesh Kumar, Ravindra Kumar, Akhilesh and Ashutosh Tripathi for cheating and violation of the Arms Act and corruption. Kanpur Police lodged the FIR on the recommendation of SIT recently. “The arms licences were issued by using false and forged documents. The startling facts came to light during investigation by the Special Investigation Team (SIT),” said an investigating officer. Similarly, on the recommendations of SIT, police have booked the slain gangster’s wife Richa Dubey, his brother Deep Prakash Dubey and aides Monu, Ram Singh, Shiv Tiwari, Shanti Devi, Rekha Agnihotri, Vishnupal and minor wife of slain Amar Dubey, who were in possession of SIM cards obtained by using IDs of others, under relevant sections of IPC. “We received a recommendation from SIT for initiating action against the accused for procurement of firearm licences on fake stamp papers, besides using SIM cards registered on other people’s name. Subsequently, an FIR has been lodged in this regard today under relevant sections of IPC,” said SSP/DIG Dr Preetinder Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/dubeys-kin-aidesbooked-for-using-fake-stamp-papers/articleshow/79311985.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
November 21, 2020||Kanpur||More steps soon to ensuresafety of women, says CM||Jhansi: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said stress would be laid on enforcement on the lines of anti-Romeo squads in the second phase of Mission Shakti to ensure safety and security of women in the state. Addressing an event on the occasion of 192nd birth anniversary of Maharani Laxmibai on Thursday through videoconferencing, the CM said, “Very soon we will start enforcement on the lines of anti-romeo squad to curb atrocities against women. Besidees, there will be a separate ‘Mahila Prakosht’ in all the 350 tehsils to help women and address their grievances at the local level.” We will also launch a programme to make women self-reliant and ration shops in the state may be handed over to women self-help groups as has already been done in some places following good results, CM Yogi said. “I feel proud to attend the birth anniversary of Rani Laxmibai who set an example of valour and sacrifice in front of the entire world,” said Yogi. Special programmes have been launched to encourage girl child under Kanya Sumangala Yojana in which a sum of Rs 15,000 is transferred into the account of each girl child in different stages and Rs 51,000 is given for the marriage of girls from poor families. “Till now lakhs of girls have benefitted from these schemes. Under the leadership of PM Narendra Modi and advancement of technology, it is being ensured that all the beneficiaries get the money through direct transfer of funds into their accounts without any pilferage,” the CM said. Applauding the women SHGs in the district for their good work, he announced that a panchyat building and community toilet will be constructed in all 59,000 gram panchayats in the state. These community toilets will be run by women who will be paid monthly stipend of Rs 6,000. Reiterating his commitment to women upliftment, he said 1.37 lakh recruitments have been done in UP Police of which 20% are women, while three new women PAC battalions have been formed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/more-steps-soon-to-ensuresafety-of-women-says-cm/articleshow/79311996.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur Nagar dist court to remain closed for 24 hours||Kanpur: The district court, Kanpur Nagar will remain closed for 24 hours on November 20 as metropolitan magistrate, Gaurav Dwivedi tested positive for Covid on Thursday. According to an order passed by the district and session judge, Ashok Kumar Singh, metropolitan magistrate had apprised the judge that he had tested positive for the coronavirus infection . Gaurav Dwivedi had regularly heard the cases and performed judicial work on November 18. Chief medical officer, Dr Anil Kumar in a telephonic conversation had advised the district judge to close the court for 24 hours and conduct sanitization process in the court premises twice. The incharge officer of the Nazarat department would submit a report after the completion of the sanitization process under the supervision of the CMO. Moreover, he also suggested to ask people who had come in contact or were within a radius of ten meters of the metropolitan magistrate in last couple of days to isolate themselves. In a specific direction, the district judge said the bail applications listed for hearing on November 20 will now be heard on November 21. Similarly, files fixed for arguments will also be sent to session court on November 21. In all other cases pending in the lower court, the general date has been fixed as December 19 for civil cases and December 16 for criminal cases. The district judge also asked the staff to send a letter to DM and municipal commissioner for sanitization of all courtrooms twice within 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/kanpur-nagar-dist-court-to-remain-closed-for-24-hours/articleshow/79312046.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19: At 327, Ahmedabad hits highest daily cases in 5 months||AHMEDABAD: With 327 new Covid cases in 24 hours – Ahmedabad district recorded its highest daily cases in 156 days or in more than five months. Of the total, 305 were from within Ahmedabad city limits, whereas the rest were from the district. At 1,420, it was also the highest daily tally for Gujarat in 56 days – the state breached the figure of 1,400 after 53 days. With the update, the number of active cases again rose above 13,000 on Friday. Gujarat was 11th among Indian states in terms of highest daily positive cases. Availability remained low for the non-requisitioned beds in 70 city-based hospitals on Friday. Of 2,536 total beds, only 261 or 10% were available at 9.30am. The high-dependency unit (HDU) and ICU beds without ventilators had 94% occupancy whereas isolation and ventilator beds had 86% and 83% occupancy respectively. Among the eight municipal corporations of Gujarat, Ahmedabad topped in the average daily cases in the past seven days — compared to 164 in Surat, 104 in Vadodara and 85 in Rajkot, the average daily cases recorded in Ahmedabad were 224. In fact, Ahmedabad accounted for 34% of the daily positive cases recorded in the eight municipal corporation areas in the past one week. While Ahmedabad district’s total tally reached 46,680 with the update, Rajkot crossed 15,000 cumulative cases with 137 new cases. Surat and Vadodara’s tallies are at 40,790 and 18,363 with 246 and 155 cases respectively. Gujarat in 24 hours carried out 67,901 tests — the highest in over two months — taking the total to 71 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/at-327-city-hits-highest-daily-cases-in-5-months/articleshow/79329772.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Pune||Man serving life term flees Yerawada open prison||PUNE: A convict serving life sentence in a 2012 murder case escaped from the Yerawada open jail facility on Thursday morning. Senior inspector of the Yerawada police Yunus Shaikh told TOI, “The convict, Ajay Peter Topun, escaped around 11am on Thursday. He had gone to answer nature’s call and fled from there,” Shaikh said. Potun, who is from Jharkhand, was sentenced to life in prison by the district and sessions court in 2012, following his arrest by the Paud police in a murder case. He had served around six years in the Yerawada prison. “He was recently shifted to the open jail for men. On Thursday, he had told the guard that he was going to answer nature’s call near the garden area close to the Yerawada printing press. He never came back and that it when we realisd he was missing,” Shaikh added. After looking for him in the garden area, the guard, Bajirao Patil, on Thursday night lodged an FIR. Police have registered a case under Section 224 (resistance or obstruction by a person to his lawful apprehension) of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-serving-life-term-flees-yerawada-open-prison/articleshow/79329716.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali: SSP, 150 others test positive for Covid-19||MOHALI: Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Mohali Satinder Singh has tested positive for Covid-19. He is now under home isolation. On Friday, 151 people tested positive of the deadly virus and 61 recovered. Mohali did not witness any death after three days of fatalities, which now stands at 263. Civil surgeon Dr G B Singh said the active cases count has once again touched 1,244 after remaining below 1,000 from the past many weeks. This has started affected the recovery rate, which has declined gradually and the number of active cases have started climbing again. The recovery rate in Mohali, which was once 95%, has now come down to 88.56 % in the past one week. The active cases count has also increased from 526 to 1,244 in the past 19 days. Mohali urban saw 123 cases, followed by Gharuna (10), Derabassi (9), Kharar (5), Dhakoli (2) and Boothgarh (2). Divulging further, officials of the health department said the total number of positive cases reported in the district is 14,183, of which, 12,676 have recovered and 1,244 are active cases. City reports one death, 150 new cases Chandigarh: The city reported 150 new cases and one death on Friday. The active cases are now 1,121, while the confirmed cases are 16,472 and 255 deaths. The patient who died was a 40-year-old man from Sector 25. He had Type 2 diabetes mellitus and pulmonary tuberculosis. He died at the PGI. Meanwhile, 133 patients were discharged on Friday, taking the total count of discharged cases to 15,096 2 ITB jawans, 70 others test positive in Pkl Panchkula: Two ITB jawans, 30-year-old and 42-year-old, were among 72 people to test positive for novel coronavirus here in Panchkula on Friday, increasing the tally to 8,208, with 475 active cases. The recovery rate has risen slightly to be recorded at 92.735 from 91.76% last week. The death toll is 121. A total of 7612 patients have beaten the deadly virus. Out of new cases, six were from Sector 11, eight from Badona Kalan, six each from sectors 20 and 26, five from sectors 16 and 21, and one to four cases each from Amravati Enclave, Pinjore, MDC-5, Nanakpura, Bhud, Kalka, Saketri, Rampur and sectors 2, 7, 8, 9, 12, 14, 24 and 25. One death, 90 fresh cases in Ambala Ambala: A 62-year-old man of Ambala Cantt died of Covid-19 in Ambala on Friday, taking the toll to 119. The district reported 90 new cases, raising the tally to 9,828, with 388 active cases. As many as 15 patients were discharged, taking the recovery count to 9,321.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mohali-ssp-150-others-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/79329750.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Vijayawada||AP to introduce toll on state highways, bridges||Amaravati: The state government has decided to levy a road fee (toll fee) on all state highways, bridges, tunnels and bypass roads. At present, toll is levied on vehicle users only on national highways and major state highways that connect to national highways. Taking into consideration the huge monies required for the construction of new roads and bridges and maintenance of existing roads, the government has decided to reintroduce a toll tax on state highways. Sources said that toll plazas are likely to be set up every 60 to 90 kilometres. No road fee shall be levied for two-wheelers, three- wheelers, tractors used for agricultural purpose, combine harvesters and animal-drawn vehicles. The road fee (toll tax) was introduced to allow contractors to recover their investment on the construction of new roads. However, the government has decided to collect road fee even on existing highways and bridges as the maintenance of roads has become expensive due to increase in vehicular population. “Due to the change in scenario of road sector and technological developments over the last decade, the government has decided to collect state road fee in supersession of the existing AP State Roads (collection of fees from any person for the use of section of state roads / permanent bridge / temporary bridge on AP state roads) Rules, 2007,” said transport, R&B principal secretary MT Krishna Babu. The AP Road Development Corporation (APRDC) would be allowed to utilise the monies collected through toll tax to take up new projects and for maintenance of the existing roads. Sources said as many as 59 state highways, including Kadapa-Pulivendula, Eluru-Jangareddygudem, Narketpalli-Addanki and Bhimavaram-Gudivada would go under the toll fee hammer. However, YSRC legislators are worried the decision might be unpopular with commuters as many state highways are in a poor state due to lack of periodical maintenance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-to-introduce-toll-on-state-highways-bridges/articleshow/79328504.cms||Samdani MN
November 21, 2020||Allahabad||Plea in court seeks FIR against Obama for insulting RaGa, ex-PM Manmohan||Prayagraj: A Pratapgarh-based lawyer has filed a petition before a local court seeking registration of FIR against former US President Barack Obama for 'insulting Congress former president Rahul Gandhi and former PM Manmohan Singh' in his latest book 'A Promised Land’. Lawyer Gyan Prakash Shukla filed the plea on Thursday before Lalganj civil court of Pratapgarh district, which will decide its maintainability on the next date, December 1, 2020. According to the petition, former US President Barack Obama has said in his book that Sonia Gandhi picked Manmohan to be the Prime Minister of India because he posed no threat to her son Rahul Gandhi, whom she was grooming to be her heir. About Rahul Gandhi, Obama has written, “Rahul Gandhi has a nervous, unformed quality about him, as if he were a student who'd done the coursework and was eager to impress the teacher but deep down lacked either the aptitude or the passion to master the subject.” The petitioner, who claims to be the national president of All India Rural Bar Association, has demanded that an FIR be lodged as according to him, the book insults the leaders and hurts the sentiments of their followers. "It's also an attack on the sovereignty of the country," the petition says. Shukla has claimed that there are millions of supporters of these leaders and they feel hurt by the remarks made in Obama's book. He warned that if the FIR was not lodged, he along with his supporters, will stage a protest outside the US embassy at New Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/plea-in-court-seeks-fir-against-obama-for-insulting-raga-ex-pm-manmohan/articleshow/79312322.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
November 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Congress veteran Sarve Satyanarayana to leave party, join BJP||HYDERABAD: In a major boost to the BJP ahead of the GHMC polls, senior Congress leader and former Union minister Sarve Satyanarayana is all set to join the saffron party soon. He told TOI that he will be joining the BJP before GHMC polls on December 1. He also confirmed to TOI that top BJP leaders in Delhi and Hyderabad were in touch with him. BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay along with senior leaders like G Vivek went to the house of Satyanarayana in Mahendra Hills on Friday night and invited him to join the party. “I am under tremendous pressure from my followers and cadre to join the BJP,” he said and blamed the state Congress leadership for the downfall of Congress in Telangana. He said many senior leaders are looking forward to join the BJP. Sources said he is likely to be fielded against Congress party’s Revanth Reddy in the next Lok Sabha elections from Malkajgiri constituency. A key Dalit leader in the state hailing from Madiga community, Satyanarayana is a two-time MP and one-time MLA. He started his political career with the TDP and later shifted loyalties to the Congress. He is a member of the AICC. He had won Siddipet Lok Sabha constituency (reserved for SCs) in 2004 and created history by emerging victorious from Malkajgiri parliamentary constituency, a general seat, in 2009. He was made Union minister of state in 2012 by Sonia Gandhi. Satyanarayana has not been in good terms with party leadership in the state after his suspension from the party in January 2019. He is reported to have used unparliamentary language against then AICC secretary RC Khuntia and TPCC president N Uttam Kumar Reddy at a review meeting on Malkajgiri constituency after Congress party’s debacle in 2018 assembly polls. Sources said the BJP is also in touch with important leaders in the Congress and other parties. Former MP Konda Vishweshwar Reddy of the Congress whose name was doing rounds that he would also join BJP, denied it and termed it as a rumour. “I just heard a rumour that I am joining BJP. Yes, it is just a rumour,” he tweeted on Friday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-veteran-sarve-to-leave-party-join-bjp/articleshow/79331020.cms||Roushan Ali
November 21, 2020||Bhopal||After 40 days, MP sees over 1500 new cases in single day||BHOPAL: After around 40 days, more than 1,500 new Covid-19 patients were found in a single day in the state on Friday. It was on October 11 that 1,575 new cases were reported in the state, and now on November 20, 1,528 new cases were reported in Madhya Pradesh. With these new cases, the tally of positive cases in the state reached 1,89,456 on Friday. Apart from the fresh cases, nine deaths were also reported as per the state health bulletin, released by the Directorate of Health Services. Districts where deaths were reported include Indore where four deaths were reported. One death each was reported from Bhopal, Jabalpur, Sagar, Satna and Khandwa districts. A total of 31,371 samples were tested on Friday, out of which 1,528 people were found positive. Thus, the positivity rate—number of people testing positive out of every 100 samples tested—for Friday stood at 4.8%. The cumulative positivity rate in the state on November 20 was 5.5%. It is noteworthy that positivity rate above five per cent is considered high and more and more tests are recommended if the positivity rate is above 5%. On Friday, fresh cases were reported from 51 of the 52 districts of the state. It was only Burhanpur district where no fresh cases were reported. New cases were reported in double figures from 31 districts of the state. Districts where maximum cases were reported include Bhopal where 378 fresh cases were reported, Indore reported 313 fresh cases, Gwalior reported 96 cases and Ratlam reported 76 cases. On the brighter side, 917 people who were admitted at hospitals recovered and were discharged. With these new patients recovering from the disease, the count of people who have recovered so far from the disease reached 1,76,006. The cumulative recovery rate of Covid-19 in the state as on November 20, was 92.85%. As on November 20, there were 10,402 active cases in the state. The number of active cases has again crossed the 10,000 mark after more than 24 days. It was on October 28 that there were 10,094 active cases in the state and it started reducing since then, before again increasing in the past 10 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/after-40-days-mp-sees-over-1500-new-cases-in-single-day/articleshow/79329756.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Jaipur||Jaisalmer: Woman’s nose, tongue cut for refusing remarriage; five held||JAISALMER: Police arrested five persons in a case wherein a 28-year-old widowed woman, who refused to marry a person 15 years older, was attacked under Sankda police station area in Jaisalmer district. The accused allegedly cut her nose and tongue, injuring her seriously. The arrested persons were produced before the judicial magistrate in Pokhran from where they were sent on remand. Search for the remaining culprits is on. SP Ajay Singh inspected the spot and visited the house of the victim and nearby areas and collected information. He said that applicant Baseer Khan, a resident of Jageeron ki Dhani on October 17 gave a report at Sankda police station. The complaint said that his sister Guddi was married six years ago to Koje Khan but her husband died five years ago. Her son is four years old and after Koje’s death, her in-laws were constantly harassing her and were pressuring her to marry again but she refused to marry. SP said that the report further stated that Guddi and her mother were at their house when around 10 to 15 people armed with swords, sticks and guns entered the house and attacked them. They cut Guddi’s nose and tongue and allegedly outraged her modesty by tearing her clothes and also thrashed her mother. Baseer, on hearing the cries of the women, came running and saw the accused running away on bikes. He informed the police and took the injured women to hospital. SP said that based on the report, a case was lodged and investigation was started. Looking at the seriousness of the case, he himself went to the spot. He directed Sankda SHO to immediately arrest the wanted culprits. The search is on. Sankda SHO Kanta Singh Dhillon said that the case is being intensively investigated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/womans-nose-tongue-cut-for-refusing-remarriage-five-held/articleshow/79329751.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Varanasi||RFID technology to make it easier to find books in AU’s central library||Prayagraj: After a long gap of around 12 years, the authorities of Allahabad University (AU) have once again initiated the effort to equip its central library with radio frequency identification system (RFID)technology. The technology would enable the users to locate any book from the huge treasure of around 7.5 lakhs books in the library at a mere click of a mouse. Moreover, it would check the cases of book-theft from the library. A proposal worth Rs 1.10 crore has been sent to the ministry of education by the varsity authorities, and once the funds are sanctioned, the work to set-up the technology would begin. Earlier, it was in 2008 when the then HRD minister, Arjun Singh had announced sanctioning an amount of Rs 10 crores for up-gradation of the central library. Singh was at AU as the chief guest of an alumni function, and he had announced while speaking at the Senate Hall of the Arts faculty. However, only half of the promised money was sanctioned to AU, and the concept of RFID was never initiated at the library. Sources inform that the technology uses a set of stripes, which when placed inside the pages of a book, gets self-dissolved. After that, any user can trace the book by placing it on the machine which reads its signals and the user can also log the book or make entries related to it on the software supporting the unique RFID of each book. RFID automated material handling systems also helps accelerate the process of returning books to library shelves faster. However, experts in the field of library science have some reservations on the RFID technology in the context of AU. “It is debatable whether AU central library is ready for the sophisticated technology as it would need every student to pass through a ‘gate’ (something like the metal detector gate). How safe it would be among the students and for how long it would keep working is hard to tell”, says a senior former faculty member of AU. “That may be one reason why universities like Banaras Hindu University, Aligarh Muslim University, Delhi University etc. have not gone for this technology,” he added. But, AU has sent the proposal to the ministry of education. Once the funds are sanctioned, efforts to integrate the technology within the current library set-up would begin in earnest. “The technology is beneficial when it comes to tracing a particular book from the stack area or maintaining the inventory of the book. Besides, this would put a check to the practice of stealing books from the library. Presently our guards at the gate frisk the students who are supposed to keep their bags deposited at the pigeon box at the gate”, said AU Librarian, Dr BK Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/rfid-technology-to-make-it-easier-to-find-books-in-aus-central-library/articleshow/79331106.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Lucknow||Girl students take over as SHOs for one day in UP||LUCKNOW: In an effort to build confidence among girls and women about police and make them aware about the policing system, class X and XII girl students were made police station house officers (SHOs) for a day across the state. The move was part of the Mission Shakti project of the government on the occasion of Universal Children’s Day on Friday. This was done in partnership with Unicef. UP DGP HC Awasthy said that such initiatives narrow the bridge between people and the police and make people aware about the system. All police stations must hear complaints and attend to woes of women and children, he stressed. “We must instil a sense of empowerment and confidence in girl children. Bringing children close to police as partners leads to a sense of security,” said the DGP. In Rampur, class XII student Iqra, soon after taking charge of Civil Lines police station, ordered action against a leader of Samajwadi Party for not following traffic rules and also Covid-19 protocols. Iqra later told newsmen that she felt that cops worked very hard but people paid no heed and when asked to follow rules, they argue. In Lucknow, class IX student Gargi Dwivedi was made SHO Hazratganj. Dwivedi ordered FIR in a dispute and also resolved an issue amicably. She also took stock of preparations at Laxman Mela ground ahead of Chhath Puja. The idea to make girl students SHOs was of IG, Lucknow range, Laxmi Singh. “We had organised a debate on various issues in police stations and the best speakers and toppers who had confidence were chosen as SHOs,” she said. All 118 police stations under her range had made girl students SHO for a day. The students were made aware of the working and functions of the police and of different women related helplines and their utilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/girl-students-take-over-as-shos-for-one-day-in-up/articleshow/79331811.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Hospitals have ample space to accommodate patients: ADC||MOHALI: With coronavirus spread once again intensifying in the national capital, referrals from Delhi, Ghaziabad and Gurugram have started reaching the city hospitals in Mohali. ADC Aashika Jain said that city hospitals had ample space to accommodate the Covid patinets and there was no shortage of beds with ventilators. Aashika said, “We have no shortage of ventilators and beds, rather we are receiving patients at local hospitals with referrals from Delhi-NCR. We here in Mohali are fully equipped with facilities to handle Covid patients. Anticipating the scare, Mohali administration has made isolation wards in every private hospital in the district and two such wards in every government hospital.” She said recently Mohali administration had launched 24x7 Covid testing facility at all government hospitals in the district. The facility is free of cost at the government hospitals and it must not take more than 10 minutes to conduct the tests. Antigen and CT-PCR tests have been made available 24x7, she said. She said arrangements for 24 hours testing in the district hospitals had already been put in place. Also, instructions have been passed that if any Covid patients approaches for tele-medicine, that patient must be given preference and must not be put on hold. Aashika further said, “Although the cases have decreased, according to health experts, it may pick up again in December or January. That is why our health institutions have been instructed not to be negligent in matters of identification, testing and treatment of Covid.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hospitals-have-ample-space-to-accommodate-patients-adc/articleshow/79329758.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
November 21, 2020||Kanpur||Students take charge of police stns in Jhansi for a day||Jhansi: On the occasion of world children’s day Jhansi Police under ongoing ‘Mission Shakti’ programme carried out a special event under, which they gave chance to students to be the station house officer in various police stations across the district for a day on Friday. These included police station Kotwali, Nawabad, Chirgaon, Moth and Samthar. Young school and college going students were given a chance to take the responsibility of commanding the force and carry out day to day work, which mainly included handling grievances of the public. All these police officials for a day were seen carrying out their duties helped in this by the police officers. Nancy Arya, a student of BSc II Year was given the responsibility of the important Nawabad police station, which she handled in a nice manner. She was seen interacting with women constables asking about their work. She also handled a number of grievances of various police chowkies working under Nawabad. Similarly Bhawna Singh, a student of grade XII was given a chance to be head of city Kotwali. Discharging her duty confidently under the guidance of police officials, Bhawna was seen discussing the problems of people who came to police station. SP City, Vivek Tripathi informed, “Our aim for carrying out event was to remove fear and misconceptions for police among common people and to make them aware about our working culture”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/students-take-charge-of-police-stns-in-jhansi-for-a-day/articleshow/79331271.cms||Arindam Ghosh
November 21, 2020||Pune||PMC decentralized system to increase labour registration||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has introduced a decentralized system for migrant labour registration. The PMC has appointed all ward officers as the ‘nodal officers of labour registration’. The registration process will be carried out throughout the year so workers of unorganized sector will get registered at the civic administration level. The decision has been taken to make sure these workers, including construction workers, will get the benefit of government schemes. This move will help the migrant workers. “A number of labour welfare schemes have been introduced by the state government and civic administration. We have to make sure they reach the beneficiaries. So, this initiative of registration at different localities across the city has been taken,” a senior PMC official said. “It had become tough for workers to register at the local self governing body due to various hurdles posed by the authorities. This new initiative will be of help,” Nitin Pawar, an activist, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-decentralized-system-to-increase-labour-registration/articleshow/79329749.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 21, 2020||Kanpur||Active cases cross 1k-mark for 1st time in Nov||Kanpur: As many as 139 persons tested positive for the novel coronavirus in the city on Thursday. While the city reported no fatality on Thursday, the surge in the cases continued after 131 cases surfaced on the previous day. The total number of Covid cases in the city has now reached 29,433. With the fresh cases on Thursday, the number of active cases crossed 1000-mark. For the first time in November, the number of active cases has surged to 1,004. While on November 17 (Tuesday), number of active cases was 896, it had surged to 924 on Wednesday. These figures raise concern as the number of active cases had dipped to just 697 on November 1. Health department on Thursday further increased testing. On Tuesday, 4578 samples were collected for tests. On Wednesday, 4916 samples were collected and on Thursday, 5151 samples were taken. The increase in the COVID cases could probably be due to increase in testing. On Thursday, 40 people completed their home isolation and 19 others were discharged from the hospitals after complete recovery. So far 7,838 people have been discharged from hospital and 19,830 have completed home isolation. New cases were reported from areas - Naveen Nagar, Panki, Vikas Nagar, Colonelganj, Gopal Nagar, Hemant Vihar, Juhi, Saket Nagar, Kalyanpur, Railway Colony, Harjinder Nagar, Narwal, Kakadeo, Nawabganj, Hans Nagar, Cantt, Mandhana, Vishnupuri, Generalganj, Lajpat Nagar, Ranjeet Nagar, Shastri Nagar, Kidwai Nagar, Swaroop Nagar, medical college campus to name a few.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/active-cases-cross-1k-mark-for-1st-time-in-nov/articleshow/79312185.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Chennai||Street light robbery in Chennai?||CHENNAI: The city corporation is procuring controller devices for group monitoring of street lights at more than double the going rate. The device Greater Chennai Corporation is procuring for nearly `57,000 (`44,786 plus an additional `12,000 for 5-year maintenance), TOI found, was being fitted in cities such as Coimbatore, New Delhi, Ahmedabad and Bengaluru for half the rate. “We have so far fitted 1.1 crore devices in various states at `20,000 a piece plus GST charges including seven-year maintenance,” said a representative of Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL), a public limited company under the Union power ministry. A corporation engineer said the contract was handed over to Sabhari Electricals and the brand used are Schnell and SPowerZ Solutions Pvt Ltd. They sourced the equipment from a company named Sri Bhoomi Durga. “This is higher than the market rate. Many of us raised objections. Coimbatore corporation bought each device for around `24,000,” said the engineer. Each device, fitted to a pillar box, controls 40-50 street lights. The lights can be switched on or off remotely and controlled with the help of GPRS technology and specific software linking the device to dashboard/web portals at headquarters and mobile applications with engineers. If the device goes on the blink, a text message and a surge protector will ensure the engineer concerned is informed. Sri Bhoomi Durga vice-president Sampath Kumar wrote to TOI saying each device cost `44,100. The corporation is procuring it for `44,786 plus the maintenance cost. “Usually, a device comes with a minimum 3-5 year warranty... But this device’s warranty is only for a year. How can the civic body waste public money like this,” asked an engineer. Chief engineer P Duraisamy of the electrical department said the company was selected after an open tender, while superintendent engineer R Vijayalakshmi said the higher cost was due to the different technical specifications. However TOI confirmed with the company and EESL that the same device was being fit across the country. “The corporation agency can easily procure from EESL that provides seven years free maintenance. Why waste so much money? Spending `40 crore for a `20 crore project makes no sense. This is mainly to appease the local contractors,” said Arappor Iyakkam’s convenor Jayaram Venkatesan. A corporation engineer said that under the Rs 40 crore project funded by Germany’s KfW bank for LED lamp posts in added areas, out of the 30,000, about 500 were put up on encroached land and on land not belonging to the corporation. “The electrical department is preparing tenders for annual maintenance for added areas which will cost about `6 crore. This can be reduced if permanent staff are employed. But they want to award contracts and get commission,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/street-light-robbery-in-chennai/articleshow/79329819.cms||Komal Gautham
November 21, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Digital recruitment drives bring back jobs for Covid-hit youth||VISAKHAPATNAM: With the pandemic hitting employment opportunities, the state and central employment and training departments have come up with the idea of digital recruitment drives. The drives will also check fraudulent practices adopted in the name of employment by some private firms. Besides, the drive is expected to build confidence among youth who have lost their jobs, said K Sudha, Visakhapatnam district employment officer. Sudha said the National Career Service (NCS) affialited to the Union ministry of labour and employment has recently sanctioned three Model Career Centres (MCC) for the state at Visakhapatnanm, Kurnool and Vijayawada. The MCC coordinates with state employment and training departments to generate employment opportunities for all eligible youth in different companies. “Accordingly, the first digital drive was started in September this year. This digital drive helps both the employer and the candidate, who need not wait in long queues. Everything will be done with a smartphone. We check the authenticity of the employer,” Sudha, also manager for the MCC, told TOI. Prafull Dass, the NCS officer for MCC Visakhapatnam, said 249 employers have officially registered with the MCC Visakhapatnam. A total of 3,075 vacancies were posted through the centre on behalf of 11 employers and 2,331 candidates applied for the vacancies. Finally, 97 candidates got offer letters. “Now, we are conducting this digital drive for nearly 900 posts in the city. Around 250 candidates have registered for the drive. Another drive will be held on November 23,” Dass told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/digital-recruitment-drives-bring-back-jobs-for-covid-hit-youth/articleshow/79328509.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
November 21, 2020||Goa||As revenues dry up, Goa bets on lottery on shore up funds||MARGAO: After a gap of a few years, state-sponsored paper lotteries are set to make a comeback in Goa. The directorate of small savings and lotteries (DSSL) and chief minister Pramod Sawant will launch the operation of a new lottery series on Monday. Named ‘Dear Shubhlaxmi’, each lottery ticket is priced at Rs 10, and the lucky winners will be decided by a weekly draw that will be conducted at DSSL office in Panaji. Prizes will be drawn using a draw machine as stipulated in Lotteries (Regulation) Rules, 2010, the Goa Lotteries (Regulation) Rules, 2003, and the Goa Computerized Network Lottery Rules, 2003, it was informed. The Goa state lotteries were stopped a few years ago, owing largely to poor response from the public. The revenue generated from lotteries was used by the government for various social welfare schemes. Grant-in-aid is provided to the Institute of Public Assistance (Provedoria) for implementation of its various schemes for the poor and under-privileged, and the maintenance of old-age homes and asylums. These funds are also utilised to run the Sanjay school for special children. Every year, the state faces a fiscal deficit as the government’s total expenditure exceeds the total inflow of funds. This year, with the Covid-19 pandemic bringing a lot of economic activity to a halt, Goa is going through an acute fund crunch. The state has struggled to pay salaries on time, and disbursal towards flagship social security schemes have been delayed by three to four months. GST collections, which form 59% of the state’s own tax revenues, have plummeted. This has forced the Pramod Sawan-led government to chase additional sources of revenue in order to meet budgeted spending on the social sector. At a review meeting held on October 28, Sawant had asked state departments to work towards increasing revenue generation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-revenues-dry-up-state-bets-on-lottery-on-shore-up-funds/articleshow/79331413.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Vadodara||MSU starts attracting foreign students again||Vadodara: M S University seems to be regaining its lost diversity of students. The university, once dubbed to be a melting pot of global culture, had students pouring in from across the globe for various studies. However, in the past decade or so, the number of foreign students started declining. In fact, at one point of time, Gujarat’s only English-medium university could attract hardly a handful of international students. But that seems to be in the past now with MSU regaining its lost appeal. From around nine students who had taken admission in academic year 2015-16, the number of international students has crossed 230 plus in the current academic year. A major reason behind this is university’s collaboration with the Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR) which has improved in recent years. Sources said that around 80 out of 150-odd new admissions this year have been channelized through ICCR which awards scholarship to foreign students from around 140 countries under 26 different schemes. “We have witnessed increase in international students both through ICCR and in self-financed courses,” said Dr Dhanesh Patel, director of Office of International Affairs. “We had directly contacted consulate generals of several countries, were in direct touch with vice-chancellors of foreign universities because of which number of foreign students in master programmes increased,” he said. “While we started exploring the possibility of increasing our foreign students ratio through our existing students, our existing students also acted as ambassadors. Also, earlier, our communication with international students was limited during the admission process but since last one or two years, we have started communicating with them throughout the year,” said MSU’s officiating registrar, Dr K M Chudasama. Patel said that more international students are preferring social sciences including arts, fine arts, performing arts apart from social work. “Psychology is among the most popular subjects. A majority of students are from West African countries like Zambia, Ghana, Ivory Coast, Middle East, Afghanistan, Yemen and countries like Sri Lanka, Nepal and Bangladesh,” said Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/msu-starts-attracting-foreign-students-again/articleshow/79328522.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Extra vigil in villages: Shela Changodar, Bavla in pink zone||Ahmedabad: With spurt in Covid-19 positive cases, Ahmedabad district administration has increased surveillance and prepared a list of villages where there has been an outbreak. Based on the cases being reported in last 15 days, areas like Dhandhuka, Bavla, Changodar, Sanathal, Shela, Viramgam, Sanand and Moraiya are in pink zone where the district administration will be paying extra attention. District development officer Mahesh Babu said that all precautionary measures are being taken to control the spread in the district. He said that the number of beds in Sola Civil Hospital has been increased to 600 from the existing 450, and, if required, the district administration will increase the number of beds. He said the administration will increase testing in villages on the Sardar Patel Ring Road. Ahmedabad district, barring the areas of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation, reported 22 fresh cases on Friday. The district tally of cases so far is 3,304 and the number of death is at 59. The district did not report any death on Friday. Of the 22 new cases, seven cases were from Sanand, six were reported from Daskroi, five from Viramgam and three from Dholka and one from Dhandhuka. Taluka-wise, of the 3,304 cases in the district, 740 were from Sanand, 688 from Dholka, 445 from Daskroi, and 419 from Viramgam. As for other talukas’ contribution to the 3,304 cases, 416 cases were reported from Bavla, 332 from Dhandhuka, 104 from Mandal, 124 from Detroj, and 36 from Dholera.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/extra-vigil-in-villages-shela-changodar-bavla-in-pink-zone/articleshow/79329795.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Goa||Incubator to help MSMEs tackle tech challenges||Panaji: In a bid to address industry challenges and introduce tech innovation, the Goa State Industries Association (GSIA) has tied up with Forum for Innovation Incubation Research & Entrepreneurship (FiiRE), a technology business incubator. The two entities inked a memorandum of understanding (MoU) on Friday at the Don Bosco College of Engineering, Fatorda. “As part of the agreement, GSIA will identify problem statements from industry members, which could be solved with the help of the vibrant Goan startup ecosystem,” said GSIA president Damodar Kochkar. Director of Don Bosco College of Engineering, Fr Kinley D’Cruz, signed the agreement on behalf of FiiRE. “FiiRE will identify, source and manage the problem statements along with the startups who wish to tackle these challenges. GSIA has also promised to provide match-making and introduction to mentors from various industrial verticals,” said Kochkar. The collaborative relationship will ensure that Goa’s industrial units receive timely support from startups while collaboration with the industry will help the startup ecosystem. “This will provide an opportunity to more talent to help resolve critical industry-related problems, validate solutions and identify technology solutions that fit Goa’s micro small and medium enterprises (MSME),” said Kochkar. Kochkar said that the MoU will be in effect for as long as required, and will be reviewed every two years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/incubator-to-help-msmes-tackle-tech-challenges/articleshow/79331833.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 21, 2020||Goa||Goa CM gives nod for FIR in Covid-related labour scam 2 months after Lokayukta order||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant has accepted the Lokayukta’s recommendations and directed the anti-corruption branch (ACB) of the directorate of vigilance to register a first information report (FIR) and conduct inquiry into the labour scam. Speaking to TOI, Sawant said, “I have cleared the file to conduct the inquiry. The file will be sent to ACB for the registeration of FIR.” While most other recommendations by the Lokayukta were not acted upon, Sawant had hinted some time ago that the state would order an inquiry in this case in which there were allegations of misue of Covid relief scheme for Building and Other Construction Workers (BOCW), On September 15, a day ahead of his retirement as Goa Lokayukta, justice (retd) P K Misra had directed the ACB to investigate the Covid relief scheme for BOCW, and to file an FIR against those who siphoned off funds meant for labourers. Misra had stated that if politicians and high-ranking officials were found to be involved, the investigation should be handed over to CBI. “An FIR shall be filed by the ACB against unknown persons for conspiracy to siphon out money from the Goa BOCW welfare fund..., with a view to distributing largesse by stuffing the beneficiary register of the fund with beneficiaries who are not BOCWs,” Misra’s order had stated. The Lokayukta had recommended that the CAG look into the functioning of the labour welfare fund, specifically the payments made to beneficiaries under Covid-19 schemes. The case follows a complaint by Goa Forward Party (GFP), which alleged that the state government had misused the scheme to channel the funds to BJP functionaries, including some sarpanchs and panchayat members. The order stated that investigating agencies should conduct random checks of all beneficiaries of the scheme to determine how many of them are genuine and what motivated them to register as labourers. “Labour inspectors may be queried on a similar basis on incomplete forms, how and why they had verified them, whether they were coerced to do so, and their involvement in checking training programmes...,” the order read. Misra had recommended that in order to get a complete picture, the ACB should speak to current and former bureaucrats of the labour and employment department, to see if they had any doubts about the beneficiaries, and why 3,500 persons who registered between 2012 and 2019 were left out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-gives-nod-for-fir-in-covid-related-labour-scam-2-months-after-lokayukta-order/articleshow/79331535.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Jaipur||Kalla launches ‘vigilance app’||JAIPUR: Energy minister B D Kalla on Friday launched the ‘vigilance app’ of Jaipur Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Ltd (JVVNL). The minister said this application will help bring transparency and reduce distribution loss. The minister said it will ensure accountability of vigilance engineers and remove complaints of consumers. The app helps the consumers to register their complaints online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/kalla-launches-vigilance-app/articleshow/79329768.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Lucknow||Chhath devotees liven up ghats||Lucknow: A confluence of colours and culture was visible on the banks of the river Gomti on Friday as hundreds of men and women dressed in traditional attire flocked the ghats on the third day of Chhath Puja. With the religious belief that the sun is the ultimate source of energy and well-being, fasting devotees stepped in knee-deep water to offer ‘arghya’ (obeisance) to the setting sun and pray for the prosperity of their families. They carefully set sailing flickering earthen lamps in the river. The most enthralling was the rendition of songs and devotional music in the background sung by family members, which added to the festive ambience. However, while the ghats wore a festive look, Covid-19 protocols went for a toss as a huge crowd poured in to perform puja. “This is the first time that I am celebrating Chhath without my two children. They are both in Delhi and cannot come right now. However, I will be praying for their good health,” said Anju Singh, with her husband in knee-deep water. “This is not just a festival, it is a celebration of happiness and love blended with devotion that brings families and friends together. This year has taught us a lot and I believe that praying today with full devotion will help us in overcoming all obstacles of life,” said Juhi Dubey, a devotee at Lakshman Mela ghat. Even those not fasting were joyfully taking part in ceremonies. “I don’t celebrate Chhath but I have friends who do. They say it’s very different this year due to the pandemic. I am amazed knowing about the duration of the fast and the way people celebrate with full tradition and devotion,” said Rahul Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/chhath-devotees-liven-up-ghats/articleshow/79331820.cms||Aditi Singh
November 21, 2020||Kanpur||Child rights team visits Ghatampur||Kanpur: A team from State Commission for Protection of Child Rights on Thursday visited the village in Ghatampur where a six-year-old girl was raped, hacked to death and her vital organs eaten in an occult ritual on November 14. The team recorded the statements of the victim’s parents and siblings, the doctors who conducted autopsy and interacted with investigating police team. “A team led by commission member Jaya Singh visited the village and inquired from us about the circumstances that led to the brutal killing of the minor girl and status of the investigation,” said Ghatampur Circle Officer Ravi Kumar Singh. Commission member Jaya Singh said, “We have recorded the statements of the child’s family members. Police investigation is on, but we too are ascertaining the veracity of the incident. The report of human sacrifice is both painful and shameful.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/child-rights-team-visits-ghatampur/articleshow/79311992.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh govt sets up 46,000 retail stores by women||VIJAYAWADA: The state government has established 46,000 retail stores across the state with women beneficiaries of YSR Cheyuta scheme. The target is 78,000 retail stores for which the government has tied up with various corporate companies. Of them, 32,341 stores were established in rural areas while 13,226 stores were opened in urban areas. On August 12, chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy launched YSR Cheyutha scheme, transferring Rs 18,750 into the accounts of 23 lakh beneficiaries. The second phase of the scheme was also launched benefitting 2.5 lakh women. Through its welfare scheme, the government aims to support women within the age group of 45 to 60 years and belonging to socially disadvantaged communities, who in turn can boost the rural economy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-govt-sets-up-46k-retail-stores-by-women/articleshow/79328515.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Allahabad||HC seeks govt’s response on 2 Nigerians’ deportation||Prayagraj: The Allahabad High Court has taken a serious note of two Nigerian nationals staying in India without visa for nine years and concealment of this fact by them in their petition challenging their detention. The court sought response from the Union government regarding response of Nigerian Embassy regarding their deportation. The court passed the order after UP government’s counsel informed the petitioners’ visa had expired and were hence detained. Hearing a habeas corpus writ petition, a division bench comprising Justice Ramesh Sinha and Justice Samit Gopal observed, “It is unfortunate that the petitioners, who have come to this court to challenging their detention, have concealed the material fact that their visa had already expired and they have remained in the country without any valid visa for about nine years and had hence been arrested by police on September 24, 2019. When a pointed query was made about the concealment of the said fact, the counsel for the petitioners failed to give any satisfactory reply.” UP government’s counsel had produced a copy of a letter from the Additional Police Commissioner, Gautam Budh Nagar dated November 16, 2020 informing that the petitioners, namely, Chinasa Victor Obioha and Chima Paul Ugochukwu came to India in 2010. Their visa expired in 2011, yet they remained in the country and were hence arrested on September 24, 2019. It further stated a letter was sent to the Nigerian Embassy for obtaining relevant travel documents of the petitioners. A request for their deportation was made to the Union Ministry of Home Affairs which sent a letter dated July 23, 2020 to the Nigerian Embassy in this regard. The government counsel informed the court that the petitioners are being provided all necessary facilities in detention and regular health checkups during pandemic. Taking the information provided by the state government on record, the court directed the additional commissioner of police, Gautam Budh Nagar to file his affidavit in the matter within three days bringing on record the information, which has been placed by the state counsel before the court. Besides, the court also directed the central government to file its counter affidavit in this regard on the next date of hearing failing which its competent authority shall appear in person before this court on the next date. The court directed that the competent authority of Govnment of India shall also inform this court as to what reply it has received from the Nigerian Embassy in pursuance of its communication dated July 23, 2020 regarding deportation of petitioners. The court directed to list this matter on November 24, 2020 for the next hearing. In the writ petition, it has been alleged that both the petitioners have been detained illegally at Surajpur Police Lines, 49 Battalion, Greater Noida, Uttar Pradesh since September 24, 2019. The petition requested the court to direct that both be released with immediate effect. According to the petition, the wife of one of the persons is currently residing in Delhi. It was further alleged that these persons have not been produced in any court till the drawing of the present petition||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-seeks-govts-response-on-2-nigerians-deportation/articleshow/79312327.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
November 21, 2020||Chennai||10 views of hate speech for every 10K views of FB content: Report||Chennai: Out of every 10,000 views of Facebook content in the July-September period, around 10-11 views contained hate speech, the social media giant said in its latest Transparency report published on Friday. This is the first transparency report where Facebook has included the global prevalence of hate speech as a parameter. During the period, Facebook said it took action on 22.1 million pieces of hate speech content worldwide and about 95% of this was proactively identified by the company with remaining being flagged by users. This is a substantial increase from Facebook’s 24% proactive rate for hate speech content in the fourth quarter of 2017, when it first started measuring metrics for such content. For the same period, on Facebook-owned Instagram, 6.5 million pieces of hate speech content were removed out of which around 95% was proactively identified.“Due to our investments in AI, we have been able to remove more hate speech and find more of it proactively before users report it to us,” Guy Rosen, VP of Integrity at Facebook, said in a statement. The transparency report also provided information on the number of ‘internet disruptions’ that impact the availability of Facebook service in various countries.For the period January to June 2020, India stood first in terms of number of service disruptions with 42 disruptions across 38 weeks, 3 days and 19 hours. Facebook pegged the majority of India’s disruptions to be in Jammu & Kashmir on various dates across the period reviewed. Globally, Facebook recorded 53 instances of disruptions affecting its services in 10 countries. As per Facebook’s report, internet disruptions are intentional restrictions on connectivity that limit people's ability to access the internet or specific websites and apps.Globally, government requests for Facebook user data increased 23% during January-June 2020 with India ranking second after the US in terms of number of requests. A total of 35,560 requests were made by the Indian government in the period for 57,294 accounts. Facebook said it produced data in 50% of the cases. The US government made 61,528 requests for 106,114 accounts, and some data was produced in 88% of the cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/10-views-of-hate-speech-for-every-10k-views-of-fb-content-report/articleshow/79331036.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
November 21, 2020||Delhi||Construction at park: HC seeks report from DDA||New Delhi: After residents of NRI Colony objected to the construction of a 2 feet wall in the middle of a park and approached Delhi High Court, the court on Thursday asked Delhi Development Authority (DDA) to submit a report within three weeks about their proposed plan. The court also sought a reply on the reason for the alleged construction in the green area. The park is surrounded by NRI Colony, Chittaranjan Park and Jahanpanah Club. The residents are apprehensive that DDA will construct a mini-sports complex at this park, a project it attempted to implement earlier but failed after the locals took the matter to the court in 2008. In 2013, DDA submitted in the court that the plan to construct a stadium had been scrapped. “It’s an 8.5 acres park visited by thousands of people every day. In 2008, after DDA attempted to start work for constructing a mini-sports stadium, we challenged the matter in court because the place is sandwiched between two-three colonies and opening the stadium would have resulted in cutting of trees as well as increase of footfall here. After the court stayed the project, the work didn’t start and the place was restored as park,” said Nanita Sharma, resident of NRI Complex and secretary general of Conference of Human Rights, an NGO working on social issues. “We disposed of our petition in March 2013 after DDA stated that the proposal for construction of a mini-sports complex had been dropped. But, DDA resumed the construction work in October and raised a wall of a height of approximately 2 feet on 2,000 sqft area. When we got no satisfying reply from senior DDA officials, we approached the court again,” said Vivek Sharma, counsel and a local resident. A senior DDA official, however, said that the area was proposed for installation of children’s playing equipment only. “But now the work has been stopped at the site after facing objections from the RWA and a petition filed by the members of NRI Colony RWA,” added the official. Residents argue that children’s playing equipment are already installed in another park next to an open gym, which was inaugurated recently. The next hearing of the matter will take place on December 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/construction-at-park-hc-seeks-report-from-dda/articleshow/79345907.cms||Vibha Sharma
November 21, 2020||Lucknow||In a first, 24 coaches train to run at 130 kmph||LUCKNOW: The north central railway (NCR) is set to operate a 24 LHB coaches express train at 130 kmph for the first time in Indian railway history. For this purpose, the NCR has chosen Prayagraj-New Delhi Express which was introduced on July 16, 1984. In fact, from November 25, nine pairs of trains will operate at 130 kmph. They are: Prayagraj-New Delhi Express, Manduadih-New Delhi, Lucknow-New Delhi Gomti Express, Bandra-Gorakhpur, Bandra-Muzaffarpur, Dibrugarh-New Delhi, Gorakhpur-Hisar, Saharsa-New Delhi and Rewa-New Delhi. The LHB (Linke Hofmann Busch) coaches were introduced in Prayagraj-New Delhi Express on December 16, 2016. At that time the train had 21 coaches, but as it became popular among passengers, 23 coaches were introduced on May 5, 2017 and on September 2, 2019, their number was increased to 24. Currently, the top speed of Prayagraj-New Delhi is 90 kmph. NCR operates scores of trains above 100kmph in Agra, Prayagraj and Jhansi divisions, including Gatiman Express with 12 LHB coaches and Vande Bharat Express.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/in-a-first-24-coaches-train-to-run-at-130-kmph/articleshow/79331834.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Delhi||No lockdown, Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal assures traders||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal met members of market associations on Friday and reiterated that there would be no general lockdown. Meeting them as an assurance measure in the wake of Delhi government planning commercial Covid-19 hotspots, Kejriwal encouraged the market representatives to ensure compliance with pandemic norms. In turn, the market bodies assured the CM they would provide free masks to shopper not wearing masks. The market associations assured the state government of their support to the effort to contain the spread of Covid after expressing concern that in view of the surge in Covid cases in the city, they felt the government was tending towards closing markets. Later Kejriwal tweeted, “Met representatives of market associations. I removed their anxiety; government does not wish to shut any market. They assured anyone not wearing a mask in the market will be provided free by market associations. All shops will also be asked to keep spare masks and hand sanitisers.” In another tweet, Kejriwal said, “Our Aam Aadmi Party MLAs, MPs, councillors and volunteers, all of you also go to public places and distribute free masks to those who are not wearing masks. This is the greatest patriotic and human service. I also want to request all political parties to tell their volunteers to go out on the road and distribute free masks. Let us stop the spread of corona by joint effort.” In a statement, Delhi government talked of having made numerous interventions to check the spread of infection and provide better treatment to patients. “Seeing the shortage of ICU beds, the CM appealed to GTB and DDU hospitals. After the efforts of the CM, 663 additional ICU beds will be increased in Delhi government hospitals within the next few days. Also, 750 ICU beds have been received from the central government,” the statement said. Brijesh Goyal, convener, Chamber of Trade and Industry, said a list of 20 markets to be shut down due to Covid was circulating on social media on Friday. “We realised it was a fake list. The CM clarified today that there will not be any lockdown in the markets,” Goyal said. He added that market associations have assured Kejriwal of being intent on Covid norms compliance. The traders said that due to financial distress caused by the months-long nation-wide lockdown imposed in March, their businesses would not be able to weather another closure of the markets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-lockdown-cm-assures-traders/articleshow/79331085.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP under pressure as 3,000 apply for 150 divisions, party holds back the final list||Hyderabad: It appears the Dubbak victory has put the BJP in a tight spot. With too many aspirants for the party ticket in the GHMC polls, the party was forced to hold back the final list of 21 candidates till late Friday night. The BJP released the lists of 129 candidates in four phases, but the final list was still pending till last reports came in. For the first time, the party faced the problem of plenty. The leadership had to do a lot of maneuvering while finalising the tickets even while facing loud protests from the party worker for denying them the ticket. Party leaders were happy that they had to deal with heavy demand for tickets. More than 3,000 applications were received for 150 divisions, sources said. Election management committee chairman G Kishan Reddy and senior leaders like Dr Laxman and Mantri Sribivasulu had their task cut out to scrutiny the candidates. Plus, they had to keep an eye on TRS dissidents willing to cross over to the BJP and ready to contest. “We have told the candidates to file the nominations on Friday morning for 18 of remaining 21 wards. But, we were not prepared for this trouble of too many candidates queueing up,” a party leader said. A BJP leader said the party is in a position to contest independently without any alliance is a good indication for the party’s chances. “Also, it gave us a chance to look at winnable candidates,” he said. That the demand for BJP tickets has gone up this time was reflected when hundreds of party workers gathered in Kukatpally and staged a protest in front of the local office alleging that local leaders did not make proper allocation of tickets. They even raised slogans against the party leadership.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-under-pressure-as-3000-apply-for-150-divisions-party-holds-back-the-final-list/articleshow/79331059.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 21, 2020||Nagpur||Residents want 2-way traffic on Manish Nagar ROB, RUB||Nagpur: Residents are demanding two-way traffic on Manish Nagar Railway Underbridge (RUB) and Railway Overbridge (ROB) connecting with Wardha road double decker flyover. Currently, one-way traffic is allowed on both the RUB and ROB that were opened recently but violations are causing chaos and risk of accidents. “MahaMetro constructed the structure with the option for two-way traffic. The Nagpur city traffic police dumped the plan citing narrow width of both RoB and RuB, thus defeating the purpose of strengthening road infrastructure in this part of the city,” said builder Abhijit Majumdar, who has developed housing schemes in Manish Nagar, Besa, Beltarodi and other adjoining areas. Currently, only motorists coming from Manish Nagar are allowed to use the ROB that connects with the Wardha Road flyover. Traffic coming from Ajni is prohibited on the ROB. Motorists going toward Ajni or Somalwada from Manish Nagar are required to use the ROB to reach Pride Hotel from where they use the double decker flyover to reach their destination. The RUB is only for vehicles coming from Ajni and going toward Manish Nagar and beyond. TOI has already reported about rampant violations of the one-way rules. The traffic police, which initially nabbed motorists taking the wrong side and penalized 150 violators, have turned a blind eye to the violations, said motorists. Majumdar said the one-way restriction has solved only 50% of the traffic problem. “Wrong side driving has increased the risk on the RUB and ROB,” he said. Mahesh Kasture, a resident of Besa, said two-way traffic should have been allowed. “Now, a lot of motorists are entering one-way. Accidents are bound to happen. Traffic should be allowed on both ways and regulated by cops,” he said. Another motorist Nitin Kumbhalkar said the RUB should be allowed for one-way traffic from Manish Nagar to Somalwada, while ROB should be for vehicles coming towards Manish Nagar, Besa and Beltarodi. A MahaMetro official said the ROB and RUB were planned for two-way traffic movement. “As residents living nearby were not ready to part with their properties, the RUB and ROB could not be made as wide as planned,” said the official and added that the police then refused two-way traffic. The official said if the police want, MahaMetro is ready to make changes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/residents-want-2-way-traffic-on-manish-nagar-rob-rub/articleshow/79329814.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
November 21, 2020||Kanpur||Ravi Kishan inspects Chatt ghats||Gorakhpur: Gorakhpur BJP MP Ravi Kishan inspected all major Chatt ghats in Gorakhpur on Friday and also made a vedi at Chatt ghat in Ramgarhtal area. He gave his best wishes to the people on the festival of Chatt and said “Chat Maiya and Lord Sun bring peace and prosperity”. Most of the people in Gorakhpur are connected to Bihar as marriages between the two states are very common. Immigrants from Bihar are also present in huge numbers in the city. Not only women, but transgenders are also keeping Chatt fast in Jungle Matadeen area. “I inspected all the major Chatt ghats in Gorakhpur. I am happy people are following Covid-19 protocol with mask and maintenance of social distancing. I wish Chatt Maiya would give us peace and prosperity,” said Ravi Kishan. Since Wednesday, the markets are brimming with special Chhat items. On Saturday early morning, devotees will offer ‘arghya’ to Lord Sun. The Chatt fast started on Wednesday evening with nahai khaia and on Thursday vrati (women keeping fast) observed kharna. On Friday, they offered arghya to setting sun and on Saturday arghya will be given to rising sun,” said a local, Neeraj Srivastav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/ravi-kishan-inspects-chatt-ghats/articleshow/79331179.cms||Arjumand Bano
November 21, 2020||Jaipur||Kota: Two education staff sent to custody for 15 days||KOTA: The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB), Kota (rural), produced Jhalawar district education officer (DEO) and a senior assistant of National Secondary Education Project before the ACB court on Friday which sent them to judicial custody for 15 days. The senior assistant was on Thursday evening held red-handed while accepting a bribe of Rs 40,000 in New Cloth Market in Kota. A separate ACB team at Jhalawar arrested DEO, while the third accused in the matter, an assistant accountant, was yet to be nabbed. The three accused officials of education department of Jhalawar had demanded bribe of Rs 44,000 for sanction of bills of Rs 22 lakh for construction work carried out in Girls Senior Secondary School at Satoliya in Jhalawar. Additional superintendent of police (ASP), ACB, Kota Rural, Prerna Shekhawat said Deepak Verma, senior assistant in additional district project coordinator office (ADPC) in Jhalawar was held red-handed, she said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-edu-staffsent-to-custody-for-15-days/articleshow/79329787.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Locked inside house, but Covid got them!||AHMEDABAD: The positive result of Covid-19 test for Umadevi, 92, bedridden for past one year due to age-related issues, surprised her family members on November 18. Vivek Verma (name changed), her son and a resident of Bodakdev, said that she started developing incessant coughing, ran mild fever and also complained of body ache. “We did not wish to take her to the hospital, but as the doctors suggested administering remdesivir to stabilize her condition, we admitted her to a hospital near our residence. Her condition is stable,” he said. They may have not gone out of the proverbial four walls of the house, but still Covid-19 caught up with many senior citizens in the city. Experts said that mingling during the festivities, gatherings at houses and change in weather conditions could be some of the factors responsible for the phenomenon. “City-based hospitals have witnessed several such instances. We recently saw a case where an elderly couple had tested positive. Their sons had returned to the city after seven months just to celebrate Diwali with them. They had almost lived alone for the entire period of lockdown as their domestic helps were also living with them in their bungalow premises,” said Dr Bharat Gadhvi, president of Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA). “Those above 60 years of age generally develop complications related to Covid-19 quickly. As the number of senior citizens has increased in overall bed occupancy in the city, the demand for beds with oxygen supply has also increased.” Dr J P Modi, medical superintendent of Civil Hospital, said that they received 1,979 patients in the past fortnight. “Out of the total, only 104 were below 30 years of age, forming 5% of total patients. On the other hand, the patients above 51 years formed 74% of the patients,” he said. “Winter is known to have more cases of viral infection. Thus, measures such as ‘reverse quarantine’ where the elderly reduce their exposure to the outside world are also suggested,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/locked-inside-house-but-covid-got-them/articleshow/79329804.cms||Parth Shastri
November 21, 2020||Kanpur||After over 100 years, Annapoorna idol on way back to Kashi from Canada||VARANASI: The city of Shiva will soon get back the antique stone idol of Goddess Annapoorna, which was stolen over a century ago from a Varanasi ghat and found its way to University of Regina, Canada. It is a coincidence that the beginning of the World Heritage Week, from November 19 to 25, is witnessing the repatriation of the statue from the Canadian university. According to a university press statement, the Annapoorna, the statue from the University of Regina’s collection at the MacKenzie Art Gallery, will soon begin its journey home following a virtual repatriation ceremony held on November 19. 18th century Idol of Annapoorna at University of Regina’s MacKenzie art gallery and (right) golden idol of goddess enshrined in Annapoorna MandirThe University of Regina’s Dr. Thomas Chase, Interim President and Vice-Chancellor, met with Ajay Bisaria, High Commissioner of India, over Zoom to officially repatriate the statue. Representatives from the MacKenzie Art Gallery, Global Affairs Canada, and Canada Border Services Agency also attended the ceremony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/stolen-a-century-ago-annapoorna-idol-set-to-return-to-kashi-from-mackenzie-gallery/articleshow/79331144.cms||Binay Singh
November 21, 2020||India||Price capped, labs refuse home service for testing||NEW DELHI: Following a cap on RT-PCR test prices in most states, private diagnostic labs in some states are refusing home collection of samples or are selling various other non-Covid tests such as dengue and malaria along with Covid tests to make the deal more attractive for the labs. Prices of RT-PCR tests in most states range between Rs 850-1,200, though it still costs Rs 2,400 in Delhi. While price reduction by states is primarily driven by drop in cost of reagents required for RT-PCR testing, labs find the new prices not attractive enough to expand testing. Lab owners say there are other attached costs apart from reagents that must also be factored in while capping prices. "There are costs attached to transport and logistics, quality control, collection mediums that must also be factored in," SRL Diagnostics chief executive Anand K said. Many people in Gurgaon and Faridabad are facing issues while booking RT-PCR tests from private labs. Labs are refusing home collections as they complain that there are major costs attached with collection of samples. On the other hand, in a Covid-19 situation, many people prefer home collection amid fear of spreading infection. "At the current level, we are barely able to meet the direct costs but there are also variable costs like salaries, rental and administration costs which cannot be covered with such low pricing," PathKind Diagnostics managing director and CEO Sanjeev Vashishta said. Meanwhile, overall testing has dropped in many states in the last few weeks with the Centre nudging states to undertake wide-scale testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/price-capped-labs-refuse-home-service-for-testing/articleshow/79332383.cms||Sushmi Dey
November 21, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: ‘Inaction’ of exam dept tumbles out||NEW DELHI: Since September 9, Delhi University has issued 9,500 digital degrees, and over 1.7 lakh digital degrees for undergraduate and postgraduate courses are ready to be issued by December. Also, over 750 PhD files have been processed, 70 undergraduate results declared and 400 desperate students issued provisional results. Why these post-September 9 numbers are important is because the inaction of the university’s exam branch came to light only after a new administrative team took charge following the suspension of vice-chancellor Yogesh Tyagi on October 28. In the absence of Tyagi, on leave for health reasons, professor P C Joshi, the pro-VC, officiated in his place. In August, professor D S Rawat was appointed the dean of examination amid. While the Union ministry of education is probing allegations of maladministration against Tyagi, it has found a functional paralysis, right from files of over 1,000 PhD students awaiting assignment to an examiner since June 2019 to non-resolution of student’s grievances for over a year. “After all the chaos over the appointments and the subsequent suspension of the VC, we found PhD scholars were waiting as far back as from June last for their files to be assigned examiners,” Rawat told TOI. “The exam branch and Joshi have cleared 750 files so far. The PhD scholars also could not submit their theses due to the Covid-19 lockdown. The university is now working on the modalities for online submission.” Another issue resolved since October 30 is the delay in results that threatened to derail students who had secured admissions abroad or in other higher education institutions. “For such students, we have so far issued 400 provisional results,” disclosed Rawat. “The problem was that whenever students approached the examination branch or wrote to the university, no one used to respond. Now each mail is answered.” Even as DU is trying to resolve the large number of cases of students being wrongly marked absent for this year’s open-book exams, similar issues with the 2019 exams remained unaccounted for. Despite its commitment to Delhi High Court, till September DU issued no digital certificates and those who had secured admissions abroad were made to run from pillar to post due to non-declaration of results. “After September, we have issued over 9,500 digital degrees, and 1.75 lakh digital degrees for undergraduate and postgraduate courses are ready to be issued by December,” claimed Rawat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/inaction-of-exam-dept-tumbles-out/articleshow/79345987.cms||Manash Pratim Gohain
November 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Without mask? You’ll be sent to test queue||AHMEDABAD: Anyone caught without a mask in public is not only being fined Rs 1,000 but is also being made to undergo the rapid antigen test for Covid, and sent to a health facility if positive. The AMC launched the initiative from Friday to crack down on those who violate corona norms. Harshad Solanki, the director of the AMC’s solid waste department, said that the health department has deputed seven teams — one for each zone in the city. These teams work with the members of the solid waste department. If the teams catch people without masks in public, the offenders are sent for the Covid test. The families of those who test positive are informed and a plan is initiated for the patients depending on their health condition. A senior officer said that the joint enforcement teams have been catching people without masks and making them queue up at the nearest Covid-test kiosks. “The action will deter people from violating the mask law,” the officer said. “First, people will be delayed in their commute. And second, they will have to queue up among those who may be exposed to the virus.” Solanki said that on Friday, 256 people were caught without masks and tested; nine were found positive. He said that three cases each were from South West, North, and East zones of the city. In the remaining zones, no person found without a mask tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/without-mask-youll-be-sent-to-test-queue/articleshow/79329826.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
November 21, 2020||Bareilly||‘Drunk’ UP cop shunted out for misbehaving with bhajan singer||Bareilly: A sub-inspector (SI) has been shunted to reserve police lines in UP's Bareilly for allegedly misbehaving with a woman bhajan singer, 35, who was performing at an event. A purported video of the incident surfaced on Thursday evening in which the SI could be seen inebriated and harassing the woman. Bareilly SSP has now called for a departmental probe. Khushboo Shadilya, the local bhajan singer, shared a live post at 2 am, late on Wednesday, in which she levelled allegations against sub-inspector Mukesh Tyagi. In the video clip, she looked traumatised. She was reportedly threatened by Tyagi after she refused to sing for the cop. Shadilya was performing at a ‘jagran’ in Sudanpur village of Aliganj area on Wednesday night. Around midnight, when she was about to leave the stage, Tyagi came on to the platform and asked her to sing a ‘hymn’ of his choice. Tyagi looked inebriated and was barely able to stand on his feet. During the performance, Tyagi also used "objectionable" language. When she decided to leave the stage, the cop continued to follow her. “I was with my husband and son. We were all scared as Tyagi had threatened us of dire consequences. I am an artiste and sing spiritual hymns. I don’t know what the cop was expecting from me. He was abusive. I am very depressed,” the singer said on Friday. SP (rural) Sansaar Singh told TOI, “After an initial probe by the circle officer, her allegations were found to be true, and Mukesh Tyagi has been transferred to the reserve police lines. Departmental action will be taken once the probe is complete.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/drunk-up-cop-shunted-out-formisbehaving-with-bhajan-singer/articleshow/79328547.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 21, 2020||Madurai||Pay fees of students in 7.5% quota: HC to philanthropists||Madurai: Appealing to philanthropists to extend a helping hand to bear the education expenses of students who have secured admission under 7.5% quota, the Madras high court has asked the government to ensure that these students do not drop out for non-payment of fees, as they hail from marginal backgrounds.A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi was hearing a public interest litigation filed by M Grahambell, a resident of Tirunelveli district, who sought for a direction for fixation of minimum fees for MBBS courses at self-financing colleges in the state.The judges observed that the state government with a noble objective had brought in the Act where 7.5% reservation was provided for government school students for admission in medical courses. A total of 86 students have secured admission in self-financing colleges under the 7.5% quota for this academic year.Since the fees comes up to nearly Rs 4 lakh per year, the government should ensure that the students do not drop out. Taking cognizance of the fact that a senior counsel Veera Kathiravan, practising in the high court had agreed to bear the education expenses of one such student from Thanjavur district, the judges made the appeal to philanthropists.Hearing another batch of pleas on Friday, the judges reserved orders on the petitions seeking to extend the benefit of the 7.5% reservation to government aided school students.The counsels appearing for the petitioners submitted that students studying in government and aided schools should be seen on the same footing and there should not be any differentiation among them. Though they welcome the Act, they are challenging the portion of the Act as it had excluded the aided school students.The advocate general Vijay Narayan submitted the Act has been brought in to benefit students of government schools as they are from the weaker sections and the same cannot be extended to aided students as they are nothing but private schools.After elaborately hearing the submissions made on either side, the court reserved orders. The cases were adjourned to November 27.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/pay-fees-of-students-in-7-5-quota-hc-to-philanthropists/articleshow/79331123.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Vadodara||Rich heritage to reinvigorate pandemic-stressed Barodians||Vadodara: Check your city gyaan — which temple has Portuguese and Roman sculptures carved on its walls? Yes. Its the Shiva temple standing tall on the banks of Vishwamitri River that sports a fusion of Indian as well as European culture. If that titillated your curiosity then explore the heritage of Gujarat’s cultural capital in the National Heritage Week that is being celebrated in the city from Saturday onwards. A series of events have been organized till November 25 to celebrate 509th birthday of Vadodara. “Earlier, we were apprehensive about celebrating the heritage week due to Covid-19 pandemic. But we decided to organize several events by observing all the necessary guidelines. The celebration of the city’s culture and history would bring the much-needed positivity amid the pandemic,” said Chandrashekhar Patil, who has organized the events.To ensure safety of participants, there will be no indoor programmes or talks this year. “We also won’t organize heritage walks in congested areas of old city,” Patil told TOI. Unlike in the past, this year the home museum visits, wherein citizens used to showcase their personal collection of antique items, too have been dropped.But the week-long celebration has something to offer for everyone. Admirers of old structures can attend the heritage walks while the art-lovers can catch a glimpse of some beautiful paintings in the Baroda Museum and Art Gallery. For nature lovers, a tree-walk has been organized by Dr Jitendra Gavali in Sayajibaug on Sunday.Those wanting to get a quick round of the walled city are being offered an auto-rickshaw ride by Ibrahim Jamadar who will also share interesting tales of the city. Also on cards are photo exhibitions and paintings of the city’s heritage apart from hand-written manuscripts. Gavali and Patil will also hold a webinar on the city’s various aspects including food and attire diversity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/rich-heritage-to-reinvigorate-pandemic-stressed-barodians/articleshow/79327276.cms||Tushar Tere
November 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Docs under bond to be pressed into crisis duty||Ahmedabad: In a notification issued by the state health commissioner Jai Prakash Shivahare on Friday, a total of 925 MBBS students who have completed their study, but have not completed their mandatory hospital service, were asked to report to Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) within two days. Their services would be taken under 11-month contract invoking the provisions of Epidemics Act, said senior state health department officials. ‘With the current epidemic, the services of doctors/ experts is required at a large scale... Some of the doctors under bond have not reported on their duty yet. According to a resolution by the state health & family welfare department, those passing out this year would be deployed in hospital duty under their bond contract,’ mentioned the notification. The notification asked the doctors to report to the municipal commissioner, Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) within two days. ‘If the doctors don’t obey the orders, the respective district collectors would initiate action,’ stated the notification. Analysis of the 925 doctors’ postings revealed that Dahod (253), Chhota Udepur (168) and Narmada (101) consisted of 56% of the total doctors who have not reported on duty. Sources close to the development said that the replacement for existing doctors and paramedical staff is crucial to prevent the staff from Covid duty fatigue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/docs-under-bond-to-be-pressed-into-crisis-duty/articleshow/79329846.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Chennai||Chennai airport readies to receive Covid-19 vaccine consignment||CHENNAI: The city airport is gearing up to receive Covid-19 vaccine consignments which are set to be transported across the country through major airports. Being a gateway airport, Chennai will get consignments of Pfizer vaccine and Airports Authority of India (AAI), which is already equipped to handle pharma consignments, may be fine-tuning its facilities or cargo handling procedures based on inputs from the headquarters. An AAI official said: “The cargo terminal is equipped to handle the vaccine consignments. We have temperature-controlled zones with separate cool chambers with different temperature settings for handling pharma products.” The terminal has chambers for storing or handling products at -15 ºC to -30ºC, 2ºC to 8ºC, 8ºC to 15ºC, 8ºC to 12ºC. Most of these are used for pharma products. A new facility was also opened recently as part of enhancing the infrastructure as the number of pharma consignments increased during the lockdown period. However, when it comes to the Covid-19 vaccine, the airport is likely to clear the load faster because Pfizer says that it may require a -70ºC temperature zone. “A procedure that needs to be followed is likely to be issued from Delhi, most probably to clear the consignment and load it from the plane to the refrigerator trucks at the parking bay itself or set up separate low temperature chambers,” said an official. This means the time taken to unload it into the refrigerator containers and then move it to the terminal for clearance and then loading it into the trucks can be saved, he said. In all probability, refrigerator trucks can be called in when a consignment lands so that it can be driven out soon after unloading from the planes. Nevertheless, the airport has experience in consignments which require to be handled in sub-zero temperatures as pharma products form a significant volume of imports, often touching 40 to 50 tonnes per day. The volume has increased because most of the pharma companies seem to be bringing products by flights instead of by ships which were preferred in the pre-pandemic days. The airport handles around 700 tonnes of cargo in a day. Delhi and Hyderabad airports and many airlines are also preparing their facilities for handling the vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/city-airport-readies-to-receive-covid-19-vaccine-consignment/articleshow/79329853.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Over 2 lakh critical babies saved by sick newborn care units since April 2017||LUCKNOW: More than 2 lakh critical newborn babies were nursed back to life with the help of Sick Newborn Care Units (SNCUs) of the UP government between April 2017 and March 2020. An SNCU is a special newborn unit in a large hospital meant to reduce case fatality among sick newborns, either born within the hospital or outside including home delivery. It also acts as a teaching and training hub for imparting the skills of newborn care. Currently, there are 80 functional SNCUs across 66 districts of the state. In addition, nine are in the making and are likely to get functional by the end of 2020-21. With this, all 75 districts in the state will have an SNCU. According to health department data shared during the ongoing newborn week (November 14-21), around 3 lakh babies were attended to by SNCUs and over 70% (close to 2 lakh) of them recovered and went home healthy. The data also shows that 12% sick babies were referred to more advanced centres from SNCUs while 9% were taken against medical advice. The remaining died. Expressing happiness, health experts said that the trend will reduce perinatal and neonatal mortality rates of the state in the coming years. While perinatal mortality refers to a child’s death in the first week of birth, neonatal mortality denotes the death of children in the first month. Both perinatal and neonatal deaths account for about 70% of infant deaths in the state. Over the years, the achievement will show up as reduced neonatal and infant mortality rates in UP. “It may not be exactly correct to say that all these babies would have died if they were not attended to at the SNCUs but most of them would not have survived. There is a high chance that the sick baby’s normal development would have suffered on account of the illness,” said Dr Kanupriya Singhal, health specialist, Unicef, UP. Data from the state government revealed that UP has worked hard on the front. Stating that there are clear instructions from CM Yogi Adityanath to take every possible step to save every baby’s life, health officials informed that bed occupancy rate of SNCUs has gone up by 300% compared to the scenario in 2014-15. “As compared to 27,981 admissions in 2014-15, 1 lakh neonates got admitted in SNCUs in 2019-20. The bed occupancy rate which was merely 62% in 2014-15 reached 121% by 2019-20. There has been reduction in mortality rate from 10% to 8% in 2019-20 showing that there is overall improvement in quality of care in these SNCUs,” said an official. The state government had also established the State Resource Centre at the Institute of Medical Sciences of Banaras Hindu University in July 2017 with the help of Unicef to ensure quality of care being extended at these SNCUs. Officials at National Health Mission, UP stated that all SNCUs were regularly assessed on parameters such as protocol maintenance, human resources, infection control measures, laboratory support, general layout and equipment, patient rights and administration. The resource centre conducted online mentorship programmes to save babies too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/over-2-lakh-critical-babies-saved-by-sick-newborn-care-units-since-april-2017/articleshow/79331853.cms||Shailvee Sharda
November 21, 2020||Delhi||Covid patients infectious for 9 days: Study||NEW DELHI: Covid-19 patients can shed fragments of the virus that causes the infection for up to 83 days in their respiratory or stool samples but they are unlikely to be infectious for as long. According to a study published in The Lancet Microbe, one of world’s top medical journals, no live virus has been isolated from culture of the respiratory or stool sample beyond day nine of symptoms despite persistently high viral RNA loads. This means that a person affected by Covid-19 is infectious for nine days after developing disease symptoms though tests may find presence of the virus for nearly three months. The study conducted by researchers from UK and Italy involved systemic review and meta-analysis of 79 studies that focused on SARS-CoV-2, the virus which causes Covid-19. “The majority of studies included in our review were performed in patients who were admitted to hospital. Therefore, our findings may not apply to people with milder infection although these results suggest those with milder cases may clear the virus faster from their body. Additionally, the increasing deployment of treatments, such as dexamethasone, remdesivir as well as other antivirals and immunomodulators in clinical trials are likely to influence viral shedding in hospitalised patients. Further studies on viral shedding in this context are needed,” Dr Antonia Ho of MRC-University of Glasgow Centre for Virus Research, UK, who is one of the authors of the study, said. The Lancet Microbe study also suggests that people infected with SARS-CoV-2 are mostly likely to be highly infectious from symptom onset and the following five days. Therefore, the researchers said, it is important to self-isolate immediately after symptoms start. Understanding when patients are most likely to be infectious is of critical importance for informing effective public health measures to control the spread of SARS-CoV-2. The Lancet study looked at key factors involved in this: viral load (how the amount of the virus in the body changes throughout infection), viral RNA shedding (the length of time someone sheds viral genetic material (RNA), which does not necessarily indicate a person is infectious, as this is not necessarily able to replicate), and isolation of the live virus (a stronger indicator of a person’s infectiousness, as the live virus is isolated and tested to see if it can successfully replicate in the laboratory). The researchers found that the average length of time of viral RNA shedding into the upper respiratory tract, lower respiratory tract, stool and serum were 17 days, 14.6 days, 17.2 days and 16.6 days, respectively. The longest length of time that RNA shedding lasted was 83, 59, 35 and 60 days, respectively. “These findings suggest that in clinical practice, repeat PCR testing may not be needed to deem that a patient is no longer infectious, as this could remain positive for much longer and does not necessarily indicate they could pass on the virus to others. In patients with non-severe symptoms, their period of infectiousness could instead be counted as 10 days from symptom onset,” Dr Muge Cevik, the lead author of the study, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-patients-infectious-for-9-days-study/articleshow/79331157.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
November 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Conduct all job exams in regional languages: Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao to PM||HYDERABAD: At a time when TRS is looking to woo unemployed youth, Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to allow all candidates to write all central government competitive exams in their regional language. He also wants public sector enterprises to provide the facility. The letter assumes significance as it has been written just when campaigning for the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections is set to kick off. Many in the party believe that unemployed youth voted against TRS and favoured BJP in the recently held Dubbak assembly bye-elections. A large number of them were rendered jobless in the Covid-19 lockdown and were upset with the government. In his letter, KCR has said all the competitive examinations for recruitment to posts in the central government, central public sector undertakings, Railways, Defence services and nationalised banks are being held only in English and Hindi. “Students who did not study in English medium and those who are not from Hindi-speaking states face serious disadvantage in these competitive examinations,” KCR said. “To provide equal and fair opportunity to students from all states of the country, the Centre should permit candidates to appear competitive examinations conducted by the government, undertakings through UPSC and other agencies such as Railway Recruitment Board, RBI, Staff Selection Commission and banking exams.” Centre agreed to release postal stamp on RaoEarlier this year the Centre had announced that it would conduct a common eligibility test for all recruitment exams in 12 languages which are in the eighth schedule of the Constitution. In another letter, he asked President Ram Nath Kovind to release the commemorative stamp in memory of former prime minister PV Narasimha Rao in Hyderabad during his visit here. He said this would be a fitting tribute to Rao. The Centre has already agreed to release a postal stamp on Rao during his birth centenary celebrations. Telangana governemnt has begun a year long centenary celebration from June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-to-pm-conduct-all-job-exams-in-regional-languages/articleshow/79331869.cms||Koride Mahesh
November 21, 2020||Goa||All roads in Goa will be repaired before New Year||PANAJI: PWD minister Deepak Pauskar said on Friday that all roads across the state will be repaired before January 1, 2021, prior to implementation of provisions of the new Motor Vehicles Act in Goa. Pauskar was speaking after inspecting construction work of the new Zuari bridge. The first 224 cables of the new eight-lane cable-stayed bridge were pulled on Friday. “Work to repair roads is on in full swing across 12 talukas. Due to the pandemic, work could not take place for eight months. Now, the situation has normalised,” said Pauskar. The PWD minister said that while one four-lane section of the new bridge would be open to the public by May 2021, the entire eight-lane structure would be ready for use by December 2021. The bridge is being constructed by Bhopal-based Dilip Buildcon at a cost of Rs 1,403 crore. It is funded by the Centre, and work on it began in October 2016. “All national highway works will be ready for use by May 2021,” Pauskar said. “We have already received the necessary funds from the Centre.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/all-roads-in-goa-will-be-repaired-before-new-year/articleshow/79331484.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand gets its first ‘Moss Garden’ in Nainital||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand’s first moss garden was inaugurated by Magsaysay Award-winner Rajendra Singh, also known as the ‘Waterman of India’, near Khurpatal (lake) in Nainital district on Friday. The garden, that houses around 30 different species of mosses — including two which are in red (endangered) list of IUCN — also has a 1.2-km-long moss trail. The two endangered species in the garden are — Hyophila involuta (cement moss) and Brachythecium buchananii, according to officials. The objective behind developing the garden is to conserve various species of moss and other bryophytes and to make people aware of its environmental and ecological significance. The garden will soon be opened for the public, said forest officials. Rajendra Singh, while inaugurating the park, said that mosses are pioneer species and the first plants to grow on rocky land and by breaking down the rocks and the soil they help create a suitable environment for other plants to grow. “Mosses grow in dense strands forming mat or carpet like structure. They prevent soil erosion by holding much of the falling water and reducing the amount of run-off water. It is also an excellent alternative to mulch since it absorbs water, prevents erosion and debris can be blown off easily because of its compact growth habit. Dried mosses have great ability to hold water. Due to this ability, some mosses are used as packing materials for shipment of cut flowers, vegetables, perishable fruits, bulbs, tubers, etc,” he added. Forest service officer Sanjiv Chaturvedi, currently posted as conservator of forests (research) at Haldwani, told TOI that this is the first-of-its-kind moss garden in India. The official had initiated the construction of the moss garden. “Few other states like Assam do have a moss garden, situated inside the Jawaharlal botanical garden, but this is the first moss garden dedicated to only this variety of flora. Its construction was done under the CAMPA scheme which was approved in July, 2019. It has been developed by the Research Advisory Committee of Uttarakhand Forest Department under the guidance of SD Tiwari, HOD, Botany Department Girls PG College, Haldwani,” added Chaturvedi. “The moss trail has scientific information about different moss species. It also has an interpretation centre in which different aspects of mosses are displayed through models. In the centre, you will also find paintings showing use of Sphagnum moss as a dressing for wounds during the First World War. The Sphagnum moss absorbs liquids about three times more quickly than cotton, is cooler, softer, and less irritating than cotton and has antiseptic properties. It also produces a sterile environment by keeping the pH level around wounds low and thus, inhibiting the growth of bacteria,” said Chaturvedi. He added that moss are one of the most ancient flora on the planet that have existed since the Jurassic era. The park also has dinosaur model showing the existence of moss since Jurassic era as well as Moss ornaments, made of live moss, which are very popular and attractive in Japan, moss terrarium depicting live moss ecosystem, and nest of birds using moss for temperature regulation and antibacterial purpose. The forest department officials have said that mosses have a valuable ecological role as bio-indicators for environmental pollution because they get most of their nutrients directly from the air and rain rather than the soil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-gets-its-first-moss-garden-in-nainital/articleshow/79328590.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 21, 2020||Vadodara||Rich heritage to reinvigorate pandemic-stressed Barodians||Vadodara: Check your city gyaan — which temple has Portuguese and Roman sculptures carved on its walls? Yes. Its the Shiva temple standing tall on the banks of Vishwamitri River that sports a fusion of Indian as well as European culture. If that titillated your curiosity then explore the heritage of Gujarat’s cultural capital in the National Heritage Week that is being celebrated in the city from Saturday onwards. A series of events have been organized till November 25 to celebrate 509th birthday of Vadodara. “Earlier, we were apprehensive about celebrating the heritage week due to Covid-19 pandemic. But we decided to organize several events by observing all the necessary guidelines. The celebration of the city’s culture and history would bring the much-needed positivity amid the pandemic,” said Chandrashekhar Patil, who has organized the events. To ensure safety of participants, there will be no indoor programmes or talks this year. “We also won’t organize heritage walks in congested areas of old city,” Patil told TOI. Unlike in the past, this year the home museum visits, wherein citizens used to showcase their personal collection of antique items, too have been dropped. But the week-long celebration has something to offer for everyone. Admirers of old structures can attend the heritage walks while the art-lovers can catch a glimpse of some beautiful paintings in the Baroda Museum and Art Gallery. For nature lovers, a tree-walk has been organized by Dr Jitendra Gavali in Sayajibaug on Sunday. Those wanting to get a quick round of the walled city are being offered an auto-rickshaw ride by Ibrahim Jamadar who will also share interesting tales of the city. Also on cards are photo exhibitions and paintings of the city’s heritage apart from hand-written manuscripts. Gavali and Patil will also hold a webinar on the city’s various aspects including food and attire diversity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/rich-heritage-to-reinvigorate-pandemic-stressed-barodians/articleshow/79327342.cms||Tushar Tere
November 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Pirana blast probe panel recommends stringent measures||Ahmedabad: Following the Pirana-Piplaj methy ethyl ketone (MEK) blast at a godown which killed 13 people, a high-level committee constituted in the matter has recommended that factory units that store or manufacture hazardous and inflammable substances should make them public, especially to citizens staying near such factories. The factories will now be required to take NOCs from the respective fire department, district level nodal bodies and only then can electricity connections be provided to them. The committee has also recommended to urban local bodies to not allow any such units to come up in the periphery of residential areas. All production processes related to chemicals are now recommended to be banned in godowns. The committee is headed by additional chief secretary (Labour and Employment) Vipul Mittra and Sanjiv Kumar (IAS), chairman of the Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB). The committee also reported inspection of 1,564 chemical units dealing in hazardous chemicals in the state , 400 were in Jamnagar and around 290 units were in Ahmedabad district. The committee had realized that none of the state agencies including the department of labour, pollution control board nor the district collectorate had an inventory of chemicals which were being either stored or manufactured in these units. “Some companies had even changed the chemical processes without informing the state agencies,” admitted a senior labour department official. Some 266 units were sealed by the Ahmedabad municipal corporation (AMC) alone.A committee has been constituted under justice BC Patel after the National Green Tribunal (NGT) took suo motu cognizance of the issue and set up a state level body to investigate the issue, ensured that the victims receive adequate compensation and formulate a mechanism to stall such incidents in future. “The NGT has also called for a national level policy intervention to prevent such disasters from happening,” claimed the labour department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pirana-blast-probe-panel-recommends-stringent-measures/articleshow/79329874.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Clubs shut, restrict activities||Ahmedabad: Clubs across Ahmedabad will stay closed over the weekend and even after resuming, most will restrict activities to minimize crowding. Rajpath Club, which attracted about 400 persons a day during Diwali, announced on Friday that it will stay closed from 8pm on Friday till further notice. “The management will review the situation and decide on resuming operations entirely or partly. Besides the gym, activities such as table tennis, tennis, badminton, the card room and restaurants were operational so far ever since the club reopened,” said a well-placed source. Footfall has fallen dramatically even after clubs resumed operations after the lockdown and most have allowed members in strictly on appointments. Members of Karnavati Club also received a message that the club will remain shut from Friday night till Monday 6am. A similar decision has also been taken by Gujarat Sports Club.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/clubs-shut-restrict-activities/articleshow/79329872.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Chennai||Printing wing official in dock for alleged graft||Chennai: A senior official in the Tamil Nadu government’s department of stationery and printing, Chennai, is in trouble over procurement of colour printing machines around a decade ago with the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) filing a corruption case on November 10. DVAC in its FIR has alleged that V A Jayanthi, former superintendent in the Madras publication department in the directorate of stationery and printing, failed to take action against a contractor who provided a faulty machine. The agency said this was done in lieu of bribes and that there was a loss to the government exchequer of Rs 20 lakh in 2013-14. In 2010, TN government had sanctioned Rs 4 crore for procurement of machineries for the Central press as part of a modernisation scheme. A supply order for six colour machines was placed with a Kerala-based firm by the then director Vivekanandan. It was stated that the supply should be made within a stipulated period and that penalty would be charged if it was delayed. A guarantee and warranty of two years was needed. These machines included web offset printers. The company supplied four machines in August 2010 and it was given a payment after deduction of penalty for delay. However, the machines were installed in May 2011 and the performance was found wanting. Of the next 725 days, the machine worked for 160 days and was under repair for 294 days. The remaining two machines were supplied and installed with a delay and the supplier was penalised. It had similar issues and was under repair for 149 days. Vivekandanan’s successor T Abraham instructed to issue a show cause notice to the company for forfeiture of balance payment. The case against Jayanthi is that she failed to initiate action as instructed by Abraham on June 24, 2013, which was meant to forfeit the supplier’s Rs 20 lakh bank guarantee as penalty for issues with the machine. DVAC said this was an intentional act and caused a loss of Rs 20 lakh to the government and that prima facie a case was made out against Jayanthi. DVAC would also look into the complicity of others in this case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/printing-wing-official-in-dock-for-alleged-graft/articleshow/79329867.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 21, 2020||Madurai||HC seeks progress report on digitization of temple assets||Madurai: Madras high court on Friday sought a report from the state government on the progress made by the HR and CE department on the works to enumerate and digitize temple properties in the state.The court was hearing a petition filed by N Murugan, a resident of Kottaikarungulam village in Tirunelveli district, who sought a direction not to grant compensation to suspended trustee Nainar Naikar of Vadakkuva Selvi Amman temple for the land acquired for river linking project. At the previous hearing, the court had taken serious note of the irregularities in management of temple affairs since HR & CE officials failed to take control of the temple despite its trustee being suspended in 2015.The judges noted that the man who leased the land had exploited the minerals by digging 100 feet on nearly 22 acres of the temple land in Kottaikarungulam village. On Friday, the HR and CE commissioner appeared before the court through video conference. Special government pleader K P Narayanakumar, appearing for the department, submitted that the officials had taken charge of the temple and lodged a case against the trustee on illegal mining. A case was also registered by Thisayanvilai police under sections of IPC and Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act.A division bench of Justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugandhi observed that even though the temple trustee was suspended in 2015, it took nearly five years for HR and CE officials to take charge of the temple. They wondered how the officials would manage the affairs of large temples if this was the situation of a temple in a remote village. The judges said the work on enumeration and digitization of temple properties to make them available on the website was undertaken on the earlier order of the court. Since its progress is not known, they directed the HR and CE department to submit a report in this regard. Though the officials lodged a complaint against the trustee on November 15, the FIR was registered only on November 19. Hence, the court suo-motu impleaded Tirunelveli SP and inspector of Thisayanvilai and directed them to submit a status report on the progress made in this case.The judges also directed the officials from geology and mining department to submit a report on the extent to which quarry operations were done on the temple land. The case was adjourned to December 9 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-seeks-progress-report-on-digitization-of-temple-assets/articleshow/79331164.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Madurai||69 criminals arrested in last two weeks||Madurai: The Madurai city police have arrested 69 rowdies in a special drive carried out in the last two weeks. It includes 13 notorious criminals, involved in murder and attempt to murder cases. They were arrested by seven anti-rowdy teams formed by the city police commissioner Prem Anand Sinha recently. The city police had executed bonds to 113 people, who were identified as a threat in maintaining law and order, under CrPC 110. Seven of them have been remanded in judicial custody for having violated the bond. So far, 65 criminals have been detained under Goondas Act. Further, seven people involved in robbery incidents were arrested, 29 for peddling ganja, 75 for selling banned tobacco products and 136 for involving in bootlegging. Police had seized 352kg of ganja and 477 litres of liquor respectively. Police are also planning to conduct special patrol using armed police to deter rowdies, who involve in daring day light murders and attempt on the lives of people from rival gangs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/69-criminals-arrested-in-last-two-weeks/articleshow/79331175.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad high court grants bail to retired DSP in forgery case||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad High Court has granted bail to retired DSP Aley Hasan Khan in a forgery case. It is said that Aley Hasan was a close associate of senior Samajwadi Party leader Azam Khan during his tenure as cabinet minister in previous government. Allowing the bail application of Aley Hasan Khan, Justice Siddharth directed that the applicant would not tamper with evidence and will cooperate in the trial sincerely without seeking any adjournment. Appearing for the petitioner, senior advocate SFA Naqvi contended that Hasan was falsely implicated in the case. “He is a retired deputy superintendent of police, UP, and a recipient of Presidential Gallantry Award and a number of cases have been registered at the behest of state machinery. All the cases have been registerd after the government changed,” he contended. Hasan is in jail since August 11, 2020. Hasan is accused in several criminal cases and was arrested on August 11, 2020 while he was coming to Rampur from Delhi following a tip-off from a police informer and a forged Aadhaar card was recovered from him. An FIR was registered against him under Section 420 (cheating) and other relevant sections of Indian Penal Code at the Civil Lines police station of Rampur district. The state government’s counsel opposed the bail application and argued that Hasan is booked in 57 cases and tried to flee from law and was carrying a forged Aadhaar card at the time of his arrest. Hasan, a retired circle officer of Rampur police, is a co-accused in many land grab cases registered against Samajwadi Party leader Azam Khan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/allahabad-high-court-grants-bail-to-retired-dsp-in-forgery-case/articleshow/79312335.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Allahabad||No Indira Marathon this year due to Covid curbs||Prayagraj: The historic All India Prize Money Indira Marathon was cancelled on Thursday — the second time since it was first organised in 1985 — due to the safety concerns associated with the Covid-19 pandemic. The event is organised every year to commemorate the anniversary of former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi on November 19. The marathon was cancelled for the first time in 1990, but the organisers held the event in January 1991, therefore ensuring that it was organised in the annual sports calendar of 1990-91. “Over the years, several ace sportspersons have participated in the marathon. The event would have been organised even this year had it not been for the Covid-19 pandemic. We don’t have any information whether it would be organised in this calendar year or not,” said district sports officer Anil Tiwari. Earlier, the prize money for the race was Rs 50,000 for the winner, while the first and the second runner-up got Rs 25,000 and 15000 respectively. The prize money for the winner was increased to Rs 1 lakh and later to Rs 2 lakh for winners in both the men’s and women’s category, The first and second runner-ups are awarded Rs 1 lakh and Rs 75000, respectively in both the categories. Eleven consolation prizes of Rs 10,000 are also given in each category. The race covers a distance of 42.195 kilometre and starts from Anand Bhawan, the ancestral home of Jawaharlal Nehru in Praygraj. The track covers areas like Teliarganj, Mayo Hall Crossing, Allahabad High Court, CMP College, Allahabad Agricultural Institute, Yamuna Bridge and Hanuman temple. It ends at Madan Mohan Malviya Stadium. The event has had a rich legacy with several celebrated long-distance runners participating in it every year. Maharashtra’s Joyti Shankar Rao Gaute had won the marathon for six years consecutively. Her winning streak ended when West Bengal’s Shyamali was declared the winner in 2019. sitions respectively. Last year, Amethi’s Rahul Kumar (Naib Subedar) won in the men’s category, while Harendra Chauhan and Hetram were the runners-up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/no-indira-marathon-this-year-due-to-covid-curbs/articleshow/79312340.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Navi Mumbai: Two teachers on way home after test run over||NAVI MUMBAI: A 36-year-old teacher from a private school in Navi Mumbai’s Khanda Colony and his woman colleague were fatally knocked down by a speeding vehicle along Palaspe-JNPT road near Panvel on Thursday. Samadhan Mhatre (36) and Sharmila Sharma (36) had gone to the Panvel sub-district hospital for a Covid test as it has been made mandatory for teachers after the latest guidelines for reopening schools. While they were returning home, an unidentified speeding vehicle hit their bike. Samadhan Mhatre (36) resided at Vindhane-Naupada in Uran taluka and was the sole breadwinner for his family. Sharmila Sharma (36) resided in Ulwe. Panvel city police have registered an FIR against the driver of an unidentified vehicle for rash and negligent driving. Santosh Pawar, secretary of Uran Samajik Sanstha said, “Considering the alleged failure of the government machinery to maintain the arterial road connecting JNPT to Uran and Panvel that has caused several deaths due to vehicle mishaps, the Uran Samajik Sanstha had filed a PIL in the Bombay high court in 2018. But due to the Covid pandemic, the court hearing is not being scheduled.” Pawar said, “A trauma care centre in Uran for accident victims is the dire need, but the administration has failed to provide this healthcare facility. The stretch of road from Chirner-Dighode till Gavhan phata and further till Karal Phata, JNPT and even the Uran-Panvel road has heavy traffic of HMVs. Also, several container trailers visiting the container yards are being illegally parked along the roadside and create bottlenecks. Since JNPT was established, a separate service road has not been constructed for movement of container traffic arising due to port activities. The absence of service road is also the reason for mishaps as vehicles of local villagers, especially bikers, are compelled to ply on arterial roads where there is always heavy movement of HMVs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/2-teachers-on-way-home-after-test-run-over/articleshow/79331871.cms||George Mendonca
November 21, 2020||Goa||Hope ACB probe in labour scam not eyewash: Goa Forward Party||PANAJI: The state government’s decision to direct the anti-corruption branch (ACB) to register an FIR and investigate the misuse of Covid relief scheme for building and other construction workers (BOCW) should not be an eyewash, Goa Forward Party (GFP) said on Friday. Reacting to chief minister Pramod Sawant’s announcement, GFP vice-president Durgadas Kamat questioned the delay in issuing the directions. “It has been over two months since the Lokayukta passed an order. Let’s hope this is not an eyewash that the chief minister is doing,” Kamat said. “Why did it take so long for the chief minister to order an investigation.” As per the Lokayukta Act, the government has 90 days to accept the Lokayukta’s recommendations. GFP said that the government may have delayed in giving the nod for the ACB to investigate as the labour department may have been trying to doctor the evidence. “Even if the government tried to destroy the evidence, we have all the files, documentary evidence to prove,” Kamat said. GFP said that since the ACB reports to the chief minister, a neutral investigation is unlikely. “The chief minister can use the investigation agency to protect those ministers that he wants and target those people that he wants to harass. This can happen. That is why we are saying, fine the ACB has been asked to investigate but we also want the CBI,” Kamat added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hope-acb-probe-in-labour-scam-not-eyewash-gfp/articleshow/79331873.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Dehradun||Three-day lit fest ‘Valley of Words’ kicks off in Mussoorie||Mussoorie: The fourth edition of literature and arts festival Valley of Words (VoW) was inaugurated by union minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Friday. This year, due to the pandemic, the three-day-long festival is being held in virtual mode. In his address, Pradhan said, “In a time when webinars, video calls, online discussion sessions and e-books, to mention a few, are starting to become the new normal, literature has kept us inspired and helped us get through this challenging time.” Dr Sanjeev Chopra, director of Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration (LBSNAA) and honorary curator, VoW, welcomed all authors, artists and participants. Speaking to TOI, Dr Chopra said more than 50,000 people had tuned in to the festival, not only from all parts of the country but even abroad. Earlier in the morning, Prime Minister of Tibet Lobsang Sangay read a message from the Dalai Lama, requesting the audience to keep promoting the “rich traditions” of India. “Combining ancient and modern knowledge has always proved effective,” the message read. Friday’s events included discussions on the history of Dehradun, the history of violence in Punjab during the past century, the border dispute with Nepal and several book launches. Started in 2017, VoW has emerged as a popular open-access festival, which involves people from all walks of life - authors, poets, thespians, artists, photographers, philatelists as well as students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/three-day-lit-fest-valley-of-words-kicks-off-in-mussoorie/articleshow/79328599.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 21, 2020||Madurai||Madurai airport sees 61% pre-Covid passenger traffic||Madurai: As many as 65,161 passengers used the Madurai airport in October, which is around 61% of the total number of domestic passengers handled by the airport in pre-Covid-19 times. Madurai airport used to handle around 1.2 lakh passengers, including one lakh domestic travellers in a month before the pandemic broke out. Ever since the airport was reopened on May 25 for domestic operations after two months of closure, the number of people using the airport has been increasing steadily. Flight movement is also getting busier to cater to the demand. According to data available with the airport authorities, there is an increase of 35% in passenger movement in October compared to its previous month. Similarly, there is an increase of 28% flight movement. Officials said that 26 flights, including 13 arrivals and 13 departures connecting destinations like Chennai, Hyderabad, Bengaluru, New Delhi and Mumbai, are being handled on an average in a day at present. They are witnessing increased seat occupancy, especially in departing flights. For instance, 1,110 passengers arrived in 13 flights on November 15, but 1,630 passengers travelled in the same number of flights that departed that day.“Passengers are gaining confidence due to the safety measures in place, which is evident from the increasing passenger movement. They are giving positive feedback on the safety arrangements in the terminal building and on the flights, which gives us immense happiness,” airport director S Senthil Valavan said.Officials also said that in order to augment water availability at the airport, 60,000 litres have been sought from the Perungudi panchayat, which is bound to supply water since around Rs 25 lakh is being paid as taxes to the local body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-airport-sees-61-pre-covid-passenger-traffic/articleshow/79331202.cms||V Devanathan
November 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||GTU postpones PhD entrance test||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat Technological University on Friday announced postponement of the entrance test for PhD students that was to be held on November 22. A GTU spokesperson said the next date of the examination will be announced at an appropriate time on the university website. The entrance test is conducted every year according to the University Grants Commission (UGC) guidelines by universities offering PhD programmes. Recently, the Gujarat University conducted entrance test for candidates willing to pursue PhD studies in different subjects. Over 800 students have registered for the PhD entrance test, according to an official of GTU release. Candidates had to take the computer-based test at the exam centre. The entrance test was to be conducted in engineering, pharmacy and MBA programmes for about 1,100 seats. Usually, the number of participants for entrance exams is much higher than the number of seats, but this time around only 800 students had registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gtu-postpones-phd-entrance-test/articleshow/79329877.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Nagpur||Ytl dist admn briefs schools on dos & don’ts head of reopening||Yavatmal: As part of the school reopening exercise amid the Covid pandemic, district collector held a joint meeting of education officer, block education officers and a few headmasters on Thursday to inform them about the state guidelines to be followed. Classes from Std IX to XII are expected to restart from Monday (November 23). Schools have been shut down under the lockdown announced by the central and state governments in view of the Covid pandemic. Collector MD Singh expressed confidence that strictly adhering to the guidelines will ensure students and others involved will be protected from Covid-19. Minister of state for school education Bachhu Kadu has made it a point to reopen the schools despite majority of parents are against the idea. According to sources, there are around 771 schools — government-run, zilla parishad, aided and non-aided. There are 3,855 classrooms in these schools manned by 3,397 teachers. Also, 89,988 students have been enrolled in classes Std IX to X and 59,797 students are there in Std XI and XII. As per Covid guidelines, wearing of mask and maintaining Covid distancing is must for all students, teaching and non-teaching staff. Teachers have been asked to ensure that no student uses books and other study material of another student. Before allowing students to enter the school premises, desks, chairs and even classrooms should be sanitized. Students should be provided with water to wash their hands in the classrooms itself, state the guidelines. Every schools must have thermal thermometers, pulse oxymeter and other gadgets to make sure that no student or teacher is suffering from Covid-like symptoms. As per sources, 60% of teachers have undergone Covid-19 tests and the remaining would be subjected to the test shortly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ytl-dist-admn-briefs-schools-on-dos-donts-head-of-reopening/articleshow/79339865.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Madurai||16 tonne red sanders seized from container||Tuticorin: Customs officials seized 16 tonne of red sanders logs, worth several crore rupees, in Tuticorin on Friday. The logs were found in a 40ft-long container on the premises of a freight service provider near the Fisheries College and Research Institute on the Harbour Road in the city. The officials found coconuts in the container, and the red sander logs arranged behind them. The freight service provider had stated that it was a consignment of edible oil seed. Teams of officials from the customs department and the directorate of revenue intelligence began a probe to find out the source of the red sanders logs, how they were smuggled to Tuticorin, to which country they were to be smuggled and people involved in the smuggling. Employees of the freight service provider were being quizzed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/16-tonne-red-sanders-seized-from-container/articleshow/79331241.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Kevadia to drive new tourism policy||GANDHINAGAR: The Statue of Unity (SOU) and various tourist facilities in Kevadia, combined with heritage sites like Vadnagar and places connected with Mahatma Gandhi, will propel Gujarat’s new tourism policy which is expected to be announced soon. The new policy – expected later this year or in early 2021 – comes on the heels of the recently announced heritage policy of the state government. It is also expected to give a boost to sustainable and rural tourism. A key government source said, “The state government has identified SOU and the seaplane service, major heritage sites including PM Modi’s hometown Vadnagar, and sites connected with Mahatma Gandhi for tourism circuits. The focus will be on attracting a large number of international and domestic tourists by providing best amenities at these places.” Sources added that the government, in principle, has decided to continue with most of the benefits in the existing tourism policy like capital and interest subsidy, EPF contribution and the like. “There will be a focus on sustainable tourism, rural tourism and organic agriculture tourism, considering the present trends. The new policy will provide both financial support and other benefits to such venture,” said a source. The government will also lay stress on ease of doing business (EODB) compliance in the tourism sector, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/kevadia-to-drive-new-tourism-policy/articleshow/79329881.cms||Kapil Dave
November 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Homes away from IT corridor see rise in demand, costlier too||HYDERABAD: The swanky residential towers of the IT corridor are no longer Hyderabad’s only expensive address. Fast catching up with the Gachibowli-Financial District-Kokapet belt – and even beating it in some instances – are pockets on the other side of town, attracting prices of anywhere between Rs 5,800 and Rs 6,600 per square feet (sft), show industry records. On this list are areas such as Uppal, Suchitra Circle, Kompally, Malkajgiri and Gaganpahad with many witnessing the first high-rises in their neighbourhoods. Developers say the markets are witnessing tremendous demand, even among those with jobs along the western corridor. “Since their families have been living here for decades, the children too want to invest in these places,” said Madhu Babu, DGM of NSL Group building Uppal’s first 24-floor apartment complex. “Twenty floors are ready and mostly sold out,” he added. The selling price: Rs 5,600 per sft. Telangana policies also led to demandIn fact, the group that’s coming with a bunch of new projects in this eastern part of Hyderabad – only 600 metres from the Metro station – say the fresh lot of homes will be priced at Rs 6,000 per sft and upwards. At Suchitra Circle, touted to be among the fastest growing suburbs in the north of the city, on National Highway-44, the cost of some properties has already crossed the Rs 6,500 per sft mark. The base price of a project here is around Rs 6,699 with premier homes attracting an additional Rs 400 per sft. Lucrative government policies like growth in dispersion (GRID) and better amenities (water, power) are also reasons for this surge in demand, say developers. “People from here were looking towards the west only because there were no gated communities available earlier. Now, they have that option so they want to stay here with their families, while working on the other side of town,” said Suresh Jain, partner, Jain Constructions, which has launched the first such venture in Malkajgiri priced at Rs 5,699 per sft (approximately). Realtors admit to the rapid growth of these micro-markets. “Most developers, solely active in west Hyderabad, seem to have missed out that apartment and villa prices in certain locations/projects such as Yapral, Uppal, Kompally, Malkajgiri etc have become more expensive or similar to prices in Financial District. In fact, projects in Yapral have seen 2.5 to 3-fold appreciation in the last decade,” said Aju Thomas, president, Trinity Partners and national director, Ciril.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/homes-away-from-it-corridor-see-rise-in-demand-costlier-too/articleshow/79331874.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
November 21, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Amid Covid, restoration goes on at art hub||NEW DELHI: There is one group that has kept on working through the restrictions placed by the Covid-19 pandemic: conservation experts at Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts (IGNCA). Having worked on the preservation of important artefacts and items, including a 300-year-old Arunachal Pradesh manuscript and Rashtrapati Bhavan paintings, they are currently involved in the restoration and conservation of the paintings of Hungarian-Indian artist Elizabeth Sass Brunner. The conservationists have been extra careful to use natural pigments, organic solvents, rice paper and starch-based adhesives to repair the tear in old books and documents. “When we resumed work on April 28 after the lockdown, we had a strict twice-a-week sanitisation policy, though we also had 10 conservationists working through the lockdown,” said Achal Pandya, head of conservation, IGNCA. “Because we have enough space, social distancing wasn’t a problem.” The team are restoring some works of Brunner, the Hungarian artist who came and worked in India over half a century ago. “The Hungarian embassy sent us two of her paintings that needed help. One of them is called Mother and Child,” said project associate Anil Dwivedi. Dwivedi explained that the restorers “mark the damage and recreate the portion by using cotton threads to match the weight of the original canvas, after which the starch is removed from the canvas and natural pigments used”. He said, “Our purpose is to use treatment that is compatible and reversible.” The team uses polymers to ensure the artwork doesn’t get adversely affected during the treatment. “We employ polymers such as Paraloid B72, Paraloid B67 and other adhesives depending on the sensitivity of the painting,” Dwivedi pointed out. “The retouching fills in the lost pigments and recreates the texture of the painting. However, we do not recreate the damaged section perfectly, making sure it is visible to a professional from a distance. Recreating things perfectly is an offence.” Other conservationists are also busy. Simran Sangal, for instance, is restoring a miniature Pahadi painting depicting Krishna with his consorts. “The pigment on the painting has been converted over the years from the red-coloured lead oxide to black-coloured lead sulphide. We are using diluted bleaching to recreate the original colour,” she said. Cleaning art works is another important function at IGNCA. “The process follows a set of principles. We use water-based cleaners like ammonia water for dealing with varnish that has become oxidised over the years,” said Dwivedi. Before any cleaning starts, the paintings undergo ultraviolet, infrared and raking light analyses to expose show previous restorations, varnish layers, under-drawings, textures and brush strokes. Pandya said that many books also come to IGNCA for restoration and preservation. “We get damaged books from the archives and libraries. We have our own binding method, which makes the books strong enough to bear wear and tear,” said Pandya. Conservationist Pooja Khandekar is busy documenting a copy of the Sanskrit text Brihaddeshi. “After documenting the book, picture, annotating the pages and noting its problems, we consider the treatment it requires,” she said. Dwivedi explained that old books have papers that have acidified and become brittle. “Wood pulp paper has a high presence of lignin, which eventually turns acidic and prone to tears,” he elaborated. “We remove the cardboard and replace it with acid-free mount board to prevent future damage. We bind the papers with a starch paste that is gluten-free and organic. Any damage on the pages is repaired using rice paper because its thickness suits the restoration.” Pandya is proud not to have let the coronavirus disrupt work. “The pandemic did not deter us,” he said, intent on protecting India’s cultural heritage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/amid-covid-restoration-goes-on-at-art-hub/articleshow/79346045.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
November 21, 2020||Madurai||Minister, Tuticorin MP hand over relief to family of soldier who died in Ladakh||Tuticorin: Information and publicity minister Kadambur C Raju and Tuticorin MP Kanimozhi on Friday assured financial support to the family of soldier K Karuppasamy, 34, who died in an accident while on duty in Ladakh on Thursday morning. The minister and district collector K Senthil Raj went to Karuppasamy’s house at Therku Thittankulam village near Kovilpatti in the morning to express condolences to the family. The minister consoled Karuppasamy’s widow and three children, aged between one and seven years. He paid a floral tribute to the soldier’s portrait. He also gave Rs 5 lakh to the kin from his personal funds as solatium. “I have come on the advice of the chief minister,” he said. Raju said the CM had assured solatium on behalf of the government and other due benefits for the family after getting a detailed report from the central government on how the accident took place. “Since it is an accident, it is being probed,” he said. “Karuppasamy’s widow Thamayanthi is a B Ed degree holder, and I will press for a government job for her,” he added. The minister assured support to the family. Raju said he would support the children’s education, in addition to the relief to be announced by the state government. He hailed soldiers at par with freedom fighters who sacrificed their lives for the country’s independence and added that Tuticorin had many freedom fighters and is now having many serving in the armed forces. DMK leader Kanimozhi handed over Rs 2 lakh to them on behalf of the party after consoling the family. She told reporters that the DMK would meet the educational needs of the three children of Karuppasamy. Tuticorin north district secretary of the DMK and Tuticorin MLA P Geetha Jeevan was also present. A black flag was hoisted in the village to mourn the soldier’s demise. Karuppasamy had served the Army for 14 years. His mortal remains are expected to be brought to the village in a day or two. Meanwhile, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Friday said the government would offer a job to a family member of Karuppasamy based on their qualification.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/minister-tuticorin-mp-hand-over-relief-to-family-of-soldier-who-died-in-ladakh/articleshow/79331249.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||BJP puts off ‘chintan baithak’||Gandhinagar: The first ‘chintan baithak’ (brainstorming session) of the state BJP under its new Gujarat president C R Paatil, originally scheduled on Saturday and Sunday, has been called off after the Covid surge across the state. The session was postponed after the state government announced a curfew in Ahmedabad from Friday night66. Bharat Pandya, the state BJP spokesperson, said: “The BJP has a strong tradition of discussing matters concerning people and the party’s organizational issues at the baithak.” He added: “However, due to the spurt in Covid cases, the party has decided to postpone the event.” CM Vijay Rupani and deputy CM Nitin Patel were among the leaders expected to attend the session. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bjp-puts-off-chintan-baithak/articleshow/79329882.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Goa||Mapusa locals to get reading facility soon||Saligao: The residents of Mapusa will soon get a reading facility as the Mapusa Municipal Council (MMC) has collaborated with the art and culture department to start the facility at the old municipal building from December. Earlier, the Athaide Municipal Library, which received a lot of footfalls, was shut on September 13 last year with no immediate alternative arrangements made for its relocation. The elderly, for whom the library and its reading hall provided an opportunity to keep abreast on current affairs, were left with a void after the old municipal building that housed the library was closed by the local civic body. The Mapusa municipality had also handed over the library to the the art and culture department to carry out renovation of the structure. However, the municipality had failed to provide an alternative arrangement for the people to spend their time in reading. Speaking to TOI, MMC’s chief officer Kabir Shirgaonkar said, “The locals as well as the senior citizens can come to read at this temporary facility until we have a full fledged library at the old building.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mapusa-locals-to-get-reading-facility-soon/articleshow/79331892.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 21, 2020||Nagpur||Vidarbha increases testing as post-Diwali strategy||Nagpur: As part of the pre-decided strategy to ramp up tests to control spread of Covid-19 infection post Diwali festivities, almost all districts in Vidarbha have increased the number significantly on Friday. Nagpur conducted nearly 7,000 tests, Akola received 1,300-plus reports, Buldhana 1,176, Chandrapur 2,001, Amravati 1,434, Yavatmal 569, Gondia 1,204 and Wardha 1,182. Gadchiroli, Bhandara and Washim also conducted nearly 1,000 cases. Together, more than 15,000 tests were conducted on Friday in Vidarbha, which is record high. Due to this increase in number of tests, a sudden spike in number of new cases was on the cards. However, not many cases were reported from the districts. The region together reported 1,007 cases, which means overall sample positivity rate is under 10%. With Nagpur 344, Chandrapur 156, Gondia 124, Wardha 77, Gadchiroli 77, Bhandara 61, Amravati 43, Akola 40, Yavatmal 40, Buldhana 36 and Washim 9, Vidarbha’s total cases reached 2,15,546 on Friday. Totally 861 patients recovered on Friday. Nagpur contributed 203, Chandrapur 243, Bhandara 76, Gondia 66, Gadchiroli 58, Wardha 52, Yavatmal 52, Amravati 46, Buldhana 44, Akola 14 and Washim 7. The region has reported 1,99,891 recoveries till date. Recovery rate is still above 92%. The major concern is increasing number of deaths. On Friday, 30 Covid deaths were reported in Vidarbha. Nagpur district reported 20 deaths. Out of these, 11 were of patients coming from other states and regions. Three deaths each were reported in Gondia and Yavatmal, and 1 each in Bhandara, Chandrapur, Gadchiroli and Buldhana. The toll reached 5,840 and case fatality rate at 2.70%. Yavatmal: The district reported three deaths due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 365. The caseload reached 10,961 with addition of 40 new patients. The recoveries reached 10,276, including 52 on Friday. Chandrapur: The district’s Covid count increased to 18,329 with addition of 156 new patients on Friday. One death was reported, taking the toll to 278. Recoveries reached 15,979 as 243 patients were discharged on Friday. Now, there are 2,072 active cases. Wardha: The district added 77 new cases and 52 discharges on Friday, taking the caseload to 7,251 and recoveries to 6,612 respectively. Now, 410 patients are under treatment. Amravati: A spike of 43 cases took the caseload to 17,113 on Friday. There were 46 recoveries, taking the total to 16,359 for a recovery rate of 95.6%. Now, 382 patients are under treatment. Akola: The district reported 40 cases, taking the total to 8,919. Total 14 patients got discharge, taking the recoveries to 8,202. Now, 430 patients are under treatment. Gondia: The district reported 124 new cases while 66 patients recovered on Friday. Three patients died. The district has 11,267 cases, 10,383 recoveries, 151 deaths and 733 patients under treatment. Gadchiroli: The district reported 77 new cases while 58 patients recovered. Caseload reached 7,206 out of which 6,619 have recovered. One death took the toll to 75. Recovery rate is about 92% while 512 patients are under treatment. Bhandara: Total 61 new patients were reported while 76 got discharge after recovery from Bhandara on Friday. A death was reported, taking total toll to 238. Now, 747 patients are under treatment. Buldhana: District reported 36 new cases. Buldhana has 10,698 cases and 10,148 recoveries. One death was reported. Washim: Only 9 new patients, lowest in Vidarbha were reported in the district. Seven patients recovered in a day. Now, the district has 5,938 total cases and 5,633 recoveries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vidarbha-increases-testing-as-post-diwali-strategy/articleshow/79329883.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 21, 2020||Lucknow||Blueprint for Ayodhya mosque on hold; Covid hits architect||AYODHYA: The launch of the Ayodhya mosque blueprint has been postponed after the consultant architect, Prof SM Akhtar, tested Covid positive and was rushed to Jamia Hamdard Hospital, Delhi. The Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation, constituted by Sunni Waqf Board to construct the mosque, was planning an interaction with reporters in Lucknow next week with a clinical presentation of the Ayodhya-Dhannipur Masjid project. Talking to TOI, Athar Hussain, secretary of mosque Trust, said, “We were planning an interaction with reporters on the mosque blueprint, but we have to wait till Prof Akhtar recovers completely from the infection. Now, we will go for a virtual interaction with the media, which would most likely be next month.” In an interview to TOI, Prof Akhtar had said, the master plan would be designed to house a hospital, an archive, museum and community kitchen in the mosque complex. The archive and museum will exhibit contributions of Muslims to nation building, Indian culture and freedom struggle and of course Sufi saints who spread love and harmony. The Supreme Court in its Ayodhya verdict mandated five acres to Sunni Waqf Board at a prominent place in Ayodhya. In February, the Uttar Pradesh government announced allotment of land at Dhannipur village in Ayodhya, 25km off Ramjanmabhoomi premises. On July 29, Sunni Waqf Board announced formation of a nine-member trust to build the mosque complex.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ayodhya-mosque-blueprint-launch-delayed-after-architect-prof-akhtar-contracts-covid/articleshow/79331875.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
November 21, 2020||Dehradun||33 officer trainees at LBSNAA test positive for Covid-19||MUSSOORIE: The authorities of the Mussoorie-based Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration (LBSNAA) on Friday said that 33 Officer Trainees (OTs) have tested positive for novel coronavirus. They added that strict measures are being adopted to ensure social distancing in the academy and Covid-19 testing of other OTs and staff is also being conducted. Speaking to TOI, Sanjeev Chopra, director of LBSNAA, said that 33 OTs tested Covid-19 positive on Friday and all of them were shifted to the Covid-19 care centre that had been established within the academy campus. “A Covid-19 care centre with all the required facilities had already been set up in the campus to deal with cases of the virus and these OTs have been shifted to the centre for treatment and care. The Covid-19 testing of the remaining OTs is being conducted,” the director said. He added that classes would now be conducted in online mode at the institute. “All OTs have been sent to room isolation and classes would be carried out only in the online mode till November 30,” the director informed. Notably, the initiation of the 95th foundation course had commenced at the academy on October 13. The academy had at the time announced special measures for social distancing and to deal with possible Covid-19 cases. These included keeping medical kits, masks and sanitisers in each room. Further, time slots and venues for dining, and separate time slot allotment for use of the library were also put in place. Currently, 428 OTs are undertaking the 15-week-long foundation course at the academy. The OTs include those who have joined the Indian Administrative Service (IAS), Indian Foreign Service (IFS), Indian Police Service (IPS), and Indian Forest Service (IFS), among other central services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/33-officer-trainees-at-lbsnaa-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/79328609.cms||Anmol Jain
November 21, 2020||Dehradun||Three youths die after car falls into gorge on Nainital-Bhowali road||DEHRADUN: The bodies of three local youths, who had gone missing on Wednesday while they were returning after attending a wedding, were found on Friday. The men had died after the car they were travelling in plunged into a 500-metre-deep gorge near Bhumiyadhar on the Nainital-Bhowali road. All three victims were Haldwani residents. Officials said that they had died on the spot and their bodies were recovered from the gorge by a State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) team on Friday morning. The deceased have been identified as Shubham Kandpal (24), Girish Joshi (26), and Ganesh Pandey (28). They were heading towards Haldwani from Suyalbadi when the accident took place, said the police. “All the three persons went missing on November 18. On Friday morning, the control room received information about an accident after the locals spotted a vehicle in the gorge. Immediately, the rescue teams were rushed to the spot. The difficult and steep terrain made it challenging for the SDRF personnel to carry out the rescue operation. However, after a long operation that lasted several hours, the rescue personnel were able to bring up the bodies from the gorge,” said a SDRF official. Meanwhile, the district administration has ordered a probe into the possible causes behind the accident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/three-youths-die-after-car-falls-into-gorge-on-nainital-bhowali-road/articleshow/79328606.cms||Gaurav Talwar
November 21, 2020||Vadodara||Rajkot firm roped in to design stadium||Vadodara: The Baroda Cricket Association (BCA) has BCA roped in Rajkot-based architect firm, Zedo Designers to design its international cricket stadium to come up in Kotambi. The decision raised many eyebrows as the BCA had announced last month that it had roped in Salil Ranadive Architects for designing its stadium. “While finalizing the contract, the BCA management felt that the firm was demanding more fees. So we decided to rope in Zedo Designers that also has the experience of constructing Rajkot’s international cricket stadium. This decision will also help us save a few crores of rupees towards the architect’s fees,” said Sheetal Mehta, BCA vice-president. Mehta said that there was no other reason for hiring another firm. Zedo Designers was also a part of the presentation last month wherein different firms had come up with stadium designs at the BCA office. Though the management has cited high fees as a reason to hire another firm, a section of BCA feels that there is more to it. “Dropping the firm in such a prestigious project citing financial reasons doesn’t seem right. Didn’t the management discuss the fees before deciding to hire the earlier firm?,” questioned a BCA official. .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/rajkot-firm-roped-in-to-design-stadium/articleshow/79328642.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Dehradun||Panic grips residents after leopard kills cow||MUSSOORIE: Panic gripped the residents of Mussoorie after a leopard allegedly killed a cow in the wee hours of Friday morning in the city’s Andakhet area near Landour market. The residents claim that the leopard was being frequently sighted in this area for quite some time. According to Mohsin Ahmed, a local resident, the residents heard the cries of a cow at around 4 am and when they rushed out, they found the body of the cow. It had bite marks on its neck. These were later confirmed as leopard bites. Residents say that a number of households living in this locality are fearful of their safety. Meanwhile, beat officer Diwan Singh Negi has said that the leopard had come from the forests in this locality. He added that the forest officials would increase patrolling in the area to ensure the safety of residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/panic-grips-residents-after-leopard-kills-cow/articleshow/79328611.cms||Anmol Jain
November 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Entrance test for medical teachers cancelled||Ahmedabad: Gujarat Public Service Commission (GPSC) has decided to put on hold the entrance test for faculties in medical colleges. The decision comes in the wake of the marathon 57-hour curfew to begin at 9pm on Friday and end Monday at 6am. The entrance test, to be held on November 22, November 24, November 26, November 28 and November 29 have been called off as of now, said an official at GPSC. The new dates will be announced later on, the official added. Earlier this month, the announcement of entrance test had led to an outcry from many doctors who felt they were at a disadvantage on account of their busy schedule in attending Covid-19 duties. This would give them very little time for exam preparation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/entrance-test-for-medical-teachers-cancelled/articleshow/79329887.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Dehradun||Pandemic may force 80% of pvt schools in U'khand to shut down, claims body||DEHRADUN: A body representing some private schools in Uttarakhand has claimed that as many as 80% of private schools in Uttarakhand would soon be forced to shut down if financial aid is not provided by the government. Imploring the state government to provide an “economic vaccine” for education, the Principals Progressive Schools’ Association (Uttarakhand) which has 170 schools registered with it said that in a survey of private schools in the state, a majority of them said they were struggling to survive. Around 1,000 private schools are operational in Uttarakhand. Prem Kashyap, president of the PPSA (Uttarakhand), said private schools have been able to generate only between 5% and 30% of the average annual revenue from fees this year. “With such low revenue figures, it has become difficult for schools to survive as they have continued to pay salaries to teachers and other staff members as well as fixed expenses like maintenance charges and taxes,” he said. Kashyap claimed that only 5% of private schools in the survey said they had enough revenue to tide through without financial assistance while 15% said they would have to exploit their resources and resort to borrowings in the near-term. The remaining 80% of schools said they would have to shut down. “Private schools contribute Rs 6,000 crore annually to the state’s economy. But sectors associated with the education industry such as transport have already taken a hit of several crores. Loss due to non-payment of fees by parents is estimated to run into Rs 445 crore. The government needs to step up and provide a financial package,” Kashyap said. But the parents’ association in the state said claims made by private schools should be taken with a pinch of salt. “Private schools have earned a lot of money in the past few years to ensure their survival for at least a year or two. And it’s not that their revenue streams have dried up completely, most parents have still paid some part of the fees. The schools are trying to force parents to pay full fees, which includes overheads that should not be charged during online classes,” said Lave Chaudhary, president of the Abhibhavak Ekta Samiti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/pandemic-may-force-80-of-pvt-schools-in-ukhand-to-shut-down-claims-body/articleshow/79328617.cms||Mohammad Anab
November 21, 2020||Pune||Waiter once, NIV staffer key field investigator in India for H1N1, Zika & Covid-19 outbreak||Pune: From working as a waiter at roadside eateries to drawing swine flu and Covid-19 swab samples as one of the country’s key outbreak investigators, 48-year-old Bipin Tilekar has seen life and microbes at close quarters. “My father was a farm labourer who died when I was two. My mother worked at a stone crusher. I started doing sundry jobs ever since I was five,” said Tilekar, who continued with part-time jobs to support his family and his education right up to his graduation. “I took up the evening job of a waiter at Sarasbaug's Khau Galli when I was pursuing a degree in microbiology. I also worked as a waiter at Raunak restaurant on Laxmi Road, one of the first food joints in Pune serving ‘pav bhaji’ in the early 90s,” he said. As a field investigator now, Tilekar’s acumen in drawing different body samples — throat, nasal, rectal swabs and blood — forms the basis of virus detection and analysis at the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune. Tilekar currently works with the premier virology research centre as a senior technical officer. He had drawn the throat swab samples of the 14-year-old Pune girl who was the first Indian to succumb to swine flu during the 2009 H1N1 pandemic. Tilekar had also played a pivotal role in the detection of the country’s first isolated Zika infection in an Ahmedabad woman in 2016. He gathered hundreds of samples of children to help scientists spot the mysterious microbe causing brain-fever (encephalitis) deaths in Saharanpur, Uttar Pradesh. For the Covid-19 pandemic, he is again leading from the front, despite being a diabetic and recently undergoing an emergency angioplasty. “I have drawn 7,000 blood and throat swab samples of potentially infected individuals in Pune for various research and investigation work at NIV,” he said. Tilekar is, however, undeterred by the fear of contracting the virus. “The sense of responsibility overshadows the fear,” he said, having so far tested negative for Covid-19 in six throat swab tests. “The virus-specific antibodies were also not found in my blood. I tested negative for them thrice.” How do the family members react to his work? “They are extremely supportive. Ever since I have started working in field investigation, I make it a point to head straight to the washroom after reaching home. I disinfect my clothes, take a bath and then talk and mingle with people at home with adequate precautions,” he said. Tilekar, who is from rural Pune — Divegaon in Saswad — had joined NIV as a laboratory technician in October 1997 after completing his BSc in microbiology and Diploma in Medical Laboratory Technology (DMLT). “My first stint was with the scientists working on hepatitis viruses at NIV. I have field investigated over 45 major and minor outbreaks of all the five hepatitis viruses across the country,” said Tilekar, who did his postgraduation (MSc) in microbiology while working at NIV. Tilekar’s field acumen in outbreak investigations got highlighted when the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared India’s first Zika virus case detection in Ahmedabad in February 2016. “The patient was a 36-year-old pregnant woman. The doctors treating her got suspicious when all her tests turned negative. The NIV scientists were called in for investigations,” Tilekar said. He had collected the woman’s blood, urine, throat and breast milk samples. Outbreak investigations encounter more constraints than epidemiological (diseases-spread) investigation. “If the outbreak is ongoing at the time of the investigation, there is great urgency to find the source and prevent additional cases. In childhood encephalitis (brain-fever) outbreaks in Saharanpur and Gorakhpur, I experienced this profound urgency,” Tilekar said. His seniors and colleagues at NIV vouch for his zest for work and energy. “Tilekar evinces tremendous poise when it comes to handling extremely unnerving field investigations where, in addition to your acumen in collecting timely specimens, your frame of mind and temperament are also put to test,” said senior scientist Devendra Mourya, former director and chair for virology and zoonoses at NIV. Scientist B V Tandale, who has worked with Tilekar, said, “During the outbreak investigation of childhood encephalitis at Saharanpur, Tilekar had worked against several odds. At hospitals, he was attending to timely specimen collection from countless children succumbing to an unknown microbe.” Tilekar, scientists said, is the backbone of NIV’s epidemic investigations and serosurveys. “When it comes to convincing citizens/patients and seeking their consent for participating in serosurveys or outbreak investigations, Tilekar shows extra-ordination communication skills,” said former NIV scientist Vidya Arankalle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/waiter-once-niv-staffer-key-field-investigator-in-india-for-h1n1-zika-covid-19-outbreak/articleshow/79331248.cms||Umesh Isalkar
November 21, 2020||Madurai||Train service from Trichy extended to Kerala capital||Madurai: Railways has extended the services of train nos. 02627/02628 Trichy – Nagercoil – Trichy daily special service to Thiruvananthapuram from November 30. As per the revised schedule, the trains in both directions will have stoppage at Nagercoil Town instead of Nagercoil Junction. Accordingly, the departure and arrival timings have also been revised.Train no. 02627 Trichy Junction – Thiruvananthapuram Central daily special (arrival/departure): Trichy (departure at 7am), Manapparai (7.24am/7.25am), Dindigul (8.10am/8.13am), Madurai (9.10am/9.15am), Virudhunagar (9.58am/10am), Sattur (10.23am/10.25am), Kovilpatti (10.48am/10.50am), Tirunelveli (12.10pm/12.15pm), Valliyoor (12.53pm/12.54pm), Nagercoil Town (1.49pm/1.50pm), Kuzhithurai (2.19pm/2.20pm), Thiruvananthapuram (arrival 3.20pm).Train no. 02628 Thiruvananthapuram – Trichy daily special (arrival/departure): Thiruvananthapuram (departure 11.35am), Kuzhithurai (12.14pm/12.15pm), Nagercoil Town (12.40pm/12.42pm), Valliyoor (1.27pm/1.28pm), Tirunelveli (2.20pm/2.25pm), Kovilpatti (3.18pm/3.20pm), Sattur (3.43pm/3.45pm), Virudhunagar Junction (4.08pm/4.10pm), Madurai (5.10pm/5.15pm), Dindigul (6.12pm/6.15pm), Manapparai (7.04pm/7.05pm), Trichy (arrival 7.55pm).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/train-service-from-trichy-extended-to-kerala-capital/articleshow/79331253.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Kanpur||UP: Gun licence files of don Vikas Dubey & ex-minister missing||KANPUR: After 173 files on gun licences, including those issued to slain gangster Vikas Dubey and late BJP minister Kamal Rani Varun, went missing from the office of the firearm department, a chargesheet was filed against a district collectorate employee on Thursday. Earlier, a clerk at the district collectorate, Vaibhav Awasthi, lodged an FIR alleging criminal breach of trust at Kotwali police station on October 13 after he found files missing from the firearm department. The files included details of licences issued to don Dubey and late minister Varun and were in the custody of then assistant clerk Vijay Rawat, now a reader with additional city magistrate (II). Later, the additional district magistrate (finance) shot off a letter to the firearm department, seeking submission of the files. However, Rawat failed to submit the files and was booked for criminal breach of trust. “Now, a chargesheet has been filed against Rawat,” said ADM (City) Atul Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/gun-licence-files-of-don-min-missing/articleshow/79312051.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
November 21, 2020||Madurai||Over 150 teaching posts vacant in MKU, academic council told||Madurai: Various resolutions including giving approval for new courses, syllabus and changes in academic areas were put forth at an academic council meeting of Madurai Kamaraj University on Friday. MKU vice-chancellor Dr M Krishnan in his report highlighted how the university has adapted to online education after the pandemic. On the research front, the VC observed that 46 research projects at an outlay of Rs 3.5 crore, sponsored by national and international funding agencies, are being carried out by the university faculty. 59 new research project proposals worth around Rs 60 crore have been submitted to various funding agencies. For the first time, MKU has got approval to run three BVoc programmes by UGC with grant of Rs 40 lakh each. Spirited discussions ensued when a resolution was moved to request syndicate to take immediate action to fill all teaching and non-teaching vacancies and fill SC/ST backlog vacancies in various categories of non-teaching posts at the university. It was highlighted that more than 150 teaching posts and more than 550 non-teaching posts were vacant. Resolutions were moved for introduction of new courses, PG diploma course in Saiva Sidhanta Philosophy, certificate course in Marine Ornamental Fish Production (6 months - regular course) jointly by Department of Marine and Coastal Studies, MKU and CMFRI, Mandapam, and diploma program in Disaster Management from the academic year 2020 – 2021 onwards. A resolution was also moved to amend the three years MCA programme (with six semester pattern) to two years (with four-semester pattern) from the academic year 2020-2021 as per AICTE guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/over-150-teaching-posts-vacant-in-mku-academic-council-told/articleshow/79331269.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 21, 2020||Nagpur||Second wife catches 38-year-old man raping teenage daughters||NAGPUR: A 38-year-old man was rounded up by Tehsil police for allegedly behind raping his two teenager daughters, 15 and 16 years of age, for the last one-and-half years. The man’s second wife reported the matter. Police said the person, an autorickshaw driver, had been forcing himself upon his two teenage daughters since his first wife had passed away. Despite marrying for the second time, the man would still savage his daughters threatening them with dire consequences if they resisted or raised an alarm. Police said the man’s second wife was stunned after catching the man having sex with the daughters. She left his house and approached Tehsil police station with the complaint. Tehsil police immediately took him into custody. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/second-wife-catches-38-year-old-man-raping-teenage-daughters/articleshow/79329941.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Lions freed of radio collars||AHMEDABAD: The state forest department has removed some 50 radio collars from Asiatic lions in the last two months. The department has now taken the collars of most of the lions that were collared in 2019. The move has been welcomed by wildlife enthusiasts who raised concerns about the department’s decision to tag as many as 75 lions last year. “We have removed radio collars from 48 lions so far, because the one-year period has ended for them,” said a senior forest official. He said that the collars will be removed from the remaining lions in a phased manner.  The department radio-tagged 75 lions between June and August 2019 for research and disease surveillance. The Times of India, on August 24, reported that one of every four radio-collared lions had died in a year’s time. In all, 20 radio-collared lions died in Gujarat. The issue was also raised by a Congress leader in the Rajya Sabha on September 17, demanding that the collars be removed. While experts say that the lions were unscientifically collared, they feel the department has done the right thing in removing the collars to prevent further damage to the ‘king of beasts’. Monitoring such a large number of lions was seen as a big challenge. In a few instances, bodies of radio-collared lions and lionesses were found days after their deaths. Radio collaring was done on young lions, in the age group of 3-6 years, whose mortality rate of 10-12% is the lowest. Cubs have the highest mortality rate of 50% followed by old lions and sub-adults, each of whom have a 20% mortality rate. Some experts suggested that lionesses should have been preferred over lions. In the case of male lions, radio-collaring should have been carefully done as their manes grow, making the collars too tight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lions-freed-of-radio-collars/articleshow/79329944.cms||Maulik Pathak
November 21, 2020||Dehradun||IPS Ashok Kumar to be next DGP of U’khand||DEHRADUN: The state government on Friday cleared the name of senior Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Ashok Kumar for the post of Director General of Police (DGP), Uttarakhand. He will replace Anil Raturi, who is due to retire on November 30, 2020. Kumar, who is a 1989-batch IPS officer and one of the senior most officers in Uttarakhand, is presently serving as Director General (DG) law and order. The officer will assume office on November 30. An order regarding the appointment of Ashok Kumar was issued late on Friday evening by home secretary Nitesh Jha. An IIT Delhi-graduate, Ashok Kumar, after joining the police service, served in various districts like Prayagraj, Aligarh, Chamoli, Mathura, Shahjahanpur, Mainpuri, Rampur, Nainital, and Haridwar. While serving as the senior superintendent of police (SSP) at Udham Singh Nagar, he personally led an operation against the infamous Heera Singh gang on January 22, 1994. Kumar also had a stint in Border Security Force (BSF) as inspector general (IG) administration. During the 2013 Kedarnath tragedy, he spearheaded relief and rehabilitation work in Kalimath and carried out developmental works in 14 villages. Based on his experiences, Ashok Kumar also wrote a book titled 'Human in Khaki', for which he was awarded Pandit Govind Ballabh Pant Award by the Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPRD) of the Union ministry of home affairs.A recipient of the President's Police Medal for meritorious services in 2013, Kumar also served as president of Uttarakhand Badminton Association from 2005 to 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ips-ashok-kumar-to-be-next-dgp-of-ukhand/articleshow/79328658.cms||Gaurav Talwar
November 21, 2020||Madurai||Rainwater harvesting helps fill up two-third of tank at Madurai Eco Park||Madurai: Around 20 lakh litres of water has been harvested from the recent rain in the tank which was earlier used for boating inside the Eco Park, located next to the Madurai corporation’s main building.Water was collected from the premises of Madurai corporation and roads like Thangaraj Salai and Ambedkar Salai adjacent to the park, by desilting small channels and connecting them to the tank. The water will be used for watering plants and trees in the park. It will also help to augment groundwater table, say officials.Madurai corporation began the works of desilting and connecting channels to carry the water three months ago. The road in front of the Raja Muthiah Mandram was a big water logging point. It took several hours for the water to completely drain. Now it takes only half the time as the water is being channelized into the tank, said an official from Madurai corporation.The tank is 43 metre long, 28 metre wide and 2.5 metre deep. Boating was stopped a few years ago since it required a lot of water. An official said “the total capacity of the tank is 30 lakh litre and already 20 lakh litre of water has been collected. The tank will fill to its brim in another good rain. Once it is filled, the excess water will reach nearby Managiri Channel through a link provided.”He added that corporation commissioner S Visakan recently inspected the tank and has given some suggestions for improvements. The waterbodies revived by the corporation have good level of water. Water level in some of the tanks is between 5 and 12 feet already.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/rainwater-harvesting-helps-fill-up-two-third-of-tank-at-madurai-eco-park/articleshow/79331262.cms||V Devanathan
November 21, 2020||Dehradun||ABAP chief asks UP, U’khand govts to hand over disputed temple land to akhadas||HARIDWAR: A day after the Supreme Court (SC) gave Uttarakhand government time till May 31, 2021, to demolish four religious structures ‘illegally’ constructed on Kumbh Mela land in Haridwar, the Akhil Bhartiya Akhada Parishad (ABAP) asked the state governments of Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh to intervene in the matter and hand over the land in question to the akhadas. Notably, the land on which the four temples have been built belong to the irrigation department of Uttar Pradesh but it had been given to the Uttarakhand government only for use during Kumbh Mela. Mahant Narendra Giri, ABAP president, told TOI, “We respect the decision of the apex court but the four temples have been built on the land where seers of the Vaishnava sect had been camping during the Kumbh Mela for centuries. Though this is government land, the temples were not built illegally. Therefore, we ask the state governments of Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand to intervene and hand over the land to the akhadas so that they can build their permanent camps there.” The four religious structures which have been ordered to be demolished belong to — Nirmohi Akhada, Nirmani Adi Akhada, Bhaiyadas Digamber Akhada, and Niranjani Akhada. Meanwhile, social activists have raised concern against handing over land to akhadas. “In imperial times, kings and landlords had gifted thousands of acres of land to the akhadas. Today, most of these plots which were located in the city have been sold out by the akhadas. This in itself is illegal but now, they are pressuring the government to hand over the land to them. This can not be tolerated and if the government accedes to their demand, we will challenge the move before the court.” Earlier, SC had observed, “Allotment, if any, is temporary. And any permanent structure could not have been constructed and the same is to be demolished.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/abap-chief-asks-up-ukhand-govts-to-hand-over-disputed-temple-land-to-akhadas/articleshow/79328629.cms||MS Nawaz
November 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Same-sex couple fears threat from kin, Punjab and Haryana HC orders security||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has ordered the Chandigarh Police to provide security to a same-sex couple allegedly facing harassment and pressure from their family against their relationship. “Without entering upon an exercise to evaluate the evidentiary value of the documents placed on the file, I dispose of this petition with direction to respondent No. 2 (SSP Chandigarh) to decide the representation of the petitioners within a period of one week from the date of receipt of a copy of this order and grant them protection, if any threat to their life and liberty is perceived. It is made clear that this order shall not be taken to protect the petitioners from legal action for violation of law, if any committed by them. This direction is subject to the petitioners furnishing details of the residence they intend to reside,” the HC ordered. Justice Jaishree Thakur passed these orders while hearing a petition filed by two girls. One of them is 22 years old and a resident of Punjab’s Faridkot district and the other girl, 18, is a resident of Haryana’s Karnal district. Both have claimed to be into the relationship for the past two years and are allegedly facing harassment from their families on account of their decision to live together. According to one of the petitioners, her father had even threatened to commit suicide in protest against their relationship. They have appealed to the HC for direction to protect their life and liberty from their parents and relatives so that they can live peacefully. They also contended that they being major have taken a conscious decision to be with each other as a couple. They also claimed that they were illegally picked up and kept in illegal detention of Karnal district police on behalf of their families but were freed on the intervention of the members of civil society groups. They claimed that a representation was submitted by them to the Chandigarh Police for security but no response was received. Responding to their contentions, the counsel for UT Chandigarh informed the court that since the petitioners have not disclosed the address where they are residing, it would be difficult for the police to provide protection. The girls’ counsel submitted that as soon as this court orders protection of their life and liberty, they shall inform the police of their place of residence. After hearing both the parties, the HC has asked the police to provide them security.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/same-sex-couple-fears-threat-from-kin-hc-orders-security/articleshow/79329939.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Madurai||Dengue cases surface, but under control in Madurai||Madurai: With Madurai witnessing rain regularly in the past few weeks, health officials have been vigilant in carrying out dengue preventive measures as nine cases have been reported so far in November. Four cases were reported in October and three in September but the numbers are still much less compared to last year when more than 80 cases were being reported by this time. “The cases are all sporadic and so far there is no cluster emerging. Still, we are vigilant in implementing preventive measures for dengue. Domestic Breeding Checkers (DBCs) are actively ensuring that sources of mosquito breeding are eliminated in all households,” said a health official. As many as 1,086 DBCs are engaged in dengue preventive measures across the district. Officials said that efforts are also on to prevent any stagnation of water due to rain which may lead to breeding of mosquitoes. Spraying of abate solution and sprinkling of bleaching powder are also carried out as preventive measures. Fogging is being done periodically once in 15 days to cover all areas across the district. “With closure of schools, colleges and some offices too, the incidence is down this year. But, there is still a risk of dengue cases going up especially if intermittent rain happens. Till December, there is a need to be cautious,” said a city health official. Officials further said that fever cases in general are on decline as well this year. Those with symptoms of dengue, which include high fever, headache, rashes, muscle and joint pain etc., are urged to immediately consult a doctor. At Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH), a dengue ward has been set up to treat patients and capacity of beds is to be increased as and when necessary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dengue-cases-surface-but-under-control-in-madurai/articleshow/79331275.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Congress yet to decide on use of party symbol||CHANDIGARH: Even as final preparations for municipal corporation elections of Panchkula, Ambala and Sonipat have begun, the Congress is yet to take a call on participating on the party symbol. However, the five-member committees in Ambala and Panchkula constituted by HPCC president Selja have submitted their recommendations of contesting on the party symbol. Jannayak Janta Party (JJP), an alliance partner of the BJP, will take a call after discussing the issue during a meeting in Gurugram. Panchkula and Ambala had Congress leaders as mayors. Upinderjeet Kaur Ahluwalia contested the election as an independent as Congress did not contest the polls directly. Similar was the case of Ramesh Mal, former mayor of Ambala, who was a close confidant of former union minister and then MLA Venod Sharma. He has now floated his own political party. Sources said the five-member committee, including former deputy CM Chandermohan, former CPS and Selja’s political secretary Ram Kishan Gujjar, Kalka MLA Pardeep Chaudhary, former municipal councillor Jal Medha Dahiya and senior Congress leader Partap Singh has recommended contesting elections on the party symbol. “We have given our written recommendations. Rest it is up to the high command,’’ said former deputy CM Chander Mohan. Selja said recommendations for Panchkula and Ambala will be forwarded and discussed with the party high command. “As far as Sonipat is concerned, we could not constitute a committee there due to Baroda by-election. But now, we shall take opinion from the leaders there as well,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cong-yet-to-decide-on-use-of-party-symbol/articleshow/79329951.cms||Manvir Saini
November 21, 2020||Madurai||Dams in southern TN see copious flow, many full||Madurai: Rain in the ghats till Wednesday continued to feed reservoirs in the region as many small dams have reached their full capacity or are climbing towards the full level. The water level in the Vaigai Dam climbed a little more than three feet in a day and touched 55ft on Friday morning. Inflow to the reservoir climbed on Friday compared to Thursday owing to the heavy inflow in Moola Vaigai. In Tirunelveli district, the water level continues to climb in Papanasam, Servalar and Manimuthar reservoirs. Commissioner of revenue administration (CRA) and state relief commissioner K Phanindra Reddy chaired a review meeting on monsoon preparedness in Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts at the Tirunelveli district collectorate on Friday evening. He also visited a few low lying areas in the city where there was water stagnation. Talking to reporters, he said that no major monsoon-related damages have been reported in the state. The government has kept more than 4,000 relief centres ready across the state. Though they can accommodate up to 2.5 lakh people from vulnerable areas, this year the government plans to accommodate only 50% of the strength in the relief camps due to Covid-19. In addition to 1,000 personnel ready for rescue operations in the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF), nearly 4,000 police personnel trained by the SDRF are also ready for such measures in case of emergency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dams-in-southern-tn-see-copious-flow-many-full/articleshow/79331277.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Nagpur||District administration starts voters’ list corrections||NAGPUR: The district administration has planned to update the voters’ list for general, assembly and civic polls by removing discrepancies. It contains names of several voters who have either expired or migrated to other places. Collector Ravindra Thakare told reporters on Friday that over 2.64 lakh voters didn’t have valid election cards. “We have invited objections from the voters to remove discrepancies till December 15. All these would be disposed of by January 5. A tentative list would be uploaded on our website on January 14. The final list would be released on January 15,” he said. He clarified the administration hasn’t deleted anyone’s name from the list, but would remove those who had expired through a special programme chalked out to update it. “With a view to accommodate the new voters and strengthen the democratic system, we have called on the new voters, who would be completing 18 years of age by January 1, 2021, to come forward and register themselves. They have been provided with an online facility at -- https://www.nvsp.in – for registrations,” Thakare said. He informed that there were over 25,000 identical names in voters list, of which 3,154 were above 99 years of age, which needed updates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/district-admn-starts-voters-list-corrections/articleshow/79329955.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Dehradun||Mussoorie adopts efficient solid waste management practices||MUSSOORIE: Tonnes of solid wastes generated due to tourism activity at the Queen of Hills are now being efficiently collected, segregated and treated, thanks to a partnership between the Mussoorie Municipal Council (MMC) and Keeping the Environment Ecologically Neutral (KEEN), a local NGO. “Door-to-door collection of waste is now being conducted from all households of the town and all business establishments, while the practice of dumping of waste has been stopped,” Anuj Gupta, chairman of MMC, said. According to Dana Crider, one of the KEEN founders, the residents have been made aware to segregate waste at source which is collected by the team of KEEN. “Segregation of wet and dry waste is being done at the household level which is then collected and resegregated by KEEN. Plastics, metals, paper and cardboard are sold in Dehradun, while wet waste is sent to Sheeshambada for mass composting,” Crider said. The door-to-door collection is not only being done from all households but also from hotels and other business establishments in lieu of a collection fee. “As many as 600 to 800 kg of dry waste is collected everyday from the town by KEEN,” said Ashok Mahindroo, chief operating officer of KEEN. Moreover, a team of KEEN, with the support of volunteers are organising “clean up” drives to collect waste randomly disposed down the hill slopes. “We hold two to three clean up drives every week to collect waste disposed down the hill slopes. Residents volunteer for our clean up drives and mounds of waste are collected in these drives,” Crider said, while recalling that in a recent drive as much as 500 kg waste was collected. The locals have also expressed their content with the ongoing waste management efforts. “The waste generated from this town is being efficiently collected and sustainably disposed of. We support the team and volunteers of KEEN and want them to continue their work with the same zeal and enthusiasm,” says Nitin Gupta, a resident of the hill town. The results are clearly visible on the ground as the dumping of waste at Gaddi Khana (near Gandhi Chowk) has stopped and even the large dustbins at the roadside – where most of the hoteliers used to dump their garbage - are being removed. “We are doing away with most of the large dustbins as waste is now collected from source, while street dustbins would be installed across the town. The age-old practice of dumping waste at the dumping grounds at Gaddi Khana has been abolished,” Gupta added. However, there is still a long way to go. “Plastic remains the biggest challenge and we are educating people to reduce its use. Another issue is that while a majority of households are segregating waste at source, some are still not following it,” Crider said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/mussoorie-adopts-efficient-solid-waste-management-practices/articleshow/79328675.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Cop’s wife strangles 2 sons, hangs herself||Fatehabad: The wife of a police constable posted in Hisar committed suicide by hanging herself after killing her two sons on Friday afternoon in Sukhlampur village in Fatehabad district. The deceased have been identified as 26-year-old Sanju, 3-year-old Shivansh and a two-month-old son, all residents of Sukhlampur village in Hisar. Police said Sanju was married to police constable Naresh, a resident of Khairati Khera in Fatehabad district. Naresh is currently posted in Hisar. The marriage was strained, due to which Sanju and her children were living with her parents, police said. On Friday afternoon, Sanju’s family went to Ratia for shopping. During this time, Sanju and Naresh talked on the phone and got into an argument. After this, Sanju strangled her sons and committed suicide by hanging herself, police said. Naresh called his sister-in-law and informed her about the dispute over the phone. When Sanju’s family came home, they found all three dead and alerted the police. DSP Subhash Bishnoi and Sadar Ratia police station team inspected the spot and started investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cops-wife-strangles-2-sons-hangs-herself/articleshow/79329953.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Goa||Recruitments with eyes on zilla panchayat polls: AAP||PANAJI: The sudden announcement of the availability of 10,000 government jobs in various sectors comes in the wake of the zilla panchayat elections. This is a ploy to get the unemployed to vote for BJP with the promise of a job, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) said on Friday. “The chief minister had said that there are 10,000 vacancies in various government departments which require to be filled. However, what is contradicting this is that the state selection committee is overloaded. Why cannot 50 vacancies be given to the already burdened committee responsible for the selection process?” said AAP spokesperson, Surel Tilve. He further alleged to have an audio clip of Vishwajeet Rane admitting giving the jobs only to pro-BJP candidates. Tilve played the audio clip at a press conference on Friday. “There are unemployed youth in Goa who are deserving of these posts. Instead, the BJP is going to give these jobs to its followers and supporters. These jobs don’t belong to BJP private limited, they belong to the Goa government. The open sale of these jobs must stop,” he said. Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday said that the freeze on government recruitment will be lifted and the process to recruit over 10,000 people — one of the largest recruitment drive — will begin from December 1. Currently, Goa has approximately 65,000 state government employees, including those in autonomous and semi-autonomous bodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/recruitments-with-eyes-on-zp-polls-aap/articleshow/79331972.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 21, 2020||Hubballi||Belagavi LS bypoll: MB Patil-led Congress team to visit Belagavi today||BELAGAVI: An 11-member team of Congress leaders led by former minister MB Patil is visiting Belagavi on Saturday to deliberate on the prospective candidates for the upcoming bypoll to the Lok Sabha seat in the border district, which has fallen vacant following the untimely demise of former Union minister of state Suresh Angadi. The dismal performance by the Congress in the bypolls in the state, apart from its disastrous showing in the hustings in Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat, has prompted the party to prepare well in advance to ensure a victory in the bypoll. President of Belagavi District Congress Committee Vinay Navalagatte told TOI old that, among the 11 members who would weigh in on the choice of the party’s candidate for the Lok Sabha bypoll were former minister Satish Jarkiholi and senior leaders such as L Hanumantayya, Veerakumar Patil. The members of the team are expected to confer with the local party workers and seek their opinion. While many leaders in the BJP, including Ramesh Katti, have expressed a desire to contest the bypoll, none has come forth in the Congress, nor are names of leaders doing the rounds for the candidature. Although Ramesh Katti has made it plain that he will approach the BJP central leadership if he is denied the ticket, Belagavi district in-charge minister Ramesh Jarkiholi is learnt to have promised the ticket to the members of the bereaved Angadi family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/belagavi-ls-bypoll-mb-patil-led-cong-team-to-visit-belagavi-today/articleshow/79326717.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19 cases cross 70k-mark in Uttrakhand, 4 test positive at Asharodi check post||DEHRADUN: With the state recording 512 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Friday, the number of novel coronavirus cases in Uttarakhand breached the 70,000-mark. This was the second highest one-day spike in Covid-19 cases in November. Earlier on November 11, the state had reported 783 cases. Till Friday, the total number of cases of the virus stood at 70,205 in the state. On the day, as many as 131 people were tested for Covid-19 in the random sampling done at the Asharodi check post. Among these people, four tested positive for the virus. Dr Dinesh Chauhan, district surveillance officer, told TOI that all those who tested positive were either from Delhi or neighbouring NCR (National Capital Region). “Those found infected with coronavirus at Asharodi check post were asked to get themselves admitted at a facility in the state but they refused and hence, were sent back to their respective cities. We had found four Covid-19 positive persons during random sampling a day ago as well,” added Chauhan. To check the spread of the virus, the state has started extensive random sampling at bordering districts — including Haridwar, Nainital, and Udham Singh Nagar, said the official. Meanwhile, among the 512 positive cases found on the day, the maximum of 204 cases were reported from Dehradun. “As many as 45 new Covid-19 cases were recorded in Chamoli, followed by 43 in Nainital, 39 in Haridwar, 35 in Pauri, 27 in Pithoragarh, 23 in Tehri, 22 in Udham Singh Nagar, 20 in Rudraprayag, 16 in Almora, 14 in Bageshwar, and 12 each in Uttarkashi and Champawat districts,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. The state also reported deaths of five Covid-19 patients. With this, the toll of the virus rose to 1,138. Also, 585 people recovered from the Covid-19 infection on Friday, taking the total number of cured cases in the state to 64,939.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-cases-cross-70k-mark-in-ukhand-4-test-ve-at-asharodi-check-post/articleshow/79328706.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Jethava’s father to oppose appeals of Solanki, others||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has allowed Bhikhalal Jethava, the father of RTI activist Amit Jethava who was killed in 2010, to remain as an intervener and resist the appeals filed by seven convicts including former BJP MP Dinu Bogha Solanki. Solanki and six others were sentenced to life imprisonment by a special CBI court in July 2019 for Jethava’s murder. All seven have challenged their conviction and sentences before the high court. Bhikhalal, who has been fighting the long legal battle since the controversial trial, requested the high court to allow him to become party to the litigation so he can resist the appeals filed by the convicts. The prosecuting agency, the CBI, had no objection to Bhikhalal’s application and submitted that resisting the appeals is his acclaimed rights as a victim. The bench of Justice Sonia Gokani and Justice Nirzar Desai permitted Bhikhalal to be an intervener and granted his request for legal aid. Senior advocate B B Naik agreed to represent Bhikhalal in the case in the high court. The court acceded to the request and ordered the court registry to provide the case papers to the senior counsel within 12 weeks. The judges asked the High Court Legal Aid Committee to issue an order for the lawyer’s appointment for the victim. Meanwhile, the high court has also ordered police protection to advocate Anand Yagnik and his family. The lawyer helped the victim’s family secure justice in the marathon trial during which 105 of 195 witnesses had turned hostile and a partial retrial had taken place. Yagnik sought protection after two of the convicts visited his office while on temporary bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/jethavas-father-to-oppose-appeals-of-solanki-others/articleshow/79329958.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Mysuru||ADC: Help remove ineligible voters from list||Mysuru: Additional deputy commissioner BS Manujunath urged representatives of all political parties to help booth-level officers in the removal of ineligible voters during the month-long voters drive which started across all 11 assembly segments in the district from November 18. Speaking at a meeting with representatives of political parties, he said the drive was started as per the directions from Election Commission of India and it will be on till December 17. He said the names of all ineligible voters, bogus, fake, transferred, absent, dead or double entry cases would be removed during the drive. The revision takes place on all working days from 10am to 5.30pm during this period. The voters list will be published at the respective polling booths, for which claims and objections, if any, will be accepted. New voters along with first-time voters, who complete 18 years by January 1, 2021, will be included in the list during the drive. Voters can also apply for a change in address, any other corrections, inclusion or deletion of names in the voters list by filling prescribed forms provided by booth level and election officials. A special voter revision drive will also be conducted on the next three Sundays - November 22, 29 and December 5, and on December 3, to help citizens who hsave already enrolled to apply for corrections. There are 25, 43,489 enrolled voters in district as of February 2020. Another 20,226 got enrolled by the end of November 18, 2020, taking the total to 25, 63,715 voters. For details, residents of Chamundeshwari segment can call 0821-2414811 and 2414812, while residents of Krishnaraja, Chamaraja and Narasimharaja segments can contact Mysuru City Corporation at 0821-2418800.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/adc-help-remove-ineligible-voters-from-list/articleshow/79328366.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Shimla||Atal Tunnel stops migration from Lahaul||MANALI: For the first time, residents of three villages of Lahaul, Koksar, Dimpuk and Ramthang will stay home in the winter as they feel the Atal Tunnel will make help accessible in case of snow-triggered calamities. Residents of these three villages migrate to Kullu and other places in November and return in April. The area of Koksar panchayat is the most dangerous in Lahaul valley due to its high altitude and dozens of avalanche sites. Temperature in winter dips below minus 20 degrees Celsius and all water sources freeze.  The three villages, close to each other, lose their mutual connectivity after avalanches. Every house is locked and nobody stays back in the villages. Residents know that even thieves cannot reach the village in the winter. “Residents are still in the villages. This could be possible only because of Atal tunnel, which is just 6km from here. In case of emergency or very heavy snowfall, we can walk to the tunnel and move out of the valley,” Koksar panchayat president Anju Shashani said. She added that she herself is still in the village. “It has happened for the first time that we are not migrating to a warmer place. The police post of the panchayat is still manned by cops. Public works department employees are on duty. Some of villagers have gone out of the valley for some work and they will also return. It has become possible because of the tunnel. Otherwise, spending winter in our panchayat is both difficult and dangerous,” she said. Koksar panchayat, which is above an altitude of 11,000ft, has had four spells of snowfall since October. Temperature in the region is close to minus 10 degrees Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/atal-tunnel-stops-migration-from-lahaul/articleshow/79329959.cms||Suresh Sharma
November 21, 2020||Ludhiana||Haryana BJP’s best yet to come: Suresh Bhatt||CHANDIGARH: BJP has performed well in Haryana in the last 10 years, but the best is still to come, said outgoing organising secretary of party’s state unit Suresh Bhatt on Friday. Speaking at his farewell function, organised jointly by RSS and BJP workers at Panchkula, Bhatt exhorted them to work for taking the party to new heights. The programme was attended by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Haryana BJP president Om Parkash Dhankar, among others. Lauding Bhatt for his contributions towards the state and the organisation, CM Khattar said Bhatt has proved himself to be a real Sangh worker. “He had religiously followed the rules of RSS of ‘Na kaahu se dosti, na kaahu se bair’ (above the feelings of love and hate for anyone). He will always be remembered for his valuable contributions to the party in Haryana,’’ Khattar said. Dhankar said as an organising secretary, Suresh Bhattt had always been objective in his outlook and worked tirelessly to ensure that the commitments are fulfilled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/hry-bjps-best-yet-to-come-suresh-bhatt/articleshow/79329966.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Chandigarh||SAD slams withdrawal of ex-min’s Z+ security||CHANDIGARH: The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) condemned the BJP-led central government’s decision to withdraw Z+ category security cover give to former Punjab minister and SAD MLA Bikram Singh Majithia. Majithia’s sister Harsimrat Kaur Badal resigned as minister of the NDA government in September, after SAD parted ways with the saffron party over then three farm bills which have elicited strong protests in Punjab. SAD spokesperson Dljit Singh Cheema described the decision as “arbitrary, dictatorial and politically motivated”. Cheema said Majithia’s security cover had been withdrawn because SAD had decided to side with farmers on the central agricultural laws and also objected to denial of official language status to Punjabi in Jammu and Kashmir. He said SAD had voted against the central farm laws in Parliament, and quit the Cabinet and the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) over the move. “It is clear that Majithia is a victim of political vendetta. The SAD will not bow down to such tactics and will continue to stand with farmers and Punjabis against the central laws as well as any other issue which weakens the country’s federal structure.” The SAD leader said Z + category security cover had been given to Majithia in 2010, when the Congress-led UPA was in power, on the basis of threat perception. “The case was cleared by then home minister P Chidambaram, who was known to be a hard taskmaster on the basis of credible reports. We would like to know what has changed suddenly that the 10-year-old the cover was withdrawn on the basis of a single-line order. “Majithia continues to be targeted by Pakistan based anti-national elements and gangsters who have openly threatened to eliminate him. Even chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh recently talked about increasing attempts by Pakistan’s ISI to revive terrorist activity in Punjab, particularly the Majha belt, which shares a border with Pakistan,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sad-slams-withdrawal-of-ex-mins-z-security/articleshow/79329964.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC raps registrar for misleading court over staffer’s inaction||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court rapped its registrar (judicial) for misleading the court in order to shield an erring officer of the court registry over obeying court directions. Justice S H Vora was furious at the registrar’s conduct after the court found he was trying to shift the blame for inaction of one department to another. The high court was dealing with a case about the procedure for mining rules after the geology and mining department raised recovery of revenue following the interception of a truck carrying building limestone without a proper permit. The state government had filed a reply in this case but the documents were not supplied to court by the registry despite court’s repeated instructions. The court then sought an explanation from the registrar (judicial) in this regard, but did not get a satisfactory reply. The court said, “...unfortunately, the Registrar (Judicial) for reasons best known to him has provided shield to the responsible officer of concerned department on his failure to prepare office note at first instance. It is hoped that the Registrar (Judicial) must be aware of the procedure of preparation of office note, in the event, if the Court issues any direction like present nature.” The court further said, “The Registrar (Judicial) is directed not to misdirect the Court but take explanation of the responsible officer of the concerned department..The attempt on the part of the Registrar (Judicial) to shift blame on other department which does not carry any responsibility or duty to prepare office note and shield the responsible officer of the department concerned is not in good taste and therefore, he is required to be vigilant and careful in future rather than wasting energy in misdirecting the Court.” The HC has sought further explanation about the registry’s non-response to its directions on November 27.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-raps-registrar-for-misleading-court-over-staffers-inaction/articleshow/79329971.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Nagpur||HC stays NMC’s move to demolish Sitabuldi cycle shops||NAGPUR: Coming to the rescue of cycle shop owners on Sitabuldi Main Road, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Thursday stayed their demolition. The notices in this regard were issued by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) citing dilapidated structures of their shop buildings that may pose a threat to their lives. A single-judge vacation bench comprising justice VG Joshi, while granting the stay on NMC’s move, adjourned the hearing till November 23. The judge also issued notices to Maharashtra government and the corporation asking them to reply before the next hearing. The petitioners — Jagdishchandra and Company along with three other cycle shop owners — challenged civic body’s notices before the high court through counsel Kartik Shukul assisted by Rohit Chougale. MS Pande pleaded on the landlord’s behalf. Contending that the NMC failed to conduct a structural audit, the petitioners prayed for a stay on the demolition notices. According to them, in absence of a structural report, the corporation couldn’t have come to the conclusion that shops are in a dilapidated condition. Citing the demolition notices, they said only a part of the structure is dilapidated and therefore there is no requirement of demolition. “Merely because a structure looks dilapidated, it does not mean that it needs to be demolished, the structure can also be repaired,” Shukul told the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-stays-nmcs-move-to-demolish-sitabuldi-cycle-shops/articleshow/79329965.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
November 21, 2020||Nagpur||Much quieter Diwali in city this year, reveals Neeri data||Nagpur: Ambient noise levels in the city saw a considerable dip this Diwali compared to the previous one, show data from Nagpur’s National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (Neeri). Monitoring data from 66 locations in the city with the help of their in-house ‘Noise Tracker’ Android app, CSIR-Neeri found ambient noise levels to be between 60-70 decibels (dB) at 64% of the locations. In contrast, the noise levels had surpassed 70dB at a majority of the locations last Diwali, suggest the figures. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) sets the permissible noise limit of 55dB up to 10pm and 45dB post 10pm for residential areas, but these limits are routinely breached before and during Diwali in most Indian cities, Nagpur being no exception. Ambient noise levels crossed 75dB at seven locations, namely Narsala and Shree Ram Nagar in Hudkeshwar, Laxmi Nagar, Ganjipeth (in Mominpura), Ganjakheth Chowk (in Gandhibagh), Ayodhya Nagar (in Manewada), and Nagraj Nagar, Nari Road. The city's noisiest places during Laxmi Puja were Gandhibagh and Ayodhya Nagar (Manewada), which recorded the highest noise levels of 79.8 and 80.3dB, respectively. The data further reveal that Vasant Nagar, Jaitala, Ram Nagar and Gandhi Nagar square, Neeri colony and Ambazari encountered lower decibel levels than other locations. TOI had earlier reported the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) had conducted a pre-Diwali test of firecrackers, which showed all the firecrackers available in the local market were well within the permissible limit of 125dB. The vigil on firecracker quality was among the major reasons for lowered ambient noise levels, said Satish Lokhande, noise expert and senior technical officer at Neeri. “The pollution level reduction is mainly due to public cooperation, strict government regulations, and control over the firecrackers' quality,” Lokhande added. What the data say* City witnessed lower ambient noise levels this Diwali than previous one * Ambient noise levels between 60-70dB at 42 out of 66 locations * Noise levels were over 70dB at a majority of locations last Diwali * 7 out of 66 locations recorded noise levels beyond 75dB this year * Gandhibagh and Ayodhya Nagar (Manewada) were the noisiest, at 79.8 and 80.3dB, respectively * Public cooperation, strict government regulations, and control over firecrackers main reasons for noise reduction||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/much-quieter-diwali-in-city-this-year-reveals-neeri-data/articleshow/79330162.cms||Bhuvan Gupta
November 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Undergraduate medical provisional merit list declared||Ahmedabad: The Admission Committee for Professional Undergraduate and Postgradual Medical Education Courses declared the provisional merit list of 21,514 students for various medical, dental, homoeopathy and ayurvedic undergraduate courses on Friday. As many as 24,143 Students had registered themselves with the admission committee on November 11. Of them, 22,978 students participated in the verification process. There were 21,514 students whose name figured in the list published on admission committee’s web portal, whereas there were 1,464 students whose names were not included in merit list due to non-fulfilment of different eligibility criteria. The admission committee has invited objection from students by November 22 afternoon, and students can send their objections through e-mail. After publishing the provisional merit list, a mock round of choice filling was held and more than 15,000 students participated in the exercise. With the declaration of the provisional merit list, the committee has announced the schedule for further admission process. The choice filling exercise will take place between November 23 and 25. Seats will be allocated on November 26. The students can pay their fees till December 4 and confirm their admission. The students will be required to visit the help centres with certificates between November 27 and December 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/undergraduate-medical-provisional-merit-list-declared/articleshow/79330007.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Chennai||CM, Ramadoss condole death of Russian Tamil scholar||Chennai: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami expressed his condolences over the death of Russian Tamil scholar and linguist Alexander Dubiansky, who died on Tuesday in Moscow while undergoing treatment for Covid-19. “Being a Russian, Dubiansky developed a great passion for Tamil. His contributions to Tamil are immense and his papers on ancient Tamil poetry, particularly on Sangam-era works, stand testimony to his expertise in Tamil. His demise is a huge loss to Tamil,” said Palaniswami in a statement on Friday. PMK founder S Ramadoss said Dubiansky was a great source of inspiration. “He opened a window to ancient Tamil poetry. He went into the details of ancient Sangam poetry and gave his observations on them,” said Ramadoss in a condolence message on Thursday. Dubiansky has published more than 80 books, mostly in Tamil. Published in 2000, his work titled “Ritual and Mythological sources of early Tamil poetry” talks about the origin of the early Tamil poetical canon, which constitutes a set of specific subjects, images, principles of arrangement of basic poetical themes which are called ‘thinai.’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cm-ramadoss-condole-death-of-russian-tamil-scholar/articleshow/79329976.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Udayanidhi Stalin arrested for violating Covid norms as DMK starts poll campaign||TRICHY/ CHENNAI: DMK youth wing secretary Udayanidhi Stalin was arrested soon after he launched the party’s poll campaign, ‘Vidiyalai Nokki Stalin Kural’ (Stalin’s voice for awakening), at Thirukkuvalai, the birthplace of former chief minister M Karunanidhi in Nagapattinam district on Friday evening. Police arrested him and his supporters citing overcrowding and violating the Covid-19 restrictions after he delivered the campaign’s inaugural speech. The arrest evoked strong response from the sizeable number of cadres who had gathered there. A video released by the party showed Udhayanidhi without a mask. DMK cadres raised slogans against chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and police. Lodged in a marriage hall, Udayanidhi spoke to reporters and termed his arrest an attempt to prevent the campaigns of the DMK and its allies, and restraining them from meeting the people to explain the “scams and corruption” of the AIADMK government. Though he was later released, DMK functionaries organized protests across the state condemning his arrest. Earlier, Udhayanidhi visited the Angala Parameswari Amman temple in Thirukkuvalai and visited the native house of Karunanidhi. In his speech, Udhayanidhi recalled the debacle of the AIADMK-BJP alliance in the parliamentary elections and asked cadres to teach them a lesson in the assembly  too. Condemning the arrest, DMK general secretary S Durai Murugan termed it “an anti-democratic action” of the AIADMK. “The CM is going around several districts and taking part in poll campaigns under the guise of review meetings. Citing Covid-19 norms only for the DMK rally clearly indicates that they are unnerved by the response the DMK is receiving from the people,” he said in a statement. The DMK on Friday unveiled an elaborate poll campaign schedule under ‘Vidiyalai Nokki Stalin Kural’. Fifteen senior party leaders, including MPs Kanimozhi, Thamizhacchi Thangapandian, Tiruchi Siva and former minister K Ponmudi, would collectively address 1,500 meetings across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/udhayanidhi-arrested-for-violating-covid-norms-as-dmk-starts-poll-campaign/articleshow/79330036.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Nagpur||Refund excess fee taken for Covid care, Yavatmal hospital told||YAVATMAL: The district collector M Devendar Singh on Friday ordered the director of a local dedicated private hospital to refund the excess amount charged for providing Covid-19 treatment. This is the first case in the district when a private Covid-19 hospital has been ordered to refund the excess amount. A woman was admitted to the hospital on October 13 after she developed symptoms of Covid-19. Her swab sample was collected and the woman tested positive for Covid-19. The woman died at the hospital on October 16. The hospital allegedly charged a fee of Rs97,250 for the three-day treatment and allegedly did not release the body before taking the full payment from the family. When the family pointed out the Central, state governments have fixed rates for Covid-19 treatment at private hospitals, the doctor allegedly refused to budge and collected the entire amount before releasing the body. The family later lodged a complaint with the collector who conducted a hearing on Friday and recorded statements of both the sides. Deputy medical officer Manoj Tagadpalliwar, tehsildar Santosh Doifode and an officer of the Disaster Management Committee, Satish Moon, were also present during the hearing. The director and the father of the complainant put forth their arguments. After hearing both the parties and perusal of documents on file, the collector found the hospital guilty of taking excess payment in violation of rates fixed for Covid treatment by the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/refund-excess-fee-taken-for-covid-care-yavatmal-hospital-told/articleshow/79330044.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Nagpur||Is this second Covid wave in Vidarbha or just another spike?||NAGPUR: After reporting the lowest number of cases in the last two months – 361 new cases of Covid-19 on November 15, Vidarbha region is reporting more cases daily. In just four days, new cases reported a four-time increase on November 19 (1,245). Even on November 20, the region reported more than 1000 new cases. People may consider this spike in new cases as the onset of the second wave which is expected in December. Experts have explained it for TOI. The current wave of Covid-19 might be followed by repeated smaller waves which are supposed to appear consistently. According to infectious disease specialist Dr Nitin Shinde, the recent spike is associated with the Diwali festive rush during which community movement was at its peak. “Be it a rush in markets or be it travelling plans of people from cities to their hometowns for the festivities, all these events triggered the infection in the community. This is very common in infectious diseases,” said Dr Shinde. He gave the example of swine flu which reports sudden rise during the pilgrimage period. “I think due to migration of people from cities to villages during Diwali, the infection has now reached many unexplored places. In next two-three weeks, we will get cases from rural areas,” said Dr Shinde. Intensive care specialist Dr Ranjan Shah said that second wave is expected before the end of 2020 and the present spike in cases could be a triggering point. “Just like the first wave started from Delhi and then peaks were reported from different regions at different times, the second wave could be geographically different. Moreover, the intensity of the second wave is largely dependent on the local control measures,” he said. “The Covid-19 curve is not a mathematical model. It gets influenced by many aspects like community movements, weather conditions, humidity, temperature and local understanding of the disease. Such spikes and decrease in cases will continue to happen even in future,” said epidemiologist Dr Nitin Thatte. Co-epidemics of infections such as dengue outbreaks could make the situations worse. In short, Covid-19 will be the part of future but whether the second wave will be a devastating tsunami or just a ripple will largely demand upon continued physical distancing, masking, widespread testing, hospital preparation and vaccine development. Understanding this, the authorities have increased number of tests multifold in Vidarbha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/is-this-second-covid-wave-in-vidarbha-or-just-another-spike/articleshow/79330235.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 21, 2020||Kochi||Garam Masala: Are All Facts On The Table?||Finance minister T M Thomas Isaac’s response to the comptroller and auditor general’s (CAG) observations questioning the constitutional validity of Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) is politically motivated rather than based on economic rationale. Let’s examine some of the key aspects: Is KIIFB a corporate body? Conditions Apply The CAG’s view is that the ultimate liability and accountability of the money borrowings of KIIFB’s borrowings rest on the state – in other words, it is not ready to subscribe to the government’s claims that KIIFB is an independent corporate body and the debt incurred by it would have no cascading effect on the balance sheet of the government. RBI has given only an NOC The finance minister claims that RBI’s ‘permission’ for issuing masala bonds provides KIIFB the validity that it is indeed a corporate entity. However, the exhibits submitted by KIIFB CEO K M Abraham along with his counter affidavit filed in the Kerala high court, in a case that challenged KIIFB’s right to issue masala bonds, prove that RBI had only issued a NOC which, it clearly stated, should not be construed as “regularising or validating any irregularities, contravention or other lapses, if any, under the provisions of any other laws and regulations”. Misleading the RBI? Documents accessed by TOI prove that KIIFB approached the RBI through Axis Bank with a request for issuance of rupees denominated bonds (masala bonds) worth Rs 2,672.80 cr. In the request letter, KIIFB was merely introduced as a constituent of Axis Bank engaged in funding infrastructure projects in Kerala. Nowhere was it stated that KIIFB bonds come with state government guarantees. The RBI in its reply to Axis Bank had said it had no objection under Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 for the captioned company (KIIFB) issuing bonds. No approval from credit angle: RBI After advising Axis Bank to approach the RBI director concerned for obtaining a loan registration number, the RBI official concerned has categorically stated the following. ``… Nothing in the approval should be construed as approval from the CREDIT ANGLE and of the financials or any other aspects of the company. If further approval or permission is required from any other regulatory authority of government under the relevant laws/regulations, the applicant should take the approval of the concerned agency before effecting the concerned transaction. Further, it should not be construed as regularizing or validating any irregularities, contravention or other lapses, if any, under the provisions of any other laws/regulations''. No strings attached, claims KIIFB However, KIIFB CEO K M Abraham in his counter affidavit submitted in the court claimed that judicial review of RBI decision was not permissible. `` These are matters of public policy and there is always a presumption that RBI and other authorities have acted in accordance with law'', he said. The KIIFB CEO further argued before the court that KIIFB doesn’t come under the purview of the definition of state as per Article 293 of the Constitution and hence the restrictions applicable to state on borrowings would not cascade on to KIIFB. It was further argued that the relevant sections incorporated by the LDF government in the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Act merely permits the Board to issue appropriate financial instruments. In a nutshell, what the KIIFB CEO’s affidavit said is that the state government did not bypass the laws on borrowings as it did not pass any law to this effect, KIIFB did not violate rules as RBI has given it clearance to raise money through masala bonds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/garam-masala-are-all-facts-on-the-table/articleshow/79330109.cms||B S Anilkumar
November 21, 2020||Goa||Goa transport dept responds to private bus queries||PANAJI: Following the private bus operators’ ultimatum to the department of transport to meet all demands failing which they threatened to gherao the director of transport at Junta House on November 23, the department has issued a detailed reply to each of their grievances on Friday. Private bus operators had alleged that many of them are no longer getting benefits of the Goa state public transport insurance contribution scheme, 2014, and Goa state fuel subsidy to private stage carriage operators scheme, 2014, in the past couple years. “Applications of beneficiaries who availed fuel subsidy scheme do not qualify for second scheme as per existing criteria in notification hence applications 2017 onwards could not be processed,” the department’s response states. The private bus operators also pointed out that are not getting benefits of the scheme for replacement of old buses. The department said that process of sanction of pending applications under this scheme is taken up on priority.  They had also demanded that KTC and private buses fare be equalised, to which the department said it has been “noted for consideration during next fare revision.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/transport-dept-responds-to-pvt-bus-queries/articleshow/79331990.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Mysuru||5 held for extorting money from a doctor||MYSURU: Kuvempu Nagar police have arrested five persons, including a woman, on the charges of extorting money from a city-based doctor. Police said they have arrested Naveen and his associates for extorting money from the doctor who runs a clinic in Periyapatna taluk and lives in Mysuru city. The doctor filed a complaint against the persons on November 11 and the culprits were arrested on November 15. Police said the accused persons, who are all from Periyapatna taluk, were blackmailing the doctor from past few months. They had threatened the doctor of uploading a video of him with a woman in the social media. Unable to bear the constant harassment from the accused for more money, the doctor filed a complaint at the Kuvempu Nagar police station. Investigating is on to find out if the gang is involved in honey-trapping activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/5-held-for-extorting-money-from-a-doctor/articleshow/79326466.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Hubballi||48 sheep found dead after feeding on maize crop||DAVANAGERE: Forty-eight sheep died after feeding on maize crop grown in Sarashwathi Hatti of Hiriyur taluk in Chitradurga district late on Thursday evening. The incident happened when 300 sheep belonging to Chittappa, Kenchappa and Shivamma were left in nearby fields for grazing in the morning, sources said. “The news that they have died by 5pm reached us on phone, after which we rushed to the spot with a team of veterinary doctors,” said Dr Hanumappa G M, assistant director of veterinary department. “We have given injections to over 150 sheep, and they survived. A chemical in maize plants is said to have proved fatal to the sheep. Postmortem has been done on sheep, and their samples have been sent for tests, Dr Hanumappa added. Tahsildar, along with local elected representatives, visited the spot and assured the farmers of compensation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/48-sheep-found-dead-after-feeding-on-maize-crop/articleshow/79327139.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Mysuru||Teenagers commit suicide by jumping into canal in Hassan||HASSAN: Two teenagers from Hirisave of Channarayapatna committed suicide by jumping into Baguru-Navile water canal on Monday evening. Sushmita (18) and Ramesh (19), who were allegedly in a relationship, used a stone to tie themselves together and jumped into the canal in an apparent suicide bid, according to police. They may have taken the drastic step as they were apprehensive of getting their families to approve of their relationship, said police. “On November 16 afternoon, Sushmita’s father had lodged a missing complaint at Hirisave police station. On the same evening, the duo committed suicide. Ramesh’s two-wheeler and their slippers were left at the entry of Baguru-Navile tunnel. Their bodies were found floating in a canal under Nonavinakere police limits in Tumkur district on Thursday evening,” they added. Labourer killed as beam collapses A teenager engaged in construction activity died after a concrete beam fell on him while at work in Holenarsipur on Thursday evening. The deceased has been identified as 19-year-old Ramesh from Kaduvinahosahalli. “He was working in a waste water lifting unit of TMC near Channarayapatna Road. At the time of the incident, he was preparing to build a set-up to put reinforced cement concrete. Suddenly, a concrete beam fell over him. He died on the spot. The subcontractor is a local man who was appointed by a chief contractor from Mangaluru,” said police. “Parents of the deceased staged a protest at the site and sought explanation from the contractor. The contractor arrived and promised them compensation. A case has been registered in the town station under IPC section 304 (A) for causing death by negligence,” police added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/teenagers-commit-suicide-by-jumping-into-canal-in-hassan/articleshow/79328331.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Tax cases against Capt, son adjourned||LUDHIANA: A local court on Friday adjourned the alleged tax evasion cases registered against chief minister Amarinder Singh and his son Raninder Singh. Chief judicial magistrate P S Kaleka has fixed the next case hearing on December 3. The income tax (I-T) department had filed a case of alleged tax evasion against Captain Amarinder and registered two other cases against Raninder. The counsel for income tax department, Rakesh Gupta, said the cases are in consideration stage wherein the court has to take a decision on whether to summon the accused or not. He said the case against Amarinder was lodged under Section 277 (false statement of verification) of I-T Act whereas cases against Raninder were under sections 276-C (evasion of tax) and 277 (punishment for making false statement and verification in account) of the Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/tax-cases-against-capt-son-adjourned/articleshow/79330165.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Chandigarh||As in Bihar, Amarinder should dismiss tainted ministers: BJP||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab unit of BJP on Friday demanded dismissal of tainted Congress ministers from the Punjab cabinet. In a statement, Punjab BJP general secretary Subhash Sharma said two ministers, Sadhu Singh Dharamsot and Bharat Bhushan Ashu, have been facing corruption charges and should be immediately removed from the cabinet. He said the Bihar government has set an example by ousting the tainted education minister. Sharma said Dharamsot was involved in embezzlement of Rs 304 crore grant meant for post-matric scholarship to poor SC students. Along with Dharamsot, Congress MLA from Phagwara B S Dhaliwal must also be dropped for his involvement in the crime. Ashu has not only been accused of harbouring Kashmir militants, but has also been tainted for his role in the multicrore Grand Manor complex scam in Ludhiana. Sharma accused chief minister Amarinder Singh of deliberately turning a blind eye to the corruption of his ministers and giving them a clean chit. He said Congress leaders who have been hand in glove with liquor, drug and mining mafias should also be brought to book by the chief minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/as-in-bihar-amarinder-should-dismiss-tainted-ministers-bjp/articleshow/79330167.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Kochi||UDF hopes to wrest power in Perumbavoor municipality||KOCHI: Perumbavoor municipality had been a traditional stronghold of the UDF. But the Left front, which had 13 seats, came to power in the local body with 27 wards, as a UDF rebel who won supported the LDF in 2015. In July 2019, UDF rebel K M Ali, who was made the welfare standing committee chairman by the LDF, supported a no-confidence motion brought by the Congress and BJP. But within a day, chairperson of the municipality Sathi Jayakrishnan was back as the chairperson as nine UDF members abstained from voting. Intense group fighting has been a bane of UDF in 2015 and this time too the front was not able to finalize the candidates in the municipality. The front is projecting T M Zakkir Hussain, KPCC general secretary and son of senior congress leader T H Musthafa, as the chairman candidate. “This has been traditionally a UDF municipality. In the last election, there were some issues connected to the former chairman which led to our loss. The current political situation is favourable to the UDF,” says Hussain. Congress is contesting in 24 wards with two seats being allotted to the front partner Muslim League and one seat to Kerala Congress. “We could not finalize the list early because of lack of consensus on candidates regarding four wards but it is immaterial. I am contesting in a ward considered a fort of LDF in the heart of the town, which had been with the LDF for the past four terms,” says Hussain. Hussain says the LDF failed to bring any development to the local body because of factionalism within the CPM. “We created a masterplan for the municipality. We could also build a new town hall and open a Yatrinivas terminal, which was in our manifesto,” said Jayakrishnan. The CPM would be contesting in 20 seats and the CPI in six. One of the seats has been given to KC(M). The LDF says their main achievement was completion of a masterplan for the municipality, which has been now submitted to the state government for approval. “In our manifesto, we are promising a new office building for the municipality. We are also planning to relocate a cattle market in the town and construct a shopping complex there,” said Jayakrishnan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/udf-hopes-to-wrest-power-in-perumbavoor-municipality/articleshow/79328857.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Kochi||Is KIIFB accountable to CAG? A legal viewpoint||The controversy stemming from the face-off between Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) and Comptroller & Auditor General of India (CAG) with respect to premature disclosure of the latter’s draft report allegedly questioning the constitutional validity of loans granted by the former has ruffled many political feathers. Over two parts I attempt to decipher the legal position of CAG’s decision vis-à-vis provisions enshrined under extant applicable law and seek to address key queries emanating from a discussion on the subject. Relevant Legal Provisions Brief extract of relevant provisions of CAG (Duties, Powers, and Conditions of Service) Act, 1971: Section 14(1): “Where any body or authority is substantially financed by grants or loans from the Consolidated Fund of India or of any State or of Union territory having a Legislative Assembly, the Comptroller Auditor-General shall, subject to the provisions of any law for being in force applicable to the body or authority, as the case audit all receipts and expenditure of that body or authority and to him port on the receipts and expenditure audited by him.” Section 20(2): “The Comptroller and Auditor-General may propose to the President or the Governor of a State or the Administrator of a Union territory having a Legislative Assembly, as the case may be, that he may be authorized to undertake the audit of the accounts of any body or authority, the audit of the accounts of which has not been entrusted to him by law, if he is of opinion that such audit is necessary because a substantial amount has been invested in, or advanced to, such body or authority by the Central or State Government or by the Government of a Union territory having a Legislative Assembly, and on such request being made, the President or the Governor or the Administrator, as the case may be, may empower the Comptroller and Auditor-General to undertake the audit of the accounts of such body or authority.” 1. Does CAG have any real power to audit KIIFB or similar SPVs under sec 20(2) of CAG Act? In the present case, there seems to be no dispute from KIIFB’s part as to the carrying out of audit of all receipts and expenditure in accordance with section 14(1). However, the bone of contention seems to be the detailed audit, stipulated under section 20(2), insisted upon by CAG. From an interpretation of section 20(2), we can infer that prior governmental consent, here from the Governor of Kerala, is mandatory for conducting such an audit. However, in this case, we understand that despite repeated requests of CAG such consent has not been granted by the government. Also, as per section 20(2), the detailed audit specified thereunder applied only to “the audit of the account of which has not been entrusted to him by law”. However, in the present case, since CAG is already empowered to conduct an audit in accordance with provisions of section 14(1) and has subsequently proceeded to prepare the draft report on the basis of the audit, it can be argued that section 20(2) will not apply. Further, the chairperson of KIIFB is the chief minister of Kerala and governmental consent for an audit under section 20(2) is given by the Governor, however, as per the constitutional structure, de facto executive authority rests with the CM. Hence, there could be a potential ‘conflict of interest’ scenario in such approval being granted as well. Also, from a non-legal perspective, the refusal of the governmental consent could be in part owing to the fact that allowing such a detailed audit would possibly set a precedent for CAG to interfere in the workings of similar state undertakings. 2. To what extent does KIIFB enjoy autonomy insofar as its insistence on doing audits only under sec 14(1)? KIIFB does not possess any particular authority to restrict a detailed audit under section 20(2) in case all conditions stipulated within the provision are met with. However, in the present case as stated above, since the governmental consent has not been obtained, till date, and further the application of section 20(2) itself is in question, CAG is left with no option but to proceed with conducting an audit of all receipts and expenditure as stipulated under section 14(1) as a consolation. (Sushant Shetty is group head (real estate & infrastructure) at Fox Mandal, Solicitors & Advocates. The views are based on his interpretation of extant law and are personal)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/is-kiifb-accountable-to-cag-a-legal-viewpoint/articleshow/79330186.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Trichy||App-based on-street parking at 22 locations in Trichy city||Trichy: Trichy Corporation has initiated measures to implement smart parking policy and app-based on-street paid parking system at 22 locations in the city. The project is expected to be launched in a phased manner from December. Trichy will be the only city after Chennai to have a smart parking policy, once implemented.As part of the policy, a mobile application will be developed for the public to book a parking slot on commercial streets in advance. While two-wheeler will be charged Rs 5 per hour, cars would be charged Rs 20. The proposal will streamline traffic movement by preventing unauthorised parking and generate revenue for the civic body. Arterial roads would be earmarked with parking and no-parking zones through a private contractor without affecting public movement. Vehicles in no-parking zone would be penalised while the parking zones will have a user fee collector appointed. CCTV cameras will be installed in the parking zones to ensure safety. An earlier attempt to implement the same in Chathiram bus stand vicinity was withdrawn last year due to public backlash. But stakeholders said the project was postponed due to Covid-19. “We will start the fee collection from Thillai Nagar. Mobile application-based parking slot booking will be introduced in the course of time. Even residents of Thillai Nagar have to pay if they park their cars in the parking zones,” a stakeholder said. The authorities are also planning for monthly pass facility to use the parking zones. While the proposal will prevent haphazard parking of cars before houses, its implementation is expected to face resistance from residents in commercial areas. “If guests visit our houses, will they will be asked to pay for parking? The civic body should spare the cross streets,” T Senthil Kumar, a resident said. “Other parts of the city will also be covered soon after availing police permission,” corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/app-based-on-street-parking-at-22-locations-in-trichy-city/articleshow/79331993.cms||Deepak Karthik
November 21, 2020||Amritsar||Saroop in suitcase: SGPC for exemplary punishment||AMRITSAR: Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Gobind Singh Longawal has condemned an alleged attempt by a man and his son to transport saroop of Guru Granth Sahib in a suitcase to Pune. In a release issued here on Friday, Longawal said there was a prescribed ‘maryada’ (code of religious conduct) to carry the holy book. He demanded exemplary punishment for the duo, who, he said, was from Gurudwara Nanaksar in Maharashtra. He said they had severely hurt the religious sentiments of Sikhs. Customs officials at Sri Guru Ram Das International Airport on Thursday found the holy book stacked in the luggage of Gaidu Jasveer Singh and his father Jawala Singh, who were to board a flight to Pune. Police arrested both and booked them under sections 295-A (hurting religious sentiments) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/saroop-in-suitcase-sgpc-for-exemplary-punishment/articleshow/79330183.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Trichy||118 new cases, 3 deaths in south TN, 144 new cases in central dists||Madurai/Trichy: A total of 118 fresh Covid-19 cases and three deaths were reported in the 10 southern districts of Tamil Nadu on Friday as the region continued to record less than 125 fresh cases for the fourth day in a row. The deaths include two in Madurai and one in Dindigul districts. On the other hand, central region crossed four consecutive days without registering a single death and registered 144 cases on Friday. A 43-year-old man from Dindigul admitted at the Government Rajaji Hospital on November 11 died on Wednesday. A 67-year-old man from Madurai admitted at a private hospital on Wednesday tested positive on Thursday and died the same day with breathing difficulty for a day.Madurai with 32 cases recorded the highest in the region and is the only district with more than 20 fresh cases. Madurai is the only district in the southern region to record more than 30 fresh cases in a day after four days. It is followed by Tirunelveli and Theni with 16 cases each and Kanyakumari (14).For the first time more than five months as many as six districts have recorded less than 10 cases each. Tuticorin (4) recorded the lowest number of fresh cases in the southern region on Friday, followed by Virudhunagar (5), Tenkasi (6), Sivagangai (8), Ramanathapuram (8) and Dindigul (9).Active cases in the southern region continued to come down and reached 1,059 on Friday from 1,235 on Thursday. Active cases have dropped for the tenth day in a row. The number of districts with less than 100 active cases climbed to six with Dindigul (94) coming below the triple digit mark.Theni (34) has the lowest number of active cases in the south. Two more districts – Ramanathapuram (42) and Tenkasi (47) – have less than 50 active cases. The other districts with less than 100 active cases are Virudhunagar (57) and Sivagangai (79). With 273 active cases Madurai is the only district with more than 200 active cases.In the central region, Ariyalur (4) and Perambalur (1) registered new cases in single digits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/118-new-cases-3-deaths-in-south-tn-144-new-cases-in-central-dists/articleshow/79331989.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Trichy||Pudukottai CWC flags sale of newborn girl in Erode||Pudukottai: Child welfare committee (CWC) in Pudukottai has exposed the sale of a newborn baby of a poverty-stricken couple to unidentified people in Erode through a broker. The committee has referred the case to the Viralimalai police for further investigation on FridayThe issue came to light after a CWC member who learnt about the sale informed Child Line helpline 1098 a few days ago. The baby, which was born at government headquarters hospital in Manapparai on November 2, was the fourth child of a 32-year-old man and a 26-year-old woman in Viralimalai. The couple has two girls and a boy and the man was a chef in a small eatery. Inquiry revealed that he was overcome by financial crisis in running the family. A few months ago, his wife became pregnant with the fourth child. As soon as the baby was born, Kannan, 58, a resident of the area, volunteered to help the family. He tried to persuade the woman to give away her newborn baby. In her complaint, the woman alleged that Kannan met her continuously for a week and insisted on selling the baby to a childless woman. The woman refused to budge and got discharged from the hospital. On November 11, when the baby developed minor health issues, Kannan arranged a vehicle on the pretext of taking them to the hospital. The mother alleged that a woman also accompanied Kannan and her in the car. However, the vehicle went to Erode instead of the government headquarters hospital in Karur. On reaching Erode bus stand, Kannan dropped the mother and the woman there and left the spot with the baby. He returned saying he had given away the baby to a woman, and gave her Rs 1 lakh before leaving the spot with his accomplice. Later, the mother caught a bus and returned home. On his return, her husband reprimanded her for ‘selling’ the baby. The officials said that CWC forwarded the couple’s complaint to the Viralimalai police to arrest Kannan, his accomplices and rescue the baby.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/pudukottai-cwc-flags-sale-of-newborn-girl-in-erode/articleshow/79331986.cms||Gokul Rajendran
November 21, 2020||Trichy||Pic of baby abandoned in Srirangam released||Trichy: The Trichy district administration on Thursday released the picture of a female baby found abandoned near the Yatri Niwas in Srirangam on September 24, giving time to the biological parents of the baby to make their claim.The baby was found by residents after hearing her cry. On being alerted, Sevai Childline helpline officials rushed to the spot and recovered the baby.The baby was brought to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy and admitted under the state government’s cradle baby scheme.Following a period of observation in the hospital, the baby was produced before the child welfare committee (CWC) on November 10. The baby's age was presumed to be 55 days by the doctors. She was named Sai Pallavi.The committee issued a temporary custody order to SOCSEAD - Martin Children home to give her care and protection.DCPU said anyone who has the details of her parents or relatives can report to the CWC Trichy at 0431-2413819, 9629929412 or district child protection unit (DCPU) at 0431-2413055, 8637618397 within 21 days of the announcement. Those with details can mail the DCPU at dcpstrichy1@gmail.com or meet the officials at DCPU, Kalaiarangam upstairs, Cantonment. If the baby is not claimed, the legally free for adoption certificate will be given for the baby for adoption, said Trichy collector S Sivarasu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/pic-of-baby-abandoned-in-srirangam-released/articleshow/79331985.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Chennai||Amit Shah’s visit to Chennai could redefine BJP’s course in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: The AIADMK might portray Union home minister Amit Shah’s visit to Chennai as an administrative schedule, aimed at inaugurating Rs 67,000 crore worth development projects, but there is no denying its political significance.. Highly placed sources in state intelligence said Shah was scheduled to have two one-on-one meetings, both as part of the BJP’s’s attempts at political maneuvering as the assembly elections are just five months away. However, the details have been kept secret. “If it were just an official visit, he would have stayed at the Raj Bhavan. There is more to it,” said the official. Though there were media reports that Rajinikanth would meet Shah, sources in the BJP said it was unlikely. Shah’s game plan may not bring about a paradigm shift in TN politics immediately, but it may cause unease in the AIADMK leadership as there is a new awareness in the BJP that it cannot grow in TN unless it makes inroads into the AIADMK support base, said a senior BJP leader. “Tamil Nadu CM has inaugurated much bigger projects. The official programme is just an attempt by the AIADMK to keep Shah in good humour. It was added to the itinerary after they came to know that Shah was visiting the city,” he said. Both Edappadi K Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam will attend the official function at Kalaivanar Arangam. Some amount of political discourse with the AIADMK leadership is also on the platter as Shah would have a closed-door meeting with EPS and OPS, said another BJP source. Shah will chair a high-level meeting of the BJP with party state president, L Murugan, general secretaries and other senior leaders attending it. “We will brief him on all the activities being carried out in the state. His visit is a morale booster for party functionaries and cadres,” said the leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/amit-shahs-visit-to-city-could-redefine-bjps-course-in-tn/articleshow/79330191.cms||---
November 21, 2020||India||Pune sero survey of 700 finds 85% of them have Covid-19 antibodies||PUNE: New findings from the August sero-prevalence study in five sub-wards of Pune have revealed that 85% of the 700 subjects infected with SARS-CoV-2 had virus-neutralising antibodies after the infection. This is the first time in India or any other lower income and lower-middle income country that research has been undertaken to gauge the extent of "neutralising" antibodies in the Covid-affected population that may offer protection from the virus during subsequent infections. In Pune, the study was conducted by the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Pune University and other collaborators Dr Aurnab Ghose, scientist at IISER and one of the principal investigators of the study, told TOI, "While the earlier findings showed the presence of antibodies suggesting past Covid-19 infection, those antibodies did not suggest the possibility of immune protection from subsequent infection."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pune-sero-survey-of-700-finds-85-of-them-have-covid-19-antibodies/articleshow/79332587.cms||Neha Madaan
November 21, 2020||Trichy||Perambalur imposes stringent quarantine rules for workers||Perambalur: Having managed fresh Covid-19 infections to single digit or nil cases in the past one month, the Perambalur district administration is taking no chances and has intensified quarantining protocols to prevent a fresh surge. On Friday, the district had a total of eight active cases. Even the positive cases being reported are cross-notified, health officials said. Employees of industries and guest workers arriving from other districts and states have been told to compulsorily quarantine for two weeks at their work locations, and employers instructed to facilitate adequate arrangements. In case of any symptoms, the managements were told to inform the district administration immediately, after which the samples shall be collected.“Two weeks of quarantine will prevent the spread even if the visiting worker was asymptomatic, provided the individual was properly quarantined. People who visited other districts or states should be cautious,” R Geetharani, deputy director of health services, Perambalur said. Only three bulk employers in the district are employing around 350 workers from other states. The managements have been told not to employ workers who display symptoms such a cold, cough, fever and throat pain, she said.Indicating that influenza-like illness and SARI cases are also down, officials said that the number of outpatients recorded at the four government hospitals in Perambalur, has not increased. Compared to outpatients treated in the GHs in the corresponding period in November 2019, only 50% of the footfall has been recorded so far. RT-PCR testing in Perambalur GH has also been ramped up from around 400 to 600 per day. Health authorities said that around 1,000 beds are available for treating Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/perambalur-imposes-stringent-quarantine-rules-for-workers/articleshow/79331995.cms||Deepak Karthik
November 21, 2020||Trichy||Walking track on Uyyakondan bank suffers damage||Trichy: The impact of the heavy rains that lashed Trichy in the last few days, has resulted in the surface of the walking track between Uyyakondan canal and Anna Nagar link road caving in at multiple spots.Residents have expressed concern as hundreds of people, including senior citizens, women and children use the facility every day, especially after the corporation established an open-air gym at the canal bank.However, following heavy rains last week, the track surface and the stone tiles have caved in. The surface inside the gym has also sunk below ground level. “As the monsoon is still active, the civic body should temporarily close the track, gym and take up renovation work. The canal adjacent to the gym is brimming with water,” K Janardhanan, a resident of Bhima Nagar said. Any untoward incident will be disastrous, he added.Recalling the collapse of the walking track and retaining wall in the same stretch due to rains in May 2018, residents have urged the civic body to ensure the rigidity of the platforms. “We have inspected the spot and the caved-in tiles have been removed. Correction work will be carried out. The track is completely safe,” a corporation source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/walking-track-on-uyyakondan-bank-suffers-damage/articleshow/79331999.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Chennai||Homicide accused will fly to Chennai today||CHENNAI: A city police team which arrested in Agra three of the six accused in the November 11 murder of a financier, his wife and son in Sowcarpet is flying them to Chennai. After a magistrate court issued a transit warrant for Jayamala, her brother Vilas and his friend Raju Shinde on Friday afternoon, the three were taken by road to New Delhi where they would board a flight to Chennai on Saturday, a police officer said. Early on November 13, two days after financier Dali Chand, 74, his wife Pushpa Bai and their son Shital were found shot dead in their home, police arrested Kailash, another of Jayamala’s brothers, and two others near Solapur in Maharashtra. They were sent to jail before a court granted police to keep them in their custody until November 27. A team led by Seven Wells inspector Sathyan is now questioning them. Police said Jayamala and the two others would be produced in a court in Chennai after landing on Saturday and sent to the Central Prison at Puzhal. Police will later apply to the court concerned for their custody for a detailed interrogation. Jayamala, her brothers and their three accomplices are accused in the killing of her estranged husband Shital, his parents Dali Chand and Pushpa Bhai at their first floor apartment in Sowcarpet. The three had been shot dead at point blank range. After the bodies were found, police managed to trace the car in which they travelled and nabbed Kailash and two others last Friday near Solapur, from where Jayamala’s family hails. The two families had been at loggerheads since Jayamala left her husband with her daughters a year ago and moved in with her parents, a police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/homicide-accused-will-fly-to-city-today/articleshow/79330217.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Prior audit had flagged ‘unhealthy’ practices||THIRUVANATHAPURAM: Even before the comptroller and auditor general (CAG) termed the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) availing funds from overseas market unconstitutional, an audit conducted last year had flagged the unhealthy practice of raising money at high interest and parking funds in banks. It was based on the projected balance sheet for 2018-19 showing increased interest payment on term loans from banks and servicing masala bonds. As per the difference in figures calculated from total loans and interest received from deposits for 2018-19, the interest paid to banks and financial institutions had surpassed interest received from deposits in banks, which is presumed to be a loss as per the basic financial principle. In addition to the Rs 2,150 crore that was raised through masala bonds at an interest rate of 9.723%, KIIFB had also taken long-term loans from Nabard (Rs 565 crore at 9.30%), SBI (Rs 1,000 crore at 9.15%), Indian Bank (Rs 500 crore at 9.15%) and Union Bank of India (Rs 500 crore at 8.95%). All these loans were secured for a period of 10 and 12 years with a repayment period moratorium of two years. These would mean that burden of repayment would fall on future governments. “KIIFB was constituted to push for infrastructure development but now it is being used to bypass this right of legislature. This is a classical way of raising resources using government guarantee and spending without the legislature’s scrutiny. The debtors to KIIFB are holding a government guarantee which is equivalent to a treasury bill … the state's vital future cash flow is being routed towards repayment of bonds,” a senior IAS officer said on condition of anonymity. As per the KIIFB (amendment) act, 2016 the government set apart 10% of motor vehicle tax in 2016-17, increasing it by 10% every year since till it reaches 50% in the fifth year. The cess levied on petrol and diesel is also to be given to KIIFB, before December 31 every year. Last year, nearly Rs 2,600 went to KIIFB under these two heads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/prior-audit-had-flagged-unhealthy-practices/articleshow/79330236.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Tungabhadra Pushkarams begin amid Covid protocol||HYDERABAD: Tungabhadra Pushkaralu, which are held once in 12 years, began amid Covid-19 protocols. While in neighbouring AP, chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy inaugurated the Tungabhadra Pushkaralu in Kurnool, the Pushkarams in Telangana were inaugurated at Jogulamba Balabrahmeswara Swamy temple in the afternoon. Ministers A Indrakaran Reddy, S Niranjan Reddy and V Srinivas Goud took part. Collector Shruti Ojha supervised the arrangements. A control room was set up. Pilgrims can either approach the help desks or call 08546-274007 and 7993499501 for grievances. At the pushkar ghats, pilgrims have been asked to take the dip only near the ghat steps and not venture into the river. Sprinklers have been arranged for those who prefer not to take the holy dip. Additional arrangements have been made at Venusompuram pushkar ghat as people from Karnataka and other places are also expected to come. “There have been abundant rains in the last six years and Telangana will see more development in future,” minister Srinivas Goud said after the inaugural of Pushkarams. He said after the formation of a separate Telangana state, the government took the initiative to organise the Godavari, Bhima and Krishna Pushkarams in the state itself for the convenience of pilgrims. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tungabhadra-pushkarams-begin-amid-covid-protocol/articleshow/79330238.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Trichy||Transport minister to take care of Karur student’s fees||Trichy: Transport minister M R Vijayabhaskar has helped a government school student from Karur district, who managed to get an MBBS seat under 7.5 % reservation for government school students, to pay his fee. S Marimuthu, from Vaangal in Karur district, scored 227 marks in NEET and managed to get a seat in the government medical college in Karur district but could not afford to pay the fee due to poverty. His father M Subramani, 57, an ice cream seller, was struggling to make ends after losing his job due to the lockdown. He could not afford to pay Rs 13,000 towards his son’s MBBS course. Learning about Marimuthu’s plight, Vijayabhasakar met the family and offered help. While he gave Rs 20,000 to pay his fee this year, he assured to take care of the entire fee for his course.Marimuthu had scored 137 in NEET in 2018 when he completed his class XII. Deciding to repeat NEET, Marimuthu got help from an NGO for private NEET coaching. He could not get a seat in 2019 after he scored 213. He decided to appear again in 2020. This time, he took help from his school teachers and prepared from home. He managed to get a seat in Karur government medical college. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/transport-minister-to-take-care-of-karur-students-fees/articleshow/79332000.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Cement company opposes ED plea on trial||HYDERABAD: Bharati Cements on Friday opposed the plea of the enforcement directorate (ED) for a separate trial, that too preceded by a trial in the CBI case. It said that a simultaneous probe alone would meet the end of justice. CBI-cum-ED special court principal special judge BR Madhusudhan Rao resumed hearing in the case and heard Gyanendra Kumar, the counsel for Bharati cements.The counsel said that an ‘ED first approach’ is fraught with embarrassing consequences for both the probe agencies. “If the ED court holds a view that the prosecution could not make out any case of cheating and criminal conspiracy against Bharati Cements, followed by finding by CBI court holding the firm guilty for the same offences, that looks absurd,” Gyanendra said. CBI has made Bharati Cements an accused entity in its India Cements charge sheet filed in the quid pro quo case. ED too registered a case in the same matter and is urging the court to take up its trial first.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cement-co-opposes-ed-plea-on-trial/articleshow/79330242.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Residents want collector to act||KOCHI: As the city is gearing up for local body polls and the district collector taking over the reins of Kochi corporation, authorities seem to be in no mood to remove waste accumulated along the city roads. A walk along the much-celebrated Queens Walkway towards Mount Carmel Church on Chathiyath Road will reveal the pathetic sight of garbage strewn around. “The walkway is one of the favourite places for morning walkers, cyclists and others looking for a space to unwind. But garbage is getting piled up near the church and surrounding areas. The open gym is just opposite the place where waste is getting accumulated. There are all kinds of discarded materials, including plastic, metal, glass and even biodegradable waste,” said Joy Alex, a resident of Pachalam.  “There is a foul smell. It attracts stray animals and rodents. This is one of the beautiful locations in the city. But the authorities have failed to maintain cleanliness,” added Alex. The city’s garbage disposal has always been a subject of debate and controversy and the elected representatives have so far been not able to come up with a viable solution. “Often many local issues get ignored during election campaigns. Better garbage disposal and better roads are two of the long-pending demands of the people living in Kochi. However, these matters are not widely discussed,” said Samuel Johnson, who regularly cycles through the GIDA- Chathiyath Road stretch. Residents as well as those coming to the walkway from other areas of the city want the district collector to intervene in the matter and clear the garbage. They also want the collector to put in place measures that would prevent people from dumping waste at the site.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/residents-want-collector-to-act/articleshow/79328912.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Mangaluru||Three day Manipal e-convocation begins||MANIPAL: Prof C Raj Kumar, founding vice-chancellor, OP Jindal Global, Institution of Eminence, Deemed to be University, Sonipat, Haryana, India, dwelt on the many encouraging thoughts that would evidently stay in the minds of the students after completion of graduation, and offered solutions with apt examples for them to compete with, if that was an option. He was speaking at the e-Convocation that will be spread over three days. He said, “Whatever you do henceforth in your life, always remember that small acts of courage, kindness, empathy and courtesies of the heart will make a great difference to those around you. Success is most often not meaningfully measured in more conventional notions of status, titles and wealth, but in these ordinary acts of humanity,” he said. The Dr TMA Pai gold medal winners on the first day were: Keya Bakshi, Welcomgroup Graduate School of Hotel Administration, Manipal; Shetty Varun Vivek Vinaya, Manipal Institute of Management, Manipal; Jesly Anna James, Manipal College of Nursing; Shambhavi S Shetye, Manipal College of Health Professions; Nikita Jain, Manipal School of Architecture & Planning; Jane Mendonca, KMC Mangalore and Spoorthi, Prasanna School of Public Health, Manipal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/three-day-manipal-e-convocation-begins/articleshow/79328228.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Govts’ failure to act tough hurting Kerala, say experts||Thiruvananthapuram: The budgetary exercise of the last few years involved fudging of accounts. The financial mess created by the UDF was the result of the failure of both expenditure control and resource mobilization, said finance minister T M Thomas Isaac after presenting a white paper on state finances in 2016, immediately after the LDF government came to power. Public debt, said the paper, had doubled from Rs 78,673.24 crore to Rs 1,50,000 crore from 2011 to 2016. He said the LDF government would try to improve the situation by invigorating tax collection and target tax revenue growth of 20-25%. Now, with the current regime’s term winding to a close, tax collection is down and public debt has ballooned to Rs 3,20,468 crore and the UDF too has similar charges against the LDF government. The figures simply mean that successive governments failed to address the problem of fund crunch by refusing to take hard decisions that may leave their vote banks distraught. Experts generally agree that a state like Kerala has very many limitations in exploring new revenue streams. But the state can adopt a more prudent expenditure practices. Fifth finance commission chairman B A Prakash attributes over enthusiasm of successive governments in setting up institutions without proper research and implementing pay revisions every five years as a major cause of the financial crisis. Former state planning board member C P John believes governments should get more freedom for fund mobilization. “The parochial view of keeping state’s borrowing limit under 3% of GDP should change. But that doesn’t mean that you can violate constitutional provisions and justify the same by saying that you did mean welfare,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/govts-failure-to-act-tough-hurting-state-say-experts/articleshow/79330248.cms||B S Anilkumar
November 21, 2020||Nagpur||Intensify patrolling to curb electrocution, NTCA tells MP, Maharashtra||NAGPUR: Perturbed by the series of tiger deaths due to electrocution in the past few weeks, the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), a statutory body under MoEFCC to monitor all tiger reserves, has asked all tiger range states to step up patrolling in buffer and fringe areas of tiger reserves. They have also asked related agencies like police and power supply companies to be involved in the activity. Data submitted by the states shows Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh top the chart in tiger electrocution cases. According to NTCA, of the 33 tiger deaths due to electrocution in the last nine years beginning January 2012, MP reported 20 deaths followed by Maharashtra 10, and Telangana, Karnataka, and Odisha one each. However, Maharashtra has put its figure on the lower side. As per the data collected by Wildlife Protection Society of India (WPSI), an NGO working to tackle growing wildlife crime, in the last five years (2016-20), 18 tigers and 18 leopards have been electrocuted in Maharashtra with the latest one in Navegaon-Nagzira Tiger Reserve (NNTR) landscape in Gondia on November 16. All the tigers have died in the Vidarbha landscape, mostly in Chandrapur district. “Tiger mortality due to electrocution is a serious issue. Maharashtra and MP have been identified as hotspots where frequent electrocution cases have been reported near the same areas. Hence, we have asked both states to take preventive measures by running special drives,” said SP Yadav, additional director general (ADG) & NTCA head. Yadav said, “The drive needs to be taken up in coordination with relevant government departments, inter alia including state electricity boards (SEBs). There is a need to exercise greater diligence in areas where tigresses with cubs have been reported.” As per the information supplied by the states and a map drawn by the NTCA on these deaths, electrocution of tigers is rampant around Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR), Pench (MP & Maharashtra), NNTR, Bandhavgarh, Sanjay-Dubri, Indravati, Kanha, Achanakmar, and Udanti-Sitanadi. MP and Maharashtra have been requested to take concerted action vis-à-vis the advisory issued by NTCA. “It is very clear that electrocution has turned out to be the biggest killer of tigers in Central India. And I am afraid the number of such deaths may rise in the future given the facts that more and more farmers are applying for power, and there are a large number of transient or dispersing tigers at most places, thanks to the boom in tiger population in protected areas,” said Nitin Desai, Central India director of WPSI. If Maharashtra is considered, four tiger deaths (three due to electrocution) have been exposed in the last one month. These include tigress Mayuri from Tadoba buffer from October 19 (carcass not found) and her one cub; seizure of two canines and 10 tiger nails from two accused, who confessed the tiger was electrocuted at Ratnapur in Bramhapuri in April 2020, while one tiger was found dead in agriculture field in Gondia on November 16. “Entire Brahmapuri forest division is sitting on a volcano. Every range here has tigress with cubs at the dispersing stage there. These animals are most vulnerable to electrocution which is rampant in the area. In the Gondia case, we had alerted wildlife officials about the dispersing tiger but they said that was not our area. This attitude needs to be shunned,” said Sawan Bahekar, former wildlife warden. Bahekar said it is a fact that NTCA protocol of special patrolling by joint teams along transmission lines in buffer and corridor and fringe areas of parks is not followed. “There is no analysis of cropping patterns and land tenure dynamics of tigers to assess tiger movement,” he adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/intensify-patrolling-to-curb-electrocution-ntca-tells-mp-maha/articleshow/79330252.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
November 21, 2020||Agra||Agitating farmers detained on Yamuna Expressway||AGRA: Amid the Punjab and Haryana farmers' “Delhi Chalo” call to protest against the three Central farm laws, scores of farmers, including Bhartiya Kisan Union’s (BKU) Mathura unit president, were detained by police on Friday after they blocked the Yamuna Expressway near milestone 133 in Mathura’s Baldeo area and Maant toll plaza. They also protested against the use of force against protesters marching towards Delhi from Punjab and Haryana. Police later released them. Meanwhile, social activist Medha Patkar and scores of farmers from Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka and Maharashtra -- who had been protesting on Agra-Mumbai highway for the past 44 hours -- were allowed to enter UP on Friday evening by Agra police after the Union government permitted farmers from Punjab and Haryana to enter Delhi. Talking to TOI, Patkar said, “We are now heading towards Delhi to participate in the protest against the Centre’s new farm reform laws.” She added that the UP government wants to suppress farmers’ voice, but it will never happen. The farmers were prevented from entering Uttar Pradesh near Saiyan village in Agra district, close to Rajasthan border on Wednesday night. Superintendent of police (rural) Shireesh Chandra told TOI that the farmers had earlier announced that they would gather on the Yamuna Expressway, at a place under Raya police jurisdiction, but they gathered at a spot 15 km away from Raya in Baldeo area around 11:30 am. Traffic was disrupted for almost half-an-hour on the expressway due to the protest, led by district president of BKU Rajkumar Tomar, who, along with 10 farmers, were detained by police. After almost one-and-half-hour, around 30 farmers were detained for blocking booths at Maant toll plaza for almost 2 hours, disrupting traffic. However, four booths were later vacated by them after police intervened. Three booths were completely blocked, said police. BKU’s district president of Mathura unit, Rajkumar Tomar, said, “If the farmers are stopped at border points, we will stage protests on the highways,” he said. In Aligarh’s Tappal area, farmers blocked the intersection on the Yamuna Expressway and submitted a memorandum to the President of India through the local administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/farmers-detained-for-protesting-on-yamuna-expressway/articleshow/79452248.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
November 21, 2020||Aurangabad||Thieves decamp with ATM containing over Rs 21 lakh||AURANGABAD: An automated teller machine (ATM) containing Rs 21 lakh was stolen from a kiosk in Dhorkin village situated on the Aurangabad-Paithan highway. Around eight months back a futile attempt was made at the same ATM centre and the incident was taken on record by the police. A similar incident also took place in the limits of Pundaliknagar police station and the case is yet to be to detected. Police sources said that in the last fortnight there have been similar attempts at different ATM centres across the region. The latest incident came to light in the morning following which a police team along with forensic experts and sniffer dog squad rushed to the spot. “A suspected vehicle was spotted in one of the closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras on the highway, but there are no specific clues about the suspects or the gang involved in committing the crime installed on a busy highway,” a police officer said. Paithan sub divisional police officer and assistant superintendent of police Gorakh Bhamre said, “The ATM centre had no security guard and is owned by a firm that provides services to various banks across the country.” The officer, however, rued that following the previous futile attempt a communication was sent to the management of this financial services asking them to deploy a security guard at the centre, but in vain. “The accused have walked away with the machine that not only consisted cash, but also the DVR of the CCTV camera,” an officer from the local crime branch said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/thieves-decamp-with-atm-containing-over-rs-21-lakh/articleshow/79327778.cms||Mohammed Akhef
November 21, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Parents accuse private schools of not following govt orders||JAIPUR: Parents’ association of Rajasthan gave a memorandum to education minister Govind Singh Dotasra and the education secretary on Friday regarding their demands on payment of fees. On Thursday, private schools of Rajasthan had called off their strike regarding the non-payment of the fees after being assured by the government that they can charge 60% of tuition fees for online classes. However, most of the schools have stared sending messages to parents for payment of 70% of the tuition fees. Sunil Yadav, member of Forum of Rajasthan Parents’ Association said that this is a confusing order. “Schools are sending messages that we have to pay 70% of the tuition fees. However, as per the October 28 order, till classroom teaching starts, we have to pay 60% of the tuition fees in the name of capacity building for online classes. The government must make it clear,” said Yadav. Moreover, as per the order of October 28, school fees have to be bifurcated in different heads mentioning specifically for which it is charged. Most of the schools in Rajasthan do not have any slabs and they are charging 70% of total tuition fees. Abhishek Jain, another member of the parents’ association said that this is a confusing order as most schools do not have any bifurcation of fees. “According to the order, schools were supposed to charge capacity building fees on monthly basis in consultation with parents but that is also not being followed. Hence, we have given a memorandum to officials to clarify this issue as soon as possible,” said Jain. When TOI contacted Sourabh Swami, director of Secondary Education Bikaner, he said that any school not following the government’s order will be dealt with strictly. He said that schools have to charge capacity building fees for online classes on monthly basis till the school re-opens after which they are free to charge school fee according to the syllabus reduced by the government. Schools and parents both are now waiting for the order of the Rajasthan High Court to get some clarity on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/parents-accuse-pvt-schools-of-not-following-govt-orders/articleshow/79330274.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Jaipur||Increase ICU beds to deal with Covid: Rajasthan CM to private hospitals||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has asked private hospitals to increase the number of Covid-19 beds in view of the rising cases in the state. In a meeting with the private hospitals, divisional commissioners, district collectors and health officers, Gehlot expressed his concern over the rising cases of Covid-19 in the state. “Due to winters and festive season, the positive cases have been increasing in the state. It is very important to increase the number of ICU beds to provide medical care to the needy. The state is working hard to increase the same in civil hospitals. The private hospitals should also increase the ICU beds to ensure that no patient should be left behind,” said Gehlot. He informed that the government has provided oximeters to ANM level workers to ensure checking of oxygen level of people living at villages or hamlet. “Also, the state will soon start a post-Covid clinic in every district to provide medical aid to those suffering from post-Covid complications,” said Gehlot. Siddharth Mahajan, secretary, medical and health department says that state is fully prepared to fight Covid-19. “The state has a capacity of 12,000 oxygen beds, can deliver 26,000 oxygen cylinders against the need of 12,000 cylinders,” said Mahajan. He directed the private hospitals to increase the Covid-19 beds from 30% to 40% and if required they should convert non-Covid beds into Covid ones. Officials also informed that in Jaipur alone they have 1,700 beds for Covid-19 in government hospitals. Spl leave for frontline workers Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has announced to provide special leave to frontline workers infected by Covid-19 while working. The special 30-day leave will come under paid leave is meant to boost the confidence of frontline workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/increase-icu-beds-to-deal-with-covid-cm-to-pvt-hosps/articleshow/79330278.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Jaipur||70% Covid-19 deaths among men in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The percentage of men dying of Covid-19 has increased over the past four-and-a-half months. Till July 6, the percentage of men dying of Covid was 66, which has now increased to 71 till November 17, while the percentage of women’s death reduced from 34 to 28.6. According to the health department report, 300 men died till July 6 and from July 6 to November 17, as many as 1,168 men have died. A total of 1,468 men and 621 women have died. Till July 6, 153 women died and from July 6 to November 17, 468 more women died of the infection. Overall, 70% men and 30% women have died in the state. Besides, the percentage of deaths in rural areas of the state has increased, while it has gone down in urban areas since July 6. Before July 6, the percentage of deaths in rural areas was 17, which has increased to 30% from July 6 to November 17. On the contrary, the percentage of deaths in urban areas has decreased from 83% to 70%. Health department officials said that they are strengthening the monitoring of patients in rural areas to prevent more deaths. Moreover, the percentage of deaths of those are above 60 years of age has increased significantly from July 6 till Novermber 17. Earlier, before July 6, the percentage of such deaths was 50, which has now increased to 63.3. With the expansion of treatment facilities, the number of people dying of Covid with comorbidities has gone gown noticeably. Earlier, before July 6, the percentage of deaths of people having comorbidities was 69, which has now reduced to 55.4. The number of patients brought dead to hospital has also reduced since July 6. Before July 6, as many as 78 patients were brought dead, but from July 6 to November, 71 were brought dead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/70-covid-19-deaths-among-men-in-state/articleshow/79330267.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Jaipur||‘More than one marriage in one garden in Jaipur subject to conditions’||JAIPUR: The district administration is keeping an eye on all the marriage functions in the city to ensure social distancing norms and Covid guidelines are not flouted. There is a penalty of Rs 10,000 if the maximum number of guests exceeds 100. To monitor this, 15 incident commanders have been appointed by the administration in the city area. Nearly, 250-300 applications have been received for marriages in Jaipur. However, the district administration has not issued any guidelines with respect to the number of marriages to be held in one marriage garden. According to officials, only one marriage will be allowed at a time at one marriage garden. “Two marriages could be allowed only if certain conditions are met. Like, if there are two different entry/exit points for both the marriages; if the marriage garden/hotel has a huge space (like roof tops, lawns, open spaces etc); and third if one function is held in the morning and the other in the evening. It will be permitted only if the Covid norms and social distancing are maintained and the decision rests with the SDM,” said ADM South Shankar Lal Saini. “Meanwhile, ahead of holding marriage ceremonies, they inform the SDMs in the form of an application, who issues permission to them. Moreover, a list of marriages is shared with the incident commanders concerned and the police stations,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/more-than-one-marriage-in-one-garden-subject-to-conditions/articleshow/79330282.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Jaipur||Trial rooms in Jaipur malls to be checked for cameras||JAIPUR: The Jaipur police commissoner has issued an order to check the trial rooms of the malls in the city to ensure that no cameras are placed in them. This comes after a garment store employee was arrested for taking photographs of a girl when she was changing clothes in the trial room. Jaipur police commissioner Anand Srivastava said, “After the recent case it was decided that the changing rooms of the all the malls in the city will be checked to ensure that no hidden cameras have been placed inside them. The aim is that this checking is done within a week’s time.” About a week back employee of a garment showroom was arrested for taking photographs of a girl while she was changing clothes in the trial room. The incident happened in a mall located in Adarsh Nagar. The accused was identified as Anil Meena who was sent two days of police remand on Wednesday. When the girl along with her mother and brother was shopping on Tuesday, they went to a garment showroom where the accused worked. The girl went to the trial room and the accused somehow managed to click her photograph. When the girl realised this, she along with the family complained to the store manager but instead of checking the veracity of the allegations, he threatened the complainants following which the family lodged a case at the police station. He was booked under IPC Section 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/trial-rooms-in-malls-to-be-checked-for-cameras/articleshow/79330281.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Kolhapur||3-member panel to look into illegal stone mining||Kolhapur: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has appointed a three-member panel to look into the allegation of illegal stone mining on forest land in Kasarwadi. Action will be taken if the allegation is proved to be true. In the last few months, the residents of Kasarwadi village in Hatkanangle tehsil of Kolhapur district were angry over the alleged rampant stone mining there. The residents said the land on which the mining is taking place falls under protected forest. A couple of years ago, the district mining authorities citing the forest laws had banned mining. The village panchayat, in its petition, stated the mining is taking place over 500 acre, which is causing damage to the houses and due to the sound of machinery and dusts emanating cause noise and air pollution. Asim Sarode, the lawyer representing the village panchayat said, “The NGT, taking serious note of the allegations, has set up a panel comprising the head of Maharashtra Pollution Control Board, the district collector and the chief conservator of the forest to study the issue and submit the report over illegal mining. The court has also entrusted the task to take strict actions against those involved in illegal mining.” “We will call for action against authorities and others who support such acts. We also appeal to the people of other villages, who are witnessing such illegal stone or mineral mining, to approach us for legal action,” he added. Shobha Khot, the sarpanch of Kasarwadi village said, “We have appealed to the NGT to direct forest department to vacate its land under the jurisdiction of the village panchayat to make it available for agricultural purposes only. We have also demanded the NGT to slap the illegal miners with a fine and ask them to compensate for the losses caused to the environment and local agricultural land by mining.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/3-member-panel-to-look-into-illegal-stone-mining/articleshow/79327863.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Aurangabad||MERC grants partial relief to indl consumers||Aurangabad: The Chamber of Marathwada Industries and Agriculture (CMIA) has succeeded in getting partial relief for industrial consumers by rectifying the electricity bill on the basis of the power factor. The Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) has directed the MSEDCL to give credit of the excess amount paid by the consumers against the bills of April and May on the basis of consumption and power factor recorded in the month of March. CMIA secretary Satish Lonikar said that the CMIA filed the first petition before the MERC in June 2020 and asked that the bills be issued as per Kwh unit consumption instead of Kvah unit during the lockdown period. Later, the petition was also joined by Vidarbha Industries and Nasik Industries associations in August/September. Subject expert Hemant Kapadia told TOI, “As per electrical engineering formula Kwh will be equal to Kvah only if the power factor is maintained as unity. The consumers are required to pay penalty if the power factor is below 0.90. Now with introduction of Kvah billing system, even though consumers maintain the power factor of 0.90 they will be billed more, as Kvah units recorded will be more.” He added that due to lockdown and restriction, the industries failed to regulate their power factor which resulted in recording of high Kvah unit consumption. Few industries received bills that were 5-6 times higher than their normal bill and were forced to pay the same to avoid disconnection. As per provision of Electricity Act 2003, the power to decide the tariff is vested with MERC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/merc-grants-partial-relief-to-indl-consumers/articleshow/79327807.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Aurangabad||Man, son stabbed for stopping theft bid in Maharashtra||AURANGABAD: A 17-year-old boy was detained by police on Thursday for stabbing a father-son duo with a sharp-edged weapon when the latter foiled the former’s bid of stealing from their restaurant in Waluj area. According to police sub-inspector Laxman Umbre, the suspect is a juvenile and was produced before the child welfare committee that sent him to the correction facility. “Based on the complaint lodged by Manoj Jaiswal, the suspect and his partner, who is an adult and on the run, have been booked on charges of voluntarily causing hurt while committing robbery and for causing grievous injury while committing robbery,” he said. “In the wee hours of Thursday, Jaiswal received a call from someone saying that some thieves have broken into his restaurant. After getting this new, Jaiswal and his son, Piyush, rushed to the spot where the suspects had broken the shutter of the restaurant,” he added. Upon seeing the father-son duo the suspects tried to run, but the minor was caught by them. In order to get himself free from their clutches the minor removed a sharp weapon and stabbed Jaiswal and his son. However, the father-son duo did not let him slip. Police are also looking out for the other suspect who is on the run.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/man-son-stabbed-for-stopping-theft-bid/articleshow/79327838.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Jaipur||BJP leaders train guns on Rajasthan CM over love jihad||JAIPUR: Reacting to chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s post calling love jihad a tool by the BJP to divide society, Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat accused the former of supporting love jihad as part of their communal agenda. In a series of tweets, he questioned Gehlot, “Dear Ashok ji, Love Jihad is a trap that has thousands of young women believing the marriage is a personal affair, where later it turns out it isn’t. Also, if it is a matter of personal liberty, then why are the women not free to keep their maiden name or religion? Further accusing Congress of displaying communal agenda, he tweeted, “Why are families of girls too forced to accept the other religion? Isn’t religion a matter of personal liberty? Ashok ji, Since Congress, wants to support this act of deceit under the garb of personal liberty, isn’t it becomes a blatant display of its communal agenda.” Other BJP leaders, including BJP state president Satish Poonia, leader of Opposition Rajendra Singh Rathore have slammed Gehlot’s post uploaded on Friday. Poonia termed Gehlot’s comments an agenda of Islamic terrorism. “The statement (by Gehlot) is shameful. India is an ancient civilization and marriage is an instinctive sacrament. It is hard to believe that you (Gehlot) will stoop down to this level for your vote bank politics. This move is a result of his mental imbalance due to the miserable condition of the Congress party,” said Poonia. Rathore agreed that marriage is a matter of individual freedom. He, however, questioned that marriage by force, threat and by pressuring to convert their religion is lawful? It is important to bring law to stop the practice of religious conversion on the pretext of love marriages. Those involved should be given strict punishment, Rathore tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-leaders-train-guns-on-gehlot-over-love-jihad/articleshow/79330284.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Kolhapur||State urged to cancel Pandharpur gathering||Kolhapur: Solapur district administration and police have proposed to the state government to cancel the annual gathering of Kartiki Ekadashi in Pandharpur, which falls in next week in view of the Covid-19 situation. Kartiki Ekadashi falls on November 26. The move has been supported by the temple trust but has been opposed by a section of devotees. The administration has proposed that annual gathering be conducted in symbolic manner. The administration is expected to announce rules for Kartiki Ekadashi. Around 2,000 devotees have visited the Pandharpur temple since Monday. However, people from all parts of Maharashtra are pouring into the holy town as the temple was closed for almost eight months. Officials have proposed that all vehicles would be prevented from entering Pandharpur. Lakhs of devotees come to Pandharpur twice a year – Aashadhi Ekadashi and Kartiki Ekadashi. The queue of the devotees, who stand for darshan, stretches more than 20 km. This year, administration expects big crowd as devotees could not come to Pandharpur on Aashadhi Eakadashi. Pandharpur taluka is worst affected part in Solapur district. Out of 33,791 positive cases, identified in Solapur district, Pandharpur taluka has reported 6,828 patients. taluka has reported 206 deaths and 343 patients are active. Pandharpur town has reported 2,958 cases, while 3,870 patients have been identified in rural parts of taluka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/state-urged-to-cancel-pandharpur-gathering/articleshow/79327872.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Man mowed down by low floor bus||JAIPUR: A 40-year-old man who was crossing the road, was mowed down by a low floor bus in Jaipur’s Chaksu on Friday evening. Another person was also injured in the same accident and is currently undergoing treatment. The deceased was identified as Dharmendra Lalwani, a resident of Chaksu. The accident happened around 6.30pm on Friday. “While Lalwani died on the spot, the injured person was taken to the hospital and at present, remains in a critical condition. The bus driver fled the accident spot though we have seized the vehicle and he will also be arrested soon,” said an official of Chaksu police station. A case under relevant sections of IPC has been registered. According to the officials, in majority of the accidents, it is the mistake of the driver. The bus drivers are locked in a stiff competition to cover as many trips as possible. Therefore, there is a rush to reach the bus stops before other buses and pack as many passengers as they can. Rash driving is one of the reasons for the accidents. Officials also claimed that most of the bus drivers do not have proper training to drive the heavy vehicles on busy roads and at times panic when some other vehicle or person comes in front of them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-mowed-down-by-low-floor-bus/articleshow/79330286.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Former Facebook employee-turned-drug peddler held for home delivering contraband in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: The excise enforcement team has arrested a former Facebook employee who turned narcotics peddler for home delivering contraband to his clients and seized 830 grams of hashish oil along with 1.2 kilo ganja from his possession. The accused worked as a Swiggy food delivery executive after he lost his job in Facebook. On a tip-off, the excise sleuths intercepted Motilal Narsing Balaji Singh (35) of Kavadiguda at Shivlal Nagar in Dhoolpet and seized 83 small plastic containers, each with 10 grams of hashish oil and 1.2 kilos of ganja from his possession. A bike, a cell phone and a digital weighing machine were also seized. During the interrogation, the sleuths were startled to know that Singh finished MS from Canada and had worked for Facebook. “Balaji confessed that after finishing engineering in the city he pursued MS in Canada in 2011 and subsequently worked for about two years in Facebook’s Hyderabad office. He was addicted to ganja and after losing his job, he remained unemployed for about three years. By then he was married and has children. Due to family pressure, he started working as a Swiggy delivery executive. A year back, he left that job and started home delivering ganja to customers,” said N Anji Reddy, assistant prohibition & excise superintendent. Initially, Balaji started procuring ganja from Sateesh Singh and Raj Chander of Dhoolpet for Rs 8,000 a kilo. Recently, Balaji met Narsipatnam based peddler Narsing and procured one kilo hashish oil for Rs 20,000 and 3 kilos of ganja at Rs 4,000 a kilo. “Balaji has been home delivering the products to clients, who are mostly software employees and students staying in hostels. He has been charging Rs 1,000 for 10 grams of hashish oil and Rs 600 for 15 grams of ganja,” Anji Reddy said. The accused has been sent to judicial remand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-with-fgn-degree-caught-peddling-drugs/articleshow/79330287.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Child labour to RTE, only serious biz in kids’ parliament||BENGALURU: From inaction pertaining to child marriage to concerns about a post-Covid world, participants at the Karnataka State 13th Child Rights Parliament raised many pertinent queries on Friday. More than 150 children (at least 5 from each of the 30 districts), attended the two-hour virtual session organised by Karnataka Child Rights Observatory (KCRO) to mark World Children’s Day on November 20. Most participants were from government schools and PU colleges and economically weaker sections. The interaction between the children, aged between 12 and 18, and government representatives covered pressing issues like child rights during the pandemic, child marriage, trafficking, child labour, lack of midday meals, RTE, sexual abuse, etc. The kids sought solutions to these problems at the event, which raised awareness about government policies and redressal mechanisms available for children. Two girls from a government school in Ballari asked government representatives about the steps taken to end the devadasi system and prevent sexual abuse. Uma Mahadevan, principal secretary, panchayat raj, responded with details about various government measures on prohibition of the practice and rehabilitation programmes. “Around 46,000 devadasis were identified and rehabilitated in the state with sites, mainstream housing facilities, income support, regular health check-ups and more. Holistic measures undertaken by the state also fetched us a national award,” she said. Nagasimha G Rao, campaign coordinator of KCRO, said the first virtual edition of the event, which used to be held in Vidhana Soudha, received an overwhelming response. Rao added the issues highlighted will be followed up with the ministers and officials concerned. Prosun Sen, communication, advocacy and partnership specialist, UNICEF office of Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Karnataka, said it’s high time the global community listened to and worked with young children as they are the ones who will live with the impact of today’s crisis. He said children are most vulnerable to domestic violence, poverty, undernutrition and other Covid-induced setbacks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/child-labour-to-rte-only-serious-biz-in-kids-parliament/articleshow/79329721.cms||Farheen Hussain
November 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Man beheads wife in Guntur||VIJAYAWADA: In a horrific incident, a 40-year-old was murdered and then decapitated by her husband at Kottapalem village of Nizampatnam mandal in Guntur district on Friday. The deceased was identified as Mariyamma (40). According to Repalle rural CI Srinivas, the incident happened in the morning when Mariyamma and her husband Chippala Nagaraju went out for fishing. Later, only Nagaraju returned home. When Nagaraju’s son asked about his mother, he remained silent. Locals found Mariyamma’s body and her decapitated head near a river bank where Nagaraju had gone fishing. Based on the complaint by Nagaraju’s son, cops registered a murder case and arrested Nagaraju. Officials are yet to ascertain the motive but suspect long drawn family disputes could be the reason.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/man-beheads-wife-in-guntur/articleshow/79327779.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Guntur railway division sets record for freight load||GUNTUR: The Guntur railway division has set records in freight loading this financial year. The division has registered freight loading of 1.56 million tonnes, a 102% increase from the corresponding period last fiscal when is registered loading of 0.77 million tonnes. Consistent efforts of railway officials and work of newly-formed Business Development Unit (BDU) is said to have fuelled the success. Divisional railway manager (DRM) R Mohan Raja said that the division has also surpassed previous year’s total freight loading of 1.551 million tonnes. According to the DRM, the division has set its focus on freight loading owing to the reduction in passenger train services since the Covid-19 outbreak. Speaking to TOI, Mohan Raja said, “The (railway) ministry had announced various freight concessions and incentive schemes for the benefit of freight customers. In order to take up aggressive marketing, the railway board had directed us to constitute separate BDUs with senior officials which has helped break records.” The DRM said that BDUs not only monitored freight movement but maintained close contact with traders and provided all required assistance from the railways. The BDUs have also concentrated on attracting new traffic to enhance the existing loading so as to increase railways’ share in the transport sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/guntur-rly-division-sets-record-for-freight-load/articleshow/79327745.cms||Samdani MN
November 21, 2020||Vijayawada||YS Jagan Mohan Reddy’s physio likely YSRC pick for Tirupati Lok Sabha seat||VIJAYAWADA: The YSRC is set to finalise on the candidature of party chief and chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy’s physiotherapist, Dr Guru Murthy for the upcoming by-elections to the Tirupati Lok Sabha seat. The chief minister on Friday met family members of the deceased MP, Balli Durga Prasada Rao, at his Tadepalli camp office on Friday after returning from his Kurnool tour. The MP’s widow Saralamma and son Kalyan Chakravarthi sought the CM’s support for their family. It is believed that the chief minister promised an MLC seat to Chakravarthi as and when a vacancy opens up. As per YSRC sources, neither mother nor son expressed interest to contest the bypoll. Following their refusal, the chief minister cleared the candidature of Dr Guru Murthy for the seat. An official statement is expected over the coming days. It may be mentioned here that the Election Commission of India (ECI) is yet to issue a notification for the by-election to the Lok Sabha seat. Meanwhile, Telugu Desam Party (TDP) has named former Union minister Panabaka Lakshmi as its candidate for the seat while BJP is yet to name its runner. The Congress is expected to name six-time MP from the seat, Dr Chinta Mohan, as its candidate for the election. The YSRC is confident of retaining the seat as a result of its welfare initiatives implemented over the past 16 months and its hold of all seven MLAs within the Lok Sabha constituency under its ranks. The chief minister has already held a meeting with party MLAs including ministers Botcha Satyanarayana, Balineni Srinivas Reddy, P Anil Kumar, Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy, Kodali Srivenkateswara Rao, MPs Mopidevi Venkata Ramana and Vemireddy Prabhakar Reddy, and senior functionaries Ummareddy Venkateswarlu and Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy. The CM is understood to have readied the blueprint for the party’s electioneering in the constituency and asked party workers to start campaigning and not wait for the ECI’s announcement. Meanwhile, TDP has already started its campaign with candidate Panabaka Lakshmi reaching the temple town and holding consultations with senior party workers. She had lost to Durga Prasada Rao in 2019 elections by a margin of 2.28 lakh votes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cms-physio-likely-ysrc-pick-for-tirupati-ls-seat/articleshow/79327533.cms||Gopi Dara
November 21, 2020||Mangaluru||Special exams for MU final year students from December||MANGALURU: In order to help students who had missed the final year examinations due to contracting Covid-19, being in quarantine and other related reasons, Mangalore University is gearing up to conduct special examinations. P S Yadapadithaya, vice-chancellor, Mangalore University, said that the special examination will be held only for final-year students. “The university understands that this is crucial for final-year students, who have to prepare for higher education or placements. We are leaving no stone unturned so that they (students) don’t lose a year or miss out on job opportunities due to not being able to take the examination. The university is mulling to start this special examination from the first week of December, and preparations are on in full swing for the same,” said Yadapadithaya. The special examination is likely to stretch up to two weeks, and the time-table may have no break between exams. Currently,the university has decided to hold this examination in three examination centres in Udupi, Dakshina Kannada and Kodagu. However, no supplementary examination is planned for students who have failed in any of the semesters. The university has already started the process, and through colleges, have asked students who missed the examinations, to submit a request letter for writing the same. P L Dharma, registrar (evaluation), Mangalore University, said that the varsity is yet to get details on the number of students planning to appear for the special examination. PG course applications extended till Nov end: VC  Mangalore University, which is facing difficulty to announce some of the pending results of recently concluded final year examinations, has planned to extend the last date for applying for postgraduate courses. “There is an unprecedented delay due to some technical glitches. Officials are rectifying the same. Therefore, we have decided to extend postgraduate course applications till the end of November,” said Yadapadithaya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/special-exams-for-mu-final-year-students-from-december/articleshow/79328203.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
November 21, 2020||Mangaluru||Star chef recalls his Udupi connect||MANIPAL: WGSHA alumnus and Michelin-starred Indian celebrity Chef Vikas Khanna said if he had never come to Manipal, he would never have experienced and understood the meaning of cooking and food like he knows today. He was speaking at the Alumni Entrepreneurs’ Summit 2020 conducted through the Welcomgroup Entrepreneurship Development Cell (WEDC), Welcomgroup Graduate School of Hotel Administration (WGSHA) on Wednesday. The restaurateur, cookbook writer and filmmaker, who addressed the event from New York, thanked his teachers, friends, and Udupi for the knowledge he gained about culture and food. He explained how risk-taking and being focused play an important role for one to grow as a chef and entrepreneur. Chef Vikas Khanna motivated the young hospitality students to absorb the knowledge and information from their teachers and be benefited by it, as the future leaders of the industry Students from various courses interacted with successful alumni entrepreneurs on the occasion. The event was live streamed on social digital media, and was attended by thousands of viewers. The purpose of the summit was explained by WEDC coordinator Prof H S Sethu, principal, while chef Thirugnanasambantham emphasized on the quality of education imparted at WGSHA, and its relationship with its alumni. Explaining the significance of hospitality entrepreneurship in the Indian economy, he urged the students to gain knowledge and get insights on entrepreneurship in hospitality and tourism, through this summit. Vikas Mahajan, CEO, River Cree Resort and Casino in Edmonton, who joined the Summit from Canada, advised students to be ready to explore the world. He gave tips on leadership qualities. The summit had 10 more speakers who addressed the gathering.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/star-chef-recalls-his-udupi-connect/articleshow/79327741.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Woman steals, sells day-old girl for Rs 80,000; 4 arrested||BENGALURU: A 23-year-old woman who allegedly stole a one-day-old girl from Vani Vilas Hospital recently, a couple who bought the child for Rs 80,000 and a man who brokered the deal have been arrested. The child was rescued on Thursday and reunited with her parents. The accused were identified as Ayesha, 23, of Kanakanagar near Yelachenahalli, her friend Vasim Pasha, 30 of Manju Layout, and Abdul Rehman, 32, and his wife Sania Fathima, 22, residents of Umar Bagh Layout in JP Nagar. According to police, Arshiya, wife of Abdul Rashid, a daily-wage labourer from Vijinapura, east Bengaluru, was admitted to the hospital on the night of November 9. She gave birth to a baby girl around 12.30am and the newborn was shifted to to the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) as she had some complications. Around 4.25pm on November 11, Rashid told the hospital staff that he wanted to see the baby. The employees found that the child was missing from the NICU. The NICU staff told Rashid a woman posing as his relative had taken away the baby for breastfeeding around 1.30pm earlier that day. He approached VV Puram police and filed a complaint about his missing child. A police team headed by inspector K Shivashankar swung into action. Cops found that a woman was seen leaving hospital premises. Plainclothesmen were deployed at the hospital in the hope that the woman may return to steal another baby, given the ease at which she had executed her first job. On Thursday, a woman was spotted entering the hospital and moving around suspiciously. “She could offer no explanation about why she was there. We caught her and she identified herself as Ayesha,” a police officer said. According to police, Ayesha confessed to her crime and said she had stolen the baby and sold it to a couple for Rs 80,000. She said she had three children and had health complications. Investigation revealed that Rehman, a two-wheeler mechanic, had married Fathima six years ago and the couple did not have children. He had expressed his desire to buy a baby in front of Pasha, his colleague. Pasha contacted Ayesha and asked her to steal a baby for his friend. He mediated between Ayesha and Rehman and got her Rs 80,000 for the deal. According to police, the couple knew the baby had been stolen. “We suspect some more people are involved in the case. Investigation is on,” a police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/woman-steals-sells-day-old-girl-for-rs-80k-4-arrested/articleshow/79329753.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Aurangabad||Man attacked for refusing to sign divorce papers||AURANGABAD: City police have arrested a 22-year-old man for stabbing his brother-in-law after the latter refused to sign the divorce papers. The 33-year-old victim — Syed Aref, a resident of Kaiser Colony — has suffered injuries on different parts of the body, including stomach and thigh. “He has been admitted to a hospital and had to undergo treatment,” a police officer said, adding that the victim has been identified as Ayaz Khan. City Chowk police inspector Sambhaji Pawar said differences grew between Aref and his wife owing to some domestic issues. “The woman has been staying with her parents for the past six months, but the differences grew and his wife decided to get divorced,” he said. “The woman’s brother met Aref on Wednesday night and tired to convince him in signing the papers but failed. They then got into an altercation following which Khan stabbed Aref,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/man-attacked-for-refusing-to-sign-divorce-papers/articleshow/79327865.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Nagpur||Jaripatka cops to try and return 71 seized vehicles rusting since 2 decades||NAGPUR: Even as hundreds of new vehicles hit Nagpur’s roads every day, thousands are gathering dust in the city, with many nearly falling apart. These are the ones seized by city police for various reasons over the years. Now, Jaripatka police have decided to return the seized vehicles to their owners, though most vehicles are no longer roadworthy. The Jaripatka police, led by senior police inspector Nitin Fatangare, has started the process to dispose of 71 vehicles — mostly two-wheelers — that were seized and are lying in city police’s junkyard near Police Headquarters at Gittikhadan since 1992. Most of the vehicles seized by police are from criminal and accident cases. Some were found abandoned while some were seized by police while cracking a vehicle theft case, said Fatangare. The senior PI said if a vehicle is seized for violation of rules, they can be taken back by the owners within a week. In case of theft, missing cases or accidents, where most bikes are seized, no one turns up to claim them. The vehicles lying for a long time are those seized during crimes like chain snatching, robbery or being involved in accidents, he pointed out. He said the police station has been trying hard to return the vehicles to their original owners since last many years. “Due to poor response, the police station has now decided to give last chance to the original owners to take back their vehicles, or we will auction them,” he told TOI. Usually, police release the vehicles after completing the formalities. But the delay in carrying out formalities led to the vehicles rotting out in the open area in the junkyard. Police generally auction off vehicles where owners cannot be traced. But no auction has taken place for a long time. The senior PI said the vehicle registration numbers, chassis and engine numbers are made available at Jaripatka police station. If the original owners fail to turn up to claim their vehicles, the police station will launch the second process to auction the vehicles. Team TOI visited the junkyard and found that thousands of vehicles seized by all police stations and traffic police zones are dumped there. These vehicles were not roadworthy and parts of most of the vehicles, including battery and other major parts like tyres, engines are missing. Sources said the vehicles become defunct by the time officials clear formalities to release them. TOI has been highlighting that there are several impounded vehicles either kept outside police stations or piled up at the Police Junkyard at Gittikhadan. These vehicles not only eat up road space but also can be used for anti-social activities. Several incidents have been reported in the past, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/jaripatka-cops-to-try-and-return-71-seized-vehicles-rusting-since-2-decades/articleshow/79330275.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Jaipur||Woman found murdered in Alwar district||ALWAR: A woman’s body was found in drain which was wrapped in a bedsheet and her limbs tied with a rope in Alwar’s Chopanaki. The victim’s identity could not be determined initially and cops sent her photograph to various police stations to find if someone matching her description has been reported missing. Finally, she was identified as 32-year-old Sarita Yadav. When the cops found her body, they only knew that the victim appeared to be in her 30s and while she was clothed, cops are also looking at the possibility that she might have been raped before being killed. Police also found a bag along with the body which contained few clothes. “It appears that the woman was murdered elsewhere and then her body dumped here. She had injury marks on throat and head. The murdered seems to have taken place probably on Thursday night as when we found the body, blood was still oozing out from the head wound,” said a police official. Officials examined the spot where the body was found and FSL team as well as dog squad to examine the area. Elaborating on the investigation, the official said, “Now that the victim has been identified, there could also be a probability that one of her family members was involved in the murder but at present it is too early to say anything. At present we have her husband on our radar and will question him to get more details into the matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-found-murdered-in-alwar-dist/articleshow/79330289.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Projects and agents are thriving without Rera stamp, say realtors||HYDERABAD: Amid an ongoing legal tussle over Telangana’s Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA) rules — binding only on projects launched post January 1, 2017 – city realtors allege that the act is being routinely flouted, both by developers and agents. Their claim: several dealers are not only selling plots/homes without a RERA registration number but are also tweaking layouts post approval – for better returns. If that's not all, many property agents are even marketing products without the mandatory RERA license. As per the Telangana State RERA website, there are as many as 2,354 registered projects and 1,233 property agents. “In reality though, there are thousands of agents on the ground. Many of them are not even aware that they need a RERA license,” said Sumanth Reddy, president of the National Association of Realtors, admitting that the rules are not being taken seriously in Telangana. The violations, industry insiders say, are most rampant among plotted development projects mushrooming along Hyderabad’s periphery. “There are also residential/villa projects in Kokapet, Bachupally and Srisailam highway that are selling without a registration number. To avoid being noticed, these dealers are marketing the product without a name,” said another city realtor familiar with such projects. He added: “In plotted ventures, we have noticed that the layout is changed after getting RERA approval. So, what’s eventually being sold is an illegal plot.” Solution? Stricter monitoring and a more vigilant customer base that refuses to put their money in properties that violate the rulebook. “For this, we need RERA authorities to be more proactive; and to educate and create awareness among people,” Reddy said. When contacted, RERA officials denied violation of RERA rules in any project. “And if people claim there are agents working without a license, I would request them to bring such agents to us. We’ll take action,” said K Vidyadhar, secretary, TS-RERA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/projects-and-agents-are-thriving-without-rera-stamp-say-realtors/articleshow/79330291.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
November 21, 2020||Vijayawada||HC: Is it not ‘mindless action’ to stop works in Amaravati?||VIJAYAWADA: The Andhra Pradesh high court on Friday said that there is a need for legislation to prevent people with criminal background from entering politics. During the hearing on a batch of habeas corpus petitions, the high court made some scathing remarks on the state government. When the counsel representing government objected to the term ‘mindless actions of the government’ in the petitioner’s affidavit, the bench said is it not mindless action to stop all development works in the capital. The bench comprising Justice Rakesh Kumar and Justice J Uma Devi observed that a thorough background check is being made even in the case of recruiting an attender in a government office and those who were having a history of criminal cases are being rejected. However, there is no restriction for a person with criminal record from contesting the elections and representing people. The irony of democracy is that those with the criminal history are making legislations, the bench said adding that even the Supreme Court did not do anything about it. Arguing on behalf of the police, senior counsel SS Prasad said the public interest litigation (PIL) moved by former TDP MLA, Tenali Sravan Kumar, is not maintainable. Sravan Kumar challenged the actions of the police in imposing Section 144 of CrPC for indefinite period and not allowing peaceful protests even after according permission. Justice Rakesh Kumar further said is it not mindless action to stop all works in Amaravati after spending more than Rs 3,000 crore public money. He went on to say that his heart goes out when he see unfinished works in Amaravati everyday while attending the court. Prasad took objection to the observation saying that it is not appropriate for the bench to comment on the matter in which neither he is arguing nor Justice Rakesh Kumar part of the bench. He said that the decision to shift capital is an administrative decision. Justice Rakesh Kumar said that he mentioned it because it is one of the contentions of the petitioner and wondered whether the decision was really taken in the public interest. On the argument of not maintainability of the petition, the bench observed that any citizen can move the HC when he feels democratic process is being violated. It was also noticed that police exerting pressure on some of the petitioners to withdraw their petitions. Attempts are being made to disregard judicial process in the state, said the bench adding that an MP issued a statement terming the high court as branch office of a political party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hc-is-it-not-mindless-action-to-stop-works-in-amaravati/articleshow/79327679.cms||Srikanth Aluri
November 21, 2020||Hubballi||Four killed, 23 injured after mini-bus rams tree||KOPPAL/ DAVANAGERE: Four persons were killed and 23 people injured in a road accident on NH-367 at Nittali village in Kukanur taluk in Koppal district on Friday. The accident occurred when a min-bus carrying a group of relatives for an engagement ceremony to Hiresindogi village of Yelburga taluk from Agasanakoppa village of Badami taluk, and collided against a roadside tree. The bus driver trying to avoid a biker — who came on the way from the other side — is said have resulted in the accident. The deceased are Rangappa Nagannavar, 80, Bheemavva Fakirappa Godi, 70, Shivanand Nagappa, 60, all from Agasanakoppa village, and biker Santosh Hanumantappa Yenki, 22. The injured have been admitted to Koppal District Hospital, and the condition of six of them is said to be critical. The bus driver is absconding. Kukanur police have registered a case. Koppal SP T Sridhar, DSP Venkatappa Nayak and other officers rushed to the spot and took stock of the situation. Yelburga MLA Halappa Achar visited the hospital and directed the doctors to treat the injured on a priority. Newly-weds die in hit-and-run accident A newly-married couple from Nagaramgere village in Challakere taluk of Chitradurga district were killed on the spot following an accident in Talaku station limits on NH-150A on the late evening of Thursday. The deceased — T Sandeep, 25, and Bhavya, 22 — were married six months ago. The accident occurred while the couple, astride a motorbike, was hit by a vehicle and sped away. Talaku police visited the spot. Investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/four-killed-23-injured-after-mini-bus-rams-tree/articleshow/79327104.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Rajkot||Young mother branded as witch, set ablaze near Rajkot; two arrested||Rajkot: Superstitious villagers in Virnagar village of Atkot taluka in Rajkot district thrashed and set ablaze a 22-year-old woman brandishing her to be a witch and being possessed by a deity. Police on Thursday night arrested two persons, who happen to be distant relatives of the victim, and booked them for attempt to commit culpable homicide. According to police, Urmila Pankaj Chandana, a native of Santrampur in Mahisagar district was set on fire alive allegedly by Mukesh Katara (27), his nephew Nilesh (20) and their uncle Satish on Wednesday night in the farm of one Bharat Rupaliya. Urmila and her husband Pankaj worked as labourers in the farm located in Virnagar village and also lived there. While Nilesh and Mukesh were arrested after Pankaj lodged a complaint with Atkot police station on Thursday night, Satish is absconding. In his complaint, Pankaj stated that three days before the incident, Nilesh started gyrating and claimed he was under the influence of a local deity. Urmila, mother of an 18-month-old child, also started twirling along with Nilesh which made people suspect that she too was possessed by the deity. On Wednesday, Nilesh gathered all his family members and accused Urmila of taking away his powers and demanded her to return it to him. He asked Pankaj to go out while he along with the other accused talked to Urmila. Atkot police sub-inspector K P Meta said that after Pankaj went out, Mukesh and Satish started beating up Urmila. Meanwhile, Nilesh grabbed a bale of dry hay which he lit at one end and started rotating it in front of Urmila. In the melee, a burning ember fell near Urmila’s feet and her clothes caught fire. Soon she got engulfed in the blaze and everybody, including Pankaj, rushed to save her. They doused the fire using mattresses and rushed Urmila to Virnagar primary health centre from where she was referred to Rajkot civil hospital. Urmila suffered 50% burns on her two hands, legs and back. PSI Meta said that Urmila is able to talk and a magistrate will record her statement on Saturday. Based on Pankaj’s complaint police have arrested Nilesh and Mukesh. The complainant, victim and the accused are all relatives and work as farm labourers in Virnagar village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/young-mother-branded-as-witch-set-ablaze-near-rajkot-two-arrested/articleshow/79328080.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Surat||Psychological profiling of graft scene conducted||Surat: The anti-corruption bureau (ACB) on Friday got psychological profiling of the crime scene at the office of a talati in Adajan done by a team of Directorate of Forensic Science (DFS). This is the first time that the ACB got psychological profiling of a crime scene done in the city in a graft case. Talati Hiral Dholakiya and her aide Kanti Patel were caught accepting bribes of Rs 1,000 on November 13. The team headed by forensic psychologist Hema Acharya of DFS, Gandhinagar, videographer, photographer, legal advisor and local officers of Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) visited the office and gathered details of the trap and prepared a sketch of the entire crime. “Psychological profiling attempts are made to read the criminal’s mind. The forensic experts will prepare a report understanding the psychology of the criminals,” ACB director Keshav Kumar told TOI. ACB will produce the report in court to prove the charges against the accused along with other supportive evidence. Through the psychological profiling police are trying to understand the mindset of the accused for specific acts. Dholakiya was talati of Palanpore and holding charge of Adajan as well when caught from her office. ACB found that Patel was provided a table and chair to sit in Dholakiya’s office despite being a private person. Patel told ACB that he has been handling work for all talatis in Adajan for the past many years. He used to demand and accept bribes on behalf of the talatis. During search of Dholakiya’s office soon after the trap, ACB found Rs 95,920 cash hidden under table, and chair and inside cushion of chair. “Bribe money was found in suspicious circumstances at illogical places, deliberately hidden under the office table, chair and in the cushion. We got psychological profiling done to make intangible observations forensically tangible through an expert,” Kumar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/psychological-profiling-of-graft-scene-conducted/articleshow/79328585.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
November 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Long weekend may cloud voting percentage||HYDERABAD: At a time when the large part of the city is abuzz with activity ahead of polls, the run up to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections hasn’t caught the attention of many employees working in the IT corridor. Long weekend and work from home option due to Covid-19 pandemic is likely to impact the polling percentage in 11 wards that houses close to five lakh IT employees. A majority of techies residing in areas such as Gachibowli, Kondapur, Miyapur, Serilingampally, Hafeezpet and parts of Kukatpally in these wards admit the heat of the civic polls hasn’t reached them. In 2016, around 35%-47% voters exercised their franchise in the IT corridor. With many companies declaring a holiday on account of Guru Nanak Jayanti on November 30, many voters are planning a getaway to nearby tourist locations. There are many others who will be unable to exercise their franchise considering they have moved back to their hometowns. “I had moved to my hometown in June soon after our company declared that work from home will continue until March 2021. There is no way that I will be able to vote this time,” said Deepti P, a resident of Pragathi Nagar. In order to encourage techies to vote in the ensuing civic polls, the Telangana Information Technology Association (TITA) is set to engage the community by organising hackathons and flash mobs. “This time, around 90% of the 5.82 lakh techies in Hyderabad are working from home and we hope that more number of people will come out to vote,” said Sundeep Makhthala, global president, TITA. He added that around 30%-35% hail from city and many others have been living here for many years but haven’t changed address in their voter IDs and TITA has been running campaigns to generate awareness about how to change addresses. The Hyderabad Software Enterprises Association (HYSEA) will be conducting social media campaigns in the next couple of days along with its member companies to motivate employees to cast their votes. “Earlier, IT employees would get a holiday but many of them wouldn’t come out to vote but with work from home, I feel more number of techies would take some time out to step out of their homes to cast their votes,” said Bharani K Aroll, president, HYSEA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/long-weekend-wfh-likely-to-affect-voting-by-it-workers-in-ghmc-polls/articleshow/79331442.cms||Preeti Biswas
November 21, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur rural schools to reopen for teachers on Monday, students may come from Wednesday||Nagpur: Sources in the education department have confirmed to TOI that schools outside Nagpur city limits will reopen from Monday, but with certain riders. On Monday and Tuesday, only teachers will be allowed in school. After reviewing the situation and rechecking the response from parents, permission may be given to allow students into classrooms from November 25 (Wednesday). Many big brand schools, including those from CBSE board, are located just outside city limits. This order is applicable to them. The education department has clarified that it is not mandatory to reopen schools either for teachers or students. A highly placed source said that the official order is expected by evening from the district collector’s office. Nagpur city schools will, however, remain closed till December 13 as per the decision taken by the Nagpur Municipal Corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpur-rural-schools-to-reopen-for-teachers-on-monday-students-may-come-from-wednesday/articleshow/79351044.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
November 21, 2020||Kolhapur||Covid norms violators to face legal action in Satara||Kolhapur: Satara district collector Shekhar Singh has warned of stern legal action against people, who are found violating the Covid safety norms.Singh said people must take all the precautions like wearing of a mask, washing hands frequently and maintaining social distancing as the experts have predicted the second wave of Covid-19. Singh has appealed to the shopkeepers to not allow people without a mask to enter the shops. If people do not maintain social distancing and causes crowding, shops will be closed for seven days, he warned. He has asked the citizens to cooperate with the health workers and approach them if they came in contact with Covid patients. Meanwhile, Satara district reported 107 new Covid cases and 11 deaths due to the infection since Thursday late night.Satara tehsil recorded 26 new cases, six people tested positive in Patan tehsil, Koregaon tehsil added 20 cases, Jawli and Wai tehsils reported three cases each among others.The deceased include ten men and a woman. Five deaths were reported in Satara tehsil while Khatav recorded three deaths. Maan and Patan reported two and one death, respectively. The district has 49,404 patients, of them, 46,654 have recovered and 1,670 deaths have succumbed to Covid. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/covid-norms-violators-to-face-legal-action-in-satara/articleshow/79327886.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Outfits to protest as BJP plans to conduct Vel Yatra in dist tomorrow||Coimbatore: The Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam (TPDK) and 17 other political outfits and various organisations would lay siege to the city police commissionerate here on Sunday at 10am, to condemn the AIADMK government and police for their failure to stop the BJP’s Vetrivel Yatra in the state. The move comes close on the hells of the BJP announcing its plans to conduct the Vel Yatra in the district on Sunday.In a press note, Ku Ramakrishnan, general secretary, TPDK, said the Union government’s economic policy has affected the livelihood of people in the country and the BJP government at the Centre has failed to provide compensation to the people hit by the pandemic. The country, he said, has been witnessing price hike, poverty and unemployment every day.“People are suffering because of the Union government’s ruling. To divert the hate against the BJP, the party is spreading anti-religious messages among the people. Despite the Madras high court denying permission, the party has been conducting the Vel Yatra in the state. The BJP has failed to respect the court order,” Ramakrishnan said.He also lambasted the state government and police for remaining mute spectators.The Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi, Dravidar Kazhagam, Bahujan Samaj party, May 17 movement, Revolutionary Youth Front, Dravidar Viduthalai Kazhagam and a few other political outfits and organizations would join the TPDK to lay siege to the city police commissionerate. The TPDK had invited media persons to the Periyar Study Centre at Gandhipuram for a media brief on Friday around 11am and stage a token protest. However, assistant police commissioner (central) Premanand and team requested the TPDK and other outfit leaders not to address the media and took them to the Variety Hall Road police station.Meanwhile, the Naam Tamilar Katchi (NTK) has moved the Madurai bench of the Madras high court, seeking permission to conduct ‘Lord Muruga Yatra’ at Palani in Dindigul district on Saturday. On Friday, hearing on the plea was adjourned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/outfits-to-protest-as-bjp-plans-to-conduct-vel-yatra-in-dist-tomorrow/articleshow/79330297.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 21, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: 64-year-old stable after ‘awake’ tracheostomy||KOLKATA: A 64-year-old Behala resident underwent ‘awake bedside tracheostomy’ — a procedure in which no intravenous anaesthesia is used — at a city private hospital recently. Sk Mehabub Ali, a former employee of Medical College Kolkata, was admitted to a private hospital when he had a sudden breathing distress two months ago. His problem was suspected to be a lung issue but a CT scan failed to detect any lung problem. Later, doctors diagnosed a laryngeal growth that had blocked 95% of Ali’s airway making him unable to breathe. Ali was discharged from the hospital on Friday. His condition is stable, said doctors. Ali was advised to undergo tracheostomy that involves creating an opening in the neck to place a tube into the patient’s windpipe, allowing air to enter the lungs and ease breathing distress. His family members said that no doctor wanted to conduct it due to the risk involved and he was then rushed to the Ruby General Hospital, where the procedure was done. Incidentally, late actor Soumitra Chatterjee had been put through a treacheostomy to help revive his oxygenation. “It was an extremely emergency case. It was due to the severely compromised airway and the patient’s comorbidity — heart and kidney issues — that administering anaesthesia for a tracheostomy was going to put his life at risk. But a tunnel had to be secured to relieve him of the obstruction,” said intensivist and pain physician Dibyadip Mukhopadhyay, who conducted the procedure with help of ENT surgeon Debarshi Roy and pulmonologist Arindam Mukherjee. Doctors have sent a sample from the laryngeal growth for biopsy. Depending on the report, they will decide the further course of treatment. “We formed a medical team. The family was counselled on the pros and cons before the procedure,” said Sujoy Ranjan Deb, deputy medical director at Ruby General. “I am happy to take my father home. We are thankful to the doctors for their service to a non-Covid patient during the pandemic,” said his daughter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/64-yr-old-stable-after-awake-tracheostomy/articleshow/79330292.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
November 21, 2020||Hyderabad||University of Hyderabad startup develops tech for Favipiravir||HYDERABAD: University of Hyderabad incubated startup, Aptus Therapeutics has developed novel and innovative methods for manufacturing of Favipiravir, the antiviral drug which is being used to combat Covid-19. Incubated at ASPIRE-TBI, the firm focuses on Synthetic Chemistry and Chemo Enzymatic Chemistry. The developed synthetic process technology is very cost-effective and eco-friendly which uses fewer solvents and easy to isolate the target molecule in large quantities. “The process developed by us is based on green chemistry where we reduce and reuse the solvents and avoid corrosive solvents that cause environmental hazard. We will avoid the expensive and hazardous chemicals and use enzymes instead of chemicals,” said Koti Reddy, founder, Aptus Therapeutics. The firm has developed and validated the technology for commercial bulk production. To achieve this, it has associated with Fleming Laboratories, Hyderabad for bulk production and currently has made an agreement with a Russian firm to supply in large quantities. Dr Prakash from Fleming Laboratories and Dr Koti Reddy from Aptus Therapeutics exchanged a memorandum of understanding in the presence of professor Appa Rao Podile, vice chancellor, UoH. As per the university, the expected turnover of these technologies is over Rs 50 crore. Aptus has also developed another therapeutic molecule ‘’FL-09’’, cholesterol-lowering drug-using green chemistry methodologies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uoh-startup-develops-tech-for-favipiravir/articleshow/79330303.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Ajmer||Gangster Lawrence Bishnoi to be shifted to Ajmer prison||JAIPUR: The infamous gangster Lawrence Bishnoi will be shifted from Bharatpur jail to Ajmer’s high security prison as officials found that the criminal was operating while being imprisoned. It was found that the gangster was using mobile phones and was active on social media as well. According to the order, Bishnoi is being shifted due to administrative reasons and the transfer has to be done under strict security. Bishnoi, 35, lodged in Bharatpur jail, was in the news for various instances including threatening actor Salman Khan through a social media post and being in touch with contract killers through his supposed subordinates. Bishnoi is facing over 20 cases of attempt to murder, carjacking, extortion, snatching and under Arms Act in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Rajasthan. Recently, Bishnoi also made a threat call to a businessman in Haryana’s Panchkula though officials are still confirming it. After Vikas Dubey’s encounter in UP, Bishnoi had petitioned in the Punjab and Haryana high court in August, claiming a threat to his life following which the court had directed Haryana police to interrogate him in Bharatpur jail if required. Senior officials had also visited Ajmer’s high security prison recently to decide if the jail met adequate requirements to lodge Bishnoi. However, cops refused to divulge when the transfer would take place or it has already been done to maintain confidentiality in the matter. Senior officials had regularly opined that the gangster should be shifted at regular intervals as he had made himself comfortable in Bharatpur jail and formed his own nexus which was allowing him to operate smoothly. Cops have regularly arrested his accomplices working across the state. According to officials, Bishnoi did not interact directly with the youths working for him outside, but would give them the task using various levels of subordinates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/gangster-lawrence-bishnoi-to-be-shifted-to-ajmer-high-security-prison/articleshow/79333431.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
November 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Online dating racket busted, three persons arrested in Siliguri||HYDERABAD: Three residents of Siliguri in West Bengal were arrested by Cyberabad police on Friday for their involvement in an alleged dating racket run by at least eight persons. Victims of the racket were honey-trapped by a few trained woman telecallers. At a press conference, Cyberabad police commissioner VC Sajjanar said that the three accused- Bijay Kumar Sah, Binod Kumar Sah and Mohammed Nur Alam Ansari were arrested while the prime accused, Santu Das, Amit Paul and Sushank Kumar Sah are at large.  The police also issued notices to telecallers Deepa Haldar and Shikha Haldar to appear before police for investigation. The Cyberabad police said that since September, it has received two complaints from victims who were duped into paying huge sums of money by the accused. Explaining the modus operandi, Sajjanar said that the dating sites www.spicyfriendship.com and www.thedatershub.com were accessed by the victims after they came across their advertisements on social media. “After the victims shared their phone numbers on these sites, they received a call from a woman telecaller. For the services, the victims were first made to pay a registration fee of Rs 1,500. The accused later collected lakhs of rupees on various pretexts,” Sajjanar said. According to police, one of the victims paid Rs 14 lakh to the accused, while in another case the victim lost Rs 1.15 lakh. During investigation, city cyber crime sleuths traced the phone calls to Siliguri in West Bengal and found that it was an organised racket with call centers set up to honeytrap the victims. “We formed small teams and conducted a recce near the call center in Siliguri. Later, we nabbed the supervisors Bijay Kumar, Binod Kumar and Nur,” cyber crime inspector Ravinder Reddy said. Amit and Sushank had taken the call center on lease from Santu Das in Siliguri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/online-dating-racket-busted-3-persons-arrested-in-siliguri/articleshow/79330299.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat govt delays formulating CEA rules||AHMEDABAD: To ensure safety and standards in hospitals, the Gujarat high court on October 26 asked the state government to begin framing rules for the Clinical Establishments (Registration and Regulation) Act, 2010, (CEA), which has been delayed now for more than a decade. Sources in the state health department confirmed that while the basic file work has begun and rules and regulations from other states are being examined. Gujarat and Goa are the two states in the country yet to formulate rules for the Clinical Establishments Act. Health authorities point out that the CEA comes in the wake of many illegal structures of hospitals being regularized by the government and the new law also demands instituting a mechanism to regulate hospital fees and holds hospitals and clinics accountable for lapses in services or unfortunate incidents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-delays-formulating-cea-rules/articleshow/79454648.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Jaipur||Gangster Lawrence Bishnoi to be shifted to Ajmer prison||JAIPUR: The infamous gangster Lawrence Bishnoi will be shifted from Bharatpur jail to Ajmer’s high security prison as officials found that the criminal was operating while being imprisoned. It was found that the gangster was using mobile phones and was active on social media as well. According to the order, Bishnoi is being shifted due to administrative reasons and the transfer has to be done under strict security. Bishnoi, 35, lodged in Bharatpur jail, was in the news for various instances including threatening actor Salman Khan through a social media post and being in touch with contract killers through his supposed subordinates. Bishnoi is facing over 20 cases of attempt to murder, carjacking, extortion, snatching and under Arms Act in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Rajasthan. Recently, Bishnoi also made a threat call to a businessman in Haryana’s Panchkula though officials are still confirming it. After Vikas Dubey’s encounter in UP, Bishnoi had petitioned in the Punjab and Haryana high court in August, claiming a threat to his life following which the court had directed Haryana police to interrogate him in Bharatpur jail if required. Senior officials had also visited Ajmer’s high security prison recently to decide if the jail met adequate requirements to lodge Bishnoi. However, cops refused to divulge when the transfer would take place or it has already been done to maintain confidentiality in the matter. Senior officials had regularly opined that the gangster should be shifted at regular intervals as he had made himself comfortable in Bharatpur jail and formed his own nexus which was allowing him to operate smoothly. Cops have regularly arrested his accomplices working across the state. According to officials, Bishnoi did not interact directly with the youths working for him outside, but would give them the task using various levels of subordinates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gangster-lawrence-bishnoi-to-be-shifted-to-ajmer-high-security-prison/articleshow/79330300.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
November 21, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Cop accused of rape & murder of woman, held||JAIPUR: The accused, who raped and murdered a woman in Jaipur’s Rajender Nagar in Kho Nagoriyan, is a RAC constable has been detained. However, he is yet to be arrested. The accused after killing the woman had taken the body to Alwar’s Shahjanpur and claimed that she died due to certain ailment. He even tried to get her cremated but was stopped just in time. Jaipur police has initiated an investigation into the matter. On November 18, the accused had gone to the victim’s house following which he had send her elder son out under the pretext of tuition class while her four-year-old daughter was still at home. “The accused was known to the victim’s husband for last few years and was also in touch with his wife. We are investigating all possible angles in the case and it is yet to be confirmed if the accused killed or she died due to some other reason. Once the cause of death is confirmed, we will decide on if it’s a murder or abetment to suicide case. The accused has been brought to Kho Nagoriyan and the crime spot has been examined”, said a police official. The medical examination of the woman will also determine if she was sexually assaulted though her husband has lodged a case of rape and murder against the accused. At the time of incident, the woman’s husband was in Bhiwadi for some work. It could be a possibility that the woman’s daughter was the one who might give leads in the case as she was at home and the official said, “The daughter is very young and shy to talk about the incident though we are slowly asking her in case she might have seen something. However, we cannot push her to tell us as she is just a child.” The woman is yet to be cremated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cop-accused-of-rape-murder-of-woman-detained/articleshow/79330304.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan cadre IAS couple Tina Dabi and Athar Amir Khan to separate||JAIPUR: Rajasthan cadre IAS couple Tina Dabi and Athar Amir Khan has filed for divorce at a family court in Jaipur. The 2016-batch IAS toppers got married in Jaipur on March 20, 2018. They filed for divorce with mutual consent at family court number 1 in Jaipur, according to sources. Khan, who hails from Kashmir, had secured second position in the UPSC civil services examination held in 2015, while Tina Dabi had topped the examination. Both were allotted Rajasthan cadre. Tina also secured first position in order of merit during training and got the President’s medal. Both had become close to each other during the training period and were given posting in Jaipur recently. The rift in their marriage was out in the open after Tina had dropped ‘Khan’ from her surname on social media. Around the same time, Khan, too, unfollowed Tina on some social media platforms. Tina and Khan’s marriage had hit the headlines after Hindu Mahasabha had termed it as ‘love jihad’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ias-couple-tina-dabi-and-athar-amir-khan-to-separate/articleshow/79330294.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Aurangabad||Citizens asked to share their ideas to beautify Aurangabad streets||AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad Smart City Development Corporation Ltd (ASCDCL) has invited citizens to come forward with their ideas to beautify the city streets under Streets For Challenge. The initiative aims to create spaces on city streets, make them green, walking-friendly and economically vibrant. As part of this programme, the stretches from Paithan Gate to Gulmandi, Kranti Chowk to Osmanpura Circle and Connaught Circle in the city will be restructured and made pedestrian-friendly. Through the latest initiative, the ASCDCL is providing an opportunity to all the citizens to contribute their bit in beautifying the city streets by sharing their view on street transformation. ASCDCL CEO Astik Kumar Pandey said this is a project that directly benefits the residents and so we want the residents to share their opinions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/citizens-asked-to-share-their-ideas-to-beautify-city-streets/articleshow/79327881.cms||---
November 21, 2020||India||The ‘vaccine’ & waning in the fight against organisms||Since the advent of remedies, human nature has always craved for the latest, assuming it to be the best. While the clamour for new drugs is relentless, today, Covid hold centre stage, albeit with a difference. The spotlight is on vaccines. The race to develop it, its concerns, who will make it...is all coveted news, eagerly awaited. Vaccines are the ultimate-they prevent by aiding the production of specific antibodies against the bug. Once vaccinated successfully, the chances of the candidate getting the infection is negligible. The story of how Edward Jenner observed that milkmaids who had caught cowpox did not catch smallpox, and then his trial of inoculating the vaccinia (cowpox virus) into humans to produce cross antibodies against variola (smallpox virus) changed the world and eradicated the disease. It was the first successfully developed vaccine-the term vaccination coming from the vaccinia virus that it contained. Since then medical history is studded with discoveries of vaccines against rabies, polio, hepatitis and other infections. Truly, the concept of purposefully injecting a small portion of dead or attenuated organism, large enough to produce an immune response but too small to precipitate the disease, is vaccination. The process of determining the amount of organism, whether to use live bugs or dead protein fragments, how much to use to evoke the response etc, is clinical trials. Once perfected on the bench, it needs to undergo first animal and then human trials to look for side effects. The motto of medicine, Do No Harm, is most important in discovery. Its potency to stimulate antibody production and create an impact in the immune memory, so as to call upon this reservoir at any time, even years later, to recruit and rapidly deploy antibody production in crisis, is the true efficacy of vaccination. The trials and tribulations involved in bringing the vaccine from the laboratory to the pharmacy are mind boggling and wrought with frustration and challenges. In medical history, the fastest journey from scratch to finish has been about five years. But mere vaccine invention is not enough. The capability to deal with mutations-the process by which an organism partially, but discernibly, changes its chemical and physical structure to look like a distant cousin of the same family-to retain its efficacy, the facileness of storage and frequency of administration are factors that contribute to success. With Covid clouds hanging low, different labs are employing various techniques with the aim of producing lasting immunity against Covid-19 without missing out the mutations of 'Covid- 20'. Of course, this time there will be the obligatory fast-track factor even though the US elections are over. Vaccine science has always been perfected from results-the injectable polio vaccine of Salk, though effective, was replaced by the oral one of Sabin. Likewise, even the single shot shingles vaccine, introduced as Zostavax in 2006, is now fading out because of evidence of poor potency and being replaced by the dual dose Shingrix in 2017. Point to note in the shopping list of overseas travellers who want to invest in health. So, while the 'Chhalaang' against Covid with vaccines continues, the best ploy is still your mask and distancing. (Dr Hemant Thacker is a consultant physician & cardiometabolic specialist attached to and south Mumbai hospitals. Email: dochpt@gmail.com)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/the-vaccine-waning-in-the-fight-against-organisms/articleshow/79332626.cms||Dr. Hemant Thacker
November 21, 2020||Kolkata||Carrier seeks rollback of flight curb||Kolkata: Private carrier SpiceJet has written to the state chief secretary, requesting for a rollback of the curbs on flights from six high-traffic cities to airports in Bengal — Kolkata, Bagdogra and Andal. Flights from Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Pune and Nagpur can currently fly in only three days a week. Sources in the government said there was no immediate plan to allow daily flights from these cities, especially when Covid cases are on the rise in Delhi. SpiceJet vice-president (regulatory and government affairs), Debashis Saha, said passengers faced severe problems on those days of the week when direct flights were not allowed to operate from these cities to Bengal. At Kolkata airport, SpiceJet is worst-hit as it is able to operate only 50% of the flights on the days when the embargo is in place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/carrier-seeks-rollback-of-flight-curb/articleshow/79330305.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Hyderabad||T reports 890 new cases, 4 deaths||Hyderabad: Telangana recorded 894 new Covid-19 infections and four fatalities on Thursday, taking the overall toll to 1,423 and the cumulative number of positive cases to 2,61,728. On Thursday, there were 12,515 active Covid-19 cases in the State. The total number of persons recovered on Thursday stands at 1,057.tnN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-reports-890-new-cases-4-deaths/articleshow/79330311.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana to ramp up Covid-19 testing||HYDERABAD: The state health department on Friday decided to conduct 65,000 Covid-19 tests on a daily-basis. The health department has instructed all district officials to fix a target, depending on the number of cases reported so far. The highest number of Covid-19 tests—11,000—will be conducted in Hyderabad daily. Owing to the season and a possible spike in cases, the department has fixed more number of tests for each district. As per the target, districts like Medchal, Rangareddy and Bhadradri-Kothagudem will conduct more number of tests, from over 2,000 to 3,000 tests. Districts like Sircilla, Mulugu, Jayashankar-Bhupalpally and Jogulamba-Gadwal will conduct less number of tests (below 1,000 daily). The tests in other districts per day will be between 1,200 to 1,500. The RT PCR centres have a capacity of conducting 25,000 tests per day but only 3,000 tests are being conducted in the state. Experts say that in Telangana, a minimum of 50,000 tests should be conducted daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-to-ramp-up-covid-19-testing/articleshow/79330309.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 21, 2020||Meerut||Bus driver, who fled after accident fearing assault, dies of heart attack||MUZAFFARNAGAR: The driver of a private bus collapsed and allegedly died of heart attack moments after hitting a bullock cart with his vehicle and fleeing from the spot with its conductor in Muzaffarnagar’s Kakarauli area. While Vijay Kumar, 45, died fearing that he might have taken some lives, the man on the cart escaped unhurt, with not even a scratch on his body. Kumar, a resident of Bhokarehdi village of the district, is survived by wife and two children. He was the only earning member of the family. Station house officer (SHO) of Kakarauli police station, Mukesh Solanki, said, “Primarily investigation has revealed that after the minor accident, the driver and the conductor fled and went into a nearby jungle. Vijay Kumar collapsed due to fear of attack by villagers. He was taken to hospital where he died during treatment. He had a heart attack in the past as well. We have sent the body for the post-mortem examination.” The accident took place near Tanheda village in Kakarauli police station. The bus hit the bullock cart coming from the opposite direction. A villager alleged that Kumar and the conductor were chased by some locals after the incident. Kumar collapsed a little while later and was rushed to a hospital where he died during treatment. The family, meanwhile, alleged foul play. They created rucks alleging that Kumar was attacked by villagers. Police, however, said that they haven’t received any such complaint. "We will act after getting the post-mortem report," the SHO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bus-driver-who-fled-after-accident-fearing-assault-dies-of-heart-attack/articleshow/79331399.cms||Mohd Dilshad
November 21, 2020||Kolhapur||Covid-19: One death in Kolhapur; none in Sangli||KOLHAPUR: The district reported 46 fresh Covid-19 patients and one death due to the infection on Friday, taking the total number of cases to 48,860. The death toll has now risen to 1,671. The district has 598 active cases after 44 patients recovered. 46,591 patients have recovered from the contagion. On Friday, 5,017 throat swabs, mostly of teachers and non-teaching staff of schools and junior colleges, were collected as schools are set to reopen from Monday. Simultaneously, around 90 people, who recovered from Covid but had other complication, consulted the doctors in the post-Covid centre started by Kolhapur Municipal Corporation at Shahu Smarak Bhavan. The state health department appointed S S More the acting dean of RCSM College and CPR hospital Kolhapur. Meanwhile, Sangli district reported 70 cases on Friday. For the first time in a few months, no death was reported. The district has a total of 44,273 patients, of them, 1,686 have died and 46,342 have recovered. Solapur district, covering city and rural parts, reported 189 fresh Covid-19 cases while 102 patients were discharged after recovering on Friday.  Solapur city reported 31 cases while 10 patients were discharged after recovery. No Covid death was reported. As many as 9,009 patients have recovered from the contagion, 557 patients have died due to the infection and 509 are undergoing treatment in the city. Solapur rural reported 157 fresh cases and 92 patients were discharged from various facilities on Friday. The rural parts recorded three deaths. Solapur rural has a total of 33,791 patients, of them, 1,004 have succumbed to Covid and 31,508 have recovered from the contagion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/1-death-in-kolhapur-none-in-sangli/articleshow/79327902.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: KIIFB row; CPM to turn crisis into opportunity||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The CPM state secretariat on Friday decided to turn the crisis into an opportunity by utilising KIIFB controversy for triggering a debate on state’s infrastructure development ahead of local body polls. The CPM leaders, who discussed the reactions to the revelation by finance minister Thomas Isaac last week that CAG had been targeting KIIFB with political motives, concluded that the debates were in fact good for the LDF as all fronts are now discussing KIIFB and the projects funded by the agency. According to sources, the CPM can smartly intervene in these debates and bring Kerala’s development needs to the forefront. Major works funded by KIIFB like upgrading infrastructure of government schools and hospitals and constructing roads could be brought up as campaign topics using the CAG report on KIIFB. The CPM leaders are of the view that practical applications of KIIFB would relate more to voters than the technical aspects pointed out by KIIFB and opposition parties. “Narrow political interests have prompted the opposition to take a stand that there is no issue even if the state goes back to darkness. UDF and BJP share anti-development stand. We need to expose the anti-development stand. LDF will discuss this and devise strategies,” said CPM state secretary in charge A Vijayaraghavan. The CPM secretariat would propose mass protest challenging the politically motivated actions of central agencies in the upcoming LDF state committee meeting. Vijayaraghavan said CPM was confident that people of Kerala would realise the political games played by central agencies which are trying to cook up evidence against the chief minister and LDF government. When asked about the credibility of the statement by an accused in the gold smuggling case, Vijayaraghavan said Mullappally and Chennithala had no doubts when earlier statements of the accused woman (Swapna) were circulated. “The credibility of the new statement is same as her previous statements,” he said referring to the leaked audio clip of Swapna Suresh in which she is heard speaking about ED’s suggestion to testify against CM Pinarayi Vijayan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cpm-plans-more-protest-against-central-agencies/articleshow/79329040.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Wood seasoning unit boon for farmers||Coimbatore: A wood seasoning and preservation unit has been set up at the Forest College and Research Institute (FCRI) in Mettupalayam for the benefit of tree farmers. The unit removes moisture from wood in a controlled condition, so that it can fend off fungus and insects, and extend life. FCRI dean K T Parthiban said most trees, when cut, contain 30% to 40% moisture. “Ideally, we need to reduce the moisture content to 8% to 12%, where it reaches below fibre saturation point, so that there is no swelling or shrinkage. Many untreated wooden doors will expand during the rainy season and shrink during the winter,” he said. “Moisture also makes them prone to attacked of termites, insects and fungus.” The unit consists of a solar-powered kiln, an electrical kiln and a treatment plant. “Wood is placed inside the kiln, and we circulate air with a higher temperature inside it. When the air passes through the kiln, it removes moisture from wood. This process is done repeatedly with the temperature gradually increased. Once the moisture level is reduced, the wood is treated by applying a copper-based chemical composition. This treatment prevents termite and fungal attacks,” Parthiban said. The process is critical for all types of woods, which are used for timber, except teak. “This includes mahogany, subabul, vaagai, soft woods like Melia dubia used for furniture carving and rubber wood.,” said the dean. While the institute plans to offer the facility to tree farmers for a fee, the main idea is to conduct demonstrations, so that youngsters can look at it as a business venture. “We aim to create one such unit in every district. It costs Rs 16 to Rs 20 lakh to set up one. An entrepreneur can charge Rs 90 to Rs 140 to treat 1cft of wood. They can expect a profit of Rs 30 to Rs 40,” Parthiban said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/wood-seasoning-unit-boon-for-farmers/articleshow/79330307.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: B Ramalinga Raju gave consent, taking U-turn now, charges Netflix||HYDERABAD: OTT major Netflix, on Friday charged Satyam computers founder B Ramalinga Raju with changing tack on conveying his consent to it for using some of his photos and early life particulars in its docuseries titled, Bad Boys Billionaires (BBB). Senior counsel Neeraj Kishan Kaul said this to a bench of chief justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and justice A Abhishek Reddy and urged it to vacate the injunction order issued by a civil court for the release of the series. “We made the series of four such episodes and could release the same on the remaining three. We could not release the series on Raju on account of the exparte order issued by the civil court at the last minute without hearing us,” he said. “This amounts to a pre-press censorship which courts never approved,” the counsel said. “Raju has an associate called Hari Thalapalli. All our communications were made with him. Even Raju allowed us to meet him through Hari only. We were allowed to use the photos of his childhood and youth and he conveyed his consent for using these archival photos,” the Netflix counsel said. “Now Raju is disowning Hari and this is clearly an afterthought,” he said. To a query from the bench, Kaul said that there is not much difference between a person’s commercial speech and normal speech and both enjoy the same amount of freedom of expression. “We do not need Raju’s consent to make a film on him because a lot of material is available on him and his Satyam company and also a judgement of the trial court. Raju’s consent is not needed to make use of this record which is available in public domain,” he said. The case was posted to Dec 4 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/raju-gave-consent-taking-u-turn-now-netflix/articleshow/79330313.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
November 21, 2020||Kolhapur||Two car stereo thieves arrested||KOLHAPUR: Two men have been arrested by the local crime branch (LCB) of Kolhapur police for stealing stereos from cars across the city. The suspects — Juber Rais Ahmed (35), a resident of Nalasopara in Mumbai, and Jagganath Ramnath Saroj (45), a resident of Chembur Naka in Mumbai — originally hail from Uttar Pradesh and have confessed to the crime. According to a police officer, they spotted a car with the suspects in it near Shiye Phata. “When the police asked them few questions they started giving vague answers following which they were detained. During interrogation they said that they used to come to Kolhapur from Mumbai and after committing the crime they used to go back to Mumbai. We have recovered as many as 10 car stereos from them,” the officer said. The local crime branch had become vigilant following number of cases of car thefts in Kolhapur with majority of the cases being reported in the upcoming residential areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/2-car-stereo-thieves-arrested/articleshow/79327892.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Village administrative officers protest transfer of colleague||Coimbatore: As many as 50 village administrative officers (VAOs), members of the Tamil Nadu Village Administrative Officers Munnetra Sangam (TNVAOMS), staged a sit-in-protest at Sulur taluk office on Friday demanding cancellation of the transfer order of a colleague.“VAO Selvi had joined government service eight years ago. When working in Pathuvampalli village, she attended the transfer counselling conducted for VAOs in August 2019 and selected Kurumbapalayam village. But she was transferred to Kaniyur village within two months. Revenue divisional officer (south) Dhanalingan issued a transferred order on October 20 and posted Selvi at Karavazhimadapur. The RDO transferred her thrice in one year,” a protester said.“Selvi was transferred citing administrative reasons. Officials should stop such transfers. Otherwise, the association will intensify the protest,” the VAO said. “The reason for the transfers was not revealed by the senior revenue officials. The order should be cancelled immediately.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/village-administrative-officers-protest-transfer-of-colleague/articleshow/79330314.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 21, 2020||Meerut||‘Harassment’ in UP's anti-Romeo squad: Accused||MEERUT: Premveer Rana, station house officer (SHO) of Kairana police station in Shamli district, has been shunted out and attached to police office pending investigation after he was accused of harassment by a woman colleague. The woman sub inspector (SI) is also in-charge of the UP anti-Romeo squad at the same police station. In another departmental move, the 'victim' SI has been transferred to a women's police station in the district, Shamli police confirmed on Friday. Earlier, the complainant, in a recorded video message, said, “The SHO unnecessarily puts pressure on me. When I protest, he humiliates me publicly. Whenever I go to my barrack for medicine or anything else, he uses derogatory words. This is despite the fact that I work from seven in the morning till late at night.” After the allegations surfaced, a departmental probe has been initiated by Shamli SP Nityanand Rai. It will be conducted by the additional superintendent of police. However, denying the allegations, the SHO under scanner, told TOI, “The woman constable disappeared a day before Diwali and her phone was switched off for the next three days. She didn’t inform or take any prior approval for the leave despite being the head of the anti-Romeo squad." This was dereliction of duty for which a report was filed, the SHO added. "And this is not the first time she has done such a thing. Her charges against me are in retaliation for the action I had taken,” he claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/harassment-in-ups-anti-romeo-squad-accused/articleshow/79331405.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Meerut||At this 28-year-old event, every participant speaks only Sanskrit for a week||MEERUT: “Swagatam, Dhanyo Vayam” (welcome, we are honoured by your presence). This is how people coming to the Vyas Samaroh in Meerut’s Chaudhary Charan Singh University are greeted when they arrive at its Sanskrit department. All the programs, including debates, plays, songs and stories are performed only in Sanskrit at the Vyas Samaroh, a three decades old week-long event which starts on the day of Bhai Dooj every year. Poonam Lakhanpal, associate professor and convenor of the event, said, “Sanskrit is not just a language. It is the way we think, research and even connect with our spiritual self. To ensure that Sanskrit remains alive in our culture, we have been conducting this week-long event every year since 1992. It had started as a one-day event and was later extended to a week.” Teams from various schools and colleges participate in the events organised here every year. The number of teams participating in the event were less this year due to Covid-19 and the Samaroh was comparatively a smaller affair. “But our spirit remains unaffected. The event will include plays, dance performances, singing events and reading of excerpts from the Vayu Purana. Every year, one purana is selected and all the debates, plays and research papers at the event revolve around it,” said Narendra Teotia, assistant professor of Sanskrit at Chaudhary Charan Singh University. Maharishi Vyas is credited with compiling all the puranas. Teotia said that it is a daunting task for the students to speak Sanskrit all seven days, “but the determination to keep the language alive and give it the due recognition makes it easy”. A yoga activity was also held where students twisted iron rods with their bare hands. “We did not cancel the event for the cause of the ancient language. It will always stay alive among us and keep reminding us of our roots,” said Poonam Lakhanpal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/at-this-28-yr-old-event-every-participant-speaks-only-sanskrit-for-a-week/articleshow/79331408.cms||Ishita Bhatia
November 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Ralco Steels booked for Rs 70 cr loan fraud||Hyderabad: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Friday issued an FIR against promoters of Ralco Steels Private Limited for Rs 70 crore loan fraud based on a complaint filed by Bank of Baroda.  The CBI also named directors Ramesh Cherukuru, Nagalaxmi Cherukuru, James Manohar Raj and DV Subba Rao as accused for allegedly indulging in criminal conspiracy, forgery, cheating and criminal misconduct.  The company had availed Rs 22 crore credit facility from Bank of Baroda Corporate Financial Services Branch at Hyderabad in January 2011 for setting up a plant in Bobbili in AP. The plant is supposed to manufacture and supply hot-rolled pre-engineered structures. The limits were subsequently enhanced up to Rs 97.2 crore in December 2011 by the central credit committee of the bank. In April 2014, the accounts turned into Non-Performing Assets. Internal investigations by Bank of Baroda revealed that Ralco Steels diverted the funds from the term loan disbursements for revenue expenditure instead of capital expenditure. It was also found that the funds were transferred to other companies which are not connected to the steel industry. The company purchased eight acres of land from the loan amount and mortgaged the property to IDBI bank for loan enhancement. The probe also revealed that directors are involved in the fund diversion and the loan account has been declared a fraud account. The panel advocate and other bank officials are also suspects in the fraud. The company had availed Rs 22 crore credit facility from Bank of Baroda Corporate Financial Services Branch at Hyderabad in January 2011 for setting up a plant in Bobbili in AP||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ralco-steels-booked-for-rs-70-cr-loan-fraud/articleshow/79330326.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
November 21, 2020||Kolhapur||Schools asked to collect NOCs from parents||KOLHAPUR: With schools in the state reopening on November 23 for students of Classes IX to XII, the students’ parents have to give a consent letter stating he or she has no objection in sending their children to school from Monday. The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has directed the school administrations to provide a format of the consent letter to the parents. They can send the consent letter through a text message as well. Meanwhile, school for Class 11 will remain shut, as the admission to Class 11 has been stalled. Kadambari Balkawade, the civic chief and administrator of KMC said, “We have sanitised around 65 schools and throat swabs of over 400 teachers and other school staff have been sent for testing.” “Though there is no compulsion to send the children, I appeal to the parents to send their wards to schools without fear as we are taking all the required precautions to keep them safe from Covid,” she said Apart from this, the KMC has made swab collection facility available at its 12 urban health centres. Balkawade has ordered the health authorities to provide the test results as soon as possible. So far, none of the 400 teachers tested positive for Covid, however, general instructions has been issued asking the schools’ heads to appeal to the staffers with Covid symptoms, to stay at home till they recuperate. Shankar Yadav, the KMC’s school administrator said, “Only one student will be allowed to sit on a bench. The classes will be held for not more than four hours. Those unable to go to school can attend online classes. Wearing masks is compulsory and students will not be allowed to share their belongings with others.” Balkawade has asked schools’ heads to ensure circles or squares are marked to maintain social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/schools-asked-to-collect-nocs-from-parents/articleshow/79327937.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Meerut||Girl, 5, found dead in pond in UP’s Hapur||MEERUT: A five-year-old girl was found dead in a pond on Friday morning, a day after she stepped out of home to play with her friends in UP’s Hapur and went missing. Police didn’t suspect a foul play in the death and claimed the child died of accidental drowning. The girl went missing on Thursday evening and after hours of search, the family informed police. On Friday morning, locals spotted the child’s slippers on the margins of the pond near her home and alerted the family in Bahadurgarh area. The girl’s body was fished out after a search operation. Police claimed that it had no external injuries. “There was no external injury mark on the body and it has been sent for post-mortem examination. Most likely she accidentally fell in the pond and drowned. A probe is on,” said Sarvesh Mishra, Hapur’s additional superintendent of police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/girl-5-found-dead-in-pond-in-ups-hapur/articleshow/79331406.cms||Piyush Rai
November 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Kamareddy CI in ACB net||Hyderabad: Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) sleuths arrested Kamareddy Circle Inspector and his associate in a bribery case on Friday.  On November 6, the accused inspector I Jagadish through his associate M Sujay demanded Rs 5 lakh from the complainant, Bathula Sudhakar, in relation to a cricket betting case. A bribe of Rs 1.39 lakh was accepted by the accused to release Sudhakar on station bail in the betting case registered under TS Gaming Act. Based on a plaint lodged by Sudhakar, ACB sleuths registered a case against Jagadish Sujay and arrested the duo after conducting raids at the houses of the accused on Friday. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kamareddy-ci-in-acb-net/articleshow/79330316.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Bareilly||Introduce new disease resistant varieties of cane seed, admin to scientists||Pilibhit: With a view to increasing sugarcane yield in the state, Sanjay R. Bhoosreddy, additional chief secretary of sugarcane and sugar industry, has issued directions to scientists at the UP Council of Sugarcane Research (UPCSR) and its eight sub centres, including the one in Muzaffarnagar and Balrampur, to develop new disease resistant varieties of cane and to multiply the seed production. The emphasis has been laid on single bud nurseries of cane seedlings and on .varieties with enriched sugar content. “This will not only provide an opportunity to farmers to maximize their agricultural income with available land resources but also benefit the sugar mills with increased rate of sugar recovery,” Bhoosreddy said. The cane official issued these directions in the wake of Red Rot disease, known as the cancer of sugarcane, afflicting the common variety of cane, CO 0238, which is widely cultivated at present. The aim is to make farmers switch to disease-resistant varieties. Adopting a holistic approach, Bhoosreddy also called for use of bio fertilizers and bio pesticides for cane cultivation. He directed departmental officials to step up soil testing and process of issuing health cards to farmers. Jai Singh, director of UPCSR, said the council is planning to promote two tested varieties of sugarcane in the state – COS 14233 and COLK 14201. “These varieties have been tested for producing over 1,100 quintals of sugarcane a hectare. Most importantly, these are resistant to diseases and strong winds. The sugar content in these varieties too is very high,” he said. Next year, the UPCSR plans to introduce another high-yield variety of sugarcane, CO 15023, which has produced excellent results during testing, said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/introduce-new-disease-resistant-varieties-of-cane-seed-admin-to-scientists/articleshow/79329050.cms||Keshav Agarwal
November 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Man stabbed to death at Balapur||Hyderabad: A 31-year-old labourer was stabbed to death by a scrap vendor at Balapur on Thursday night. Police arrested the accused on Friday. The victim, Anam Khan, 31, was a resident of Quba Colony in Shaheen Nagar, Balapur. The accused is Mohammed Imran Khan, 43, a scrap vendor from Shaheen Nagar. The Balapur inspector B Bhaskar said, Imran met Anam Khan at a bar in Chandrayangutta and they became friends. “In a drunken condition, Anam Khan often used to insult local women. He even spoke in a demeaning way about the women from Imran’s family,” the inspector said. Upset with Anam’s behaviour, Imran asked Anam to accompany him to a meat shop in Shaheen Nagar while returning home. At the meat shop, Imran picked up an argument with Anam and stabbed him multiple times with butcher’s knife, the inspector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-stabbed-to-death-at-balapur/articleshow/79330335.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Kolkata||New Town professor couple assaulted over parking||KOLKATA: A young couple — both professors of two reputable institutions in Kolkata and Barrackpore — were allegedly assaulted by the relatives of one of their neighbours, who is also a professor of a university in Malda, at a New Town residential building over a car parking row earlier this week. The couple suffered multiple fractures on their arms and legs, apart from several bruises and wounds on their bodies. Now, the duo is bedridden at home while the accused are absconding, said the police. None has been arrested till Friday. Ankur Roy, a professor of chemistry, alleged that last Tuesday, when he and his wife Sabina Khan, along with their two children, had returned home at AL Block in New Town, four men attacked them with iron rods and hammers. “They did not spare our children,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-town-prof-couple-assaulted-over-parking/articleshow/79330312.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Kolhapur||KMC launches helpline for citizens||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation on Friday launched a toll-free helpline number for the citizens to raise their grievances. A separate cell to write the grievances has been started at all four ward offices. Since civic chief Kadambari Balkawade assumed the charge of the administrator, she has initiated steps to ensure citizens’ grievances are not ignored. Balkawade said, “We have activated the helpline number, 18002331913, for the citizens to report their issues related to health, sanitation, and issues like street lights and water supply among others. We will ensure their grievances are addressed within one working day and in case of emergencies, within hours. The citizen will get a text message regarding the status of the work and its completion.” Earlier, the citizens could reach out to the local corporators to get their issues addressed. Now, the corporators have no role to play as their tenure ended on November 14. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kmc-launches-helpline-for-citizens/articleshow/79327968.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu government bans online betting games, Rs 5,000 fine, jail for violators||CHENNAI: After a series of suicides and complaints about people losing their hard-earned money in online games involving wagering and betting, the state government on Friday promulgated an ordinance banning such games. The ordinance promulgated by governor Banwarilal Purohit amending the Tamil Nadu Gaming Act, 1930, Chennai City Police Act, 1888, and the Tamil Nadu District Police Act, 1859, bans betting in cyber space using computers and any other communication device. People who are found playing such games will be punished with a fine of Rs 5,000 and six months imprisonment, said the ordinance. People who open or run a common gaming house will be punished with a fine amount of Rs 10,000 and two-year imprisonment. “Innocent people, mainly youngsters, are being cheated and some people have committed suicide. In order to avoid such incidents and protect people from the evils of online gaming, the government had submitted a proposal to the governor to promulgate an ordinance,” said a statement from the governor’s office. The ordinance also bans “electronic transfer of funds” for betting and distributing prize money and will have provisions to punish people who are running such gaming companies. The government was under pressure to act as members of the civil society, the Madras high court and opposition parties consistently flagged the issue. Earlier this month, DMK chief M K Stalin condemned the government for seeking more time to take a call on banning online card games when a petition on the issue came up for hearing before the Madras high court. Within a couple of days, on November 6, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami announced that the state will ban online rummy and bring in legal changes to arrest its organisers and players. A week before the CM’s announcement, two men aged 28 and 32 had killed themselves in Coimbatore after incurring debt due to losses in online card games and about a dozen had killed themselves across the state till then. In Chennai, a 28-year-old man who lost a few lakhs playing online game committed suicide at his rented accommodation at Sembium on October 27. M Kumaresan of Adhanur in Villupuram district was working as a collection agent for a private bank for the last three years. Inquiries revealed that he stayed awake till 3am to play rummy online and lost money in online games.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tn-govt-bans-online-betting-games-rs-5000-fine-jail-for-violators/articleshow/79334096.cms||Srikkanth D
November 21, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu government bans online betting games, Rs 5,000 fine, jail for violators||CHENNAI: After a series of suicides and complaints about people losing their hard-earned money in online games involving wagering and betting, the state government on Friday promulgated an ordinance banning such games. The ordinance promulgated by governor Banwarilal Purohit amending the Tamil Nadu Gaming Act, 1930, Chennai City Police Act, 1888, and the Tamil Nadu District Police Act, 1859, bans betting in cyber space using computers and any other communication device. People who are found playing such games will be punished with a fine of Rs 5,000 and six months imprisonment, said the ordinance. People who open or run a common gaming house will be punished with a fine amount of Rs 10,000 and two-year imprisonment. “Innocent people, mainly youngsters, are being cheated and some people have committed suicide. In order to avoid such incidents and protect people from the evils of online gaming, the government had submitted a proposal to the governor to promulgate an ordinance,” said a statement from the governor’s office. The ordinance also bans “electronic transfer of funds” for betting and distributing prize money and will have provisions to punish people who are running such gaming companies. The government was under pressure to act as members of the civil society, the Madras high court and opposition parties consistently flagged the issue. Earlier this month, DMK chief M K Stalin condemned the government for seeking more time to take a call on banning online card games when a petition on the issue came up for hearing before the Madras high court. Within a couple of days, on November 6, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami announced that the state will ban online rummy and bring in legal changes to arrest its organisers and players. A week before the CM’s announcement, two men aged 28 and 32 had killed themselves in Coimbatore after incurring debt due to losses in online card games and about a dozen had killed themselves across the state till then. In Chennai, a 28-year-old man who lost a few lakhs playing online game committed suicide at his rented accommodation at Sembium on October 27. M Kumaresan of Adhanur in Villupuram district was working as a collection agent for a private bank for the last three years. Inquiries revealed that he stayed awake till 3am to play rummy online and lost money in online games.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tn-govt-bans-online-betting-games-rs-5000-fine-jail-for-violators/articleshow/79334095.cms||Srikkanth D
November 21, 2020||Erode||Tamil Nadu government bans online betting games, Rs 5,000 fine, jail for violators||CHENNAI: After a series of suicides and complaints about people losing their hard-earned money in online games involving wagering and betting, the state government on Friday promulgated an ordinance banning such games. The ordinance promulgated by governor Banwarilal Purohit amending the Tamil Nadu Gaming Act, 1930, Chennai City Police Act, 1888, and the Tamil Nadu District Police Act, 1859, bans betting in cyber space using computers and any other communication device. People who are found playing such games will be punished with a fine of Rs 5,000 and six months imprisonment, said the ordinance. People who open or run a common gaming house will be punished with a fine amount of Rs 10,000 and two-year imprisonment. “Innocent people, mainly youngsters, are being cheated and some people have committed suicide. In order to avoid such incidents and protect people from the evils of online gaming, the government had submitted a proposal to the governor to promulgate an ordinance,” said a statement from the governor’s office. The ordinance also bans “electronic transfer of funds” for betting and distributing prize money and will have provisions to punish people who are running such gaming companies. The government was under pressure to act as members of the civil society, the Madras high court and opposition parties consistently flagged the issue. Earlier this month, DMK chief M K Stalin condemned the government for seeking more time to take a call on banning online card games when a petition on the issue came up for hearing before the Madras high court. Within a couple of days, on November 6, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami announced that the state will ban online rummy and bring in legal changes to arrest its organisers and players. A week before the CM’s announcement, two men aged 28 and 32 had killed themselves in Coimbatore after incurring debt due to losses in online card games and about a dozen had killed themselves across the state till then. In Chennai, a 28-year-old man who lost a few lakhs playing online game committed suicide at his rented accommodation at Sembium on October 27. M Kumaresan of Adhanur in Villupuram district was working as a collection agent for a private bank for the last three years. Inquiries revealed that he stayed awake till 3am to play rummy online and lost money in online games.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/tn-govt-bans-online-betting-games-rs-5000-fine-jail-for-violators/articleshow/79334094.cms||Srikkanth D
November 21, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: KIIFB ‘autonomy’ may fail legal test||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: With Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board’s (KIIFB) masala bond issue being dragged into court, the state is set to face a tough legal battle on its claims that restrictions under Article 293 (1) of the Constitution on borrowing limits do not apply to KIIFB. In multiple judgments, the Supreme Court has clarified that any instrumentality or agency of the government falls under the definition of Article 12 of the Constitution. Authorities such as KIIFB figure as other authorities in the definition. By this yardstick, KIIFB cannot be excluded from the ambit of the state and therefore from restrictions imposed on borrowing under Article 293 (1) which apply to the executive power of states and not merely the executive government. In Prathama Bank, Moradabad vs Vijay Kumar Goel and another case, a Supreme Court bench in August 1989 observed that the test for determining if an authority fails within the definition of state under Article 12 of the Constitution is whether it is an instrumentality or agency of the government. “The inquiry has to be not as to how the juristic person is born but why it has been brought into existence. It is, therefore, immaterial whether the authority is created by a statute or under a statute,” the court held. Also, in several judgments, courts have said that a government, which represents the executive authority of the state, may act through the instrumentality or agency of natural persons to carry out its functions. With the advent of the welfare state, it became necessary to forge a new instrumentality or administrative device for handling new problems and tasks that are done by public corporations which have become the third arm of the government. They are regarded as agencies of government. In Ramana Dayaram Shetty vs The International Airport Authority of India and others case, a Supreme Court bench in 1979 observed that corporations so created, acting as instrumentality or agency of government, would obviously be subject to the same limitations in the field of constitutional and administrative law as a government itself, though in the eye of law, they would be distinct and independent legal entities. The court also laid out the test for determining whether such a body is an instrumentality or agency of government. Whether there is any financial assistance given by the state, and if so, what is the magnitude of such assistance; whether there is any other form of assistance given by the state, and if so, whether it is of the usual or extraordinary kind; whether there is any control of management and policies of the corporation by the state and the nature and extent of such control; whether the corporation enjoys state-conferred or state-protected monopoly status; and, whether functions carried out by the corporation are public functions closely related to governmental functions are the questions that should be asked for determining whether a statutory body is to be subjected to the same checks and balances of a state, it said. Laying down the propositions in Electricity Board, Rajasthan vs Mohan Lal case, the SC held that ‘other authorities’ would include all authorities created by the Constitution or statute on which powers are conferred by law. It was not necessary that the statutory authority should be engaged in performing government or sovereign functions, the court said. Going by KIIFB’s functioning, it satisfies all criteria, as laid down by courts, in being considered an instrument of state and is unlikely to be approved as a corporate body unconnected to the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kiifb-autonomy-may-fail-legal-test/articleshow/79329082.cms||KP Saikiran
November 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Truck driver killed in accident||Coimbatore: A parcel service truck driver was killed after another speeding truck hit his vehicle on Avinashi Road here in the early hours of Friday. Police identified the deceased as Ganeshan, 32, of Rajapalayam in Virudhunagar district. He was employed with a parcel service company in his locality. A police officer said, “He was heading to the city. When he was trying to cross the road at Lakshmi Mills Junction around 5am, the other truck, which was heading to Namakkal from the city, hit that vehicle on one side. Ganeshan succumbed to his injuries on the spot.” When alerted, the traffic investigation wing of the city police sent the body to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital for postmortem. Police have registered a case against Sakthivel, 28, of Namakkal, who was driving the truck that caused the accident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/truck-driver-killed-in-accident/articleshow/79330333.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Thousands perform Chhath Puja in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Thousands of people across the city took part in Chhath Puja celebrations on Friday. Celebrated within a week or six days after Diwali, Chhath is a major festival for the people from Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. In Hyderabad, the annual festival is celebrated on a grand scale near water bodies by the people from these three states. The key ritual involves devotees making offerings to the deity at sunset and sunrise. “On this day, women observe fast and perform the rituals by standing in the water and offer water to the sun, in the evening and the next morning. This year, we first decided to celebrate the festival indoors, but after we were informed about the elaborate arrangements made by the authorities near the water bodies, we had asked people to perform the puja like every year,” said president of Jan Seva Sangh’s Chhath Puja committee, Parmanand Sharma. However, despite the arrangements, many were seen performing the rituals without masks, standing in groups and flouting all other restrictions in place due to the pandemic. “Around 500 workers were sent to clean the Hussainsagar ghat near Sanjeevaiah Park, where the maximum number of people gather every year. Within three to four hours after giving the notice about the revised plan, more than 4000 people assembled near the lake and made it a grand success,” said Sharma. Women clad in traditional attire offered ‘pehla arghya’ (first offering to God) to the setting sun. To ensure that festivities went off smoothly, arrangements were made near the city’s water bodies by the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC). The civic body also ensured the deployment of security and medical staff to deal any emergency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/thousands-perform-chhath-puja-in-city/articleshow/79330340.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: After suicide protests, LSR cuts fees, changes hostel rule||NEW DELHI: After several days of protests held by its students in the wake of the suicide of second-year student Aishwarya Reddy, Lady Shri Ram College has announced that it will reduce the college fees substantially. It will also do away with the hostel rule, which limited accommodations only for first-year students. Students have been demanding scrapping of the hostel rule from the last year itself. Several groups, including the LSR students’ union, have claimed that Aishwarya was worried about losing her hostel room. In a notice issued on Friday, the LSR administration reiterated its “anguish at the tragic loss of life of the young student” and said that the unusual circumstances arising out of the coronavirus pandemic had aggravated stresses and inequalities in education. “We are committed to ensuring that such a tragic event should never recur,” it added. The administration said that it had been brainstorming with all stakeholders, to find ways to reduce the stress felt by students. The college said that due to the pandemic, and for one year only, “after the hostel’s commitments to incoming first years and the current third years, who already are in the hostel, have been met, the remaining rooms will be made available to the current second year students, who lived in the hostel, upon fresh application, on the basis of need. When the situation normalises, the college would look into accommodating some more students of the second and third years.” For students of PwD category, the hostel will be available for all three years. Meanwhile, the deadline for payment of fees has been extended to December 15, which can be done in instalments. Since the students are not able to avail certain facilities, the college has removed the related charges from the fees this year. Deadline for assignment submission has been extended too. The college has also set up a committee to look into the needs of students requiring equipment for online study, and it has claimed to expedite the disbursal of freeship amount. The LSR students’ union has hailed the announcements. However, it has asked for more clarity and details. “A committee has been formed for looking into the provisions of tablets, laptops and other resources to the students, but no information regarding the priority basis, timeline, etc, has been disclosed. There is still no transparency about the fee divisions and allocations,” it claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/after-suicide-protests-lsr-cuts-fees-changes-hostel-rule/articleshow/79330342.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu government bans online betting games, Rs 5,000 fine, jail for violators||CHENNAI: After a series of suicides and complaints about people losing their hard-earned money in online games involving wagering and betting, the state government on Friday promulgated an ordinance banning such games. The ordinance promulgated by governor Banwarilal Purohit amending the Tamil Nadu Gaming Act, 1930, Chennai City Police Act, 1888, and the Tamil Nadu District Police Act, 1859, bans betting in cyber space using computers and any other communication device. People who are found playing such games will be punished with a fine of Rs 5,000 and six months imprisonment, said the ordinance. People who open or run a common gaming house will be punished with a fine amount of Rs 10,000 and two-year imprisonment. “Innocent people, mainly youngsters, are being cheated and some people have committed suicide. In order to avoid such incidents and protect people from the evils of online gaming, the government had submitted a proposal to the governor to promulgate an ordinance,” said a statement from the governor’s office. The ordinance also bans “electronic transfer of funds” for betting and distributing prize money and will have provisions to punish people who are running such gaming companies. The government was under pressure to act as members of the civil society, the Madras high court and opposition parties consistently flagged the issue. Earlier this month, DMK chief M K Stalin condemned the government for seeking more time to take a call on banning online card games when a petition on the issue came up for hearing before the Madras high court. Within a couple of days, on November 6, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami announced that the state will ban online rummy and bring in legal changes to arrest its organisers and players. A week before the CM’s announcement, two men aged 28 and 32 had killed themselves in Coimbatore after incurring debt due to losses in online card games and about a dozen had killed themselves across the state till then. In Chennai, a 28-year-old man who lost a few lakhs playing online game committed suicide at his rented accommodation at Sembium on October 27. M Kumaresan of Adhanur in Villupuram district was working as a collection agent for a private bank for the last three years. Inquiries revealed that he stayed awake till 3am to play rummy online and lost money in online games.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/tn-govt-bans-online-betting-games-rs-5000-fine-jail-for-violators/articleshow/79334098.cms||Srikkanth D
November 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu government bans online betting games, Rs 5,000 fine, jail for violators||CHENNAI: After a series of suicides and complaints about people losing their hard-earned money in online games involving wagering and betting, the state government on Friday promulgated an ordinance banning such games. The ordinance promulgated by governor Banwarilal Purohit amending the Tamil Nadu Gaming Act, 1930, Chennai City Police Act, 1888, and the Tamil Nadu District Police Act, 1859, bans betting in cyber space using computers and any other communication device. People who are found playing such games will be punished with a fine of Rs 5,000 and six months imprisonment, said the ordinance. People who open or run a common gaming house will be punished with a fine amount of Rs 10,000 and two-year imprisonment. “Innocent people, mainly youngsters, are being cheated and some people have committed suicide. In order to avoid such incidents and protect people from the evils of online gaming, the government had submitted a proposal to the governor to promulgate an ordinance,” said a statement from the governor’s office. The ordinance also bans “electronic transfer of funds” for betting and distributing prize money and will have provisions to punish people who are running such gaming companies. The government was under pressure to act as members of the civil society, the Madras high court and opposition parties consistently flagged the issue. Earlier this month, DMK chief M K Stalin condemned the government for seeking more time to take a call on banning online card games when a petition on the issue came up for hearing before the Madras high court. Within a couple of days, on November 6, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami announced that the state will ban online rummy and bring in legal changes to arrest its organisers and players. A week before the CM’s announcement, two men aged 28 and 32 had killed themselves in Coimbatore after incurring debt due to losses in online card games and about a dozen had killed themselves across the state till then. In Chennai, a 28-year-old man who lost a few lakhs playing online game committed suicide at his rented accommodation at Sembium on October 27. M Kumaresan of Adhanur in Villupuram district was working as a collection agent for a private bank for the last three years. Inquiries revealed that he stayed awake till 3am to play rummy online and lost money in online games.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tn-govt-bans-online-betting-games-rs-5000-fine-jail-for-violators/articleshow/79334093.cms||Srikkanth D
November 21, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu government bans online betting games, Rs 5,000 fine, jail for violators||CHENNAI: After a series of suicides and complaints about people losing their hard-earned money in online games involving wagering and betting, the state government on Friday promulgated an ordinance banning such games. The ordinance promulgated by governor Banwarilal Purohit amending the Tamil Nadu Gaming Act, 1930, Chennai City Police Act, 1888, and the Tamil Nadu District Police Act, 1859, bans betting in cyber space using computers and any other communication device. People who are found playing such games will be punished with a fine of Rs 5,000 and six months imprisonment, said the ordinance. People who open or run a common gaming house will be punished with a fine amount of Rs 10,000 and two-year imprisonment. “Innocent people, mainly youngsters, are being cheated and some people have committed suicide. In order to avoid such incidents and protect people from the evils of online gaming, the government had submitted a proposal to the governor to promulgate an ordinance,” said a statement from the governor’s office. The ordinance also bans “electronic transfer of funds” for betting and distributing prize money and will have provisions to punish people who are running such gaming companies. The government was under pressure to act as members of the civil society, the Madras high court and opposition parties consistently flagged the issue. Earlier this month, DMK chief M K Stalin condemned the government for seeking more time to take a call on banning online card games when a petition on the issue came up for hearing before the Madras high court. Within a couple of days, on November 6, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami announced that the state will ban online rummy and bring in legal changes to arrest its organisers and players. A week before the CM’s announcement, two men aged 28 and 32 had killed themselves in Coimbatore after incurring debt due to losses in online card games and about a dozen had killed themselves across the state till then. In Chennai, a 28-year-old man who lost a few lakhs playing online game committed suicide at his rented accommodation at Sembium on October 27. M Kumaresan of Adhanur in Villupuram district was working as a collection agent for a private bank for the last three years. Inquiries revealed that he stayed awake till 3am to play rummy online and lost money in online games.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-govt-bans-online-betting-games-rs-5000-fine-jail-for-violators/articleshow/79330317.cms||Srikkanth D
November 21, 2020||Agra||Woman dentist stabbed to death in her house in Agra||AGRA: In a daring broad daylight crime, a 38-year-old woman dentist was killed in her house in the city’s Kamla Nagar area by an employee of a local cable operator who slit her throat. Dr Nisha Singhal’s two daughters told the police that their mother was allegedly attacked by the suspect, Shubham, with a knife. According to police, the suspect had visited the doctor’s house around 4 pm for recharging the cable connection. The badly injured doctor was taken to hospital by her husband, Dr Ajay Singhal, who is a plastic surgeon in a private hospital in the city, but she succumbed to her injuries later. She was a private practitioner. Police said that preliminary investigations revealed that the doctor was attacked by the suspect after she resisted a loot attempt by him as cupboards in the house were found opened. The suspect had visited the doctor’s house for the second time in the last two days, said police. Talking to TOI, additional director general (Agra zone) Ajay Anand, who visited the crime spot, said that the suspect will be arrested soon, as “he has been identified and a manhunt has been launched for him”. Superintendent of police (city) Botre Rohan Pramod said that an FIR is being registered. “Three teams have been formed to arrest the accused,” he said, adding that the CCTV footage of the area is being scanned. In August, another doctor, Yogita Gautam, 30, who had completed her MS from SN Medical College, was found murdered in the city. Later another doctor, Vivek Tiwari, was arrested after he confessed to the crime and told the police that the two were in a relationship which had soured recently. In a recorded message, Tiwari told police he had strangled Yogita before stabbing her with a kitchen knife and then disposing of her body at Bamrauli Katra in Agra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/woman-dentist-stabbed-to-death-in-her-house-in-agra/articleshow/79331411.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Bareilly||Bareilly’s Jat Regiment Centre marks its 225th year||BAREILLY: The Jat Regiment Centre in Bareilly celebrated its 225th year of distinguished and illustrious service to the nation at an event on Friday. Due to Covid-19 restrictions, the event was streamed live on digital platforms for veterans who couldn’t attend. The guest of honour was Lieutenant General SK Saini, who is the current vice chief of the Army staff. The celebrations started with prayers at a temple on the premises followed by paying homage to the Martyrs at the War Memorial. Thereafter, the Jat recruits displayed an impressive parade and march past at Bakshi Parade ground. The chief guest said that the regiment has a glorious past and is resplendent with courage, valour and bravery. He urged all ranks of the regiment to serve the nation with complete dedication and sincerity. The event will culminate on November 21 with the annual JORA meet where discussions will be carried out on regiment matters. It will be attended by several veterans and senior serving officers from across the globe on a digital platform.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bareillys-jat-regiment-centre-marks-its-225th-year/articleshow/79329056.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 21, 2020||Delhi||GPS-based systems to monitor PWD vans||NEW DELHI: For the first time, Delhi government will install GPS-based monitoring systems in public works department (PWD)’s maintenance vans. This will help in better tracking of work and better performance, officials say. Tenders have been released and the installation work will begin in the first week of December. An official said that the system would be compatible with the web and mobile-based operations. It will also have a user-friendly dashboard for easy tracking so that the location details become accessible to each user with the ease of clicks. The official added that now, they would have a real-time access to where the maintenance vans were going. This move, officials say, will ensure that a lot of work is completed before the deadline. It will also help them in taking up more maintenance work to better the road infrastructure of the city, they add. PWD wrote in its tender that the system should have a geo-fence that would allow the user to save places so as to get alerts about the vehicle’s locations. “A few contractors do not provide us prompt information because of which some work gets delayed. Hence, we are installing GPS systems in all these vehicles,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gps-based-systems-to-monitor-pwd-vans/articleshow/79330345.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Bareilly||Pilibhit rice millers reject “sub-standard” paddy after fistfight with FCI staff||Pilibhit: Rice millers in Pilibhit on Friday collectively decided to reject “sub-standard paddy” supplied by the government for hulling, after they were allegedly manhandled by Food Corporation of India (FCI) staff on Thursday evening, who had earlier rejected the custom milled rice (CMR) supplied to FCI by the rice millers for the central pool. It is feared the millers’ decision could put the entire paddy procurement system in the district in crisis.Millers have charged FCI’s technical assistants of bias in testing and rejecting rice hulled by them, in order to extract heavy bribes for accepting their rice. After a written complaint in the matter was filed at Jahanabad police station on Thursday night, officials of FCI’s regional and marketing departments rushed to Pilibhit on Friday morning to review the situation.The UP government procures paddy through its various agencies and supplies it to rice mills for hulling. In turn, the government via FCI procures 67kg of processed rice per quintal of paddy from rice mills for the central pool, after testing the quality of rice.According to Vishnu Khandelwal, secretary of the district rice millers’ association, the dispute began after technical assistants of FCI rejected the rice stock on Thursday evening, claiming it contained up to 22% de-husked rice kernel (having more than 1/4th part of grain surface covered with bran), against the permitted limit of 13%. He alleged that to test the rice, FCI technical assistant Raghuraj had deliberately picked a majority of de-husked kernels among the 100 kernels of rice he chose to test the rice quality, which itself is not the prescribed testing method.The dispute allegedly blew up after Raghuraj proceeded to enter the percentage of de-husked kernels in official documents as 13.3%, before demanding a bribe of Rs 20,000 per lot of 580 bags for the manipulation, claimed Khandelwal.“When we demanded that he enter 22%, ie, whatever they had found, in the official documents, and reject the rice stock, so that the millers could approach the national testing lab, all FCI staffers present there began shouting aggressively. They manhandled the millers, tore apart relevant documents, while alleging this was being done by the millers — like in the Hindi film Singham,” he continued.Describing the correct process for testing rice quality at FCI, district food and marketing officer Avinash Jha told TOI, “Under the procedure laid down for the de-husking test, a random rice sample, 5gm by weight, has to be taken. Selecting 100 kernels of rice was a flawed method.”“If our rice quality is rejected by FCI staff in order to force us to pay a bribe, we’ll not accept sub-standard rice, containing defects like excessive moisture and breakage, which we’ve been accepting in the past,” the millers said.The FCI Bareilly manager Ravindra Singh, who visited Pilibhit, claimed the millers were on the wrong, alleging they wanted to put pressure on departmental staff to accept their defective rice stock.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pilibhit-rice-millers-reject-sub-standard-paddy-after-fistfight-with-fci-staff/articleshow/79329074.cms||Keshav Agarwal
November 21, 2020||Mangaluru||Congress blames BJP for showing no interest in renaming MIA||MANGALURU: Dakshina Kannada District Congress Committee (DCC) president K Harish Kumar blamed the state government of not showing any interest in renaming Mangaluru International Airport (MIA) after Koti-Chennaya. Kumar, who is also an MLC, told reporters on Friday, that the government had made it clear during the legislature session held in March, that there was no proposal before it to rename MIA. Similarly, circulars were also sent to deputy commissioners of Kalaburagi, Belagavi, Bidar, Dakshina Kannada and Hubballi, clarifying that the state government has no role in renaming airports, Kumar said, charging the BJP government of not showing interest in renaming the airport. “All of us know that the renaming of an airport does not come under the purview of a state government. When local bodies adopt a resolution, state governments may send proposals to the central government after approving the same in its cabinet meeting. However, the state chief secretary has sent a letter to the deputy commissioner of Dakshina Kannada, stating that the state government has no role in it. Meanwhile, the Dakshina Kannada MP and BJP state president has claimed that he has submitted a proposal to the central government to rename the airport after Koti-Chennaya. Let him clarify the present status of the proposal he submitted,” Kumar said. He ridiculed and compared the process of renaming MIA to the Pumpwell flyover project, which took several years to complete. Further, Kumar questioned as to why the central government, which took a hasty decision to demonetise currency, was not able to decide on renaming an airport. Reacting to BJP’s allegations that the Congress was indulging in caste-based politics, Kumar said that the 135-year-old party need not depend on castes to ensure its vote bank. “We never sought votes in the name of caste. The BJP is indulging in caste-based politics by setting up caste-based development boards to woo voters,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/cong-blames-bjp-for-showing-no-interest-in-renaming-mia/articleshow/79328186.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Win-win situation for flora, fauna and humans||KOLKATA: An eyeball-to-eyeball confrontation between residents of the Lake Gardens area determined to perform Chhath rituals at Rabindra Sarobar and equally resolute pro-environment youths bent upon preventing any violation of court orders marked the only friction on Chhath day at the Lake on Friday. After a nearly 30-minute stand-off, the locals grudgingly stepped away after police arrived to defuse the tension. The win for those taking a stand for the Lake’s protection reflected the scene at the Lake, where the ban order on rituals was implemented for the first time. Around 9.30am, 25-30 men, aged between 30 and 50 years, began shouting slogans, demanding Chhath rituals be allowed to be performed at the Lake. At that time, with just two cops being posted near Gate 3 that led into the Lake grounds and only a flimsy barricade before it, it did seem they might breach the barrier. But shortly, a dozen-odd pro-environment youths, who spent a sleepless night to chalk out a plan against any violation of the judicial order, arrived and stood on the road, leading to BRC and onward to the Lake. Their presence and their posters were met with a volley of threats and abuses from the men near the rail gate. The situation could have escalated further, had a large posse of policemen not arrived. “Why are these men standing there with posters?” the locals told the cops. When police urged the pro-environment group to disperse, the young men and women refused to budge till those threatening to break down the Lake barrier left. Ultimately, after 30 minutes, the two sides withdrew. “There were a few tense moments but the men realised there was no way they could browbeat us and muscle their way into Rabindra Sarobar premises in cop presence,” said Tranwi Das, an activist. That was the only moment of unrest in an otherwise peaceful day at the Sarobar, where the flora and fauna were left to themselves, undisturbed. It was a Chhath of sharp contrasts, compared to previous years at Rabindra Sarobar. The egrets stalked around the ground till the roadside fences on Friday, while last year, the compound was taken over by Chhath revellers, some performing rituals and others playing loud music and bursting crackers. On Friday, the silence around was only interrupted by the chirpings of birds, and thankfully, not by firecrackers. Most of the roads leading Rabindra Sarobar—like, Sarat Chatterjee Avenue and Dr Satyananda Roy Road—were made out of bounds for vehicles carrying Chhath devotees; they were open to regular traffic only. Also, the usual sight of daises erected on Sarat Chatterjee Avenue by different political parties to welcome Chhath devotees were missing this time. The vehicles carrying Chhath revellers were deftly diverted to other routes, even before those could reach the vicinity. “In other years, we could not venture out on the streets as Chhath revellers would keep bursting firecrackers continuously till late in the evening. This year, it’s a marked difference, thanks to impenetrable police security,” said Anil Khaitan, a resident of Dr Satyananda Roy Road.  The utter despondency on the faces of environment activists till last year was replaced by hope and a sense of relief this time. Environmentalist Subhas Datta, whose litigation led to the court orders, was satisfied with the measures taken by cops and KMDA. He pointed out that where there was intent, everything was possible. Activist Debasish Roy arrived at Lake early on Friday. Well past afternoon, he refused to budge though he went without food and water, as he dared not eat outside amid the pandemic. The frustration of Naba Dutta of Sabuj Mancha gave way to a feeling of hope. “I went to Subhas Sarobar. The situation shows a definite difference between the intent of the administration last year and this year,” he said. Environmentalist Somendra Mohan Ghosh was happy with the air quality index at Rabindra Sarobar. Sumita Banerjee, who has been rallying for the preservation of the Lake, was glad there was no crowd, loud music or deafening firecrackers to scare away birds, including the migratory ones. “I always believe that if police were given a free hand, they would not let even a fly sneak into the Lake area,” said Banerjee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/a-brief-stand-off-in-the-morning-but-lake-finally-gets-a-chhath-breather/articleshow/79330346.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
November 21, 2020||Mysuru||BJP MLC AH Vishwanath seeks cabinet berth||MYSURU: Former minister and BJP MLC AH Vishwanath on Friday said only Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Union home minister Amit Shah know whether there will be a Cabinet expansion or reshuffle in Karnataka. Vishwanath said that CM BS Yediyurappa has discussed the issue with BJP national president JP Nadda. “I hope for the Cabinet expansion and a ministerial post,” he said clarifying that he too is an aspirant to the post. He said the government should provide a stable administration to win hearts after the Cabinet expansion. The ruling government and the ruling party should go together for a better administration. Meanwhile, reacting to the statement given by Union chemical and fertilisers minister DV Sadananada Gowda who had said that Vishwanath has not built the party but only helped BJP to come to power in the state, he said that as a senior leader it is not right for Gowda to make such statements. “There is no insider or outsider in BJP. I contested the election after getting a ticket from the party. So I am not an outsider,” said Vishwanath. Madiwala caste into SC category Vishwanath on Friday urged chief minister BS Yediyurappa to include Madiwala community under Scheduled Caste (SC) category. Speaking at the inauguration of Sri Madiwala Machideva Kshmebhirudhi Seva Samsthe, Vishwanath said Madiwala caste should be included in SC category and the members must be given reservation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/bjp-mlc-ah-vishwanath-seeks-cabinet-berth/articleshow/79326728.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Agra||Smart traffic management nets over 5k violators in Agra city, challans totalling Rs 6cr issued||Agra: Integrated traffic management system implemented here under the smart city project has enabled traffic police to impose penalties to the tune of Rs 6.54 crore on violators. A total of 5,345 challans have been issued over the past 11 months from November 15, 2019 to October 31, 2020. The violators of traffic rules were caught with the help of CCTV cameras network installed at 43 major crossings of the city and these relayed information to the integrated command and control centre (ICCC) established at the Agra Municipal Corporation head office and manned by traffic policemen. The artificial intelligence enabled cameras auto-focus on the number plate of the vehicles and take clear pictures. Traffic policemen at the ICCC monitor the traffic situation on computer screens and generate e-challans to drivers not wearing helmet or seat belt, jumping the red light, driving on the wrong side of the road or tripling on two wheelers. Superintendent of police, traffic, Prashant Kumar Prasad said, “We are issuing e-challans from the command and control centre. The traffic violator receives a message of challan on the registered phone number. Later, a hard copy of the challan is sent by post to the address of the driver who has violated a traffic rule.” Vice-president of Agra smart city project Anand Menon said, “At major crossings, two types of specialized cameras have been installed. One is the automatic number plate recognition (ANPR) and other is red light violation detection camera. Besides pan-tilt-zoon (PTZ) cameras have also been installed. Public address system have also been installed at major crossings. This will allow those in the control room to make an announcement at any point of time.” Besides, ensuring that people take road traffic rules and regulations seriously, the cameras installed are helping police in controlling crime. Several stolen vehicles have been traced through the ICCC. According to smart city project officials, police stations of the city have also been connected to the command and control centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/smart-traffic-management-nets-over-5k-violators-in-agra-city-challans-totalling-rs-6cr-issued/articleshow/79331412.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Delhi||Husband, his nephew held for killing Delhi woman a year ago||NEW DELHI: Over a year after a senior manager with an IT firm in Gurugram was murdered and cremated under mysterious circumstances, her husband and his nephew have been arrested for killing her and secretly cremating her body. The husband, Karamveer Singh, inherited properties worth crores after her death and recently sold one of them. In October 2019, TOI was the first to report about the murder case, which was registered 40 days after the crime was committed. The case was challenging for police as the body had been cremated and the evidence destroyed. The arrests were made late on Wednesday. The post-dated cheques received from selling one of the properties have been seized. Both the accused have been taken in police custody for two days. A probe revealed that the husband of the victim, Shaila Singh (47), travelled 60km with the body in different directions instead of taking her to a hospital. The couple used to reside in an apartment at Chhatarpur. When Karamveer was examined by police, he claimed that his wife had fallen sick and passed away. When his claims were verified with the locations that he had reportedly travelled to, it came to the fore that he never took her to any hospital. “He said he had taken her to Batra Hospital and then thought about going to AIIMS, but by then she had died. When we scanned the routes, we found that despite 4-5 hospitals being on the way, he drove 60km away. The location of Krishna, his nephew, was found the same as his. Later, Krishna confessed that he didn’t kill her, but helped Karamveer dispose of the body,” said a source. Police sources said Karamveer smothered her to death using a pillow on September 4, 2019. He then wrapped the body in a blanket and took it to his car. He then called Krishna saying he had killed Shaila during an argument and asked for his help in disposing of the body. The two went to Dera Mandi village and cremated her around 2am. Speaking to TOI over the phone, Shaila’s elder brother, Kapil Singh, an NRI living in New York, said, “I had lost faith in the judiciary and police. When I received information about the arrests, my faith was restored. After her death, I flew to Delhi and filed a complaint. Shaila inherited properties worth around Rs 4.5 crore from our father. We will file a civil suit against Karamveer for selling one of the properties.” Karamveer was found booked in an attempt to culpable homicide case registered in 2006 at Mehrauli police station. During interrogation, he told police that in 2001 he had met Shaila at Thyagaraj Stadium and they started liking each other. In May 2002, they got married in an Arya Samaj Mandir.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/husband-his-nephew-held-for-killing-woman-a-yr-ago/articleshow/79330347.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Chennai||Don’t insist on fee, first admit medical students in Tamil Nadu under 7.5% quota: DME||TRICHY/CHENNAI: The directorate of medical education on Friday asked government and self-financing medical colleges in the state to admit students who were allotted seats under the 7.5% NEET quota for governmnet school students without insisting on their paying up their fees first. A total 405 seats were reserved for government school students under the 7.5% NEET quota in 71 medical and dental colleges in the state. “Students allotted seats under the NEET quota should not be denied admission for payment of fee at any cost. Post-matric and other financial aid will be appropriately taken care of,” director of medical education Dr R Narayanababu said in a letter to deans of medical colleges. “Any student denied admission should be called back and given admission as per the notification,” he said. The direction came as a huge relief for many students and parents, especially those allotted government quota seats in private medical colleges who were running from pillar to post to arrange for money for the fees. Most of the parents of these students are daily wage earners. By the time the directions came in the afternoon, M Thangavel one of three students from Trichy, who were allotted seats in private colleges, had paid the fee. Thangavel had approached the private medical college in Perambalur on Friday to confirm his seat when he was asked to pay the fee by evening. “My ailing parents had to borrow to pay Rs 3.75 lakh by afternoon as they feared I would lose the seat,” said Thangavel. “I was happy to be allotted a MBBS seat on Thursday, but my happiness evaporated seeing my parents become debtors to help me realise my dream of becoming a doctor,” he said. M Joan of Arc, coordinator for free NEET coaching in Trichy said sponsors could be arranged for a couple of students who got MBBS seats in government colleges. “But this was not possible for those who got seats in private colleges as the fee was too high,” he said. Another student in Velliangadu in Coimbatore P Bistis Prisca was asked to pay pay Rs 4 lakhs out of Rs 6.50 lakhs, the fee for one year, within a week. Her father S Prabhakaran said, “We don't know what to do. But we cannot afford to pay such a huge amount without help.” R Deepika is one among the eight students from Madurai to get MBBS seat in self-financing medical colleges under the NEET quota. Her father R Ravichandran on Friday submitted a petition to district collector T Anbalagan seeking financial aid. “We were relieved that the government has said that we can get admission without paying now. But, even if eventually we have to pay, we will not be able to manage with our meagre income. We need the help of the government or some sponsor,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/dont-insist-on-fee-first-admit-medical-students-under-7-5-quota-dme/articleshow/79330341.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Agra||Agra DM tests Covid +ve,district tally now 8,464||Agra: Agra district magistrate (DM) Prabhu N Singh has been tested Covid-19 positive on Friday. The DM had mild symptoms. After a checkup by doctors, he was allowed home isolation. Chief development officer J Reebha was given charge.At least 64 new Covid positive cases surfaced in Agra till Friday evening, taking the district tally to 8,464. Also, 46 Covid patients were discharged. The number of active Covid cases in the district increased from 517 on Thursday, to 536 on Friday. According to the health department officials, the Covid samples positivity rate in Agra district was 2.6 till Friday evening. So far, 160 Covid patients have passed away in Agra district. The case fatality rate in the district was reported 1.8%.Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “Of the 8,464 people tested Covid positive, 7,768 have recovered. The current recovery rate is 91.7%. The number of Covid cases is likely to increase with the drop in temperature during winter. People are advised to wear face masks as much as possible and strictly follow social distancing norms."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-dm-tests-covid-vedistrict-tally-now-8464/articleshow/79331416.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Opposition demands probe into ‘attempts’ to sabotage probe||THIRUVANATHAPURAM: Central agencies should probe coordinated efforts by CPM and state government to sabotage the probe into gold smuggling case, illegal drug trade and corruption in Kerala, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala has said. He said on Friday that the National Investigation Agency should probe the conspiracy hatched from the office of the chief minister to sabotage the gold smuggling crime case which is having an anti-national angle. The attempt began with setting fire to the files in the protocol office in general administration department, and the purported voice clip of Swapna Suresh is a continuation of this attempt, he said. A constitutionally elected government trying to topple constitutionally formed bodies cannot be accepted under any circumstances, and this amounts to challenging the constitution and law, Chennithala said. When fire broke out in the sensitive protocol section, the government said it was due to a short circuit, but now it has turned out in the forensic report that the short circuit did not cause the fire. But police tried to sabotage these findings and an IG-ranking officer threatened the forensic officials. But the final report of the forensic laboratory also has said the fire was not due to the electrical short circuit, leaving the question of who lit the fire unanswered, Chennithala said. He said the vigilance probe into Life Mission case, removal of files by the vigilance in connection with the probe into the case, statements made by M Sivasankar and Swapna in the court that the agencies are forcing them to give statements against the chief minister etc are nothing but attempts to sabotage the probe. The latest audio clip that is being circulated in the name of Swapna Suresh is also an attempt to save the chief minister, he said. KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran also said the audio clip is intended to destroy the trustworthiness of the central agencies probing the cases and demanded that a comprehensive probe is required to bring out the truth. He said chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan is on the same path as that of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in destroying the constitutional bodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/opposition-demands-probe-into-conspiracy/articleshow/79329095.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Agra||Mathura court adjourns bail hearingof duo who offered namaz at temple||Agra: The Mathura court, on Friday, adjourned the hearing of the bail pleas of Faisal Khan, founder of Delhi based Khudai Khidmatgar, and his associate Chand Mohammad to November 24. The duo were arrested for offering 'namaz' without permission at Nand Baba temple in Mathura on November 2.Defence lawyer Madhuvan Dutt Chaturvedi said the investigation officer in the case did not turn up before the court, as he was diagnosed Covid positive, according to the prosecution. The court of additional sessions judge (II) justice Mahendra Nath then adjourned the case to November 24.According to police, Faisal and Chand had offered 'namaz' on the temple premises while two others — Alok Ratan and Nilesh Gupta – took their photographs.All four have been booked for promoting enmity between different groups on ground of religion and injuring (153A) or defiling a place of worship with intent to insult the religion of any class (295) along with section 505 (whoever makes, publishes or circulates any statement, rumour or report) of IPC on a complaint filed by Nandgaon temple’s priest Kanha Goswami.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/mathura-court-adjourns-bail-hearingof-duo-who-offered-namaz-at-temple/articleshow/79331414.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Nagpur||Close to finding Covid-19 therapy, claims city biotech firm||Nagpur: GeNext Genomics (GNG), a Nagpur biotechnology research company, has claimed to have identified a few strong neutralising antibodies that could be used for developing a potential therapy to treat Covid-19. The development would go on in a phase wise manner with collaboration for clinical trials. GNG came into limelight last year when they got a grant of Rs 1 crore under National Bio-Pharma Mission. The firm aims to make India self-sustained with its discovery and solution for healthcare. Supriya Kashikar, founder and CEO, said, “We are working towards developing an indigenous solution to Covid-19 identifying Monoclonal Antibody Binders from the cured patients of Covid-19”. According to her, monoclonal antibody has a huge potential in formulating a drug for SARS-COV 2. Currently, monoclonal antibody-based therapy for Covid-19 has been approved by FDA for emergency use. GNG aims to build a therapeutic valued antibody which will be more effective. Although drug discovery is a long journey, the scientists at GNG aim to complete the molecule validation and antibody development by early 2021. “Finding and formulation of biological drugs, mainly antibodies against Covid-19, could be best solution for combating this mutation-prone virus. The manipulation of monospecific or monoclonal antibodies is comparatively easier than chemical drugs against speedy evolutionary microbes,” said Dr Vinod Agarkar, director of GNG. He also said the team was working on future long term effects of Covid-19 on dense population in India. “This is the right time to serve the society to develop superior and novel antibody for the treatment and prophylaxis of Covid-19. If developed successfully, it would be boon for the Covid patients globally,” said Dr Kafil Ahmed, expert mentor for this project. Infectious disease specialist Dr Nitin Shinde said that Monoclonal Antibody Binders were considered the most promising remedy for Covid-19 and the efforts of Nagpur firm deserved government support. “In USA, a lot of research is going on this subject. Indigenous solution being developed in Nagpur should be encouraged by government. It can bring a great solution at very affordable rates for us,” he said. CURE FOR COVID-19SARS-COV 2 virus has a spike protein that allows it to enter into humans and cause infection This infection leads to production of pool of “Neutralising Antibodies” to fight the virus inside the body The team at GNG isolated gene pool of these neutralising antibodies from Covid-19 recovered patients Using the proprietary Antibody Library Platform, GNG has identified a few strong neutralising antibodies These will soon be evaluated for its efficiency towards the target and developing a potential future therapy GNG aims to complete the molecule validation and antibody development by early 2021||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/close-to-finding-covid-19-therapy-claims-city-biotech-firm/articleshow/79340199.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 21, 2020||Trichy||Don’t insist on fee, first admit medical students in Tamil Nadu under 7.5% quota: DME||TRICHY/CHENNAI: The directorate of medical education on Friday asked government and self-financing medical colleges in the state to admit students who were allotted seats under the 7.5% NEET quota for governmnet school students without insisting on their paying up their fees first. A total 405 seats were reserved for government school students under the 7.5% NEET quota in 71 medical and dental colleges in the state. “Students allotted seats under the NEET quota should not be denied admission for payment of fee at any cost. Post-matric and other financial aid will be appropriately taken care of,” director of medical education Dr R Narayanababu said in a letter to deans of medical colleges. “Any student denied admission should be called back and given admission as per the notification,” he said. The direction came as a huge relief for many students and parents, especially those allotted government quota seats in private medical colleges who were running from pillar to post to arrange for money for the fees. Most of the parents of these students are daily wage earners. By the time the directions came in the afternoon, M Thangavel one of three students from Trichy, who were allotted seats in private colleges, had paid the fee. Thangavel had approached the private medical college in Perambalur on Friday to confirm his seat when he was asked to pay the fee by evening. “My ailing parents had to borrow to pay Rs 3.75 lakh by afternoon as they feared I would lose the seat,” said Thangavel. “I was happy to be allotted a MBBS seat on Thursday, but my happiness evaporated seeing my parents become debtors to help me realise my dream of becoming a doctor,” he said. M Joan of Arc, coordinator for free NEET coaching in Trichy said sponsors could be arranged for a couple of students who got MBBS seats in government colleges. “But this was not possible for those who got seats in private colleges as the fee was too high,” he said. Another student in Velliangadu in Coimbatore P Bistis Prisca was asked to pay pay Rs 4 lakhs out of Rs 6.50 lakhs, the fee for one year, within a week. Her father S Prabhakaran said, “We don't know what to do. But we cannot afford to pay such a huge amount without help.” R Deepika is one among the eight students from Madurai to get MBBS seat in self-financing medical colleges under the NEET quota. Her father R Ravichandran on Friday submitted a petition to district collector T Anbalagan seeking financial aid. “We were relieved that the government has said that we can get admission without paying now. But, even if eventually we have to pay, we will not be able to manage with our meagre income. We need the help of the government or some sponsor,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dont-insist-on-fee-first-admit-medical-students-under-7-5-quota-dme/articleshow/79332966.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Agra||AMU worker shot dead by unidentified assailants||AGRA: A fourth class employee of Aligarh Muslim University’s (AMU) medical college was allegedly shot dead by two unidentified persons outside the campus, when the deceased was returning home after offering namaz on Friday. One of the suspects, whose identity was not known till the filing of the report, was caught and thrashed by the public before being handed over to the police. The suspect was taken to the hospital for treatment. A manhunt has been launched to arrest the second suspect who escaped from the spot, police said. An FIR will be registered. The matter is being probed, said SP (traffic) Satish Chandra, who has an additional charge of SP (city). AMU spokesperson Shafey Kidwai said the deceased was working as a daily wager in the medical college.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/amu-worker-shot-dead-by-unidentified-assailants/articleshow/79331417.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Gas-cutter gang loots Rs 13 lakh from Tiljala ATM||KOLKATA: A gas-cutter gang that has been looting at ATMs on city’s periphery since last month — the last time at Michael Nagar on Wednesday — is believed to have made its first strike in the heart of the city in the wee hours of Friday morning. A kiosk of Axis Bank on CN Rai Road near Picnic Garden in Tiljala was severely damaged — including the ATM machine and the ACs — and Rs 13 lakh cash was looted on Friday. “We received information about a fire at the kiosk and the fire department was informed. After the fire was extinguished, bank officials visited the spot and realized that Rs 13 lakh had gone missing. A gas-cutter was used to cut the cash box. The kiosk caught fire the process. We are getting the spot examined by forensic experts,” said an officer from the detective department. “We are taking up the investigation after initial reports have hinted at a crime,” said joint CP (Crime) Murlidhar Sharma. Though different gangs might be involved, the fact that three ATMs — the first near the airport, the second on Kona Expressway and the third along NH-6 — were looted since last month shows this might all be the handiwork of the same gang, said a police source. “At Michael Nagar, they had smeared the CCTV cameras with black paint and then prised open the cash vaults. The operation was not so smooth at Tiljala. The forensic report will help us know if the fire was accidental or it was an attempt to wipe out evidence,” said an officer. All CCTV footage in and around the area are being checked. “Given the location of the ATM, one must have a clear idea of the topography here,” the officer added. While ATM loots took place at Narayanpur in Bagnan and some other areas of North 24 Parganas and Howrah in the past month, this is the first time that such an incident took place in Kolkata and in a place that has a thick population. A few days back, an ATM was targeted near Dhulagarh on Kona Expressway and the fourth along the National Highway at Bagnan. Police have retrieved a few unclear images from the motion sensor-enabled CCTV cameras and will cross-check them with footage at a bus stand, claimed sources. Investigators say the modus operandi — and the speed at which the ATMs were opened by gas-cutters — resemble a series of such heists in Delhi and Noida.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/gas-cutter-gang-loots-rs-13l-from-tiljala-atm/articleshow/79329151.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 21, 2020||Meerut||Woman, 32, raped by CRPFjawan on 'pretext of marriage'||Agra: A 32-year-old woman was allegedly raped by an ASI of CRPF, deployed with the security of Sri Krishna Janmasthan, on the "pretext of marriage". The accused was arrested by Mathura police on Thursday and later remanded to judicial custody.The accused - identified as Mahavir Singh - has been booked under sections 376 (rape), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC on a complaint filed by the woman.According to the FIR, the woman met the ASI in 2017 and was in touch. The woman accused him of sexually assaulting her on the pretext of marriage and thrashed her when she had insisted on the wedding.The woman’s husband died in 2015 and she has been living with her son since.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/woman-32-raped-by-crpfjawan-on-pretext-of-marriage/articleshow/79331450.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana faces highest surge of 3,104 cases in one day||CHANDIGARH: Haryana witnessed its highest spike of of novel coronavirus in a single day on Friday. In addition, it also recorded 25 new deaths, taking the total toll to 2,138. The Haryana districts neighboring Delhi contributed more than 55% of the new cases in the state on Friday. “Largely the spike has come from the districts close to New Delhi. We have increased testing daily since the last three days. This too could be a reason for this increase,” said Haryana’s director general of health services (DGHS) Dr Suraj Bhan Kamboj. After health minister Anil Vij instructed the health department to increase testing to 30,000 tests daily, Haryana increased the tests to 25,000 on Wednesday, 27,000 on Thursday, and 32,000 on Friday. Haryana’s overall Covid-19 tally has increased to 212,355 cases. The state’s recovery rate has dropped to 89.5% as 2,508 patients recovered on Friday, taking the cured tally to 190,067. There are 20,150 active patients, including 416 critical ones on oxygen and ventilator support. Of the 3,104 cases, 1,635 cases have come from five NCR districts of Faridabad, Gurgaon, Palwal, Rohtak and Sonipat. Faridabad topped the tally with its highest ever count of 881 new cases, taking the district total to 35,613 cases, 290 deaths and 4,655 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hrys-faces-highest-surge-of-3104-cases-in-one-day/articleshow/79330395.cms||Manvir Saini
November 21, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: DIG doesn’t confirm it is Swapna Suresh’s voice in audio clip||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Prisons and correctional services department has finalised a report that does not confirm whether the voice clip, which was circulated recently, is indeed the voice of Swapna Suresh, a key accused in the gold smuggling case. DIG prisons Ajayakumar had visited the women’s prison in Attakulangara on Thursday, where Swapna is lodged, to probe the clip’s authenticity. In his report to DGP (prisons) Rishi Raj Singh, the DIG is learnt to have said that Swapna has not confirmed whether the voice in the clip is hers. She said the voice bears a strong resemblance to her own and that she had spoken to many people and cannot recollect each conversation, the report is learnt to have said. The report added that the clip was not recorded from Attakulangara prison. DGP Singh had requested the state police chief to begin a probe to find the person who recorded the clip, how the online media that leaked the news received the clip and the date, time and place where it was recorded. However, police are yet to take a call on the matter. Department sources said that there is no offence, per se, in the matter and for that reason, there are limitations in probing the matter. Sources said that a probe will be undertaken if police receives a formal complaint in this matter. It is learnt that police have sought legal opinion to know if a probe can be conducted. It is also learnt that the cyber cell is conducting an informal probe. In the voice clip, the owner of the voice (believed to be Swapna) is heard saying that central agencies are forcing her to give a statement against chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Meanwhile, BJP state president K Surendran alleged that the chief minister’s party is conducting a political campaign using a voice clip purported to be that of Swapna. He added that CM should clarify whether the audio was released by jail department or during vigilance interrogation. “Prison authorities must answer how Swapna gave the audio recording to media from jail. They are trying to use it in the election campaign. Vigilance officers who went to jail and interrogated Swapna should be questioned,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/dig-doesnt-confirm-it-is-swapnas-voice-in-audio-clip/articleshow/79329144.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Meerut||UP principal secy inspects two hospitals after Covid infection & deaths spike in dist||MEERUT: A surprise inspection of LLRM Medical College and Anand Hospital in Meerut, conducted by UP principal secretary Alok Kumar on Friday, has revealed some lacunae in their surveillance and contact tracing for Covid-19. Afterwards, Kumar instructed the hospital administrations to improve their surveillance and to take special care of Covid-19 patients with co-morbidities. This comes at a time when the district has reported a sudden spike in cases, with nearly 800 new cases reported in the last three days. Concerned about the rising death rate from Covid-19 in Meerut, the principal secretary said, “Negligence at any level should be checked and corrected immediately. Contact tracing and surveillance should increase and the health department should take the assistance of locals to prevent spread of the viral infection.” While inspecting LLRM Medical College, Kumar appreciated the hospital’s in-house virtual ICU and CCTV monitoring. He enquired about the availability of medicines and oxygen cylinders, and was assured of their adequate availability. “The health department has been asked to conduct a retrospective analysis of Covid-19 related deaths here. The 10-day-long door-to-door drive to trace infected individuals is a good move and should be carried out judiciously,” said Kumar. He further said an analysis of the drive should also be conducted to check whether there is any negligence at the ground level. “Doctors at Anand Hospital have been asked to immediately refer critical patients to LLRM. They should also charge patients according to set norms, and not overcharge them,” said Kumar. Meerut district magistrate K Balaji said, “Currently, 106 patients are being treated at the 250-bed LLRM and 97 patients at the 100-bed Anand Hospital. Health officials and locals are together making all efforts to contain the virus and bring down the death rate.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-principal-secy-inspects-two-hosps-after-covid-infection-deaths-spike-in-dist/articleshow/79331426.cms||Ishita Bhatia
November 21, 2020||Ludhiana||Fill potholes, make roads safe for commuters, MC commissioner urged||LUDHIANA: Complaining against the poor quality of the roads, traffic expert and chairman of Raahat: The Safe Community Foundation, Kamaljit Soi has written to municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal in which he mentioned about the killer pothole on Model Town road where a girl was injured badly and was admitted to the hospital. Soi said all the city roads have potholes and the condition of the roads is very bad. According to him, this is being ignored and neglected for a long time, leading to fatal accidents and loss of many precious lives. “The surface of the road is broken. There are heaps of road material on both sides of road. They leave only little room in the middle. The side drains are blocked and the water flows out. There are pot-holes on the road and at some places roads look like roads in potholes . The broken culvert is also a danger for vehicles,” he added. According to the amended Motor Vehicle Act in 2019, the municipal authorities /contractor / consultant/concessionaire should be held responsible and a compensation of Rs 1lakh should be paid to the victim, he pointed out. Soi demanded that all the potholes should be repaired in the city and action should be taken against the officers/contractors for poor road construction and maintenance. He also said road furniture, warning signs and cautionary signs are missing at most of the roads and these should be installed immediately to prevent accidents. “Road markings and road studs are also missing, absence of which can cause accidents in winter season on foggy days. No safety is being observed in construction sites, which poses a grave danger to the lives and the property of the innocent citizens,” Soi wrote. He also said the 91 black spots identified by traffic police are not being corrected for more than four years. “Unsafe outdoor advertising media in the form of protruding unipoles are posing serious danger to the lives of people. Road side advertising at hazardous places also poses a serious danger, against which orders have been passed by both the Supreme court of India as well as Punjab and Haryana high court,” said Soi, urging authorities to remove them. Meanwhile, MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said he has not read the letter yet, but the civic body is already paying attention towards improvement of roads and contractors are being told to pay attention towards quality of roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/fill-potholes-make-roads-safe-for-commuters-mc-commissioner-urged/articleshow/79330389.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Delhi||Old FYUP laptops come to rescue of DU students||NEW DELHI: As colleges and universities remain shut due to Covid-19 and teaching-learning moves online, the laptops distributed by Delhi University distributed during the four-year undergraduate programme (FYUP) are now coming to the rescue of students. Once a matter of grouse in the varsity, the laptops are now being refurbished with updated software and hardware, and given to students who need it to attend online classes. As the parents of many students have lost their jobs, colleges are also providing fee concessions. At Aryabhatt College, out of the 900 laptops distributed in 2013, close to 500 are in a usable condition. So far, 150 have been issued to needy students. “The students who are in Delhi can take an appointment to get one of the laptops. Around 300 are ready to be issued. We don’t want any student to suffer for not having gadgets. We have now issued a notice for first-year students to come and take a laptop too,” said Manoj Sinha, principal of the college. Even some teachers have asked for gadgets. “Most teachers have children who also need to attend online classes at the same time,” added Sinha. “We are also helping students apply for different scholarships given by the state government, UGC, MHRD and even NGO’s.” At Ramanujan College, too, the administration had received laptop requests, so the college has issued around 30 laptops so far. “We have invested to ready the old gadgets so students don’t suffer,” said SP Agarwal, principal of the college. The teachers of St Stephen’s College had also written to the principal John Varghese asking for assistance for needy students. The principal had replied that the college bursar has been working on it. The principal for Aurobindo College, Vipin Kumar, said that laptops issued earlier were with the students. “As around 60% of the students are from outside Delhi, we did not ask the students to return the laptops in March-April as we usually do,” he said. In terms of the fee concession, Shivaji College has completely waived off the fee for second and third-year students. Rajdhani College has given a concession of Rs 2,010 to the second and third-year students. Rajesh Giri, principal of Rajdhani College, said, “We adjusted the money under different heads to provide concessions. As no programmes are being held, the money collected for different societies was utilised for the students.” A student’s collective called YUVA at the college is also collecting the names of students who need assistance or laptops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/old-fyup-laptops-come-to-rescue-of-du-students/articleshow/79330545.cms||Shradha Chettri
November 21, 2020||Kolkata||Fraudsters steal Rs 25,000 from cancer patient’s account in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The detective department and Haridevpur police have started investigating a case where a 39-year-old woman — a fourth-stage lung cancer patient — has alleged to have lost Rs 25,000 in three minutes. The money, kept aside for her treatment, was withdrawn from an ATM in Tollygunge when the woman was at home. The victim, identified as Nandita Chatterjee, a resident of Sodepur in Purba Barisha, insisted that she had neither replied to any phishing mail nor to calls on her mobile. According to Chatterjee, the transactions took place on October 20 but her bank — the MG Road branch of a public sector bank — had reportedly not helped her and asked her to fetch a police report for refund. Haridevpur police, too, had initially not shown much interest, it has been alleged. It was only after the anti-bank fraud section and cyber cell got involved on Friday that new leads began to emerge. “There were three withdrawals from a Tollygunge ATM — Rs 5,023 the first time and Rs 10,023 twice between 12.07pm and 12.09pm. I blocked the card and lodged an FIR the same day. But the bank said I must seek redress only from police. I am a cancer patient. How am I to run around? Finding no way out, I approached the detective department through Twitter. They have responded and assured help,” said Chatterjee. She added who that the money was important since her in-laws are now aged and her daughter is too young and all of them need financial protection. “We have taken note of your concern and the same is being looked into by our concerned section for necessary action,” joint CP (crime) Murlidhar Sharma tweeted back. Sources said the bank fraud section will write to the bank for necessary footage from the ATM. “We will also monitor the progress made by Haridevpur police,” said an officer. The police said they are ascertaining if she was the victim of a skimming racket. Given the rise of the shoulder-surfing gang (those who peep from behind while someone is busy in an online debit card transaction and read the PIN before replacing the card), cops said this might also be an ideal case of cloning where the accused got hold of her card and cloned it before returning it back. “Whether it is skimming or cloning of the card, we do not think that the Romanian gangs are involved. If that was so, we would have received multiple cases,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fraudsters-steal-rs-25k-from-cancer-patients-account/articleshow/79329167.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 21, 2020||Ludhiana||AAP demands investigation, too||LUDHIANA: A delegation of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) led by Amandeep Singh Mohi, joint secretary, Punjab, on Friday met the commissioner of police, Ludhiana, in the case of alleged sexual harassment filed by a woman from Ludhiana against Lok Insaf Party (LIP) MLA Simarjit Singh Bains, demanding a time bound probe into the matter. Others who were part of the delegation were Suresh Goyal, president Ludhiana Urban, Saranpal Singh Makkar. secretary Ludhiana district, Prof Tejpal Singh Gill, senior leader AAP and Gurdarsan Singh Kohli vice-president, (Ludhiana rural). In the memorandum submitted to the police commissioner, the AAP leaders said a woman belonging to Ludhiana had levelled serious allegations of cheating and raping against LIP chief and Atam Nagar MLA Simarjit Singh Bains, which were widely reported in the press. “In such a situation, it becomes imperative to investigate the allegations against Bains so that justice can be done to the woman.” The AAP leaders demanded a time-bound and fair investigation into the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/aap-demands-investigation-too/articleshow/79330445.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Covaxin’s phase-III trial: 1st shot for Anil Vij||AMBALA: Haryana health minister Anil Vij was on Friday administered the first dose of Covaxin—a coronavirus vaccine being developed indigenously by Bharat Biotech—as part of its phase-III trial at the civil hospital, Ambala Cantonment. The vaccine was administered under the observation of a team of medical officers, who reached Ambala from Pt Bhagat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences (Pt. BDSUHS), Rohtak, including varsity’s vice-chancellor Dr O P Kalra. On Wednesday, Vij, 67, had offered to be the first volunteer for the third phase trial of the vaccine, which is being developed by Bharat Biotech in corroboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the National Institute of Virology (NIV). After taking the vaccine dose, Vij said, “I volunteered to boost the confidence of the people, so that they come forward without any fear and enrol themselves for this cause. A total of 25,800 people above 18 years will be given a dose of Covaxin under its phase-III trial at 21 locations in India and 1,000 of them will be enrolled from Haryana.” He further said, “First two phases of this vaccine have been completed successfully and now the phase-III trial has started. We want the trial phases to be over at the earliest so that the vaccine can be brought to the market for people as soon as possible. If all goes well, the vaccine will hit the market early next year.” To a query, Dr Kalra said, “It is a matter of pride that the state’s health minister came forward as a volunteer. During the mandatory observation duration of 30 minutes, the minister was fit and fine and no adverse effects were noticed. This has further motivated our team. Those interested in volunteering in Haryana can contact PGIMS, Rohtak helpline 9416447071 or email at snoh.covid19@gmail.com.” Dr Ramesh, co-principal investigator (PI) for Covid-19 vaccine, said, “Second dose will be given after 28 days.”We have collected his blood samples to ascertain the presence of antibodies before vaccination and the same will be examined after 28 days. A regular examination will be done every month up to one year after giving the two doses of this vaccine.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covaxins-phase-iii-trial-1st-shot-for-vij/articleshow/79330451.cms||Jaskaran Singh
November 21, 2020||Meerut||Trader shot at during obbery bid in Meerut||MEERUT: Sunil Kumar Garg, a jaggery trader and resident of Parikshitgarh area in Meerut, was shot at allegedly by unidentified assailants on Friday morning. Police have registered an FIR for attempt to murder and a probe has begun. According to sources, the bike-borne assailants waylaid Garg on his way to Naveen Mandi and tried to snatch his cash bag. One of the gunmen opened fired after Garg tried to resist and a bullet hit him in the abdomen. He was rushed to a city-based multi-specialty hospital, where her condition is said to be stable. "We are still trying to ascertain the motive. Teams are working on all angles and we will soon have a breakthrough," said Avinash Pandey, superintendent of police (rural areas)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/trader-shot-at-during-obbery-bid-in-meerut/articleshow/79331468.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Shops continue to disregard norms on Tamil name boards||Coimbatore: The commercial establishments in the city have shown a complete disregard for the state government’s diktat on displaying name boards prominently in Tamil.Years after making it mandatory and several drives to enforce the rule, only close to 1% of the shops, hotels and commercial establishments in the city have complied with the order so far.The Tamil development department has issued notices to more than 1,000 asking them to display the name in Tamil prominently, but the response hasn’t been encouraging.According to the government order, the name of the establishments should be displayed in Tamil and English and the size of the letters should be in 5:3 ratio. If one more language needs to be added, the size of the letters should be in 5:3:2 ratio. An official with the Tamil development department confirmed that most of the establishments hadn’t complied with the norms. “It is mainly because they are not aware about the government order. We had started issuing them notices in December 2018. We have served notices on more than 1,000 establishments in and around Town Hall, Ukkadam, Ondipudur, Gandhipuram and Nanjapa Road, asking them to change their name boards according to the order.”The purpose of the drive is to develop Tamil language.While officials used to serve notices on around 200 shops and hotels a month before the lockdown, the number had gradually decreased after that. “Now we are issuing notices to more than 50 establishments a month. Only close to 1% of the shopkeepers have changed the name boards and others have ignored our notices,” the official said.A shopkeeper, who didn’t want to be identified, on Trichy Road said the move would cost them dear. “We had spent thousands of rupees to design and install the name boards to attract the customers. Now, we will have to spend another few thousand rupees to change the name board. And it would not bring any desired change. The officials should have informed us about the order when we approached them for getting licences. Why are they now insisting on changing the name board?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/shops-continue-to-disregard-norms-on-tamil-name-boards/articleshow/79330393.cms||Nivedha Selvam
November 21, 2020||Kochi||Assault On Actress: HC denies requests for change of judge||Kochi: The Kerala high court on Friday dismissed petitions seeking change of the judge conducting the trial in the case over the alleged abduction and sexual assault of a movie actress in February 2017. Justice V G Arun held that most of the contentions raised by the survivor and prosecution for transfer of the case are unsustainable. The court called for the judge, prosecutor and defence lawyers to work in sync so as to prevent the guilty from escaping the clutches of law or the innocent from being punished. Citing several Supreme Court rulings, the high court said the apprehension of not getting a fair trial should be reasonable and not imaginary, nor based on conjectures and surmises. The court then examined each of the allegations against the judge and found most of them to be unreasonable or lacking in evidence. The court said transfer of case cannot be allowed even if the judge failed to prevent defence lawyers from harassing the survivor during cross-examination, as alleged. But the court cited an apex court judgment to say trial courts cannot remain mute spectators and should adopt a belligerent approach. The prosecution alleged the judge had admonished the special prosecutor and investigating agency after it filed a petition to stop proceedings. However, the defence counsel informed the court that no such incident had taken place. The high court said it should have been avoided and it should be ensured by all concerned that such incidents are not repeated. Allegations that were found unsustainable by the high court included one that actor Dileep’s counsel was allowed to cross examine the survivor four months after other defence counsels did so; that the judge reprimanded some witnesses without reason; that copies of petition, questionnaire, and forensic report were not made available to prosecution; and that there was delay in passing orders on prosecution’s petitions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/assault-on-actress-hc-denies-requests-for-change-of-judge/articleshow/79329178.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Ludhiana||MC commissioner ticks off staff for ‘unclean’ Suvidha Centre||LUDHIANA: The civic bod, which has the responsibility of handling the cleanliness in the city, seems to have failed in maintaining the same at its office. On Friday, the poor sanitation condition at Suvidha Centre of zone A invited the wrath of MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal when he inspected the centre. From clerical staff to additional commissioner, everyone was taken to task for such pathetic condition of the office. According to the sources, the commissioner had come to the Suvidha Centre to catch touts about whom several complaints have been received by the officials. But he did not find any tout at the spot, but the poor condition of the centre caught his eye. The commissioner said they were spending crores of rupees on various projects for the city so that city could look beautiful, but if the MC office was in such condition, it would reflect a bad image among the public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-commissioner-ticks-off-staff-for-unclean-suvidha-centre/articleshow/79330404.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Mangaluru||Man booked for cheating people with fake job offers||MANGALURU: Udupi police have registered a complaint against a man who duped several youths with a promise of providing jobs at Kaiga Nuclear Power Plant, in Byndoor on Friday. Satish, 25, a resident of Bagimane, Byndoor taluk had complained that he came in contact with the accused Ritesh Patwal, who promised him a job at a nuclear power plant. In order to secure a job at the plant, Patwal had demanded money and Satish gave him Rs 20,000 on October 1. On November 14, Patwal handed him a fake appointment letter. He also collected money from other youths in the area with similar tactics. A case under IPC 465, 406, 417 and 420 registered at Byndoor police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/man-booked-for-cheating-people-with-fake-job-offers/articleshow/79326759.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Foundation stone laid for storm water drains||Coimbatore: MP P R Natrajan on Friday inaugurated the construction of storm water drains at Chellamal Nagar at ward 42. The drains will be constructed at a cost of Rs 14.9 lakh. The project will benefit more than 100 families residing in the locality. Despite several requests to construct storm water drains, the city corporation could not do it due to fund crunch. When the issue was taken up to the knowledge of the CPM MP, he allotted the required money from the members of Parliament local area development scheme. Corporation officials and CPM members participated in the ceremony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/foundation-stone-laid-for-storm-water-drains/articleshow/79330423.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 21, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Television has a big impact on the way we spend our free time’||In December 1996, the United Nations proclaimed November 21 as World Television Day, commemorating the day on which the first world television forum was held. Sukhpreet Singh talks to people about how television has changed the life of society Television is one of the most popular electronic devices used for entertainment all over the world. The invention of television has given us various benefits. Besides serving as a source of entertainment, it gives us knowledge about the whole world. We can get news from any corner of the world within a few minutes just because of TV. Not only this, the educational programmes that were broadcast on TV helps the students to learn new things and enhance their learning power. All this has become possible only because of television. So, according to me, it has played a vital role in our day-to-day life. Bikramjit Singh | student, Dugri No one can deny that television, the greatest invention of the 20th century has changed our life and today we cannot live without it. Television has a big impact on the way we spend our free time. Critics of television claim that TV takes away too much of our free time, we lack time for other activities like family conversations, reading and doing exercise. Whether we like it or not, television has changed the way we live our lives. It is the source of not only entertainment but also information through documentaries and news programmes. News aired on TV gives us useful data from every corner of the world and we also can see places and events that may be impossible for us to experience live. Nidhi Kumari | student, New Guru Teg Bahadur Nagar People almost of all ages watch television not just for entertainment but also for gaining knowledge. In India, majority of the contribution to the development of the country is done by the television industry and if somehow, the television industry gets stopped, then think that we all will move in a backward direction in growth. So, in my opinion, it plays a vital role in our lives. Vijay Kumar | businessman, New Janta Nagar Television plays a major role in everyone’s life but it varies from person to person. The children see it as an entertainment source whereas the elderly citizen watches it for news. These days though, a huge chunk of the population, the upwardly mobile, has nixed the habit of watching television because it gets all the update from mobile phones. But all in all, television has changed the lives of people by giving them access to knowledge and skills even. The other side of the coin is that it has also led to health complications — for instance, watching too much TV has lead to weak eyesight. Celebrating the television day is important, but even more relevant is the realisation this television industry should exercise responsibility as well. Only then, we can truly realise the potential of this medium.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/television-has-a-big-impact-on-the-way-we-spend-our-free-time/articleshow/79330525.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Teachers may be spared from election duties||Hyderabad: Teachers and officers involved in the collection of taxes, registrations, commercial taxes, prohibition, and excise departments will be spared from the election duties. Even the teachers may be exempt from poll duties so that they can continue to conduct online classes as the academic year has already been affected by the pandemic. Also, officers of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) will not be drafted for important polling duties. Given the shortage of time to conduct of GHMC polls on December 1, it has been decided to draw officers and staff even from the secretariat and various departments of the state government. The ministerial staff may also be deployed for poll duties. “Nearly 50,000 officers and employees, including non-teaching staff, officers and employees from various state and central government departments from all the districts in Telangana are being drafted for GHMC poll duties. We are trying to avoid teachers as far as possible,” said an official in the election commission. The election authorities are running against time as they have to conduct two training classes for more than 48,000 staff. Chief secretary Somesh Kumar and principal secretary of municipal administration department, Arvind Kumar have written to the special chief secretaries, principal secretaries, secretaries, heads of the departments, and all the district collectors to send the list of officers and employees, both regular and those working on contract basis, on an immediate basis to GHMC commissioner-cum-election authority Lokesh Kumar. Referring to the election schedule and subsequent notifications issued by the election authorities, Somesh Kumar said that as many 36,940 polling personnel including one presiding officer, two assistant presiding officers and two other officers and another 11,082 reserve personnel, will be required for polling duties in as many as 9,235 polling stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/teachers-may-be-spared-from-election-duties/articleshow/79331509.cms||Roushan Ali
November 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Of 16 deaths in Punjab, 4 in Jalandhar; 819 test positive||CHANDIGARH: Covid-19 claimed 16 lives and infected 819 more people in Punjab on Friday. Of deaths registered in the last 24 hours, four were in Jalandhar, three in Mohali, two each in Bathinda and Mansa, and one each in Ferozepur, Hoshiarpur, Patiala and Ludhiana. In Mohali, 195 people tested positive, 96 in Ludhiana, 95 in Jalandhar, 66 in Amritsar, 65 in Patiala and 59 in Pathankot. As many as 49 cases surfaced in Bathinda, 24 in Faridkot, 23 in Hoshiarpur, 22 in Mansa, 17 in Muktsar, 16 each in Gurdaspur and Ropar, 15 in Fazilka, 13 in Kapurthala,12 in Sangrur, 10 in Fatehgarh Sahib. As many as 492 patients were discharged after recovering from the viral infection in a day, taking the number of recoveries to 1,33,919.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/of-16-deaths-in-punjab-4-in-jalandhar-819-test-ve/articleshow/79330499.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Kolkata||Post option to submit life certificate brings relief to elderly pensioners in West Bengal||KOLKATA: Much to the relief of pensioners, who had been risking their health while queuing up at banks and post offices for the last few weeks to submit life certificate – a document they need to submit every year to make them eligible for their pension next year – the state government in a recent circular has instructed banks and all other pension-disbursing authorities to accept duly verified life certificates by post and not to insist on physical appearance of pensioners. Although all public-sector banks had extended the deadline for submission till the year end and had also been asking pensioners to submit the life certificates online and avail the doorstep digital service, a host of issues, including technology barrier, has led to senior citizens continuing their ‘annual pilgrimage’ to the banks. “I understand the risk involved with standing in a queue but I can’t help. I am dependent on the pension and I knew I need to be at the bank to submit the certificate,” said Nimai Kr Saha Chowdhury, a retired rail official, who stood in a queue outside a nationalised bank at Bagbazar to submit the certificate a few days back. Some pension holders had even taken long-distance journeys to submit their life certificates. “I had taught at a government school in Cooch Behar for over 30 years. Like other years, this time too, I took a train to appear at the bank there to fill up and submit the life certificate,” said Howrah resident Swarnendu Maitra (74). Every pensioner, family pensioner and ex-gratia recipient has to submit a life certificate/declaration of marital status in November each year, which is often an inconvenient and time consuming exercise for senior citizens. For travelling or unwell pensioners, it is an even painful ordeal that cannot be avoided as failure to submit the certificate by November-end can put a stop to pension. Even as the postal submission came as a relief to many, there were some who said they would continue to walk to the bank and submit the certificate in person. “What if the signature is not matching or the post is lost or delayed. I don’t want to take a chance and would submit the certificate at the bank next week,” said Mita Banerjee (69), wife of a deceased state government official. (With inputs from Udit Prasanna Mukherjee)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/post-option-to-submit-life-certificate-brings-relief-to-elderly-pensioners/articleshow/79329180.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
November 21, 2020||Ludhiana||Businessmen relieved at extension of assessment date||LUDHIANA: In a big breather for businessmen and tax professionals, the last date of assessment of their cases related to 2013-14, which was Friday, has been extended by almost a month, till December 15. Notably, businessmen had earlier said they will resort to protest if the last date is not extended. But the state tax department has not acceded to the demand of businessmen to pay 1% fees and get their assessment done without submitting any documents. Meanwhile, terming the development as big win for businessmen, Jaswinder Thukral, president of Janta Nagar Small Scale Manufacturers Association, said, “Todays orders by the state taxation department for extending the deadline by one month is a big breather for us as now we have got time to complete the formalities. We request excise and taxation commissioner Punjab to introduce amnesty scheme for completing old assessments related to the value-added tax (VAT) era, as it is not possible for every businessman to comply with the formalities of assessment of such old periods, especially after the VAT has been abolished and GST is in place now.” Bhagat Ram Kaushal, secretary general of Punjab Tax Bar Association (PTBA), added, “We are thankful to the excise and taxation commissioner for extending the last date of filing assessments . It is our association which had sent representation to senior officials. We are happy that our recommendation has been accepted and tax payers and tax professionals have now been given one more month to comply and file their assessments.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/businessmen-relieved-at-extension-of-assessment-date/articleshow/79330463.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Mysuru||Farmers’ outfit intensifies stir against wine shop near agriculture centre||MYSURU: Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (Raitha Bana faction) protested outside the office of excise deputy commissioner, for granting permission to a wine shop near Agriculture Research Centre in Naganahalli, here on Friday. The protesters accused excise department officials of colluding with a zilla panchayat member and bowing to the pressure of former minister and MLA GT Devegowda. At one point the agitators and senior excise officials indulged in a war of words, but police stepped in. The protesters opposed the opening of a wine shop behind the century-old agricultural research centre, off Mysuru- Bengaluru road. The institute was constructed by Mysuru maharaja Nalwadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar in 1917. They said the wine shop will vitiate the academic atmosphere prevailing in the region. Even though research centre officials had written to higher authorities not to give permission to the shop within a 2.5 kilometre radius of their premises, excise officials initiated the process to open the shop, they claimed. Dist min disapproves permission District minister ST Somashekhar has stepped in and sought details. He has reportedly conveyed that he is against the permission to open the shop behind this agriculture research centre. He is likely to take up the issue with excise officials during his visit to the city on November 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/farmers-outfit-intensifies-stir-against-wine-shop-near-agriculture-centre/articleshow/79328390.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Meerut||Panic in Amroha village as stray leopard attacks dogs in farmhouse||BIJNOR: A leopard that strayed into Amroha’s Papsara Bangar village on Friday, sent residents running for cover after it attacked a number of dogs in a farmhouse and was last seen climbing up a tree there. They informed the forest department, which sent a team that is now combing the area in order to rescue the leopard and release it elsewhere. Till filing of this report, the team had not captured the big cat. According to villagers, a leopard was spotted devouring a stray dog on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday on the outskirts of Papsara Bangar village under Dhanora Mandi. Karan Singh, forest ranger, Dhanora Mandi, said, "Forest team was sent to the village to take stock of the situation. We have placed a cage in the area to trap the big cat and asked villagers to take precautions while venturing into their fields." The sugarcane fields of Bijnor, Moradabad and Amroha districts have turned into habitats of the leopards. As harvesting is in full swing, sightings of the big cats is common. These felines have a tendency to stray into villages in search of prey as harvesting exposes their hiding places. Dogs are considered as one of the favourite prey of the leopard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/panic-in-amroha-village-as-stray-leopard-attacks-dogs-in-farmhouse/articleshow/79331472.cms||Harveer Dabas
November 21, 2020||Meerut||3 brothers booked for organising wedding & qawwali without permit, along with 150 attendees||BIJNOR: UP Police have booked three brothers for organising a wedding and a qawwali in Kotwali area of Amroha on Thursday night, along with and 150 others for attending the event, without necessary permissions. Taking prompt action, police filed the case soon after the gathering, based on a complaint by sub-inspector Ram Naresh in Amroha police station. According to station house officer Ravindra Singh, “A qawwali was organised at Chakali mohalla of Amroha. There was a big gathering at the site, causing apprehension of infection spread. After getting wind of the event, police rushed to the spot and stopped the programme. A case was registered under relevant sections against 150 people, along with brothers Mohammad, Umar and Jamal, the organisers.” According to officials, police are taking appropriate steps to curb Covid-19 spread in the district. There has been a recent spike in corona patients across the district, with at least 20 new patients being traced in Amroha per day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/3-brothers-booked-for-organising-wedding-qawwali-without-permit-along-with-150-attendees/articleshow/79331491.cms||Harveer Dabas
November 21, 2020||Goa||Auctioning of cashews under Excise Act upsets feni distillers||PANAJI: The All Goa Cashew Feni Distillers and Bottlers Association have decided to oppose the modifications proposed by the government to the Excise Act mainly to do away with auctioning of cashew zones/groves that pave way for seasonal distilling of cashew feni. After a few stakeholders were informed about the proposed changes by excise commissioner Shashank Mani Tripathy on Wednesday at an allegedly hurriedly called for meeting/hearing, the association had an emergency meeting on Friday to decide their strategy. After deliberations and discussions, the association wrote to the excise commission stating that they are not in favour of the proposed radical changes. The excise department earns annually about Rs 30 to Rs 35 lakh through auctioning of zones, which is done in three stages. Stating that they are the co-owners of the geographical indication (GI) for cashew feni, the association stated that the tradition of auctioning cashew zones/groves and setting up of pots is unique to Goa and India. The tradition has been practiced unchanged for centuries and the legacy has to be continued to protect the interest of small and marginal artisanal distillers, the letter stated. It was pointed out that the Wednesday’s meeting held by the commissioner to inform stakeholders about the proposed radical changes in the legislation and to abolish the process of cashew zone auction can’t be construed as industry’s nod to the government's plan. This is more so because a small segment of the trade were called for the meeting and they cannot be treated as representing the entire industry or samples audience for all talukas, the letter read. The association is of the firm opinion that any changes to the existing Excise Act and Rules will bring about a sense of cultural disarray, economic insecurity, confusion and monopolistic culture having detrimental effects on the industry and Goa at large. In 2016, feni was notified as a heritage drink in a bid to promote and market in a big way and for it to achieve status on lines with known international brands of country liquor. The stakeholders fear that the proposed changes in the legislation are to make a way for big players to gain foothold in the industry. They will also be insensitive to the local sentiments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/auctioning-of-cashews-under-excise-act-upsets-feni-distillers/articleshow/79331511.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 21, 2020||Nagpur||Thousands of 100-year-old trees to be felled for Ajni’s inter-modal station||Nagpur: In what could be the biggest environmental loss to the city, thousands of old trees are facing the axe for the construction of a transport hub and an inter model station at Ajni. The project is coming up on Central Railway’s land which is a thriving biodiversity habitat of birds. The Rail Land Development Authority (RLDA), a statutory body under the ministry of railways, has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), entrusting the latter with development, maintenance and management of inter-model stations at different locations across the country. Such stations allow passengers to change transportation modes during transit without having to leave the station premises. Documents accessed by TOI reveal that the project in Nagpur will be executed in two phases. While the first phase will involve redevelopment of Ajni railway station, bus port and other connecting facilities, phase two will involve commercial projects. The total project area, which is around 446 acres, is home to different variety of trees which are easily over 80-100 years old. Documents obtained by senior citizen Ashish Kumar Ghosh show that a private consultancy carried out a survey for NHAI and found that 1,222 trees will have to be chopped off for construction of the station. Apart from this, over 700 trees will be felled for a school, housing, health care centre, railway offices and other buildings. In a proposal submitted to the garden department of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), NHAI in its two applications has sought permission to cut nearly 2,000 trees. Experts however feel that the real damage will be much more. NHAI officials were not available for a comment. City’s noted environment activists, who played a key role in saving the urban jungle ‘Bharat Van’, say that many small and medium-sized trees have not been taken into consideration. “The actual number of trees that will be destroyed for the project will cross 7,000,” says activist Shrikant Deshpande. At stake is a green pocket which is much bigger than Bharat Van in Bharat Nagar, adds honorary wildlife warden of Nagpur Jaydeep Das. He also cites the study done by Indian Space Research Organization’s (ISRO) Regional Remote Sensing Centre (RRSC), which revealed that from 116 square kilometres in 1999, the city’s green cover went down to 76 square kilometres by 2018. “East Nagpur is already suffocating due to diminishing trees. Destroying this last green lung will lead to irreversible damage,” says Das. The activists have been urging the authorities to consider alternate sites for the project which will involve less environmental damage. RTI documents also reveal that no information is available regarding an environment impact assessment for the project. “In case of such a huge project, the entire scope of work and proposed environmental damage should have been evaluated much before start of execution of the project. For such projects, normally site with minimal environment impact is selected. Authorities also need to come clear on environmental clearance and compensatory plantation road map,” says Kaustav Chatterjee, founder of NGO Green Vigil. According to Hema Deshpande, sub-regional officer at the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB), consent to establish and operate is mandatory for such projects. The board has not received any such consent for the Ajni project. Probably from next week, NMC’s garden department officials will start surveying the proposed sites. “The area is so huge that it will take us a month to survey and count the number of trees that will be felled,” says garden superintendent Amol Chorpagar. Just like Bharat Van, this project also involves top politicians at the planning level. And just like Bharat Van, activists feel that the city needs to come together once again to save one of the last few green abode left.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/thousands-of-100-year-old-trees-to-be-felled-for-ajnis-inter-modal-station/articleshow/79329190.cms||Manka Behl
November 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Cops preserve CCTV footage, to record statements||LUDHIANA: A local court has allowed the application of advocate Chandi brothers, who had requested to preserve the CCTV footage of the Haibowal police station and the ESIC hospital, where they had gone for medical examination, after they were allegedly assaulted by the policemen. Advocate Sidharth Chandi and his brother Mohit Chandi were allegedly tortured by Haibowal police in custody the entire night on November 13. The police, however, had refuted the allegations by saying that the Chandi brothers had a fight with the neighbours and had sustained injuries. Following protest by the lawyers, an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) was suspended and three other policemen, including a station house officer, inspector Jaskanwal Singh, ASI Didar Singh and constable Hemant were sent to police lines. General secretary of Ludhiana Bar Association, Gagandeep Singh Saini said after application of Chandi brothers, the investigating officers have to preserve the footage of the CCTVs installed at police station Haibowal and hospital. Further statements of Chandi brothers are yet to be recorded with the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cops-preserve-cctv-footage-to-record-statements/articleshow/79330505.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Bhopal||Judge’s Char Imli home burgled in broad daylight||BHOPAL: Burglars targeted the locked house of an additional district and sessions judge (ADJ) in Char Imli in broad daylight and made away with cash and jewellery worth around Rs 11.5 lakh. The ADJ is currently posted as legal advisor in the Economic Offences Wing. The ADJ and his family, had gone to Tikamgarh when the incident took place. The caretaker of the house had gone to office at the time of the incident. The thieves entered the house after breaking the locks of the back entrance. They stole around Rs 1.75 lakh cash, gold ornaments weighing around 70 gm, five silver utensil sets and ADJ’s son ancient coins collection. Habibganj police have registered a burglary case and started investigations. Police said that ADJ Adesh Jain recently shifted to a bungalow allotted to him in Char Imli. The renovation work of the bungalow was being done by PWD workers. Jain told police, on November 13, he was in Tikamgarh and the caretaker Rajesh Sen was living in the servants’ quarters. The family was to return on November 17. When he reached Bhopal in the evening, Rajesh told him that the locks of the door had been broken. When the ADJ inspected his house, he found that the rooms had been ransacked. Acting on information, Habibganj police reached the spot with the forensics team and dog squad and started investigations. ADJ Jain said, the thieves must have been in the house for a while as they took time in taking out every coin in his son’s collection — which were stapled with their details.  They may have conducted a recce before committing the act. ASP Zone-1 Rajat Saklecha said that police have registered a case in the matter and further investigations are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/judges-char-imli-home-burgled-in-broad-daylight/articleshow/79329199.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Jammu||49 rakes of coal, fertilisers & cement unloaded in Ambala||AMBALA: Rakes of coal, fertilisers, cement, salt and other essential commodities bound for northern states of Punjab, Himachal Pradesh (HP) and Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir are being unloaded in Ambala and transported further by road in trucks. Hundreds of trucks are parked on service road of NH-44, outside unloading point of goods trains at Ambala Cantonment railway station, since Thursday night and waiting to load the goods. Rakes are also being unloaded at Dhulkote railway station in Baldev Nagar area of Ambala City. “We are waiting for the arrival of a coal rake and transport it further to Ambuja Cement plant in Roopnagar,” a Punjab truck driver told TOI on Friday. As per the information, with the ongoing impasse between the farmers protesting against farm laws and the Centre, the Railways has started asking private companies and the agencies concerned to unload their goods rakes in parts of Haryana, including Ambala and Panipat, and transport the same by roads to their destination. Ambala senior divisional commercial manager (freight) Vivek Sharma said, “So far, we have handled and unloaded 49 such rakes which were bound for Punjab, HP and J&K. These rakes carried coal, cement, salt, urea, fertiliser, DAP and other essential commodities. About 102 loaded rakes which were to reach the Ambala division and from there to travel further to northern states have been stuck in different parts of the country since September 23, when the farmers’ agitation started in Punjab, and loading was stopped. Once space is available, the rakes will be moved to Ambala.” “We have also loaded and transported 36 rakes of Swaraj and Sonalika tractors at Dhulkote and Ambala stations, which we earlier used to load in Punjab,” he added. The Ambala railway division officials said so far they have unloaded rakes of coal for Ambuja Cement and ACC plants, industrial and edible salt meant Punjab Alkalies and Chemical Limited (PACL) and for public distribution system of HP, and fertilisers for Punjab. Coal meant for power plants in Punjab is yet to be loaded from their starting points as the matter is still being discussed, they added. Ambala divisional railway manager Gurinder Mohan Singh said, “Requests coming from agencies concerned are being processed to clear the rakes and space. We are running our operations with the hope that the farmers’ agitation ends soon. Goods cannot be held for long in wagons as these can be damaged, so the rakes have to be emptied.” About losses incurred, Sharma said, “It is too early for proper estimates. Every day, we receive about 15-20 rakes of coal for power and cement plants in Punjab, and this entire earning has been lost. This is only about coal. We also get rakes of other goods like urea and fertilisers for J&K and HP. So far, we have an estimated notional loss of about Rs 2,000-2,500 crore in one month to the Indian Railways.” Some companies, which have the allocation from the Union government, or their dealers are transporting urea from Ambala at a small scale, are paying the transportation cost. Punjab agriculture department joint director (inputs) Baldev Singh said, “We have no knowledge of dealers transporting urea through road, but some might be doing it.” (With inputs by Neel from Bathinda)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jammu/49-rakes-of-coal-fertilisers-cement-unloaded-in-ambala/articleshow/79336996.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: ‘Ultimate liability... is borne by the state’||Firstly, the article ‘Garam Masala: Are all facts on the table?’ did not presume to draw conclusions on KIIFB’s legitimacy or powers. The article, as the title implies, merely tried to present available facts in the public domain and to point out possible contradictions in what the finance minister or other authorities said on the matter. For instance, finance minister T M Thomas Isaac has claimed that the CAG has questioned the constitutionality of KIIFB. Our article brought to the reader’s notice the essence of the counter affidavit (a copy of which is in our possession) filed by the AG in the Kerala high court in a case that questioned KIIFB’s right to issue masala bonds. “Since the bonds issued by the Board for borrowing money are backed by the government of Kerala, the ultimate liability and accountability is borne by the state of Kerala”, said the counter affidavit, thereby questioning the government’s claims. Similarly, the No Objection Certificate (NOC) issued by RBI to KIIFB through Axis Bank does come with a set of riders. Since the FM claimed that CAG has questioned KIIFB’s authority to issue masala bonds for which RBI had given permission, on what conditions the NOC was issued naturally assumes importance. The article tried to convey the fact that RBI’s approval was only on the foreign exchange angle under the provisions of FEMA. The KIIFB CEO must surely be right in pointing out that KIIFB had shared with RBI all relevant details regarding the government guarantee for the bonds. The article only indicated that the application from the partner bank to RBI, a copy of which was submitted before the high court by KIIFB, did not mention the government link.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ultimate-liability-is-borne-by-the-state/articleshow/79329197.cms||B S Anilkumar
November 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Daily testing touches twin peaks in Ggn||Gurgaon: Amid the spike in Covid-19 cases, the city on Friday conducted the highest number of tests in a single day so far — 6,503 — as well as the highest number of RT-PCR tests — 5,000. The remaining 1,503 were rapid antigen tests (RAT). Haryana, which has conducted 30,74,194 tests, has kept the percentage of gold standard RT-PCR tests higher than that of RATs. The ratio stands at 70:30, with 2,163,593 RT-PCR tests and 9,10,601 antigen tests. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/daily-testing-touches-twin-peaks-in-ggn/articleshow/79330552.cms||Ipsita Pati
November 21, 2020||Srinagar||49 rakes of coal, fertilisers & cement unloaded in Ambala||AMBALA: Rakes of coal, fertilisers, cement, salt and other essential commodities bound for northern states of Punjab, Himachal Pradesh (HP) and Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir are being unloaded in Ambala and transported further by road in trucks. Hundreds of trucks are parked on service road of NH-44, outside unloading point of goods trains at Ambala Cantonment railway station, since Thursday night and waiting to load the goods. Rakes are also being unloaded at Dhulkote railway station in Baldev Nagar area of Ambala City. “We are waiting for the arrival of a coal rake and transport it further to Ambuja Cement plant in Roopnagar,” a Punjab truck driver told TOI on Friday. As per the information, with the ongoing impasse between the farmers protesting against farm laws and the Centre, the Railways has started asking private companies and the agencies concerned to unload their goods rakes in parts of Haryana, including Ambala and Panipat, and transport the same by roads to their destination. Ambala senior divisional commercial manager (freight) Vivek Sharma said, “So far, we have handled and unloaded 49 such rakes which were bound for Punjab, HP and J&K. These rakes carried coal, cement, salt, urea, fertiliser, DAP and other essential commodities. About 102 loaded rakes which were to reach the Ambala division and from there to travel further to northern states have been stuck in different parts of the country since September 23, when the farmers’ agitation started in Punjab, and loading was stopped. Once space is available, the rakes will be moved to Ambala.” “We have also loaded and transported 36 rakes of Swaraj and Sonalika tractors at Dhulkote and Ambala stations, which we earlier used to load in Punjab,” he added. The Ambala railway division officials said so far they have unloaded rakes of coal for Ambuja Cement and ACC plants, industrial and edible salt meant Punjab Alkalies and Chemical Limited (PACL) and for public distribution system of HP, and fertilisers for Punjab. Coal meant for power plants in Punjab is yet to be loaded from their starting points as the matter is still being discussed, they added. Ambala divisional railway manager Gurinder Mohan Singh said, “Requests coming from agencies concerned are being processed to clear the rakes and space. We are running our operations with the hope that the farmers’ agitation ends soon. Goods cannot be held for long in wagons as these can be damaged, so the rakes have to be emptied.” About losses incurred, Sharma said, “It is too early for proper estimates. Every day, we receive about 15-20 rakes of coal for power and cement plants in Punjab, and this entire earning has been lost. This is only about coal. We also get rakes of other goods like urea and fertilisers for J&K and HP. So far, we have an estimated notional loss of about Rs 2,000-2,500 crore in one month to the Indian Railways.” Some companies, which have the allocation from the Union government, or their dealers are transporting urea from Ambala at a small scale, are paying the transportation cost. Punjab agriculture department joint director (inputs) Baldev Singh said, “We have no knowledge of dealers transporting urea through road, but some might be doing it.” (With inputs by Neel from Bathinda)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/srinagar/49-rakes-of-coal-fertilisers-cement-unloaded-in-ambala/articleshow/79336998.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Gold, cigarettes worth Rs 4.8 crore seized at Coimbatore airport||COIMBATORE: Sleuths of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) seized 6.2 kilograms of gold, foreign cigarettes, a mobile phone and a drone worth Rs 4.8 crore from passengers at the airport here last Saturday. About 5.2kg of the seized gold was in paste form. DRI had received a tip-off about smuggling to be carried out by a gang based in Sharjah through the Coimbatore airport a few weeks ago. Since then, a team led by deputy director G Satish was on alert. On Saturday morning, the personnel identified 15 passengers, natives of Kasaragod in Kerala, Chennai and Trichy, who had landed in an Air Arabia flight from Sharjah. “Even after completing immigration and custom formalities, they appeared nervous. We searched them and recovered about six kilograms of gold in paste form and a crude gold chain weighing one kilogram hidden in undergarments and rectum,” an official said. “Most of the gold was in past form to dodge metal detectors and X-ray machines at the airport.” Apart from the gold, the passengers were carrying foreign cigarettes worth Rs 1.03 crore, an iPhone and a drone worth Rs 53 lakh. “We extracted 24K gold weighing 5,200 grams from the paste, which along with the gold chain, is valued at Rs 3.26 crore.” Eleven passengers, who smuggled goods worth more than Rs 20 lakh, were arrested under the Customs Act, 1962.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/gold-cigarettes-worth-rs-4-8-crore-seized/articleshow/79330493.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Amritsar||Farmers’ outfit writes to Haryana CM for passage to Delhi||BATHINDA: Farmers’ organisation Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) has written to Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar to allow its activists passage to Delhi on November 25. The organisation has demanded passage through two points of Dabwali and Khanouri borders to enter Haryana and reach Delhi. The outfit has to participate in the national-level protest against the Centre’s farm laws in Delhi on November 26 and 27. Although 30 organisations from Punjab are participating in the protest, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) plans to head towards Delhi separately from the two routes while the remaining plan to reach Delhi from the National Highway which enters Haryana from Shambhu border in Patiala district. “We have written to the Haryana chief minister to allow our over 1 lakh activists to reach Delhi by passing through Haryana through Dabwali and Khannouri borders. We hope the Haryana government will look into our request,” said BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri Kalan. The farm organisation has made it clear that if they are not allowed to move towards Delhi by passing through Haryana, they will sit where they are stopped. Meanwhile, the 30 farm organisations which plan to move towards Delhi have not sought passage from Haryana government so far. “We will not write for providing passage as we have to move in our own country but we will inform the Haryana government about the size of our jatha for which traffic arrangements have to be made,” said farm organisation BKU (Ekta Dakaunda) general secretary Jagmohan Singh. The 30 farm organisations will hold a meeting with Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday. The state government has called them for the meeting ahead of the Dilli Chalo campaign. We will decide what points have to be put before the chief minister before meeting him,” Jagmohan said. Dal Khalsa extends support to farm protest Chandigarh: Dal Khalsa extended its support to the ‘Delhi Chalo’ call given by 30 farmers’ organisations to protest against the contentious farm laws. Party leaders H S Cheema and H S Dhami, in a joint statement, said the BJP-led government has adopted a vindictive approach towards Punjab and the rightful demands of farmers. They said the Narendra Modi government is blackmailing the protesting farmers by stopping good trains to Punjab to pressurise them into clearing rail tracks without conceding to their demands to repeal the laws. “Our activists will join the farmers to march towards Delhi on November 26/27 to tell the Modi government that Punjab is united and its people are determined to take the farmers’ agitation towards its logical conclusion,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/farmers-outfit-writes-to-haryana-cm-for-passage-to-delhi/articleshow/79330592.cms||Neel Kamal
November 21, 2020||Chandigarh||49 rakes of coal, fertilisers & cement unloaded in Ambala||AMBALA: Rakes of coal, fertilisers, cement, salt and other essential commodities bound for northern states of Punjab, Himachal Pradesh (HP) and Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir are being unloaded in Ambala and transported further by road in trucks. Hundreds of trucks are parked on service road of NH-44, outside unloading point of goods trains at Ambala Cantonment railway station, since Thursday night and waiting to load the goods. Rakes are also being unloaded at Dhulkote railway station in Baldev Nagar area of Ambala City. “We are waiting for the arrival of a coal rake and transport it further to Ambuja Cement plant in Roopnagar,” a Punjab truck driver told TOI on Friday. As per the information, with the ongoing impasse between the farmers protesting against farm laws and the Centre, the Railways has started asking private companies and the agencies concerned to unload their goods rakes in parts of Haryana, including Ambala and Panipat, and transport the same by roads to their destination. Ambala senior divisional commercial manager (freight) Vivek Sharma said, “So far, we have handled and unloaded 49 such rakes which were bound for Punjab, HP and J&K. These rakes carried coal, cement, salt, urea, fertiliser, DAP and other essential commodities. About 102 loaded rakes which were to reach the Ambala division and from there to travel further to northern states have been stuck in different parts of the country since September 23, when the farmers’ agitation started in Punjab, and loading was stopped. Once space is available, the rakes will be moved to Ambala.” “We have also loaded and transported 36 rakes of Swaraj and Sonalika tractors at Dhulkote and Ambala stations, which we earlier used to load in Punjab,” he added. The Ambala railway division officials said so far they have unloaded rakes of coal for Ambuja Cement and ACC plants, industrial and edible salt meant Punjab Alkalies and Chemical Limited (PACL) and for public distribution system of HP, and fertilisers for Punjab. Coal meant for power plants in Punjab is yet to be loaded from their starting points as the matter is still being discussed, they added. Ambala divisional railway manager Gurinder Mohan Singh said, “Requests coming from agencies concerned are being processed to clear the rakes and space. We are running our operations with the hope that the farmers’ agitation ends soon. Goods cannot be held for long in wagons as these can be damaged, so the rakes have to be emptied.” About losses incurred, Sharma said, “It is too early for proper estimates. Every day, we receive about 15-20 rakes of coal for power and cement plants in Punjab, and this entire earning has been lost. This is only about coal. We also get rakes of other goods like urea and fertilisers for J&K and HP. So far, we have an estimated notional loss of about Rs 2,000-2,500 crore in one month to the Indian Railways.” Some companies, which have the allocation from the Union government, or their dealers are transporting urea from Ambala at a small scale, are paying the transportation cost. Punjab agriculture department joint director (inputs) Baldev Singh said, “We have no knowledge of dealers transporting urea through road, but some might be doing it.” (With inputs by Neel from Bathinda)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/49-rakes-of-coal-fertilisers-cement-unloaded-in-ambala/articleshow/79330570.cms||---
November 21, 2020||India||Covin App to track, schedule Covid vaccine rollout||NEW DELHI: The Covin App developed by the Centre will be a key part of India's vaccine rollout as it will streamline data on Covid-19 vaccine procurement, distribution, circulation, storage and dose schedules besides also notifying the first set of vaccine recipients when their shots have been scheduled. The app will enable authorities right down to the grassroots level to upload and access data on a real time basis and provide updates to those on the priority list on when their shots are scheduled and who will administer them. The app relies on technology to synthesise data from states and the Centre, including agencies like ICMR, health ministry and Ayushman Bharat. Read AlsoAs race for vaccine nears last lap, Modi reviews India’s strategyPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday held a review of India’s vaccination strategy amid indications that the fast-developing Oxford-AstraZeneca shot may be eligible for emergency use authorisation in India as early as next month. The PM reviewed the aspects of emergency use authorisation andThe mobile app can be used by beneficiaries to check immunisation schedule, location and even details of their vaccinator. Once, both doses of the vaccine are administered, the app will also generate an immunisation certificate and provide the option of storing it in Digi-locker. The app will enable digitise vaccine stocks at 28,000 storage centres across districts, facilitating monitoring storage temperatures by installation of temperature loggers, deploying vaccine and cold chain managers. Coronavirus pandemic: Live updatesThe system will enable the government to track temperature variations at storage points such as load-sheddings, and voltage fluctuations. This is crucial as the vaccine stocks need to be protected from damage before use. It will track the movement from a storage facility and to a health centre, district hospital or any other hospital for vaccination. It will also flag potential stock-out situation, enabling timely replenishment, the official said. Read AlsoAirlines &amp; airports get ready for 'Operation Covid Vaccine'Indian airlines and airport operators have started preparing for the mammoth task of taking Covid vaccines across the country. While meeting Pfizer’s minus 70 degrees Celsius requirement for its vaccines will be “difficult”, they are gearing up to set up cold chain storage for the jab job that needsWhile the app will have data for all four priority population groups — healthcare workers, front-line workers, people aged above 50 years and those with co-morbidities — the district authorities will initially start by feeding data of healthcare workers from government and private hospitals — who will be the first to receive the shots against coronavirus once approved. Watch Covin App: Govt to track, schedule vaccine roll-out through homegrown application||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covin-app-to-play-key-role-in-roll-out-help-recipients/articleshow/79332639.cms||Sushmi Dey
November 21, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Fake cops part of highway robbery||NEW DELHI: Five out of the eight men who were arrested on Wednesday for duping people by wearing Delhi Police face masks were also involved in the sensational highway robbery near Sarai Kale Khan. A week after a man was robbed when he got off to relieve himself near Indraprastha Park close to ITO, police on Friday claimed to have cracked the case. The five accused have been identified as 30-year-old Israr Khan, Monu Verma, 30, Pradeep Lal, 35, Kamal Singh, 32 and Aman Kumar, 23, all of them residents of Trilokpuri. The incident took place last Friday around 2.45 am. Amit Arora, a 39-year-old transporter from Geeta Colony, had filed a complaint that he was robbed at gunpoint. Arora told the cops that he, along with his wife and friends, was returning to Rohini after attending a party in Indirapuram when he got off to pee near Indraprastha Park. In the meantime, a car stopped nearby and three men stepped out of it. The complainant said the men forced him to give away his gold kada, a gold chain, two gold rings, a watch, and cash Rs 40,000 to them. Deputy commissioner of police (southeast) RP Meena said the five accused were among eight men who had been arrested in another case where they used to offer lift to people and take their belongings in an envelope on the pretext of saving them from police checking. “The production warrants will be obtained from the court following which they would be arrested in the Sarai Kale Khan case,” Meena added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fake-cops-part-of-highway-robbery/articleshow/79330644.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: All facts are on the table, claims KIIFB CEO||Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) has issued a detailed rejoinder to a set of stories carried by TOI on Thursday on issues pertaining to the Board’s foreign commercial borrowings, CAG audit, RBI permission, masala bonds etc. The crux of the points raised by KIIFB CEO K M Abraham regarding the articles titled ‘Garam Masala: Are all facts on the Table?’ and ‘Is KIIFB accountable to CAG? are reproduced below: KIIFB is unequivocally a corporate body“Section 4 of KIIF Act 1999 deals with the Constitution of the Board of KIIFB. Section 4(2) provides that: The Board shall be a body corporate by the name aforesaid, having perpetual succession and a common seal and shall by the said name sue or be sued. KIIFB, being a body corporate was eligible to borrow through the External Commercial Borrowings (ECB) route as per the guidelines of RBI''. All permissions from RBI were sought & obtained``KIIFB issued masala bonds under the approval route and in consonance with all the regulations in this regard. As per RBI’s Master Circulars on ECB, the prospective borrowers are required to send their requests to the RBI through their AD (Authorized Dealer) Banks for examination and will be examined at the Foreign Exchange Department. Thus, in the case of ECBs, what RBI issues whether in the form of NOC or otherwise is considered as its approval of RBI’’. RBI doesn’t assess credit worthiness, only investors do``KIIFB along with the ECB application, provided to RBI the details of the Guarantee provided by the State Government in the Guarantee Status Code field. RBI being a regulator does not evaluate any masala bond from an investment perspective and hence does not go into the credit angle/financials of any investor. The risks in such bonds are appraised by the investors and/or rating agencies’’. Regarding CAG's right to audit KIIFB``KIIFB as an institution is fully accountable to the CAG for its audit. But, an audit under Section 20(2) is not applicable to KIIFB under the provisions of the CAG-DPC Act 1971. “There is nothing in the CAG-DPC Act 1971 which lays down that an audit under Section 20(2) is more comprehensive than audit by the CAG under Section 14(1). ‘In fact, when the CAG exercises its powers under Section 20(2) (which is mostly as a paid service), after issuing notice to an institution under Section 20(3), the powers of the CAG are derived through a process, in contrast to the absolute powers that that CAG-DPC Act, 1971 grants to the CAG under Section 14(1). KIIFB (Amendment) Act 2016 provides the manner in which statutory audits should be conducted, and how the statutory auditor should be appointed. That being so, CAG cannot be assigned this role''.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/all-facts-are-on-the-table-claims-kiifb-ceo/articleshow/79329211.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Chandigarh||In Haryana, 4.5 lakh fined for not wearing masks||CHANDIGARH: Gurgaon and Faridabad districts have not only emerged as hotspots with maximum Covid cases and deaths, but the two districts are also on the top when it comes to challans for not wearing masks. Haryana Police have so far collected a fine of Rs 22.58 crore by challanning 4,51,743 persons across the state for not wearing masks. The least number of challans have been issued in Rewari and Nuh districts. However, even as they have acted against civilians, police and other enforcement agencies in the state have shied from taking action against the organisers or coordinators of big gatherings, be it social, political or other congregations. Home minister Anil Vij, who also holds the charge of health ministry, admitted to less action on violations of social distancing and at big gatherings. “In our a recent meeting, we have given clear instructions for zero tolerance on violations. It does not matter who is the violation, they will face action,’’ said Vij. Of eight such cases of large gatherings without permission, one each has been registered in Kaithal and Gurgaon, while rest six cases are registered in Kurukshetra. These cases were registered against farmers and farm leaders who had been protesting against the three agriculture bills However, political rallies, especially those for the Baroda assembly seat byelection, went unnoticed. A huge number of political leaders, including former ministers, MPs and MLAs, were found to have tested positive for Covid after or during campaigning. According to data, 83,750 challans have been issued in Gurgaon district since July and 35,153 under Faridabad police commissionerate, with Rs 1.75 crore being collected in fine. In Palwal, 23,999 challans were issued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/in-haryana-4-5l-fined-for-not-wearing-masks/articleshow/79330603.cms||Manvir Saini
November 21, 2020||Amritsar||644 farm fires in Punjab take count close to 76,000||BATHINDA: With 644 crop residue burning incidents recorded on Friday in 17 districts of Punjab, the count of farm fires this paddy harvest season has gone up to 75,976. For the third day in a row, Fazilka and Muktsar with 142 and 115 stubble burning incidents, respectively, were the top two districts in terms of farm fires. Apart from these two, eight districts recorded burning incidents in double digits and seven in single digit. Till Thursday, Sangrur had witnessed maximum 9,692 incidents of stubble burning, followed by 7,727 in Bathinda and 6,904 in Ferozepur. It was only in 2019 that stubble burning had continued beyond November 20, as in 2016, 2017 and 2018, farm fires would end by now. Last year, 54,271 of the total 55,210 straw burning incidents had been recorded by this date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/644-farm-fires-in-pb-take-count-close-to-76k/articleshow/79330622.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Poster row: DMK member demands police action||Coimbatore: A DMK woman functionary threatened to commit suicide in front of the city police commissionerate on Friday demanding action against the people, who stuck posters mocking party president M K Stalin across the city. M Chitrakala, 49, of Flower Market, a member of DMK’s Coimbatore east urban district committee, was holding a party flag. When she raised slogans against those who stuck the posters and took a bottle of kerosene from her bag, cops stopped her. Meanwhile, DMK MLA N Karthik and members of DMK’s lawyers wing filed a petition before deputy commissioner of police G Stalin, seeking action against the people who stuck the posters.Karthik said that after spotting such posters in the city on October 25, DMK functionaries had lodged a police complaint. “But the city police did not take any action. Cops picked up DMK cadres for tearing the posters. Police are supporting AIADMK. If they fail to take action against the culprits, we will besiege the office of the city police commissioner,” he said. DMK Coimbatore east urban district youth wing organizer Kottai Abbas also lodged a complaint with the city police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/poster-row-dmk-member-demands-police-action/articleshow/79330558.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 21, 2020||Bhopal||Masks go off faces even as cases rise||Bhopal: It is not only the administration, but also the citizens who are losing guard against Covid-19 in the city. For the past two days, close to 400 new cases have been reported in Bhopal, but despite this, people are not adhering to basic precautions like wearing masks and are also ignoring the social distancing norms at public places. In fact, the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the state in November have been reported from Bhopal. There is fine of upto Rs 500 for not wearing masks in public places in the city, there is also a spot fine for not adhering to social distancing. But despite these measures, people were found ignoring the rules and putting not just their own, but others’ safety at risk. At the most visited places like Lok Seva Kendra near the Collectorate where people get their work done like making certificates for caste, income, domicile or others, or getting work like demarcation etc done under the Public Service Guarantee Act of the state government, more than half of the people who were present there in queues were not having masks. Half of those who had masks were wearing them on their necks — below the mouth and nose. Social distancing was also not evident. Similarly, at a government-owned bank near Lily Talkies of the old city area, there was a rush of consumers, no social distancing was evident and only around half of the people gathered there were wearing masks. Likewise, in the busiest Lakherapura area of old city, neither appropriate masks nor adequate social distancing was visible in the market. In New Market area also, people with masks were seen, but social distancing was absent. Police personnel were seen advising people to wear masks. The Bhopal district collector has issued fresh instructions to the officials to ensure that people wear masks in public places. Several sub-divisional magistrates, like Kolar SDM, penalised people for not wearing masks at few places of the city like Bimakunj market in Kolar and other places. Sources said that due to less cases being reported in the first weeks of November, a common perception had developed in the city that Covid-19 is waning. The Diwali festive feeling and market added to the callousness of the citizens, and is now resulting in higher Covid-19 positive cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/masks-go-off-faces-even-as-cases-rise/articleshow/79329257.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Amritsar||Doctor fired for charging NRIs Rs 3.5,00 for tests||BATHINDA: Nearly three months after receiving complaint of charging Rs 3,500 each from NRIs to conduct Covid-19 test on priority basis at Moga civil hospital, Punjab health authorities terminated the services of epidemiologist Dr Naresh Amla, posted at Moga civil hospital, late on Thursday. Moga civil surgeon Dr Amarpreet Kaur Bajwa confirmed the termination and said, “As per the orders of the director, National Health Mission (NHM), services of Dr Naresh Amla have been terminated after being indicted in an enquiry. He has been served one-week notice as per the termination letter issued to him. The enquiry was marked against him for allegedly taking money to get some NRIs tested for Covid.” Moga deputy commissioner (DC) Sandeep Hans said, “After an inquiry conducted by the police against him on the basis of a complaint filed by a Ludhiana resident, Dr Naresh Amla has been issued termination orders after it was found that money was charged from some NRIs for conducting tests. He had forwarded the complaint to the police and allegations have been found to be true.” Health authorities will decide on registration of a case. Dr Amla was not available for comments. In August, Charanjit Singh from a Ludhiana village filed a complaint with the Moga deputy commissioner alleging that Rs 31,500 was charged by a middleman for testing nine persons who had to fly abroad. He alleged that the middleman, Om Prakash, who met them in Moga civil hospital, promised that even if test results were found to be positive, the reports would be prepared as negative. His NRI relatives had to take the flight on August 4 and as per protocol, it was mandatory to get them tested within 72 hours prior to the flight. On visiting Moga civil hospital, they found a huge rush of persons waiting to get tested. At this, the middleman assured them tests on payment of Rs 3,500 per person. The middleman alleged that he handed over Rs 1.70 lakh for testing of NRIs to Moga district epidemiologist Dr Naresh Amla. District authorities said the money that allegedly exchanged hands was yet to be recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/doc-fired-for-charging-nris-rs-3-5k-for-tests/articleshow/79330648.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Gurgaon||Over 1k jhuggis razed in Behrampur||GURUGRAM: Around 4,000 people were rendered homeless on Thursday after the enforcement team of town and country planning department (DTCP) demolished 1,500 jhuggis (hutments) that were illegally constructed on a panchayat land of Behrampur village. District town planner (enforcement) RS Batth said the panchayat land —spread across six acre in Behrampur village —was encroached upon by land mafia in nexus with villagers. “The jhuggis were rented out to labourers and daily wagers and monthly rental amounting to lakhs was being collected from the dwellers,” Batth said. When the enforcement team reached the village to start demolition on Thursday morning, they had to face stiff resistance from the families who were living in the hutments. He said some villagers even claimed that they have stay order from the court and tried to stop the demolition drive. “But when we asked them to show the copy of the stay order, they failed to furnish any document,” he said. Ram Niwas, a daily wager, said, “The demolition drive has left us homeless with nowhere to go. We were not against the drive, but were requesting the officials to give us some time till we found a new address and could shift our families.” Arvind Kumar, a construction worker, who was living there for two years, called the demolition drive an insensitive move by the DTCP. He said the state government should have made arrangements for the accommodation of the slum dwellers before taking such stern steps. “Despite requests, the officials did not stop the demolition of jhuggis and left us at the mercy of God when winter is setting in. Where do we go now?” he said. A group of protesters even put a few jhuggis on fire, in order to stop the officials from carrying out the demolition drive, Batth said. But the officials immediately alerted the fire department and the situation was brought under control. Three fire tenders arrived on the spot and doused the fire, officials said. When the locals realised that the officials would not stop the drive, they tried to attack them but the situation was controlled by cops present during the drive. A few people were detained for obstructing government officials from carrying out their duties, officers from Sector 65 police station said. Batth said the structures were razed with the help of four earthmovers. When asked about people turning homeless, Batth said “The state government is not against poor people but the land mafias are exploiting these people by taking money and grabbing government land”. He said for such people the state government has brought rental housing policies. “Such things in sectors make the localities unsafe and promotes illegal activities,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/over-1k-jhuggis-razed-in-behrampur/articleshow/79324111.cms||Rao Jaswant Singh
November 21, 2020||Nagpur||Greens ask if MSETCL project in Ambazari needs env clearance||Nagpur: The state forest department is examining whether the Maharashtra State Electricity Transmission Company Limited (MSETCL) needs environment clearance (EC) for the project to install six transmission towers through the heart of Ambazari Biodiversity Park. Greens are opposed to the project as it will not only lead to felling of over 1,000 trees but will also damage the unique grassland, bird life and rich biodiversity in the forest. In his complaint to the state forest department, Jaydeep Das, former honorary wildlife warden of Nagpur, has raised the point that the project doesn’t have EC. Das says the 30th meeting of the re-constituted Environment Appraisal Committee (EAC) on thermal power in July 2019 under Navin Chandra had made certain recommendations regarding the need of EC for high tension power transmission lines. On impacts on birds and other avifauna due to transmission lines, the MoEF&CC has already published guidelines on ‘Mitigation of ecological impacts of linear infrastructure on wildlife’ in consultation with Wildlife Institute of India (WII), which has to be followed by power companies. “As per the regulatory procedures for granting EC for linear projects, placing of towers and HT lines falls in Category ‘B2’, for which EC is not mandatory unless the towers and HT lines fall in or near water bodies, lakes with biodiversity importance and most importantly near habitats of migratory birds. In such a scenario, the project is upgraded to Category ‘A’, which makes it mandatory to get EC from MoEFCC,” said Das. Considering the present HT line coming in way of environmentally sensitive Ambazari Biodiversity Park and lake, which is a rich habitat for migratory birds, the project proponent should seek EC. “This lapse of procedure by authorities on either side is unacceptable as it will definitely lead to environmental and ecological damage,” Das says. P Kalyan Kumar, CCF, Nagpur Circle, said, “We will examine the fact whether the project requires EC.” MSETCL is already in the process of constructing line-in-line-out (LILO) on 132KV Mankapur-Hingna-I transmission line for the Lendra Park substation. LILO means a new substation formed by tapping the transmission line between two substations. It has already installed one tower in Littlewoods, the forest patch in possession of Mahametro, and work on installing another tower is in progress. “Mahametro has planted many trees on forest land in lieu of those felled in the city for metro work. Now, MSETCL will fell 87 trees planted five years ago. We spent over Rs5 lakh on these trees and MSETCL is not ready to compensate the amount saying it has deposited the amount with the forest department. The area has become a good bird habitat now,” said PL Kadu, deputy chief project manager (civil), Mahametro. Though the power company got in-principle forest clearance for diversion of 8.83 hectare land on July 6, 2009, final approval came on August 19, 2013. In 2019, then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis inaugurated the Ambazari Biodiversity Park to protect this landscape, and crores of rupees were spent in protecting the forest. Das has demanded to stop the execution of the project to save urban green cover and the lake. There is enough scope to re-route the HT lines but for the lack of will, beautiful biodiversity is threatened. Even CJI Sharad Bobde, during a public felicitation on January 18, 2020, in the city, had said, “The flow of Nag River from which Nagpur gets its name should become clean and retain its original status.” “If Nag River’s catchment is damaged by bringing such projects, how will it be restored to its original state? We will move the court if the alignment of the project is not changed. When the MSETCL is taking the line underground from Kachipura to Ambazari, why can’t same be done through the forest,” asked Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/greens-ask-if-msetcl-project-in-ambazari-needs-env-clearance/articleshow/79329233.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
November 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Local brands use ordinary people in ads to promote body positivity||Coimbatore: Seven years ago, when genetic counsellor Sara Lakshmanan was approached by Vijayalakshmi Nachiar, founder of Pollachi-based online clothing label Ethicus, to model for saris and blouses, she was terrified.“I was not a size zero and am short. Throughout the shoot, I was conscious, not knowing if I should smile or if I should stand a certain way,” Sara said.Vijayalakshmi, who founded her brand of organic cotton saris and blouses in 2009, told Sara that all her models have been ‘ordinary people’.While Ethicus was the first brand in the region to use everyday people to model their clothes, a growing number of new brands based in the city have chosen to take the same path.“My models were my younger sister, cousins and friends because I specifically wanted my clothes to be body positive,” said Sowmya Sailendra, who launched her brand of clothing named Konrai in October. “I even got a boy to model wearing one of my saris. I want people to see that they don’t need to be of a certain colour, size or even gender to wear our clothes,” she told TOI.Deepika Thiyagarajan, owner of maternity and nursing wear brand Putchi, also chose her friends and relatives to model for her clothes, so that pregnant women can see how the specific product will look on them. “Pregnancy clothes have to be comfortable and airy, while fitting too. We did not want to fake the beauty of our clothes. So, we always choose real mothers,” she said.The response to seeing older, broader and dusky women as models has been different for different brands. But most are determined to stay with the mindset. “Initially, my close family members were aghast when they saw a boy wearing a sari and when they saw that we did not Photoshop pictures” said Sowmya. “But I wanted to break the stereotype and many online visitors got used to the idea in a while.”Vijayalakshmi’s customers have been extremely appreciative. “They are able to buy the saris with confidence instead of wondering if they will suit them. In fact, during exhibitions, I specifically wear saris, with horizontal stripes and different colours, which women usually believe will make them look fatter or broader,” she said. City-based underwear brand Tailor and Circus initially surprised people with models of varied colours and sizes. “We decided to first desexualize underwear and give people an idea of how they will feel and look in our garments,” said co-founder Gaurav Durasamy. “We refused to believe that models with cellulite or love handles will make our garments look less glamorous. It was a bold move, but the way our customer-base and sales have grown, and other brands are following in our footsteps, shows that we are on the right track.”As for the professionals and students, who turned models via the initiative, the moment they saw their pictures on clothing websites and newspapers was uplifting. “I was overwhelmed and felt shy when my friends and classmates called to ask if that was me,” said Lakshmanan.Home baker Saranya, who modelled for Konrai, said she felt good about herself and her body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/local-brands-use-ordinary-people-in-ads-to-promote-body-positivity/articleshow/79330624.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Delhi||Chandni Chowk plan: Court rejects plea to save temple||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court on Friday declined to interfere with a North Delhi Municipal Corporation’s decision to demolish a Hanuman temple in Chandni Chowk. The court said any request for relief has to come from the AAP government if at all. It dismissed the application moved by a registered society, comprising devotees of the temple, seeking a stay on the temple’s demolition, which according to them was expected to be carried out on Sunday. A bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad said the high court in November last year had rejected the recommendation of a religious committee headed by the lieutenant governor, to allow the temple to exist at its current site. The bench further noted that the order was challenged by Delhi government in the Supreme Court which disposed of the plea, after the government said it would move “a suitable application” before the high court for further directions, as may be needed. “Once such a liberty was granted to the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi, and so far, GNCTD has not approached this court for any relief, we see no reason to entertain this application for intervention which is nothing but an attempt to reagitate the same issue that has been considered and rejected by an earlier order,” the bench observed. It dismissed the plea by Shri Manokamna Siddh Shri Hanuman Seva Samiti, represented by advocate Rushab Aggarwal, which also sought to intervene in a plea for redevelopment of Chandni Chowk. The applicant society was aggrieved by the north corporation’s October 31 decision proposing demolition of the temple at Katra Dulia in main Chandni Chowk. The high court observed that the demolition, which was proposed to be carried out on November 1, has not been done till now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/chandni-chowk-plan-court-rejects-plea-to-save-temple/articleshow/79330674.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Govt bus confiscated for failure to compensate road accident victim||Coimbatore: A special court for the Motorvehicle Accident Claims Original Petition (MCOP) cases confiscated a Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) town bus in the city on Friday for not paying a compensation of Rs 13.45 lakh to a victim of a road accident involving a government bus. A court source said the bus had knocked 37-year-old construction worker Veeramalai, of Vedapatti, down from his motorcycle on Coimbatore-Sathyamangalam Road on March 24, 2016. He had sustained fractures to both his hands in the incident. He moved the special court for MCOP cases in 2016 and it had on April 4, 2019 ordered the TNSTC management to provide the complainant a compensation of Rs 10.64 lakh. However, the TNSTC management failed to issue the solatium.Following this, Veeramalai filed an execution petition before the court, seeking compensation with interest. A few weeks ago, the court had hiked the compensation amount to Rs 13.45 lakh and ordered to confiscate a TNSTC town bus.On Friday, court officials confiscated the TNSTC town bus (route no 5) that was parked near the combined court premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/govt-bus-confiscated-for-failure-to-compensate-road-accident-victim/articleshow/79330600.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Union minister lauds foresters who rescued elephant from 60ft well||Coimbatore: A day after forest department officials recused a female elephant that had fallen into a 60ft-deep open well on a farmland in Dharmapuri district after 15 hours of struggle, Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar on Friday appreciated the forest department team for saving the animal’s life. “Brilliant work by the forest team who rescued a subadult female elephant after hours of operation and also supplied food during the operation. Kudos to the elephant spirit,” his tweet read.The elephant was released into the reserve forest on Thursday night itself. Three teams have been deployed to monitor its movement. Rajkumar, district forest officer, Dharmapuri forest division, said, “After rescuing the elephant from the well, we observed it for two hours. The animal has sustained minor injuries to its back and the wounds will heal naturally. We released the animal into the reserve forest around 11pm on Thursday.”He said the elephant was not aged 30 years as they felt initially. “After the rescue, we found it was less than 20 years old.”The officer said they had formed three teams led by as many forest range officers from Palacode, Denkanikottai to monitor the rescue operation. “They will now monitor the elephant’s health and movement in the reserve forest for three days. We hope the elephant will find its herd soon.”On Friday, the elephant was spotted standing on a rock inside the reserve forest at Marandahalli in that district.Pointing out that there are hundreds of open wells and abandoned wells in Dharmapuri district, the officer said they would prepare a list of such wells near the reserve forest and submit that to the district administration for action.“Most of them are surrounded by thick vegetation and can’t be easily seen. So, we have requested the farmers to clear the bushes and shrubs around the well. We will identify the open and abandoned wells along the forest fringes and the list will be forwarded to the district collector for further action. We are also asking the farmers to construct walls around the wells,” Rajkumar said.He said there were many incidences of deer that stray out of the reserve forest falling into the open and abandoned wells in and around Harur and Morappur area in the district. “It is easy to rescue deer. But rescuing a wild elephant is a tough task. ”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/union-minister-lauds-foresters-who-rescued-elephant-from-60ft-well/articleshow/79330647.cms||A Subburaj
November 21, 2020||Kochi||Examine V K Ebrahim Kunju and file report: Muvattupuzha vigilance court to DMO||KOCHI: Muvattupuzha vigilance court on Friday directed Ernakulam district medical officer to examine former minister V K Ebrahim Kunju at Lakeshore Hospital, Ernakulam. A report on the examination has to be filed on Tuesday, when the case would come up for hearing. The court would consider the petition by VACB seeking four-day custody of Kunju after studying the report on the status of his physical and mental health. The court has ordered the formation of a medical board as well. Though in judicial custody, the former minister remains admitted at the private hospital in the city. He was a patient at the oncology department of the hospital and got admitted there on the night before the vigilance made the arrest. Meanwhile, the 13th accused B V Nagesh, who was sent in VACB custody for a day, was produced before the court on Friday. He was remanded in judicial custody till December3. His bail application would be considered on Tuesday. Meanwhile, there were reports of VACB planning to array more persons as accused in the case. However, there was no formal confirmation on this yet. Kunju was arrested by vigilance on Wednesday morning. As per his remand report, he conspired with Sumeet Goyal, MD of RDS projects Ltd; T O Sooraj, former PWD secretary; and Mohammed Hanish, former MD of Roads and Bridges Development Corporation of Kerala Ltd (RBDCK); in connection with the construction of Palarivattom flyover and as a result of that criminal conspiracy, an illegal administrative sanction order was issued by Sooraj in order to start the construction of Palarivattam flyover violating the Rules of Business and Delegation of Powers. Vigilance is also probing the investment of illegal gratification received by the ex-minister in connection with the construction. VACB suspects that he had deposited his share of illegal gratification in the bank account maintained for Muslim Printing & Publishing Company Ltd. According to VACB, the earlier version that the amount deposited in the said bank was that of the subscription amount received from Chandrika Daily was given up and it was admitted to be black money. VACB has also information on a transfer of an illegal gratification between an RDS company official and Kunju at Ernakulam. Vigilance had told the court that subsequent to the arrest of Kunju, he was interrogated and his statement was recorded. However, he was intentionally refusing to co-operate with the investigation and was reluctant to reveal such facts from his personal knowledge. Hence, his custodial interrogation is inevitable for the proper investigation in the interest of justice, VACB had submitted before the court. On Tuesday, the court is also likely to consider the bail petition of Kunju. #||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/court-asks-dmo-to-examine-ebrahim-kunju/articleshow/79329262.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Hyderabad||MBT unable to re-register with SEC||Hyderabad: Though Majlis Bachao Tahreek (MBT) was unable to re-register itself with the State Election Commission(SEC), it decided to contest elections in 23 wards, most of them in the Old City. The candidates filed their nomination as independent candidates. Asma Khatoon, wife of MBT convenor Amjad Ullah Khan, filed nomination from Azampura ward on Friday. MBT leaders said that their candidates will fight this election. “I am not contesting from anywhere, but I will concentrate more on Azampur ward. MBT party is a registered party since 1992,” he said. In 2016 GHMC elections, MBT was unable to secure any seats. In 2009, Amjed Ullah Khan, son of late Aman Ullah Khan (founder of MBT), was elected as corporator from Azampura ward. State election commission C Partha Sarathi said that there is no discretion pertaining to re-registration or symbol allocation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mbt-unable-to-re-register-with-sec/articleshow/79331518.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 21, 2020||Nagpur||Teachers undergo mandatory Covid-19 tests||Nagpur: Teachers from various aided and government schools have started undergoing the mandatory RT-PCR test for Covid-19, as authorities stood firm on decision to reopen from Monday. Following the decision by Mumbai’s civic authority to keep schools closed for this calendar year, there were speculations that Nagpur too would follow suit. A meeting held late Friday afternoon between Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) authorities and zilla parishad’s education officials, put all speculations to rest. In a statement, NMC clarified reopening of schools and junior colleges (Std IX-XII) will go ahead as per schedule. Meanwhile teachers from aided and government schools started queueing up for the mandatory Covid-19 tests. State’s school education department had issued a circular on November 10, which laid down guidelines for a pre-reopening plan. One of these was a mandatory Covid-19 test for all teachers, to be done between November 17 and 22. Some proactive schools reached out to authorities and organized special Covid-19 check up camps on their campus itself. One such school’s principal told TOI, “Since it was mentioned in the circular that these tests need to be done, we went ahead and contacted the civic body.” Sources told TOI in some of these schools a few teachers tested positive, though they were asymptomatic. But with almost 600 schools in city that are eligible for reopening, such individual camps are not possible now. NMC officials said RT-PCR tests shall be done free of cost for all teachers at their 50-plus centres. Dilip Bose, secretary of School Headmasters Charitable Association, said, “NMC must increase number of centres so that all teachers can get tested by Sunday deadline. Also education department has suggested that core subjects must be given preference for physical classrooms, so these teachers must be given priority in testing.” Another principal said, “Many of these teachers were coming to school twice or thrice a week. Nobody ever got tested before. So who knows how many were asymptomatic carriers.” There were reports of chaos at the a testing centre in Jaitala as teachers reached there to find that their turn won’t come today. The testing centre’s head could not be reached for confirmation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/teachers-undergo-mandatory-covid-19-tests/articleshow/79329268.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
November 21, 2020||Hubballi||38th convocation of Gulbaraga University held||KALABURAGI: The 38th convocation of Gulbaraga University was held at the campus on Friday and around 250 individuals, including faculty and students took part in it. The event was streamed live on YouTube through varsity’s official website. “Universities should ensure balance between learning and scope for employment. The only way to do this is to sharpen the skills,” said Professor S Madeshwaran, director of Social and Economic Changes Study Centre, Bengaluru. Considering the contributions of seer Subhudendra Teertha of Mantralaya Mutt to literature, education and social work, the varsity conferred doctorate on him in his absence at the event As many as 80 students received 156 gold medals at the event, while a total of 27,163 post graduate and graduate students were awarded convocation certificates. As many as 157 scholars were awarded with PhDs — 110 men and 47 women. Maximum number of medals were bagged by Jayashri Shivasharanappa who secured 11 gold medals in Kannada MA. She told media persons after receiving the medals that she is interested in teaching and preparing to appear for SLET and NET. Another student Shwetha Doddamani secured nine gold medals in MSc Botony, while Soumya Biradar secured eight gold medals in Business Management, Arunjyothi Basavaraj secured seven gold medals in Micro-Biology. Acting vice chancellor Chandrakanth Yatanoor, registrar C Somashekhar registrar evaluation Sanjeevkumar were present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/38th-convocation-of-gulbaraga-university-held/articleshow/79327168.cms||Mouneshwar Sonnad
November 21, 2020||Goa||Ore transportation: Cong files plaint against minister, BJP demands apology||Panaji/Vasco: Keeping up the pressure on urban development minister Milind Naik and the state government, Congress on Friday filed a complaint at the Bogda police station demanding action against four individuals including Naik on the issue of illegal transportation of iron ore. State Congress vice president Sankalp Amonkar, who filed the complaint, said he is ready to stake his political career to ensure that the issue reaches a logical end. The complaint is filed against the department of mines and geology, Naik, the chairman of Mormugao Port Trust (MPT) and others. The complaint alleges that around 1,800 tonnes of iron ore cargo lying with MPT was loaded into barges and subsequently to a ship without norms being followed. “I am ready to face any number of defamation cases but I will not back out from taking up public issues,” Amonkar said. “We have given all necessary documents and photos and now authorities have to investigate. I am willing to resign from politics if proved wrong.” A day earlier, chief minister Pramod Sawant brushed aside the allegations raised by Congress and said that the coal was transported by following all norms. Congress is not ready to accept the government’s clarification and has said that if Goa police does not take action, a writ petition would be filed. The Mormugao BJP Block has demanded apology from Amonkar within three days or to face action for “baseless allegations” against Naik. Not only defamations but all actions that could be taken under legal provisions would be taken against Amonkar,ex councillor Sanjay Satardekar said .Naik has business in shipping and that cannot be taken as faul, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ore-transportation-cong-files-plaint-against-minister-bjp-demands-apology/articleshow/79455788.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 21, 2020||Kolkata||After Diwali, a silent start to Chhath in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The city spent one of the most silent and sombre Chhath Pujas on Friday, without crackers and loud music. Both the city police and state pollution control board (PCB) said they didn’t hear of any major violation across the city. A few stray incidents aside, mostly related to loud music than crackers, the PCB stated its complaint line has not even registered a single complaint on Friday. Last year, there were around 15 complaints by late evening on the first day of Chhath. Cops, who were on duty at the ghats, said they did not hear any music or cracker, a first in nearly a decade. “Even the customary dancing was missing this year as music — even if played — was regulated and without DJs,” said an officer on duty at Nimtolla Ghat. “Chhath is an auspicious festival. The rituals around prayers being offered to the setting sun on the third day of Chhath and rising sun on the fourth day are supposed to take place in a serene atmosphere. But over the past few years, we have witnessed the use of firecrackers and loud music. They do not go with either our tradition or culture. That’s why in many ways, this Chhath was better than others in the recent past,” said Bihari Samaj secretary Ranvir Singh. The association, which has over 20,000 members, urged revellers to maintain Covid guidelines and refrain from bursting crackers and playing music. Cops said they had been monitoring the vehicles enroute to the ghats. “We ensured they did not carry crackers or DJ. We had been seizing crackers in all these neighbourhoods. However, our appeal to the revellers is working and we are happy that the community stood by us,” said an officer at Lalbazar. Good news poured in even from districts, where complaints were minimum. Most complaints from Howrah and Hooghly were regarding loud music. The only stray complaints — one regarding crackers and two others on loud music were lodged in Behala’s Silpara, Sevak Baidya Street near Lake and Barabagan in Barisha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-diwali-a-silent-start-to-chhath/articleshow/79330705.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 21, 2020||Goa||Goa govt urged to review status of public toilets||SALIGAO: Goa Civic and Consumer Action Network (Goacan) has called for a comprehensive review of the status of public toilets in all municipal areas. In a letter addressed to the director of municipal administration, Tariq Thomas, Goacan coordinator Roland Martins has stated that the review should be completed by March 2021 and must cover all the municipal councils in the 11 talukas of the state. “Keeping in mind that thousands of domestic and foreign tourists visit Goa, the public toilets must be maintained properly, for which appropriate standard operating procedures (SOPs)in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic must be prepared,” Martins has stated in the letter. He has also said that consumer complaints on issues of cleanliness and overcharging of fees must be dealt with effective action. “During the review, special attention must be given to see that these public toilets can be used by disabled persons and senior citizens as well,” Martins has said. Goacan has also requested Thomas to ensure that public toilets have proper signage and can be located easily on information maps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-urged-to-review-status-of-public-toilets/articleshow/79331543.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 21, 2020||Hubballi||High court upholds Dharwad ZP members’ disqualification||DHARWAD: The high court bench has upheld the decision of the State Election Commission (SEC) to disqualify four BJP members of Dharwad zilla panchayat for violating the whip issued by the party. Annappa Desai, Ratna Patil, Manjawwa Harijan and Jyothi Bentur are the members who had been disqualified by the SEC on June 10 this year following a complaint by the then ZP president Chaitra Shirur and the president of Dharwad district unit of BJP Iranna Jadi. The four members had allegedly violated the whip by voting in favour of the motion when the Congress members had moved a no-confidence motion against Chaitra. This had resulted in ouster of Chaitra from the post of the president and Vijayalakshmi Patil of Congress had occupied the chair. The four members had approached the high court questioning the SEC’s order and the HC on June 25 had granted interim stay to the order. After hearing the arguments of both sides, the single judge bench of Justice Krishnakumar on Thursday upheld the SEC’s order disqualifying the four members. Advocates Arun Joshi and Avinash Angadi represented Chaitra and the BJP while Ponnappa had represented the disqualified members. Arun Joshi has filed a caveat in the high court apprehending that the disqualified members may go into appeal. The Congress had moved the no-confidence motion against the then ZP president Chaitra Shirur on February 5, 2019, and sensing the possibility of cross voting, Iranna Jadi, president of Dharwad rural district BJP had issued whip to all 10 BJP members to ensure that the no-confidence motion is defeated on the floor of the house. The amended Karnataka Gram Swaraj and Panchayat Raj Act stipulates that a special meeting could be called if it is demanded by 1/3rd of the total number of the members in the house and a no-confidence motion can be moved if 2/3rd of the members press for it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/high-court-upholds-dharwad-zp-members-disqualification/articleshow/79326757.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Pune||Garbage burning chokes Pune's Kharadi residents||PUNE: Kharadi residents are once again troubled by the incessant problem of garbage burning and are knocking on the doors of the authorities to check the menace. According to the residents, garbage burning started about a month ago and has become a regular feature at multiple spots in the area. Times ViewBurning of garbage and farmland residues is a serious health hazard. It warrants stringent action against those indulging in such illegal acts. The Pune Municipal Corporation must initiate criminal cases against the miscreants, besides imposing heavy fines on them. The civic body should also take stock of its garbage collection and treatment facilities in the suburban and fringe areas as lack of infrastructure may force the residents to opt for unscientific ways of waste disposal.The residents said that dry grass is also being burnt at farmlands in Kharadi and Wagholi, leading to emission of thick smoke and particles into the air. Satish Joshi, a resident of Marvel Cerise and vice-chairman of Kharadi Residents Association, said, “I live on the 12th floor and can get a clear view of the spots where garbage and grass are being burnt. I have personally been monitoring the situation for about a month now and have raised the issue with the local ward office as well as the main office. Initially, garbage was burnt in daylight, but now it is mostly set ablaze at night. The air has become unbreathable, and there is smoke everywhere. Burning garbage is illegal and I wonder what is keeping the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) from putting an end to it.” Nitin Memane, another local resident, said that they have identified four locations where the burning takes place. “We can see smoke rising from behind the dargah on Fountain Road, Tuljabhawani Nagar, Wagheshwar parking lot, which is on the border of Kharadi and Wagholi, as well as the labour camp on Fountain Road. We can smell the smoke throughout the day, and this poses a risk to our health and affects the environment. On one hand, townships are being developed in this area while on the other we are facing the problem of garbage burning. While the local ward office has been cooperative in initiating action against those involved in burning of garbage, we do not see any deterrence,” he said. Local health inspector Sushma Munde said, “I have personally visited these sites and fined those responsible for burning garbage. I also visited a spot at Lohegaon, where burning was noticed, along with the local officials, and issued notices. We have informed them that police complaints will be filed if they don’t stop burning garbage. At one spot, we did not find the people responsible for garbage burning and we are on the lookout for them.” According to Munde, those found burning garbage or farmlands are first issued verbal warnings. “If they don’t comply, we fine them. If fining does not work, notices are issued and finally cases are registered. I am trying to put a stop to this menace,” she said. According to the residents of the area, the meagre fines levied on those burning garbage are not deterrent enough. “Some stringent action must be taken against these people to ensure deterrence. Many of these people prefer paying a fine of Rs 1,000 instead of spending time and energy on disposing garbage the correct way. We hope that some corrective steps are initiated quickly to stop this menace,” Memane said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/garbage-burning-chokes-kharadi-residents/articleshow/79331526.cms||Rujuta Parekh
November 21, 2020||Pune||BJP has no moral right to talk about responsibility of alliance: Jayant Patil||PUNE: Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Jayant Patil on Friday dismissed rumours of a rift in the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA). He criticized statements made by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders pertaining to a ‘rift in the ruling coalition’. “We know how BJP has treated its allies. BJP leaders have always insulted their partners. They have no moral right to talk about responsibilities of other alliances. Statements from BJP leaders are not worth taking cognisance of,” Patil told a press conference organized in support of the NCP candidate for the graduate constituency. BJP leaders had claimed that NCP and Shiv Sena had sidelined Congress in the ruling alliance. “The world has seen how BJP leaders have treated Shiv Sena leaders and ministers when they were their alliance partners in the last government. As compared to that, our alliance is far better. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has given equal rights and opportunities to all parties and ministers,” said Patil. Leader of the opposition in the state legislative council Pravin Darkar had said that Sena and NCP have given secondary treatment to the Congress. The decision taken by ministers from Congress were being ignored and Sena-NCP want to demean the Congress, Darkar had claimed. On the graduate constituency elections, Patil said that they have given candidates for all five graduate constituencies across the state. “The focus will be to give employment to the youth, who are suffering due to job loss. Business in industrial towns like Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad have suffered due to Covid-19. Wrong policies undertaken by the union government are raising concerns about employment. All these issues will be addressed during the campaign,” said Patil. On the allegations of inflated electricity bills and the state government’s stand to recover the amount from citizens, Patil said that the pendency of bills has increased tremendously prior to 2019. “We will have to investigate how the electricity bill dues have reached Rs67,000 crore while the previous government was in power. It has led to huge losses to the electricity department. So we have been left with no option but to focus on recovery,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bjp-has-no-moral-right-to-talk-about-responsibility-of-alliance-patil/articleshow/79331537.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Pune||Pune: ‘Compulsory’ tag to speed up Metro land acquisition||PUNE: The revenue department has attached a “compulsory land acquisition” clause to speed up the process for the Hinjewadi-Shivajinagar Metro corridor being developed by the Pune Metropolitan Regional Development Authority (PMRDA). The land would be acquired under the ‘Right to the Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013’. The 23.3km-long elevated corridor needs a total of 28 hectares from seven central government and 13 state government departments for the purpose of a depot, car shed, stations and their entry/exit facilities. PMRDA said it has acquired 75% of the required land and aims to expedite the process. As per officials, the concessionaire(Tata-Siemens) needs 90% of the land in hand before it can start the project, which, because of its “vital infrastructure” tag, has a fixed timeline. PMRDA commissioner Suhas Diwase told TOI that they were working with all the government departments to acquire the land at the earliest. “We are currently finalizing the alignment of the double-decker with the Metro line on University Road. The plan will be finalized after discussing it with all the stakeholders,” he said. “We hope to be able to handover at least 90% of the land to the concessionaire by the end of December,” PMRDA’s superintending engineer Rinaz Pathan said. This is the third line of the Pune Metro rail project. The other two lines are being developed by the Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited. The 16.59km-long Line 1 will connect Pimpri to Swargate. This corridor will be elevated from Pimpri to Range Hills and thereafter run underground, from Shivajinagar to Swargate, while the fully elevated 14.67m-long second corridor will start at Vanaz and end in Ramwadi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/compulsory-tag-to-speed-up-metro-land-acquisition/articleshow/79331530.cms||Nisha Nambiar
November 21, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: M C Kamaruddin to be under observation||KOZHIKODE: : M C Kamaraudeen, MLA, who has been arrested in a cheating case, will be kept under medical observation for a couple of days after it was found out that two blocks developed in his heart. Kamarudeen is under treatment at Government Medical College, Pariyaram, after he complained of uneasiness and chest pain on Wednesday. He is under the custody of Crime Branch, which is investigating the case. Dr S M Ashraf, head of Sahakarana Hrudayalaya at the medical college, told TOI that the MLA was subjected to angiogram after variations were shown in the ECG. “It was found that there are two blocks in the heart,” he said. The doctor said Kamarudeen has been under treatment for diabetes and hypertension for years. “He is in the middle-risk category and we have decided to wait for a few days before taking a decision on future course of action,” Dr Ashraf said. Kamarudeen was arrested on November 7 on a huge number of complaints that he had cheated the investors of the Fashion Gold International. His bail petition was rejected by the court, which sent him to judicial custody. Kamarudeen was later released to police custody. Another petition for bail will come up before the court on November 24. T K M Pookoya Thangal, the first accused in the case and managing director of the Fashion Gold, is still at large. Police have issued a look-out circular after he refused to appear before the investigation officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/kamaruddin-to-be-under-observation-after-blocks-in-heart/articleshow/79329282.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: AIMIM candidates file 66 nominations for GHMC polls||HYDERABAD: Though TRS working president, KT Rama Rao claimed on Thursday that his party would double its tally by winning 10 wards in the Old City, AIMIM appears to have no such plans to expand its base as its candidates have filed only 66 nominations. In 2016, AIMIM won 44 out of 60 seats it contested. Unlike other parties, AIMIM did not release the list of candidates on Thursday. Meanwhile, Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi launched the election campaign from Erragadda ward in Jubilee Hills. The AIMIM chief conducted a door-to-door campaign in the Sultan Nagar area, Erragadda. In 2016, apart from their stronghold in Old City, the AIMIM had won only two wards — Erragadda and Shaikpet — in Jubilee Hills assembly segment, two — Suleman Nagar, Shastripuram — in Rajendra Nagar segment and one —Bholakpur — in Musheerabad. Interestingly, TRS came second in 38 of the 50-odd wards in the Old City. Even in Akberbagh ward, where Majlis Bachao Tahreek’s (MBT) Amjed Ullah Khan fought the election, TRS was second, pushing MBT to the third spot. For years, MBT has been considered as the main rival of the AIMIM. Parveena Sultana (Ghansi Bazar ward), wife of Mohd Ghouse, Sohail Quadri (Pathergatti) and Muzafar Khan (Shalibanda) are some AIMIM candidates, who filed their nominations on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/aimim-candidates-file-66-nominations-for-ghmc-polls/articleshow/79331566.cms||Nabinder Bommala
November 21, 2020||Lucknow||UP set to bring ordinance to check forced conversion||LUCKNOW: The Yogi Adityanath government is set to bring an ordinance to check forced religious conversion even as several other BJP-governed states work on laws to check "love jihad". "The draft of the ordinance is almost ready and the chief minister has given his principled approval," a highly placed source told TOI. "It might be promulgated soon." The Allahabad high court had observed recently that "conversion just for the purpose of marriage is unacceptable". Quoting the order during a bypoll rally in Jaunpur early this month, Yogi said his government would not allow forced conversion of "daughters and sisters" in the name of marriage. Those indulging in such nefarious activities will face harshest punishment, he said. Yogi was among the first BJP CMs to raise his voice against "love jihad". The state law commission had first submitted the draft of a proposed bill against forced conversion last year. It recommended a jail term ranging between one and five years for the accused and imprisonment between two and seven years in case of forced conversion of SC/ST. The commission also recommended that both marriage and conversion be declared null and void if either of the parties is forced into changing religion for the purpose of matrimony. Eight states – Arunachal Pradesh, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Jharkhand and Uttarakhand – already have anti-conversion laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-set-to-bring-ordinance-to-check-forced-conversion/articleshow/79331542.cms||Subhash Mishra
November 21, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Not enough distance? Now pay Rs 2,000 as fine||NEW DELHI: Besides paying Rs 2,000 for not wearing masks, people will now also have to cough up the same amount for violating norms for social distancing, quarantine, spitting in open and consumption of paan, gutka, tobacco, etc., in public places. A notification was issued by the health and family welfare department of Delhi government on Friday. Alongside, health minister Satyendar Jain assured Delhiites that the spread of Covid was on the decline. The positivity rate, which was 15% on November 7, was now down at 11%, he said. Jain, however, appealed to the public to continue following Covid preventive measures meticulously. The notification empowered officials authorised by district magistrates and deputy police commissioners to impose the fine of Rs 2,000 for violating Covid measures. Jain said people should wear masks at all times, even inside cars. Despite the decline in positivity rate, Delhi continues to record over 7,000 new cases every day. On Thursday, there were 7,456 fresh Covid cases, the positivity rate being 12.1%. About the door-to-door survey that began on Friday across all the 11 districts, Jain said exercise was aimed at identifying and testing symptomatic people living in Covid hotspots. Along with the survey, the government wants to increase the number of tests carried out daily so that more infected people are detected at the earliest and treatment started as soon as possible. The focus is on increasing RT-PCR testing, considered very reliable in comparison with rapid antigen testing, to over 27,000 each day. The positivity rate declined to 10.5% on Friday, leaving Jain saying this was a “matter of great satisfaction”. Only 6,608 of the 62,425 people tested had positive results for the novel coronavirus. The capital has 17,083 beds in government and private hospitals earmarked for Covid patients. Of them, 9,491 were occupied on Friday, with 7,592 vacant. Delhi government has ordered 90 private hospitals to reserve 60% of their total bed capacity for treatment of Covid patients. Jain said this would mean an additional 2,644 beds in private hospitals for Covid patients. The government has also ordered 42 private hospitals to reserve 80% of their total ICU/HDU bed capacity for Covid patients. It will lead to an increase of 260 ICU beds in private hospitals. Among such hospitals, Delhi Heart and Lung Institute will add 20 beds, while Kalra Hospital in Kirti Nagar will add 17. Watch Delhi: Fine raised to Rs 2 thousand for spitting, flouting social distancing||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/not-enough-distance-now-pay-rs-2000-as-fine/articleshow/79330773.cms||AlokKNMishra
November 21, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal CM meets devotees, lauds restrained Chhath||KOLKATA: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday urged Chhath devotees to wear masks, follow sanitization and physical distancing norms while performing the rituals at water bodies or riverside. Lauding people for the self-restraint shown during Durga Puja, Eid, Kali Puja, Diwali and now Chhath, she said: “This is essential to keep everyone safe during the pandemic.” The chief minister, who spoke to devotees at Doighat, said: “Some states have asked people not to go to the riversides and perform puja at home. We understand that one needs to perform the rituals in water. For those who need to step out of home, can perform the rituals in the specially made water bodies in their neighbourhood. And for those who want to perform the rituals in the river, please go in very small groups — in ones and twos... . As you know, there is a court order, which needs to be complied with, but importantly, it is about your health and safety. This is a worldwide pandemic,” Banerjee said. “Unlike others, this is not the first time I am with you on this day. Even before I had won my first parliamentary election in 1984, I used to come to meet people during Chhath. Since then I have also used MPLAD funds to renovate ghats. This year, in Kolkata and suburbs, we have cleaned and dug 1,300 ponds. Nearly 2.5 lakh such ponds have been dug across the state so that you don’t face any problem. Please perform rituals in ghats in small groups,” she said. “In Bengal, we have people from various states. We celebrate festivals together. This is unique to Bengal,” she said. Stressing on the need to comply with the court rulings, Banerjee also said, “The government has to deal with a pandemic.” Banerjee said: “Even in Bihar, they give a day’s holiday during Durga Puja. In Bengal, we have declared a two-day holiday for Chhath. We want this pandemic to end so that we can get on with our normal life. But till then, we all need to be safe and alert.” On Thursday too, the chief minister had appealed to all devotees to refrain from Chhath processions, urging people to perform the rituals at home, and for those who need to step out to ponds and riverside, to do so in very small groups due to Covid risks and court rulings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cm-meets-devotees-lauds-restrained-chhath/articleshow/79330772.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Pune||Delivery firms bring Diwali goodies and hampers to families and friends||By Anjali JhangianiPUNE: Diwali is over, but the tradition of exchanging sweets and pleasantries continues albeit in a different manner. Instead of visiting families and friends, many are taking the help of delivery firms to send across sweets and homemade delights to their near and dear ones. Ajinkya Rahane, city manager at a delivery service agency, said, “The last week has been the busiest during the entire year for us as there had been a 300% spike in orders and even more in some areas. The orders were generally for delivery of sweets and faral.” Many home chefs have also used the services to deliver orders to their clients during the last week. Anushka Mohita, home chef, said, “There are many areas in the city which popular delivery service such as Swiggy Genie or Dunzo do not cover. I had to send sweets to an address in Katraj. For that I had to hire the services of another local delivery services. This year, the sales of homemade preparations are more than store-bought stuff. The pandemic has helped people realise how they need to support local businesses.” Ganesh Shitare, a delivery agent, said, “On Diwali, I had to visit thrice the number of homes I normally do on regular days. Most deliveries were of sweets and some hampers. Many people didn’t want to take the chance of visiting their friends or families because they have children or seniors at home. On a regular day, not every client offers tips, but during the last week, I have earned more tips than what I have received throughout the year.” Mohit Khedke, another delivery agent, said, “People have the option of sending tips online. Many delivery agents have more than just one job, they usually pick up two-three jobs to earn enough money to look after their families and run the house. Every year, during festive time, people are more generous with their tips, but this year I have earned 50% more than the previous years.” “We have a four-month baby at home, and my mother is a cancer survivor, so we did not visit our relatives homes this Diwali. But my relatives look forward to the sweets and chakli made by my mother, so we sent them through the delivery services. We also received many boxes of sweets from our friends and families via these services,” said Nilesh Mane, a resident of Wanowrie.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/delivery-firms-bring-diwali-goodies-and-hampers-to-families-and-friends/articleshow/79331552.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Nagpur||Most Covid +ve new mothers & infants doing fine||Nagpur: More than 900 expecting mothers, who had tested Covid positive in the city during the peak period of the pandemic in September, are doing well, without further Covid-related complications, said doctors monitoring their health. Overall, the city has seen over 900 Covid-19 positive deliveries during the last six months. Some of the women had tested positive during early phase of pregnancy, while others were found positive during the mandatory Covid-19 test held before delivery. Most of them delivered non-Covid babies during the peak of the pandemic. Doctors at GMCH and IGGMCH, who have performed 700-plus Covid-19 deliveries, and private hospitals where more than 150 deliveries have been performed till date said no different obstetric complications were noted till now in both mothers and the babies. “Both mothers and the newborns are doing well. Mild cough and some fatigue may last for one to three months in a few cases. But, pregnant women are very well taken care of in our households due to our family values and social care,” said Dr Vaidehi Marathe, president of Nagpur Obstetrics and Gynecology Society (NOGS). “Our members have observed no pregnancy-related complications due to Covid, neither in GMCH nor IGGMCH. Two private centres also have same observations,” she added. Some pregnant women or new mothers may suffer depression or anxiety, especially when a mother tests positive or suffers mild symptoms, she added. Infants born to Covid-19 mothers are also doing well. Covid-19 does not spread during delivery; as it has no vertical transmission like the HIV. The only possibility of infection is through air post birth from the mother or hospital staff. “Though, the numbers are very few, we have 3-4 infants born with Covid-19 in our ward on any given day,” said Dr Dipty Jain from GMCH paediatric department. “If mother is Covid positive and the baby is negative; family has to take care of the infant and mother has to stay in hospital or isolated at home. This creates some issues like infants not getting mother’s milk. However, breastfeeding with all necessary precautions is absolutely harmless,” said Marathe. Even if a mother is on her treatment for Covid-19, she can feed the baby following certain precautions. As per latest protocol, doctors counsel such women about it, but the final decision is to be taken by the mothers only.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/most-covid-ve-new-mothers-infants-doing-fine/articleshow/79329292.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 21, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: 632 pupils in scholarship list||PUNE: Students from Khed and Shirur talukas have outperformed their counterparts in other talukas in Pune district (rural) by gaining more seats in the state scholarship scheme for Standard V and VIII. Pune district, which had 581 students in the scholarship last year, upped its game, as this year there were 632 students in the list. The Zilla Parishad (ZP) officials said special training was given to teachers to ensure participation as well as better performance of more students. Ranjit Shivtare, the vice-president of Zilla Parishad, Pune, said, “For the last three years, there are 32 schools that have been performing really well in the scholarship examinations, but there are also many schools which do not even participate. We wanted to change that. We want all ZP schools to participate and so we had held training sessions for teachers.” Shivtare said the training was imparted at taluka-level to two teachers who would be trained to become master trainers, who in turn would train other teachers in the area. “We also held evaluation after three months on how well the schools were performing. Our aim is to make more students aware about the way competitive examinations work. We have seen that even in competitive exams such MPSC, students from Pune fare lesser as compared to other areas. We want to change this. Hopefully, if more students are prepared for competitive exams from Standard V, I think they will grasp the knack of cracking such exams at a younger age,” Shivtare added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/632-pupils-in-scholarship-list/articleshow/79331561.cms||Ardhra Nair
November 21, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: NCB sends Bineesh Kodiyeri to jail, arrests aide||BENGALURU: Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of senior CPM leader Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, was sent back to Bengaluru’s central prison on Friday after narcotics control bureau (NCB) sleuths interrogated him and recorded his statement in connection with a drug case in which two of his aides were arrested. Another associate, who allegedly confessed to Bineesh’s drug habits and money links with the dealers, was arrested on Thursday. While NCB hasn’t yet given a clean chit to Bineesh in the narcotics case, it has not booked him in the drug case. He was escorted back to the central prison complex by 5.30pm and he will remain there till November 25 in connection with a money-laundering case. His bail petition in the enforcement directorate (ED) case will be heard on November 24. The NCB team questioned Bineesh about his alleged links with aides Mohammed Anoop and Rijesh Ravindran, who were nabbed on August 24 with drugs and cash from their houses in Bengaluru. He was also asked about his huge money transactions with Anoop. On Thursday night, sleuths arrested Suhas K Gowda alias GK and booked him under NDPS Act for alleged links with Anoop in the drug-dealing business. Abdul Latheef, a luxury car dealer and restaurant owner in Thiruvananthapuram, appeared before ED sleuths in Bengaluru on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ncb-sends-bineesh-to-jail-arrests-aide/articleshow/79329289.cms||Petlee Peter
November 21, 2020||Chennai||Man who battled false rape case wins ₹15 lakh compensation||Chennai: In a rare reprieve to a rape accused, a Chennai court has awarded ₹15 lakh as compensation to a man who, as a college student, was arrested on charges of rape and made to face trial for more than seven years. Acquitted in the case after a DNA test proved he was not the father of the child the woman delivered, Santhosh filed a suit for compensation saying the false rape charge had ruined his career and life. Partly allowing his plea, a city court has awarded ₹15 lakh as compensation and directed the woman and her parents who made the false complaint to pay the compensation. Santhosh sought ₹30 lakh as damages from the woman, her parents and the Secretariat Colony police inspector who investigated the case. Santhosh’s lawyer A Sirajudeen said his client’s family and the woman’s family were neighbours. They belonged to the same community and it was agreed between the families that Santhosh would marry the woman. Later, however, the families parted ways following a property dispute. Santhosh and his family shifted to another neighbourhood in Chennai. Santhosh had enrolled for BTech in a private engineering college when the woman’s mother approached Santhosh’s parents claiming that he had impregnated the girl and demanded that the families arrange their marriage immediately. After Santhosh denied any such relationship with her, she and her parents lodged a complaint of rape. He was arrested and remanded in judicial custody for 95 days. On February 12, 2010, Santhosh came out on bail, and by the time the complainant woman had delivered a girl. A DNA test proved that Santhosh was not the father of the child. The case went for trial and the court ordered another DNA analysis. Concurring with the submissions of Sirajudeen and in view of the result of the analysis, a Mahila court in Chennai acquitted Santhosh on February 10, 2016. Santhosh filed the suit for damages saying he was made to spend ₹2 lakh to conduct the case and had to discontinue college due to the false complaint. He could not get even a commercial driving licence due to the case and was forced to work as an office assistant for a pittance. The XVIII additional city civil court in Chennai refused to order a decree against the investigating officer, but awarded the compensation payable by the complainants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/man-who-battled-false-rape-case-wins-15-lakh-compensation/articleshow/79325998.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Nagpur||BJP agitation over lockdown power bill waiver on Monday||Nagpur: Targeting Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government for its failure to keep promise to provide rebate in power bills to consumers, who had received inflated bills during the lockdown period, BJP has announced it will burn electricity bills in every town and village of the state on Monday. Addressing a press conference on Friday, BJP general secretary Chandrashekhar Bawankule said the MVA government had announced during budget session that it would waive off power bills of consumers using up to 100 units every month, for five years. “BJP had not demanded this. The government had declared this on its own. Now it must fulfil the promise,” he added. Bawankule further demanded that consumers using up to 300 units should get complete waiver for the months of March, April, May and June. “The government itself has several times said it would provide relief to consumers. How can it backtrack now? Energy minister Nitin Raut says there is a debt of Rs59,000 crore on Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL). The money has to be provided by the state government and not by MSEDCL. The government will have to pay Rs5,000 crore to all the four power companies for this waiver,” he said. Raut had tweeted on Friday morning that he would conduct an enquiry as to how the arrears of MSEDCL increased from Rs15,000 crore in 2014 to Rs41,000 crore in 2019. Countering Raut, Bawankule said, “Of the Rs41,000 crore, about Rs30,000 crore are owed by farmers. We did not disconnect farmers because they were in distress. If Raut wants to conduct an enquiry into this, he is welcome. Secondly, the arrears increased by Rs19,000 crore during his tenure.” The former energy minister claimed that MSEDCL had started sending disconnection SMSes to defaulters. He warned that any attempt to disconnect consumers would be opposed tooth and nail by BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bjp-agitation-over-lockdown-power-bill-waiver-on-monday/articleshow/79329336.cms||Ashish Roy
November 21, 2020||Lucknow||Gomti riverfront scam: CBI arrests ex-engineer, irrigation department clerk||LUCKNOW: The CBI arrested a retired superintending engineer and a clerk of the UP irrigation department for their role in the alleged Rs 1,600 crore Gomti Riverfront Scam on Friday. After arresting former SE Roop Singh Yadav and clerk Raj Kumar Yadav from their Lucknow residences, the CBI presented them before a designated court which granted their remand to the central agency till November 24. The anti-corruption unit of the CBI Lucknow had registered a case in the scam in November 2017 against the then chief engineers Gulesh Chandra, S N Sharma, Qazim Ali, then SEs Mangal Yadav, Akhil Raman, Kamaleshwar Singh, Roop Singh Yadav and executive engineer Surendra Yadav. Gulesh Chandra, Mangal Yadav, Akhil Raman and Roop Singh Yadav have retired. The project had been started during the previous SP regime and soon after coming to power in March 2017, CM Yogi had constituted a committee under retired Allahabad high court judge Alok Kumar Singh to probe alleged anomalies in it. The panel submitted its report on May 16, 2017 mentioning irregularities in the project. Thereafter, an FIR was registered at the Gomtinagar police station in Lucknow on June 19, 2017 against the accused engineers. The state government subsequently sought a CBI probe into the matter in July 2017 and in November same year the CBI took over the case. The project involved construction of a rubber dam to maintain its water level, a stadium, an amphitheatre for 2,000 people, cycle and jogging tracks, a play area for children and a musical fountain. One part of the project was inaugurated by the then chief minister Akhilesh Yadav in November 2016. The work on the remaining part was yet to start when the change of government took place. Taking cognisance of the CBI FIR, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) had also filed a criminal case under Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in the same scam in March 2018. The ED also attached five immovable properties worth Rs 1 crore, including a plot of Roop Singh Yadav and properties of other accused in the scam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/gomti-riverfront-scam-cbi-arrests-ex-engr-irrigation-department-clerk/articleshow/79331563.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Goa||Coal protesters demand that SBI stop financing Adani’s Australia project||MARGAO: Protesters rallying under the banner of ‘Goyant Kollso Naka’ gathered outside the Margao branch of State Bank of India (SBI) on Friday demanding that the bank drop the proposal to finance the coal mine project of Adani group in Australia. They also submitted a memorandum to the branch manager requesting him to forward their request to the bank’s management. “In the face of the climate crisis, this is akin to funding the destruction of our planet and the extinction of our own species. Goa is under severe threat due to this proposed coal mine since the coal is destined to be handled and transported through Goa, destroying our state and its economies totally,” the letter, signed by the group’s convenor, Antonio D’Silva, said. In the letter, D’Silva further requested the branch manager of SBI Margao to impress upon the management that “failure to reject the proposal to fund the coal mines of Adani Group in Australia will force the people to reconsider their deposits and investments in SBI and its associates.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/coal-protesters-demand-that-sbi-stop-financing-adanis-australia-project/articleshow/79331581.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: For Chhath devotees, no road leads to Subhas Sarobar||KOLKATA: Subhas Sarobar turned into a veritable fortress since Friday morning as the authorities—police and lake custodian KMDA—deployed heavy security around the premises, locked the gates and made the roads leading to the lake out of bounds to Chhath devotees. While Chhath used to be observed there amid much fanfare till last year, this year turned out to be different, as peace reigned at the lake off E M Bypass, where no devotee mad any attempt to enter. A core team of 90 officers, led by DCPs—DC (ESD) Ajoy Prasad, DC (5th battalion) Rahul De and DC (Traffic-II) Namroz Khan—along with eight ACPs kept a watch throughout the day. Three DCPs took guard at three approach points on EM Bypass, Narkeldanga Main Road and Suren Sarkar Road. “Single and double barricades were set up. We got assurance from community members that they were happy with the alternative arrangements and will follow the rules on Saturday morning as well,” said an officer. A special watch was maintained on Suren Sarkar Road, where double barricades were set up on both ends and vehicles were diverted from Bypass as well as Narkeldanga Main Road. While a number of trucks carrying devotees were sent towards Nimtala Ghat, the Bidhannagar police diverted several vehicles towards Sector V. Inside Subhas Sarobar, besides cops, about 40 private guards and 10 women guards were deployed by KMDA. Cops from Narkeldanga and Muchipara police stations will request residents of the area to observe Chhath at home on Saturday. Subhas Sarobar will be shut till 3pm on Saturday. Police said they did extensive groundwork to ensure the court ban order was implemented. “The most important part was to study last two years’ routes taken by devotees and places they came from. We went there and spoke to community elders and local political leaders. The support we received from the community was the biggest takeaway,” said a senior officer. A local club in the vicinity—Narkeldanga Sebaknagar Nabayubak Brinda—set up a few temporary reservoirs for neighbours to perform the rituals there. “We used to visit Subhas Sarobar but this time, the situation was different, what with the court order and the pandemic. We performed the rituals at alternative sites, and the arrangements were satisfactory,” said a devotee. At the behest of Bidhannagar MLA and fire minister Sujit Bose, temporary ghats were set up at ponds in Duttabad and Dakshindari area. Bose visited some of the ghats on Friday. For people living near Subhas Sarobar, it was a welcome change. “The lake premises used to be littered with puja leftovers and burnt fire crackers and offerings would float in the eater. It is good it was spared this time,” said a resident. Activists were glad with police and KMDA action. “Thanks to Kolkata Police for prompt action. The state government successfully tackled the situation,” said green activist Somendra Mohan Ghosh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/for-devotees-no-road-leads-to-subhas-sarobar/articleshow/79330800.cms||Suman Chakraborti
November 21, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Ganga Expressway foundation to be laid in June 2021||LUCKNOW: After Purvanchal and Bundelkhand expressways, UP government is ready to roll out the six-lane Ganga Expressway from Meerut to Prayagraj. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed the departments concerned to work in ‘mission mode’ to bring this mega project to ground. The foundation stone of the 594km-long six-lane Ganga Expressway (expandable to 8-lane) will be laid in June 2012. About 90% of the land acquisition should be completed by then, the CM directed the officials while reviewing the preparations for this greenfield project on Friday. Yogi also announced that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of an expressway between Varanasi and Prayagraj later this month. The CM said that development of infrastructure projects was the top priority of the state government. “After Purvanchal and Bundelkhand expressways, the Ganga expressway would give a new identity to the state,” he said. It will be built at a cost of Rs 36,410 crore. Out of the total cost, Rs 9,255 crore is estimated to be spent towards acquisition while Rs 22,145 crore will go to civil works. It will pass through 12 districts — Meerut, Bulandshahr, Hapur, Amroha, Sambhal, Badaun, Shahjahanpur, Hardoi, Unnao, Raebareli, Pratapgarh and Prayagraj. Maintaining that infrastructure development has been one of the top priorities of his government, the CM has asked to set up industrial areas in all these districts. Uttar Pradesh Expressway Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA) chairman Awanish Awasthi said the survey of every village in western UP has been done and a comprehensive action plan is ready. He said that the expressway has been designed for a maximum speed limit of 120km/hour. In all, 17 interchanges are proposed to be constructed for connecting major roads and cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ganga-e-way-foundation-to-be-laid-in-june-2021/articleshow/79331572.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Mangaluru||Former MLC accused of dividing Christians||Mangaluru: Chief minister B S Yediyurappa has earmarked Rs 50 crore in 2011-12 and Rs 200 in 2020-2021, for the development of the Christian community in Karnataka, said Joylus D’Souza, chairman, Christian Development Committee. He accused former MLC Ivan D’Souza of trying to divide the community. Ivan had recently demanded the restoration of the Christian Development Corporation (CDC), Joylus who took a potshot at Ivan, pointed out that under the policy of ‘sab ka sath, sabka vikas’ by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the BJP government in Karnataka is giving a good administration. “The Congress party leader who cannot tolerate it, is desperately trying to divide the Christian community,” he alleged. He questioned what are the contributions of Ivan D’Souza towards his own community. “He was an MLC as well as a close aide of former chief minister Siddaramaiah. Why could he not think of the Christian community and its development then?” he questioned. “Stop shedding crocodile tears for vote bank politics,” he advised Ivan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/former-mlc-accused-of-dividing-christians/articleshow/79327644.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Jaipur||Love jihad coined by BJP to disturb communal harmony: Rajasthan CM||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday slammed BJP over ‘love jihad’ and accused the ruling party at the Centre of “manufacturing the word to divide the nation” and to “disturb communal harmony”. Gehlot’s comment comes after some BJP-ruled states announced plans for laws against ‘love jihad’, which they allege is a conspiracy of Muslim men marrying Hindu women to convert them. BJP governments in Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh have said they were considering enacting laws to curb such marriages. A vocal critic of the saffron party, Gehlot also accused the BJP of violating the Constitution and citizen’s personal liberty in choice of marital partners. In a series of tweets posted on Friday morning, he also accused the centre of “creating an environment where consenting adults (are at) the mercy of state power”. “‘Love jihad’ is a word manufactured by the BJP to divide the nation and disturb communal harmony. Marriage is a matter of personal liberty... bringing a law to curb it is completely unconstitutional and will not stand in any court of law. ‘Jihad’ has no place in love,” he said. “They are creating an environment in the nation where consenting adults would be at the mercy of state power. Marriage is a personal decision and they are putting curbs on it, which is like snatching away personal liberty,” the chief minister added. Gehlot described calls against ‘love jihad’ as a “ploy to disrupt communal harmony, fuel social conflict and disregard constitutional provisions...”. ‘Love jihad’ is a term coined by right-wing groups to target relationships between Muslim men and Hindu women, which, they allege, is a trick used by Muslims to forcibly convert Hindu women. However, relationships between Hindu men and Muslim women are usually ignored.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/love-jihad-coined-by-bjp-todisturb-communal-harmony/articleshow/79330806.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Mysuru||Don’t politicise Covid vaccine issue, says Yathindra Siddaramaiah||MYSURU: Congress MLA Yathindra Siddaramaiah on Friday said that there is no displeasure against the party leadership after the by-election loss. He told reporters that there will be disappointment among senior party leaders over the defeat, but no displeasure over the leadership. “Congress party has good leadership both at the state and national level. It is a party of principles,” he said. On the Covid vaccine, Yathindra requested leaders not to politicise the issue. “People should not believe baseless statements made by political leaders and pharma companies on Covid vaccines. Such sensitive issues should not be politicised. The vaccines are still under the trial stage. People should believe only the WHO and the central government’s information regarding its availability,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/dont-politicise-covid-vaccine-issue-says-yathindra/articleshow/79328292.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Hubballi||Hescom to told to pay Rs 1.5 lakh compensation to farmer||HAVERI: Haveri District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum (HDCDRF) has slapped a penalty of Rs 1.54 lakh on Hescom for damages caused to sugarcane crop due to fire triggered by an electricity wire passing through the field. Farmer Nagaraj Daivajna of Vardi village in Hanagal taluk had filed a suit on November 21, 2019, at Aduru police station as he lost 180 tonnes of sugarcane in two acres of land. He appealed to HDCDRF on 1 July, 2020, against the section officer of Adur Hescom, AEE Hanagal sub-division, EE Haveri division, and MD Hescom Hubballi claiming his losses. Finally, HDCDRF awarded compensation of Rs 1.58 lakh including court expenses. An 11KV wire fallen on a sugarcane field and a sudden surge of electricity caused short circuit triggering a fire that entirely gutted the crop. Almost a year after the incident, the HDCDRF, on 12 November, 2020, ordered Hescom to pay Daivajna Rs 1.54 lakh and Rs 4,000 expenses for the destruction. According to sources, electricity wires are passing and the electricity poles are fixed in the farmer’s land. “I had been appealeing to Hescom’s Adur section office to repair the electricity wire passing through my land but the authorities had not taken any action. Finally, I lost my crop. Now, the HDCDRF has ordered Hescom to pay my loss. I hope Hescom authorities will follow this order,” said Nagaraj Daivajna. S Veeranna, executive engineer, Hescom, said he was not aware of the HDCDRF’s award. “I will check and react,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/hescom-to-told-to-pay-rs-1-5-lakh-compensation-to-farmer/articleshow/79327453.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
November 21, 2020||Nagpur||Mentally ill woman ends life in hospital||Nagpur: A mentally ill woman undergoing treatment in a private hospital committed suicide on Thursday. The woman, identified as Lalita Jyotiprakash Das, 45, a resident of Dikshit Nagar in North Nagpur, was suffering from schizophrenia and was admitted to the hospital in Ayurvedic Layout, which comes under Sakkardara police station jurisdiction. Das committed suicide by hanging self in the hospital room at 3pm on Thursday. The deceased was staying with her parents and after her health deteriorated, she was admitted to the hospital, said police. Many patients suffering from this illness display suicidal tendencies, say experts. In another incident, one Rajendrasingh Daulatsingh Tatu, 49, a resident of Yadav Nagar area, within the limits of Yashodhara Nagar police station, committed suicide. In both the cases, the concerned police have registered accidental deaths and are probing further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mentally-ill-woman-ends-life-in-hospital/articleshow/79329367.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Court hauls up AAP govt over conflicting remarks by ministers||NEW DELHI: The Delhi high court on Friday said that statements made by the AAP government ministers that the third wave of Covid-19 had peaked in the capital was contrary to the data provided by the state. A bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad made the point on Thursday when Delhi government in its status report placed figures showing that cases and deaths were rising and claimed that it was taking remedial steps. The government further stated that a fifth serological survey had not started as the city was still reeling under the third wave of Covid-19 infection. “Statements made in the press by ministers and high ranking officers of Delhi government appear to be contrary,” the court pointed out, while referring to the explanation offered as to why the sero surveillance had not begun yet. “The stand taken is that the third wave has already peaked and cases of Covid-19 infection are gradually going down, though the same is not borne out from the daily reported cases of the infection,” it further noted. The court was hearing a PIL where it was monitoring steps being taken by the government and other authorities on tackling the pandemic. “We can take judicial note of the statements your ministers are making,” the bench told senior advocate Sandeep Sethi and standing counsel Satyakam, who were representing the AAP government. During the hearing, the court also noted that crematoriums were “overflowing” and “funeral pyres were burning throughout the night”. It asked Delhi government whether adequate arrangements were in place to cremate or bury the rising number of people succumbing to the disease. “Considering the steep rise in the daily death rate in the past couple of weeks, Delhi government is directed to set out in the next status report steps taken to ensure that adequate arrangements have been made at all crematoriums and burial places,” the bench directed, while giving a week’s time to the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/court-hauls-up-aap-govt-over-conflicting-remarks-by-ministers/articleshow/79330830.cms||Abhinav Garg
November 21, 2020||Hubballi||CBI continues questioning Vinay Kulkarni’s aides||DHARWAD: After the counsel representing Vinay Kulkarni withdrew the bail plea, the CBI which is investigating the murder of ZP member Yogeshgouda Goudar, has continued interrogation of some people close to the former minister. The CBI team is said to be questioning Kulkarni’s aide’s at an undisclosed location. On Friday, CBI summoned Basavaraj Mutagi, Shirish Patil, Mahabaleshwar Hongal, Sanjeev Bhajantri, Chandru Pujar and Babu Katagi and interrogated them. Meanwhile, Kulkarni’s lawyers are expected to file a fresh application for his bail. Sources said they had withdrawn the bail plea filed earlier as it had some loopholes. The fresh application will cite strong reasons for the release of the former minister on bail, said a source. Vinay Kulkarni has been in judicial custody till November 23 and is lodged in Hindalga Central Prison at Belagavi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/cbi-continues-questioning-vinay-kulkarnis-aides/articleshow/79328258.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Hubballi||Women in North Karnataka question claims of central scheme’s success||BELAGAVI: In a textbook case of reality being at a distant remove from the perceived version, Karnataka’s finding a place among the top ten states for availing of financial assistance under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY) – records indicate that more than 80 lakh women have benefitted across the state – conflicts with the claims made by several women who state that they have not received any monetary benefit under the scheme. The initiative aims at providing women an ex-gratia sum of Rs 500 each month. PMGKY was launched on March 26 as part of the central government’s efforts to ease the plight of those, the financial condition took a turn for the worse following the onset of Covid-19. In a bid to ensure transparency, the Centre decreed that money would be credited directly to the beneficiaries’ bank accounts opened as part of the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY). The first three slots on the list of ten states are occupied by Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal respectively, while Karnataka is in the tenth position. Advocate Bhimanagouda Paragonda, who filed a Right to Information (RTI) query, found that the funds were transferred by the Union ministry of rural development to the accounts of the beneficiaries. In all, a sum of Rs 1,174.2 crore has been credited to the accounts of beneficiaries in Karnataka, who received the ex-gratia fund for three months – April, May and June. However, several women in North Karnataka who have PMJDY bank accounts claimed that they had not been credited the money. Parvati, a resident from Jagir Venkatapur village in Raichur, is leading the fight for those women who have not received the financial assistance they were promised. “Nearly 200 women in the village have not seen a single paisa of the money. We protested in front of the deputy commissioner’s office a few months ago to draw the officials’ attention to the problem, but they attributed it to a technical error and assured us of transferring the money soon. But money has not been credited till today,” Parvati said. Sharadamma, Tayamma and Laxmi are other beneficiaries in North Karnataka, who questioned the veracity of the Centre’s data. “We have been running from pillar to post, demanding to know why the money has not been credited. But the officials are fobbing us off citing a different excuse each time,” said the trio, each of whom is a daily wage labourer. Gururaj Patil, an activist working with Grameena Kooli Karmikara Sanghatane, asked, “The ZP officials in Raichur are citing problems with the server for the delay I transferring the money, but how long will the problem persist?” Bheemanagouda, meanwhile, called for a survey to ascertain the facts, which he said would throw into stark relief the discrepancies in the claims and the reality on the ground.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/women-in-north-karnataka-question-claims-of-central-schemes-success/articleshow/79326629.cms||Shreyas HS
November 21, 2020||Hyderabad||10 candidates to contest on AAP banner in polls||Hyderabad: For the first time Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is contesting Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections. In the recent municipal elections, AAP’s Umme Salma won from Ward 31 in Adilabad’s Ambedkarnagar, marking the first win for the party in Telangana. A total of 10 independent candidates will contest on AAP banner. After the broom symbol was not allotted by state election commission (SEC), Aam Aadmi Party contestants decided to contest as independent candidates and use AAP banner while campaigning. According to ECI officials, the symbols have been allocated as per norms. “Any party which wants specific symbol should register with state election commission. For specific symbol allocation there are additional charges. The symbols are allotted as per symbol allotment order, there is no discretion,” state election commissioner C Partha Sarathi told TOI. The part was expecting more nominations if symbol was allotted. “We shortlisted 45 candidates but the broom symbol was not allotted by SEC, as a result the number of contestants reduced to 10,” said Telangana AAP convenor Burra Ramu Goud. “We are positive that our candidates will win all the 10 seats,” he added. The 10 candidates include M Jeswanth Reddy, who will contest from BN Reddy Nagar and K Jeevitha, who will contest from IS Sadan. AAP is contesting two wards from Khairtabad constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/10-candidates-to-contest-on-aap-banner-in-polls/articleshow/79331576.cms||Nabinder Bommala
November 21, 2020||Business||CCD to sell stake in Way2Wealth to Shriram Credit||TNNChennai: Coffee Day Enterprises has announced it has entered into a share purchase agreement with Shriram Credit Company Limited with respect to its stakes in Way2Wealth Securities Private Limited and subsidiaries.The share purchase agreement, which was executed on Thursday, has consideration of Rs 65 crore. CCD said, a portion of the consideration is subject to receipt of receivables, and a portion of the consideration shall be withheld and released subject to conditions agreed upon in the share purchase agreement.CCD said “Sale of the Company's shareholding of 32.73% and Tanglin Development Limited's shareholding of 52.80% in Way2Wealth Securities Private Limited (aggregating to 85.53% of the shareholding in Way2Wealth Securities Private Limited), and consequently, interest in identified subsidiaries of Way2Wealth Securities Private Limited, viz. Way2Wealth Brokers Private Limited, Way2Wealth Insurance Brokers Private Limited, and Way2Wealth Commodities Private Limited.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ccd-to-sell-stake-in-way2wealth-to-shriram-credit/articleshow/79326056.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Lucknow||Attend all calls on your CUG numbers: UP CM Yogi Adityanath to DMs, SSPs||LUCKNOW: In a bid to make the administration more accountable and people friendly, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday directed district magistrates and police chiefs to personally attend calls on their official CUG numbers. The CM said that surprise calls will also be made from the CM office on the CUG numbers of officers to cross-check their response and availability. “Non-compliance will invite action,” the chief minister warned. Officials said that there have been complaints regarding DMs and SPs either not picking up their CUG numbers or calls were attended by their supporting staff. The CM has also instructed officers to sit in their offices regularly rather than operating from their camp offices. Earlier, the CM had asked the officials to remain available in their respective offices between 9am and 11am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-to-dms-ssps-attend-all-calls-on-your-cug-nos/articleshow/79331586.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Jaipur||Daily Covid spike at new high for 2nd consecutive day in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: For the second day in a row, the daily spike in new Covid-19 infections touched a new high of 2,762 in the state on Friday. The growth rate remained quite high in the past two days. While daily growth stood at 17% on Thursday, it was 8.3% on Friday. This is a clear indicator that the virus is speading quickly in the state. Eight districts reported over 100 new infections on the day. Jaipur with 514 new cases reported 500-plus new infections for the second day in a row. However, the city reported a negative daily growth rate of 1%. Though Jaipur reported negative growth rate, active cases rose to 7,241 from 6,901 in a day. For the 14th day in a row, the state’s active cases rose, taking the count to 20,923. Jaipur currently has 34% of the active cases in the state. In two days, 29 persons too died of Covid, with 14 reported from different parts of the state on Friday. With 14 deaths, the state’s toll rose to 2,130. Jaipur reported its 404th Covid death, Jodhpur 211th, Ajmer 161st, Bikaner 155th, Kota 121st, Bharatpur 99th, Udaipur 82nd, Sikar 72nd, Nagaur 71st, Alwar 70th, Chittorgarh and Sriganganagar 34th each, Churu 32nd and Jaisalmer its 20th Covid casualty. The other districts which reported new cases on Friday are Jodhpur (419), Ajmer (211), Alwar (199), Kota (175), Udaipur (145), Bhilwara (110), Bikaner (109), Pali (92), Sikar (85), Jhunjhunu (49), Nagaur (48), Tonk (45), Bharatpur (45), Baran (43), Dungarpur (42), Dausa (41), Churu (39), Jaisalmer (38), Sriganganagar (37), Barmer (37), Bundi (36), Sirohi (35), Karauli (33), Jalore (28), Chittorgarh (25), Sawai Madhopur (25), Rajsamand (24), Jhalawar (23), Banswara (5), Pratapgarh (4) and Dholpur (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/daily-covid-spike-at-new-high-for-2nd-consecutive-day-in-state/articleshow/79330811.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Mangaluru||Person loses Rs 1.5 lakh after clicking on web link||MANGALURU: A person lost Rs 1.5 lakh after opening a web link received on smartphone, during an online cash transfer process on Thursday. A case has been registered at the cyber police station in this regard. Police did not disclose the names of the complainant and victim. They said that the incident took place when the complainant was transferring cash online from one bank to another. One of the bank accounts was in the name of the complainant’s mother. During the online transfer process, the victim received a link and clicked on the same. Immediately Rs 1.5 lakh was deducted from his account.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/person-loses-rs-1-5-lakh-after-clicking-on-web-link/articleshow/79328294.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Nagpur||Supplementary exam kicks off, attendance affected||Nagpur: State board’s winter exams, popularly known as supplementary exams, kicked off from Friday. Unconfirmed reports suggested that attendance was low at the centres. Board officials however said that statistics on attendance could not be confirmed yet. Ravikant Deshpande, Nagpur divisional board secretary said, “We will be able to share actual attendance numbers by Saturday afternoon. There was an issue in the attendance updation and uploading, due to which we are not releasing the statistics now.” Many academics felt that fear of Covid-19 might have kept students away from the exams. Numbers wise, the supplementary exam has very few students appearing when compared to its summer counterpart. Speaking to TOI earlier this week, Deshpande had said that around 10-15% of summer exam’s strength is seen in winter exam. In Nagpur district, only 14 exam centres are there. “There are seven each for SSC and HSC,” said Deshpande. The low numbers helped board officials to tide over a major controversy. Many associations representing aided schools and junior colleges had demanded funds to cover Covid-19 sanitization costs. The board ultimately decided to provide the materials needed for sanitization to exam centres directly. If the numbers had been similar to that of summer exam, then it would have put a major financial burden on the board. Vidarbha Junior College Teachers Association (VJUCTA), whose members are assigned supervision duties for HSC papers, had strongly opposed conducting the exam without proper safety measures in place. The association’s general secretary Ashok Gavhankar said, “While the low number of students helped the board, they would have still managed to tide over the issue even otherwise. Board officials would have simply roped in the financially well off schools and junior colleges to host the exams. A bit of cajoling and being in the good books of board officials are incentives enough for many institutions to toe the line,” said Gavhankar. Deshpande said board provided masks and sanitizers to all centres. He added that safety guidelines provided by the government are being followed at every centre. “Physical distancing and seating arrangements have been made at all centres,” said Deshpande.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/supplementary-exam-kicks-off-attendance-affected/articleshow/79329393.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
November 21, 2020||Pune||Pune: In run-up to reopening, 40,000 teachers begin Covid tests||PUNE: Nearly 40,000 teachers started testing for Covid-19 at government centres on Friday before the reopening of schools for senior students on Monday. The test is mandatory, and free at Covid care centres run by the government. The swabs will be collected from across 26 centres. As many as 2,410 tests will be conducted per day according to Pune zilla parishad chief executive officer Ayush Prasad. The samples will be sent to the NIV and B J Medical College for checks. The ZP has also instructed schools to conduct an online orientation of teachers on Sunday and reach out to parents and sensitise them about the precautions required. Meanwhile, resident deputy collector Jayashree Katare also issued a notification regarding the RT-PCR tests to be taken by the teachers. Katare’s statement said, “All the precautionary measures as set by the government and sanitising activities on school premises should be done by the managements by November 22.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/in-run-up-to-reopening-40k-teachers-begin-covid-tests/articleshow/79330837.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
November 21, 2020||Bhopal||MP: Can online classes teach practical lab work? Students in a fix||BHOPAL: Classwork can be converted into homework in trying times, but can you set up a chemistry lab in your drawing room? The answer is a clear no as students neither have equipments nor chemicals to conduct experiments at home. Almost half of the school academic session has ended, but nothing has been done for the practical classes of the students. Ever since online classes were started, lab work has been suffering. A few students managed to get the required equipment and chemicals, but problem started when they exhausted the chemicals.  Several students have even stopped attending the online classes as they feel that such classes are not worth it unless they have proper equipment and chemicals. Students said that learning lab work through online classes is just not serving the purpose. “Learning practical work through theory is what I have been doing. This is very frustrating for the students who are serious about their studies,” said a class 12 student, Anshul Agarwal. “School provides heavy and expensive equipment, which is just not possible to arrange at home. My friends and I were planning to arrange for the equipment, but the issue was that as per the academic requirement, such equipment was not easily available in market,” said Siddhant Nema, a class 11 student. Even teachers felt that it has become quite tough for them to teach lab work through online classes. “I can understand the concern of the students. We teach through our school labs. Problem for them is how to achieve the proper results without equipment. A few simulation software were also launched, but that can’t replace proper lab work,” said a school teacher, Vinod Mishra. Students are worried that they would lose their marks. “I have read somewhere that the state government is not in a mood to provide general promotion to students of board classes. We are also against the general promotion of classes. However, the biggest concern was how to put our best in the exam in terms of lab work,” said Jaspreet Singh, a class 12 student. Several parents have stated visiting the school campuses in this regard. “We went and spoke to the teacher. She was also clueless about it. This is a very painful situation for both parents and teachers,” said the parent of Vibhor Shrivastava, a class 11 student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/can-online-classes-teach-practical-lab-work-students-in-a-fix/articleshow/79329425.cms||Ramendra Singh
November 21, 2020||Pune||Premises spruced up, but pupils’ turnout is doubtful||PUNE: School managements in the city have taken up cleaning, sanitising, scheduling of classes before the reopening on Monday. But, they worry about the footfalls. Many officials representing school managements felt there was not much enthusiasm to the reopening of physical classes from parents. Director and honorary secretary of Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, Nandkumar Kakirde, said, “We had Diwali vacation till Friday. We have just two days and it is impossible to reopen schools with all preparations, parents meetings and student consent. We have decided to wait and watch and then take a call after a week regarding school reopening.” From the response sought from parents so far, it seemed that nearly 60-70 % parents did not want to send their students to school as yet and were comfortable with online education. A trustee from Sanskriti Group of Schools, Praneet Mungali, said the school will decide about the reopening after a wait and watch process. “We need to monitor the situation in the city and see if there is a post-Diwali spike in cases. After carefully studying the situation we will study the SOPs by the government and discuss with the parent community and take their feedback. We also plan to have a dialogue with our students regarding the current situation and after that we will take a decision on school re-opening.” In the future, total flexibility and freedom of choice will be given to the entire student and parent community of Sanskriti School to opt for whichever format of learning they are more comfortable with. Chairman of the Deccan Education Society Sharad Kunte said they are in touch with the parents of students studying in their schools. “ We are still trying to understand their stand after which we will take a call on reopening of our schools,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/premises-spruced-up-but-pupils-turnout-is-doubtful/articleshow/79330845.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
November 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Jana Sena stays away from polls, Pawan Kalyan to canvass for BJP||HYDERABAD: The BJP on Friday not only succeeded in getting the Jana Sena Party to support it in the GHMC polls, but also managed to get its chief Pawan Kalyan to campaign for BJP candidates. After a meeting with Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy and BJP OBC Morcha chairman Dr Laxman, Kalyan announced his party would not contest the polls. He said, “To strengthen the leadership of the PM and to provide a stable atmosphere in Hyderabad, we have decided to opt out.” Kalyan said both the parties will work on a road map to get the BJP to power which will be announced soon. The meeting took place at Jana Sena leader Nadendla Manohar’s residence. Kalyan said though they wanted to contest together, seat adjustment discussions couldn’t take place due to Covid-19 and hurried poll notification. “ Hyderabad is a city for all, the BJP should come to power,” he said. He also said, “I appeal to my supporters, voters and Jana Sena activists to see that not a single vote is split.” BJP leaders rushed to meet Jana Sena leaders after 18 nominations were filed in different wards at the last minute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jana-sena-stays-away-from-polls-pawan-to-canvass-for-bjp/articleshow/79330849.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Anti-BJP meet to be a hit, claims K Kavitha||HYDERABAD: Asserting that the TRS has never supported the ‘divisive ideology’ of the BJP, MLC K Kavitha said there was an overwhelming response from political parties, trade unions and private organisations for TRS president and chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s plans to hold an ‘anti-BJP’ meeting in the second week of December. “Several leaders are in touch with KCR. There is a huge response from the trade unions, which appreciated KCR’s move. Even I have been invited to participate in Kisan Divas meeting in Punjab to be held on December 23,” Kavitha said during an informal interaction with reporters on Friday. She said the being a farmer himself, KCR knew the problems associated with the new agricultural laws and hence decided to fight against the Centre. As opposed to the ‘anti-labour’ laws, she said the TRS government had taken up several welfare measures in Singareni mines. “But, the NDA government is trying to sell public properties,” she said. She said the TRS had extended support to the NDA government on certain bills like GST and the support was issue-based. “When the TRS supported the bills, it was to the Union government and not to BJP,” Kavitha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/anti-bjp-meet-to-be-a-hit-claims-kavitha/articleshow/79330844.cms||Koride Mahesh
November 21, 2020||Pune||Wind pattern brings rain, Maharashtra to go dry by Sunday: IMD||PUNE: Prevailing wind pattern brought rain in parts of the city as well as the state on Friday, with its intensity increasing only after 8.30pm in Pune. Met department officials said nil to isolated very light rains were expected in the city on Saturday. From 5.30pm to 8.30pm on Friday, Shivajinagar recorded only 1.2mm rainfall. The rain data for Lohegaon and Pashan was unavailable till going to the press. Heavy rainfall was recorded in Kothrud and Karvenagar area on Friday from 7pm, resulting in waterlogging in some locations. IMD officials said most of Maharashtra was expected to go dry by Sunday. “Friday saw isolated very light rain in parts of the state. But from Saturday, the moisture is expected to reduce further, with mainly clear skies on November 22-23 in Pune, followed by dry weather on November 24-25,” Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD Pune, said. He said the main reason for the rainfall was the wind pattern that prevailed over the state and city till Friday. “Easterly winds, which are relatively moist and warm, have been blowing from the Bay of Bengal and coming to Maharashtra via the southern peninsular India. Upon reaching Maharashtra, these winds were changing to south easterly or east south-easterly direction. At the same time, northerly winds (from the north /western Himalayan region) were entering Maharashtra after passing via the Arabian Sea, changing to north-westerly /westerly direction. Thus, the state has been seeing wind coming in from both these patterns, which is bringing some moisture too. These winds have also been interacting with each other. An upper air cyclonic circulation over north Madhya Maharashtra has also been causing partly clouding and very light rain in isolated parts, especially in the afternoon/evening hours,” Kashyapi said. By Saturday, the wind pattern over parts of the state, including Pune, is likely to change drastically. “Also, the confluence zone of the winds will gradually weaken. The available moisture is also expected to reduce significantly due to a low pressure system over central part of south Arabian sea which has been dragging moisture from the land area, including the south central parts of Maharashtra,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/imd-wind-pattern-brings-rain-maha-to-go-dry-by-tomorrow/articleshow/79329411.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Goa||Ensure Railways doesn’t use armed police: Digambar Kamat||MARGAO: Leader of opposition Digambar Kamat on Friday demanded that the government ensure that South Western Railway (SWR) refrains from using an armed police force to carry out the work of double tracking of the railway route in Goa. He has warned of launching a mass agitation across the state “if the authorities act with high handedness on peaceful protesters who are fighting to preserve the identity of Goa.” Referring to locals’ agitation at Davorlim recently when the police warned them of booking first information reports (FIRs) against them, the opposition leader said, “SWR should refrain from threatening Goans.” “SWR should not try to trigger the patience of Goans. Goa has a history of agitations wherein governments have always taken a back step and people’s movement has emerged victorious,” Kamat said in a press statement. Stating that he was “disturbed” with reports of heavy deployment of armed police force along the Margao, Nessai, Chandor railway route, Kamat urged for the state government’s immediate intervention “before the situation goes out of control.” “Today peaceful protesters, including school and college students, environmental activists, senior citizens are receiving tremendous support from across the globe for their campaign against converting Goa into a coal hub and protecting Mollem from destruction. Government must respect their sentiments and immediately instruct all concerned including SWR to stop all works and withdraw police force deployment,” Kamat stated in the press note.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ensure-railways-doesnt-use-armed-police-digambar/articleshow/79331634.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Lucknow||Revival of cane crushers created a lakh jobs: Minister||Lucknow: To fulfil dreams of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath for a robust rural economy, the sugar and cane promotion department successfully revived the crusher industry in the state, offering employment to over a lakh people in the rural sector during the lockdown. Giving this information to TOI here on Friday, sugarcane minister Suresh Rana lamented that a government in the past had introduced a draconian law which only favoured sugar mills. Claiming that the same government through legislation made crushers redundant, the minister said that a controversial law was enacted not to allow crushers within the radius of 15km of sugar mills. This resulted in denial of licences to new crushers, while forcing the existing ones to stop crushing. “This is how the crusher industry in the state came to a standstill, giving a blow to the rural economy,” Rana added Being a cane grower himself and also as a farmer Rana had faced these hardships and had noticed the slow but sure death of crushers. Thus, after assuming the charge of cane ministry, Rana amended this law two years back, scrapping the clause under which no crusher could be set up within 15-km radius of a sugar mill. In fact, he reduced this distance to just 7.5km, reviving the crusher industry in the state. He also issued over 1,000 licences to people interested in setting up crushers during the lockdown. On an average one crusher provides direct or indirect employment to over 100 persons, thereby giving one lakh jobs during a small period, the minister said and added that most of the licences were issued to the youth and women. “This also helped in empowering the youth and women in rural areas,” he added. Presence of crushers in the sugarcane belt formed the backbone of the rural economy which was shattered during the successive regimes. Hitting out at the Samajwadi Party government which posed itself to be farmer-friendly, the minister said that the SP was in fact the biggest exploiter of farmers as it denied cane dues to them. The Yogi government in the last three years had paid over Rs 1 lakh crore to cane growers, he added Claiming that over 85 per cent cane dues were cleared in the last financial year, the minister said that the Samajwadi Party government had paid just Rs 18,300 crore to cane growers in 2015-16, while his government had paid Rs 35,800 crore to them in 2019-20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/revival-of-cane-crushers-created-a-lakh-jobs-minister/articleshow/79331612.cms||Subhash Mishra
November 21, 2020||World||Trump's eldest son Donald Trump Jr tests positive for Covid-19||WASHINGTON: Donald Trump Jr, the eldest son of US President Donald Trump, tested positive for COVID-19, his spokesperson said on Friday. Trump Jr tested positive at the start of the week and has been "quarantining out at his cabin since the result”, the spokesman said. “He has been completely asymptomatic so far and is following all medically recommended COVID-19 guidelines," the spokesman added. Trump Jr, 42, is the latest in the First Family to have been tested positive for coronavirus. In the middle of the election cycle, President Trump and First Lady Melania Trump had tested positive for COVID-19. Their son Barron had also tested positive. The president was also admitted to a military hospital for a few days for treatment. Trump Jr had campaigned extensively across the country in support of his father.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trumps-eldest-son-donald-trump-jr-tests-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/79332663.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Hyderabad||In poll ring, cabbie’s wife says ‘basti mein sawal’||Hyderabad: Farana Begum, a mother of two children, thinks she can pull off a surprise win on December 1. A cab driver’s wife, Farana is contesting on Telangana TDP’s ticket from Begumpet division (No. 149) in the GHMC elections. A resident of Old Custom Basti in Begumpet, 28-year-old Farana says her poor background has not deterred her from entering the contest. As party leader K Prasuna helped her pay the nomination fee of Rs 2,500, Farana filed her papers on Friday. But what has motivated Farana to enter the electoral race? “My husband Mohammed Ali is a cab driver. My brother Wahed Mohammad is an auto driver. We struggle to make ends meet but our confidence is high. With their support, I have decided to contest the polls and bring about a change in the lives of the basti people,” she told TOI. She said many promises, including double bedroom houses, made by the TRS have not been kept. “Even the Rs 10,000 flood relief did not reach many of us. Local TRS leaders pocketed the amount,” she alleged. She says she will take up door-to-door campaign and understand the problems of residents. She also says she does not have funds to run a social media campaign. Her political journey began in 2014 after she and members of her family joined the TTDP. The family was upset that no party was ready to sanction two acres for a Muslim graveyard in the basti. “Congress promised to get the land sanctioned but did not deliver its promise. I am going to highlight this issue during my campaign,” she said. The fight for the graveyard land has been a long-drawn struggle. An action committee was formed to fight for the cause. “In our locality, a majority of voters are Muslims and other minorities. If I win, I will see to it that all government benefits reach the residents,” Farana said. Not many auto or cab drivers have made it big in civic body polls in Hyderabad. In 2018, a former six-seater auto driver of the BJP went on to become the mayor of Pimpri-Chinchwad, which is a part of the Pune Metropolitan Region. Rahul Jadhav became mayor of the city in a direct election defeating his NCP rival Vinod Nadhe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/in-poll-ring-cabbies-wife-says-basti-mein-sawal/articleshow/79330857.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 21, 2020||Lucknow||Eight cops to face harsh punishment||Lucknow: The state government has directed the director general of police to initiate strict action based on SIT findings against 14 cops for laxity during the Bikru ambush engineered by slain ganglord Vikas Dubey. Role of 23 others will be probed by an officer nominated by additional director general of police, Kanpur or Lucknow zone, while three provincial police officers will also face punishment. All 37 policemen are of non-gazetted rank and strict departmental action has been recommended against eight, while six others could get away with a censure and 23 would face inquiry. Suspended inspector Vinay Tiwari, who held charge of Chaubeypur police station on night of Bikru massacre, five sub-inspectors and two constables of the same thana will face punitive action. However, inspector of Bajariya police station, former inspector of Krishnanagar, a sub-inspector, two constables and a head constable may wriggle out with a strong reprimand. Home office also said, an inquiry will be launched against 15 inspectors, who held charge of Bajariya, Chaubeypur, Shivli and Nazirabad police stations over a five-year span along with five sub-inspectors and three head constables of the same thana. ADG, Kanpur Zone, J N Singh told TOI the probe panel is yet to nominate a member. “A committee of senior officials, including DIG/SSP Kanpur Nagar is on the job,” he said. Former Kanpur police chief Anant Deo Tiwari has already been suspended on recommendations of SIT on November 12. Later, the government planned action against 27 officials in administrative machinery for their links with slain gangster Vikas Dubey. The three-member Special Investigation Team (SIT) was constituted by the state government on July 11 to probe into the crime history of Dubey. In its 3,200-page report submitted to the government on November 4, it recommended action against 75 officials, including 40 cops, for their direct or indirect association with him. Others are from departments of revenue, food and district administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/eight-cops-to-face-harsh-punishment/articleshow/79331621.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra police chief stresses on importance of fit cops||PUNE: State director-general of police Subodh Kumar Jaiswal on Friday said the police did commendable work across the state during the pandemic, but conceded that fitness was an issue among personnel. “The police paid a huge price — 295 personnel lost their lives to the virus. This brings the issue of police personnel’s health to the fore,” Jaiswal said, speaking on the sidelines of a function at the Centre for Police Research (CPR) on Friday. Jaiswal unveiled a statue of a policeman with the Common Man, the creation of legendary cartoonist and illustrator R K Laxman; released three books, each written separately by former DGP Vasant Saraf (retired), former special inspector-general of police Prakash Mutyal (retired) and government pleader Shishir Hire; and inaugurated a police museum on the CPR premises. R K Laxman’s daughter-in-law Usha Laxman too was present at the function. Jaiswal outlined a slew of measures aimed at improving the fitness of police personnel, including a15-day boot camp, and rigorous training programmes for every officer or policeman before each promotion. “These activities, halted during the pandemic, will be restarted,” Jaiswal said. Jaiswal said each unit has orders to ensure it had at least 100 fit policemen. “While this may be difficult to implement in massive jurisdictions like Mumbai, it can be achieved in cities like Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad,” he said. One of the reasons these activities had to be halted, Jaiswal said, was the lack of funds from the state government to conduct various training programmes for police personnel. “Due to the pandemic, the police, and most government departments, are not getting funds. We expect to get funds once everything goes back to normal,” Jaiswal said. Jaiswal said the CPR museum was one of its kind in the state. “I have issued directives to the unit heads of Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad and Pune rural police to organize tours of the museum for school and college students,” the DGP said. Jaiswal said that the state police have also updated the three volumes of the Maharashtra Police Manual, which was written in 1951. Usha Laxman said the Common Man statue was “the highest tribute”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-police-chief-stresses-on-importance-of-fit-cops/articleshow/79329455.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Hyderabad||More than 2,500 file papers as nominations end||Hyderabad: In all 2,602 nominations were filed up to the last day of nominations on Friday. Of them, 571 were filed by BJP candidates; 557 by TRS; 372 from Congress; and 206 of TDP. The parties are now faced with the daunting task of cajoling rebels and other aspirants to withdraw from fray before 3 pm on Sunday in favour of those chosen by the parties. In all, 1,932 candidates filed 2,602 nominations up to the last day on Friday with the highest numbers being from the BJP. As many as 1,937 nominations were filed on Friday alone, the last day for filing, with the highest number of 119 nominations from Kukatpally ward and the lowest of 39 nominations from Begum Bazar ward. Seventy eight were filed by MIM, 22 CPM, 21 CPI for the 150 wards of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation going to polls on December 1. As many as 650 nominations were filed by the independent candidates and 115 by other recognised registered party candidates. The scrutiny of nominations is on Saturday, and the last date for withdrawal is by 3 pm on Sunday. The publication of the final list of candidates is also on Sunday. In the 2016 GHMC elections, as many as 2969 candidates had filed their nominations up to the last day of the crucial election exercise. One of the main reasons for too many nominations being filed by the candidates for GHMC-2020 elections from various parties is because of the delay on the part of the respective parties leadership to finalise the candidates for all the 150 wards and release the official list. The political parties mainly the BJP and the Congress did not get enough time to properly complete the candidates’ finalization exercise due to short notice at which the GHMC poll schedule was announced and shortage of time to complete the exercise. The parties released their fourth and fifth list of candidates after 3 pm on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/more-than-2500-file-papers-as-nominations-end/articleshow/79330853.cms||Roushan Ali
November 21, 2020||Goa||‘Stop vendors blocking access to stores’||Saligao: The Mapusa people’s union along with some shopkeepers met Mapusa municipal council (MMC) chief officer Kabir Shirgaonkar on Thursday to resolve encroachments by vendors in the market. The group said that vendors block access to the market by squatting in front of their shops which causes losses to their business. Sudesh Tivrekar, vice-president of the union told Shirgaonkar that the earlier council had failed on the encroachment issue and urged him to permanently “resolve the issue by following guidelines of the Supreme Court”. He also urged the chief officer to stop registration of new vendors. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/stop-vendors-blocking-access-to-stores/articleshow/79330864.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19: 200 ICU beds added to hospitals in Delhi to tackle crisis||NEW DELHI: Over 200 ICU beds have been added in hospitals in the national capital and 116 extra oxygenated beds are functional in central government hospitals and AIIMS, in a follow-up of directions issued by home minister Amit Shah on November 15 to augment the medical infrastructure in Delhi in view of the recent spike in Covid-19 cases. Sources in the home ministry told TOI that Uttar Pradesh government, as per a suggestion of the home ministry, will conduct a survey of private hospitals in its NCR regions like Noida, Ghaziabad, etc. A similar direction was issued by the home ministry to Haryana government. The survey, on the lines of one already conducted in Delhi, will help assess bed utilisation and testing capacity as well as to identify extra ICU beds, in private hospitals of NCR region. Meanwhile, 125 of the 250 ventilators sent by Bharat Electronics Ltd from Bengaluru have reached Delhi. A house-to-house survey has begun in the capital to assess the spread of the pandemic as well as containment strategies. As directed by Shah, who had on November 15 said RT-PCR testing would be doubled in Delhi, the Indian Council for Medical Research has augmented its RT-PCR testing capacity from 27,000 to 37,200 tests. Already, there has been a quantum jump in RT-PCR tests being conducted in Delhi; from 12,055 tests done on November 15 to 30,735 tests on November 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/200-icu-beds-added-to-hosps-to-tackle-crisis/articleshow/79330883.cms||Bharti Jain
November 21, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka Bank donates ambulance to district administration||Mangaluru: Karnataka Bank, as part of its corporate social responsibility, has donated an ambulance costing around Rs 20 lakh to the Dakshina Kannada district administration. The ambulance was handed over by Mahabaleshwara MS, MD & CEO of the bank to Dr Rajendra KV, DK deputy commissioner at the bank’s head office. The DC said, “This is a huge support and morale booster for the district administration to fight the pandemic as well as to provide the emergency health services to the needy ones. The initiative is yet another testimony to the bank’s commitment to the welfare of the society.” Mahabaleshwara M S said that the ambulance is fully loaded with all necessary life-supporting emergency medical accessories such as autoloading system, separate medical cabinet, jumbo oxygen cylinders, driver cabinet secured from the patient and so on. The bank had extended a financial aid of Rs 15,39,700/- to the district administration when the pandemic was at its peak and had immediately stepped in to procure digital oxymeters, face masks and 1,000 PPE kits for the medical practitioners and healthcare workers. The bank has also extended financial assistance by donating a sum of Rs 5 lakhs to the Mandya district administration and also sponsored 3,000 units of PPE kits to the district administrations of Udupi, Kodagu and Chikkamagaluru at a total cost of Rs 10,50,000. “We believe our contribution in this regard will set the right example to inspire all the stakeholders to contribute towards strengthening the medical infrastructure of public health institutions so as to equip the society to face such contingencies in a still better way,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/karnataka-bank-donates-ambulance-to-district-administration/articleshow/79328377.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Pune||Survey finds signs of protective immunity against contagion in Pune||PUNE: New findings from the August sero-prevalence study in five subwards of the city conducted by the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Pune university and other collaborators have revealed that 85% of the 700 individuals infected with SARS-Cov-2 studied had virus-neutralizing antibodies after the infection. This is the first time in India, as well as other lower income and lower-middle income countries across the globe, that such a research has been undertaken to gauge the extent of “neutralizing” antibodies in the population that may offer protection from the virus during subsequent infections. Dr Aurnab Ghose, scientist, IISER and one of the principal investigators of the study, told TOI, “While the earlier findings showed the presence of antibodies suggesting past Covid-19 infection, those antibodies did not necessarily suggest the possibility of immune protection from subsequent infection. There are various kinds of antibodies, of which neutralizing antibodies are capable of protecting us from infection.” He said, “Regular sero-surveys estimate the presence of common antibodies in the serum indicating the prevalence of the infection in the population. But just having the infection does not mean that the individual will have neutralizing antibodies or those that act to prevent the receptor-binding domain of the viral spike protein from interacting with the receptors on our cells that allow virus entry. It is this mechanism of neutralizing antibodies which offers protection from subsequent infection.” In the study, 15% of those earlier infected with SARS-COV-2 did not show any virus neutralizing activity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/survey-finds-signs-of-protective-immunity-against-contagion/articleshow/79330865.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Bhopal||Chhath celebrations shine bright despite Covid cloud in Bhopal||BHOPAL: The usually busy Chhath Ghats of the City of Lakes were considerably empty this time. As the sun set, women draped in colourful saris could be seen offering prayers to the Sun God at Sheetal Das Ki Bagiya and Vardhaman Park Chhath Ghat. The third day of Chhath called Pahli Arghya was celebrated on Friday. On this day, devotees prepare an offering for the Sun God in a basket containing seasonal fruits and food and visit the Chhath Ghat to offer ‘arag’. Devotees also sing Chhath Puja folk songs in the evening. Since the festival was celebrated amid the shadow of Covid, many people chose to stay at home. “I always go home for Chhath and celebrate it with my parents. This year due to Covid, I could not. We are learning how to live with the new normal. It’s more fun, when you can celebrate with the family, but this is the need of the hour. I offered my prayers to the Sun God from the terrace of my house,” said Bharti Singh resident of Idgah Hills People who visited the Ghats also, followed all the Covid protocols to avoid risk of infection. “Usually, all the family members visit the Ghat to watch the setting sun as it is considered auspicious. However, this year, only those people who kept the fast went to the Ghats, to avoid crowding. We made it a point to follow social distancing at the site as well,” said Indu Singh, resident of Bhadbhada Road. “Chhath is celebrated to thank Sun God for all the bounties. Sun is not only the source of light but it also has properties that kill certain microorganisms. This year we also prayed to the Sun God to help the world win the war against Coronavirus,” said Shalini Kumar, a resident of Bagmugaliya. Kunwar Prasad of Bhojpuri Ekta Manch said, “There was a drop in number of people who attended the Chhath festivities on the Ghat. To avoid overcrowding, we too diverted people to different spots. No one was allowed without a mask, and we were monitoring the crowd constantly.” “We also honoured Covid warriors this year to thank them for their service to the society. DIG Irshad Wali, CMHO Prabhakar Tiwari, Anmol Singh, Reena Sharma, among others.” On Saturday morning, devotees will visit the ghats again for Dusri Arag. The arag is offered to the rising sun. This marks the completion of Chhath Puja rituals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/chhath-celebrations-shine-bright-despite-covid-cloud/articleshow/79329447.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Pune||Private institutes want health department to chip in||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The Independent English Schools’ Association, a private body of English schools in Pimpri Chinchwad civic limits, has demanded the health department to bear the cost of sanitising the school premises and testing of teachers ahead of the reopening of the schools. In a memorandum submitted to the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), the association stated that the member schools would be able to resume in-house classes from December 1. Rajendra Singh, working president of the association, stated that they need more time to meet the requirement laid down by the government. PCMC’s education officer (secondary) Parag Mundhe told TOI that there are around 4,900 teachers in 282 secondary schools, which includes both civic-run and private schools. “We have been instructed by the civic authorities to allow teachers from 18 civic schools to get tested from the civic hospitals free of cost, however, there has been no such decision for the private schools,” he said. PCMC commissioner Shravan Hardikar told TOI that they were yet to receive any such memorandum from the association. “In case we do receive such a memorandum, we would adopt a flexible approach,” he said. When asked about schools wanting to resume classes from December 1 instead of November 23, Hardikar said, “We will think over it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pvt-institutes-want-health-dept-to-chip-in/articleshow/79330858.cms||Piyush Bhusari
November 21, 2020||Vadodara||Covid-19: Vadodara ready to brave second wave||VADODARA: Officials were closely monitoring the situation in Vadodara in wake of the rising Covid-19 cases in the city and district. They, however, asserted that the situation was not alarming and Covid-19 hospitals were operating much below their capacity. On Friday 98 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in the city and district. These included 40 outside the city limits and the remaining 58 within Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) areas. The number had been rising consistently since Monday and reached 99 on Thursday, the highest single day number this month. Education secretary Vinod Rao, who is also the officer on special duty for Covid-19 in Vadodara, said that while the city has no reason to panic, all citizens are requested to observe all precautions. Rao said that out of 5,000 Covid beds in the city only 1,500 were occupied presently and out of 500 advanced ventilators only 165 were in use. “Vadodara has successfully managed the first wave from April to September. We are fully geared up in case we have a second wave in the coming weeks,” Rao said adding that the planning for increasing the beds and ventilators, if needed, was also in place. The civic body will begin an intensive door-to-door surveillance drive from Monday deploying about 825 teams to cover the city in five days. Dhanvantari Raths will be activated to full capacity and home-based Covid care efforts will be reactivated. The officials are also looking to increase testing in a major way from Friday itself. A series of online meetings of both private and government hospitals and officials were held through the day on Friday to ensure that they were prepared to handle a possible spike. Sources said that while 5,000 beds were earmarked for Covid-19 patients, the hospitals could in no time increase this to 6,700 as they already have permissions in place for the same and the beds were reduced only in wake of the lesser number of cases after intimating VMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-ready-to-brave-second-wave/articleshow/79327048.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Goa||Traffic official hurt on Assolna bridge, exposes gaps in joints||Colva: The rubber joints of the Cavelossim-Assolna bridge have come undone, leaving a gap of over six inches between spans for sometime now. Despite previous complaints, the repairs have not been carried out. It has now come to light after a traffic official was injured when his foot got stuck in the gap in the bridge span while doing his duty. The officer in uniform, noticing a helmetless motorist, got out of his vehicle and was striding along Cavelossim-Assolna bridge, trying to wave down the defaulting driver. This is when his leg accidentally slipped into the gaping space between two spans of the bridge. Seeing his plight, other motorists and his colleagues rushed to the officer’s aid and pulled him out. In the bargain, he suffered abrasions on his leg and sprained his ankle. He was later shifted to a medical facility for treatment. The rubber joints for span 1-2 and 3-4 from Assolna side of the bridge, meant to cushion vibrations, expansion and contraction process, have come loose and are hanging inward. The river below can be clearly seen from the six inches gap between the spans and is posing danger to human life. Six months back, on enquiries, PWD official incharge of bridges had said the issue would be fixed. Sources in the PWD now said that fixing rubber joints is very expensive, with the rubber joint costing a lakh per meter. The width of this bridge is 12 metres. PWD assistant engineer Savio Gomes, when contacted, said he was unaware of the situation but would direct his junior engineer to inspect the bridge next week and submit a report. He said after the report is ready he would write to his superiors to get the work done by the maintenance contractor. Completed in 2013, the bridge over River Sal is 620m long with wide sidewalks, which provide scenic views. The views attract many visitors to this spot for relaxation or to take photographs. The bridge has become an ideal evening get-away for the locals from both the villages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/traffic-official-hurt-on-assolna-bridge-exposes-gaps-in-joints/articleshow/79455895.cms||Nisser Dias
November 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Sathyavathi, Sabitha among star campaigners||Hyderabad: On top of the TRS list submitted to the SEC is party chief K Chandrasekhar Rao followed by municipal minister K T Rama Rao and finance minister T Harish Rao. Sources said caste equations played a crucial role in shortlisting campaigners. While ministers Sabitha Indra Reddy and Sathyavathi Rathod have been roped to woo women and tribal voters, Mahamood Ali and Koppula Eashwar were selected to win over minorities and SC voters. The TRS is banking on Talasani Srinivas Yadav and Eatala Rajender to win the favour of BC voter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sathyavathi-sabitha-among-star-campaigners/articleshow/79330862.cms||Roushan Ali
November 21, 2020||Pune||School buses unlikely to resume operations in Pune||PUNE: School bus operators are unlikely to ply vehicles for Standard IX to XII students, who have been allowed to attend classes physically from November 23, citing operational expenses for so few students and list of precautions. “Our members are out of business since March, we won’t have enough business unless schools reopen in a full-fledged manner,” Kiran Desai, secretary of Pune bus owners’ association, said. “The opening of schools for Std IX to XII students will not help us at all. Rather it will cost the operators more. So, we don’t think any school bus operator will ply their buses,” said Desai. The school transport sector has been among the worst hit due to the pandemic. Against the 400 school buses that were registered with the Pune RTO from April to October last year, only eight buses have registered in the same period this year. “One should understand that there are several standard operating procedures (SOPs) at play, which need to be followed while operating school buses. With Standard IX to XII to start, we are looking at very less students and that too scattered all across the city. With so many SOPs to follow, the operators are looking at more losses than profits,” Desai said. A majority of school van owners said they had not received any queries from parents or schools to resume operations. “The junior class students travel in our vans primarily. Even if schools are reopening, it is not of any advantage to us,” a school van owner said. Raju V Latamble, who owns one among the biggest fleet of school buses in Pune, said, “Students from nursery to Std VII mainly travel in school buses. Senior students usually get to schools in their personal vehicles and bicycles.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/buses-unlikely-to-resume-operations/articleshow/79330863.cms||Joy Sengupta
November 21, 2020||Mangaluru||Cooperative society chairman faces fraud complaint||MANGALURU: Depositors and investors of a co-operative credit society have filed a complaint against the society chairman and several others, for not paying back investors interest and capital investment. The complaint is registered at the economic offences and narcotics crime police station, Mangaluru, and an investigation is on. According to police, close to 100 depositors and investors, who had invested in the society, have complained that society chairman has defaulted and not paid back investors interest and capital investment. Now, the offices are closed and no one is taking responsibility. Thousands of people from Mumbai, Mangaluru and the Gulf, particularly retired senior citizens had invested their hard-earned money to earn interest, and at the same time support a fellow Mangalurean, start the society. Depositors said that they had invested in the society as it promised attractive interest rates on deposits or monthly interest schemes. According to sources, in Mangaluru alone, close to 1,000 people had invested in society. It had branches across the district. The society was also operating in Mumbai and Goa. Currently, all the offices in Dakshina Kannada are closed. Along with the society, the chairman was also running an electrical home appliances chain in Mangaluru, as well as other places. A complaint has also been filed in Mumbai. The depositors want the case to be handed over to the CID as multi-crore fraud is suspected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/cooperative-society-chairman-faces-fraud-complaint/articleshow/79327782.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Goa||Goa: Joaquim Alemao, Yuri Alemao set for Congress re-entry||PANAJI: The Congress is all set to welcome back into its party fold former minister Joaquim Alemao and his son Yuri. This move comes as the party looks for candidates to replace the 10 rebel MLAs, particularly those from South Goa, who quit and joined BJP last year.. Congress officials said Joaquim and Yuri have been in talks for some time with the Congress leadership about returning to the party, but the duo’s history required the party’s high command in Delhi to give the nod.“Congress president Sonia Gandhi has approved former minister Joaquim Alemao and Yuri Alemao joining Congress,” Goa desk in-charge Dinesh Gundu Rao said. “I welcome them to our party and hope they will play a big role in strengthening Congress in Goa in the days to come.” Yuri, who was a member of Goa Forward Party, resigned from the party on November 12. Prior to that, he unsuccessfully contested the 2017 assembly elections from Sanguem on an NCP ticket. Joaquim was elected to the Goa Legislative Assembly twice, in 2002 and in 2007, from the Cuncolim constituency and was urban development minister during one of the terms. In 2011, he quit Congress, along with his brother Churchill, after the latter’s daughter was disqualified from the Youth Congress elections. In 2017, upset over being denied the Congress ticket to contest from Cuncolim, he had contested as an independent candidate, only to lose to then Congress candidate, Clafacio Dias.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/joaquim-yuri-alemao-set-for-cong-re-entry/articleshow/79330875.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Congress manifesto to be released on November 23||HYDERABAD: The core committee of the Telangana Congress held widespread discussions on Friday to finalise the party’s manifesto for the GHMC elections. The issues concerning people and the ideas to improve the brand image of Greater Hyderabad were discussed. All India Congress Committee in charge of Telangana, Manickam Tagore, TPCC president N Uttam Kumar Reddy and CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka were among those others who participated in the virtual meeting. It was decided to release the Congress manifesto on November 23. Meanwhile, Congress minorities city cell chairman Sameer Waliullah on Friday alleged that TRS and BJP were deliberately indulging in blame game over various issues only to divert people’s attention from their failures. While the TRS should put in public domain beneficiary-wise flood relief distributed so far, the BJP must disclose the funds released by the Modi-government at the Centre for Telangana State to combat Covid-19 and for the development of State and Greater Hyderabad. The Congress on Friday said it was in favour of distribution of flood relief to all the flood affected families and that the state election commission had asked the state government to stop registration and distribution of flood relief as it violated the model code of conduct.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/congress-manifesto-to-be-released-on-nov-23/articleshow/79330874.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Social media blitz; parties bet big on virtual campaign||HYDERABAD: With GHMC election heat picking up, social media platforms have become very active. Candidates cutting across party lines are going all out to make their presence felt on various social media outlets to establish contact with the electorate and also connect with them. Not less than one lakh youngsters are involved in this social media blitz with many of them earning anywhere between Rs 1,000 and Rs 5,000 per day creating Facebook pages, Twitter accounts and dedicated YouTube channels for the candidates. “Each candidate has at least 15 FB pages, 10 Twitter accounts and several YouTube channels dedicated to ward-level themes. Our job also entails enhancing the personal image of the candidate. We have dedidated teams to work on these aspects,” Ashok Patnaik, founder of Group IAM, a digital marketing agency, said. The pressure is so much that each FB page is supposed to get 10,000 likes and each post on WhatsApp is expected to be viewed by at least 50,000 people, a web designer said. With the battle getting tough this time, all the political parties have even gotten a pre-candidate selection survey done. Sources said the ruling TRS and BJP are even getting a post-nomination survey done to know the chances of their candidates. “Tasks are given to private agencies to find out the reasons of advantages and disadvantages a candidate holds in the ward,” sources said. Due to ward-wise surveys, data collections, telephonic surveys, online surveys, pull and push SMS campaigns, WhatsApp, FB, Twitter and Instagram messages are all active, web experts said. There is also a spurt in the activities of call centres, IVR centres, social media pages and survey document design services. Since social media played a major role in Dubbak bypoll, leaders said the BJP and TRS have taken the social media campaign very seriously this time. Thanks to social media usage, BJP was able to lure some of the TRS dissidents who did not get the party tickets. “The social media platform has already created a buzz for us,” a senior BJP leader told TOI. On the other hand, the TRS is confident that its developmental works in the last six years would curry favour from the voters. “We are aware of our rivals’ strategies. We are coming out with our own plans on the social media,” a TRS leader on condition of anonymity said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/social-media-blitz-parties-bet-big-on-virtual-campaign/articleshow/79330870.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 21, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: Pune's Haveli tehsil sees sharp rise in daily infections||PUNE: Haveli tehsil, which comprises many areas on the fringes of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, has witnessed a 100% spike in daily Covid-19 cases in the past three days. From 10-12 cases per day, the tehsil has reported 20-25 new daily infections over the past three days. Haveli block development officer Prashant Shirke told TOI that they were not pressing the panic button yet. “Despite the large floating population [about 3 lakh residents travel to Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad daily for work], we have so far managed to maintain a 96.9% recovery rate due to early detection. We will continue doing that,” he added. Shirke said most new cases were reported from Wagholi, Loni Kalbhor, Manjari, Kondhwe Dhawde, Kadamwak Vasti and Uruli Kanchan. “We would test superspreaders and shopkeepers, vegetable vendors, working professionals and frequent travellers,” Shirke added. Haveli has reported 14,254 cases so far. As many as 307 patients succumbed and 135 are under treatment. Tehsil health officer Sachin Kharat said, “We now have adequate oxygen and ICU beds. Private hospitals too are acquainted with treatment protocols.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/haveli-tehsil-sees-sharp-rise-in-daily-infections/articleshow/79330871.cms||Sandip Dighe
November 21, 2020||Lucknow||‘Power connection to stay even if 3 months bill remains unpaid’||Lucknow: Your power connection will not be disconnected if you failed to pay the electricity bills for three months. Instead the power department officials will approach you and request for bill payment. This was announced by state energy minister Shrikant Sharma on Friday. “Snapping connections was not the right option. The officials should identify defaulters and seek timely payment of bills,” he said. Sharma, however, pointed out that 75% of the consumers in rural areas and 30% in urban areas were not paying their power bills on time. Taking note of the complaints of faulty meters which run fast or jump in reading, Sharma asked the UP Power Corporation Limited chairman Arvind Kumar to conduct monitoring of such meters. He said that consumers can also register their complaints at 1912 following which check meters would be installed in their houses. Sharma said the energy department is conducting a special drive for rural consumers as well. He reiterated that the feeders which register line losses less than 15% would be provided 24-hour power supply. “These consumers would be considered as VIP consumers,” Sharma said, adding that the department would not only increase the capacity of distribution transformers in these areas by 40% but also replace dilapidated electricity wires. He sought public help in reducing line losses and improving power supply.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/power-connection-to-stay-even-if-3-months-bill-remains-unpaid/articleshow/79331631.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 21, 2020||Pune||Pune: Opposition parties seek meet on Covid preparedness||PUNE: Leaders from the opposition parties in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) have demanded the civic chief to call for a joint meeting of all the office-bearers, civic officials and medical experts to discuss plan for tackling possible surge of Covid-19 cases in the next two months. Cautioning the administration against repeat of lapses, leaders from the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), submitted a letter to the PMC demanding an urgent meeting to discuss the issue. Congress as well as Shiv Sena leaders have sought clarity over the management of patients and bed availability. The city had witnessed a surge in Covid-19 cases in the July-September period. The active cases had reached over 17,000 then. Deepali Dhumal, NCP corporator and leader of opposition in PMC, said, “We want the administration to avoid chaos if cases do rise in the next two months. Adequate arrangement of beds, ambulances, swab collection centres and testing facilities should be ensured across the city. All-party meeting should be held so that the leaders are well aware of the preparations. The civic body should focus on minimizing the virus spread and bring down deaths.” Congress leader Aba Bagul said civic officials, mayor and office-bearers should hold talks with the leaders from other parties for better management. The civic administration said it was readying the plan to handle around 19,000 Covid-19 active cases, considering possible surge. Sena leader Prithviraj Sutar said testing needed to be increased. Also, a sustained campaign should be taken up to create awareness among citizens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/oppn-parties-seek-meet-on-ncov-preparedness/articleshow/79330867.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Goa||District committees set up for Van Dhan Vikas Yojana||Edited_250 words Panaji: The state government has constituted district implementation units and district level coordination and monitoring committees of North and South Goa under the Pradhan Mantri Van Dhan Vikas Yojana (scheme) for overall preparation of the haat bazaar which will include procurement, infrastructure, value addition and marketing development plan. The team comprises representatives from various government divisions like the collectorate, zilla panchayat, departments of forest, rural development, directorates of agriculture, industries, trade and commerce, handicrafts, textiles and coir, skill development and entrepreneurship, animal husbandry and veterinary services. The district project management unit comprises professionals in the field of accounting, marketing, IT and social sector etc. The team will be responsible for the identification and setting up of Van Dhan Vikas Kendras in the district and engage a team to identify the potential tribal gatherers for the Van Dhan Vikas self-help groups. The district level coordination and monitoring committee will be headed by the district collector. In the implementation of the scheme, the district collector will exercise all the financial and administrative powers to the extent granted by the state government. The government has also constituted the state level coordination and monitoring committee (SLCMC) for overall monitoring of the activities. The chief secretary of Goa will chair the committee comprising representatives from state nodal department (tribal welfare department) and other agencies and also including secretaries of rural development, finance department, panchayati raj, industries, handlooms and handicrafts, agriculture, forest etc. and other stakeholders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/district-committees-set-up-for-van-dhan-vikas-yojana/articleshow/79330868.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Lucknow||Govt aims at agri prosperity via organic farming||Lucknow: The UP government on Friday said it is taking steps to promote organic farming which will bring prosperity for farmers in the state. A state government spokesperson said organic crops will be sown in 68,000 hectare area in the first phase. The first phase will be carried out in all 1,038 gram panchayats in 27 districts along the banks of the Ganga. These have been chosen due to the cleanliness of the Ganga. The districts selected for organic farming include 36 districts under traditional agricultural development and 27 districts under Namami Gange project. The government would encourage cluster farming to ensure that farming is done in a planned manner and is closely monitored. Every cluster will be of 50 acres. The spokesperson said the government would give a grant of Rs 10 lakh per cluster over a period of three years to encourage farmers to take up organic farming. Of the grant Rs 3.3 lakh will be payable in the first and third year. In the intervening year, this grant will be Rs 3.4 lakh. Out of the total grant, 38% will be spent on the formation of clusters, increasing the production capacity of farmers, value addition, branding and packaging. The state government said that farmers involved in the cluster will visit areas engaged in organic farming for awareness and agricultural investments. After the visit, they will be given training on farm preparation, green manure management, nursery preparation, vermi-compost, product cleaning, grading, packaging, levelling to farmers for management and value addition of pests and diseases in an organic manner. The government also plans to open organic markets in all divisional headquarters. The spokesperson said the demand for organic products has risen due to people becoming more health conscious and added that more demand will bring more income to farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-aims-at-agri-prosperity-via-organic-farming/articleshow/79331640.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 21, 2020||Hyderabad||CM fears Majlis, did not accept challenge: Bandi Sanjay||Hyderabad: BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Friday said chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao did not accept his challenge of coming down to Bhagya Lakshmi temple as he is scared of Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM. Sanjay had challenged the CM to come to the temple to prove that he had written to the State Election Commission (SEC) seeking stoppage of distribution of flood relief to affected families. Interacting with newspersons after his visit to the temple at Charminar, the BJP chief said: “The CM has made baseless allegations against me. I took a vow that I would be here to profess in front of the goddess that I have not written any letter. The CM should at least call me if he cannot come here and say sorry,” he said. Sanjay spent more than an hour near the temple premises along with his supporters. He alleged that the CM is trying to spread canards against the BJP. “The CM did not turn up for a discussion in Dubbak. TRS leaders indulged in irregularities to the tune of Rs 500 crore in distribution of flood relief. The funds were given by the Centre,” he said. He said if the CM is sincere the government should have transferred the money directly into the bank accounts of the affected families. Ridiculing the TRS’ claim of developing Hyderabad into a global city, he said they have turned it into a ‘tragic city.’ “This is the season of marriages. Poor and middle class people sell their houses to perform marriages in their families. He is making their lives difficult,” he charged. He said the NDA government at the Centre is people-friendly and if the BJP is elected in the GHMC polls, they will bring more funds to develop Hyderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cm-fears-majlis-did-not-accept-challenge-bandi-sanjay/articleshow/79331627.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: New cases record a drop, but toll almost doubles in Pune metropolitan region||PUNE: A day after hitting a month’s high, the Covid-19 daily tally dropped to 785 in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Friday. The toll, however, doubled in the last 24 hours, rising to 23 from 12 the previous day. On Thursday, 859 people had tested positive for Covid-19 in PMR. The total positive caseload increased above 3.34 lakh in PMR on Friday and with 634 recoveries, the total discharges increased above 3.16 lakh. The PMC and PCMC continued to report more new cases than the recoveries even on Friday. A report released by the district health officer Bhagwan Pawar stated that the active patients count had further increased to 9,795 by Friday evening, including 5,891 in home isolation and 3,902 admitted in various hospitals. The daily sample testing in the region increased to 9,149 on Friday. The PMC conducted 4,172 tests, while the PCMC and the rural areas together conducted over 4,900 tests. More than 15.34 lakh tests have been conducted in PMR so far, including 7.81 lakh tests from the PMC limits, 4.37 lakh in the PCMC limits and 3.15 lakh in the rural areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/new-cases-record-a-drop-but-toll-almost-doubles/articleshow/79330878.cms||Sarang Dastane
November 21, 2020||Goa||Locals continue to disrupt track doubling work at Sao Jose de Areal||MARGAO: Locals’ agitation against the South Western Railway (SWR)’s double tracking project showed no signs of let up as villagers on Friday rushed to the site of the ongoing work at Sao Jose de Areal and attempted to disrupt the work. However, as the work was being carried out with police protection, no untoward incident was reported. This was the second consecutive day when locals confronted the railway officials demanding to stop the ongoing work of double tracking of the railway route at Sao Jose de Areal. The agitators told the Railway officials that the work was being carried out in the land lying beyond the property of the Railways, and therefore, to stop the work until they produce land documents in support of their claim that the work was being done in acquired property. On Thursday, the railway officials were also forced to remove the goods and materials of the Railways lying in private lands until the issue is settled. Goencho Ekvott held a protest meeting at Davorlim on Thursday to oppose double tracking of the project. Speakers at the meeting spoke how the three linear “destructive” projects would damage Goa’s environment. They also said that the locals demand that their respective MLAs voice their support for the people’s agitation in opposing the projects. Earlier this week, protesters had attempted to stop the double tracking work at Davorlim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/locals-continue-to-disrupt-track-doubling-work-at-sao-jose-de-areal/articleshow/79331713.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Goa||Ready for tie-up with Congress in Goa, says NCP||PANAJI: The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Friday said that it is ready to tie up with the Congress party for the 2022 state assembly elections, but said that “respectful seat sharing” is a pre-condition for such an alliance. NCP has appointed its national spokesperson Narendra Verma as the Goa observer. Though Verma did not explain what “respectful seat sharing” meant in Goa’s context, where there are 40 assembly constituencies, NCP MLA Churchill Alemao called for 50:50 seat sharing. “We don’t want secular votes to get divided and for some other party to benefit,” said Verma. “We would like to go with Congress but there has to be very respectful seat sharing with them.” On November 22, the NCP will open its new party office in the state capital with NCP MP Praful Patel present for the function. The party will also open an office in South Goa in the coming months. Asked about the party’s strategy if the Congress refuses to enter into an alliance, Verma said that the NCP is ready to contest all 40 seats in Goa. “Our options are open. Today the day is gone where it is only Congress or only BJP. NCP is always open to take like minded parties onboard,” said Verma. Alemao said that once the party opens its office, it will induct more members into the party in order to boost the party’s organisational strength. While Alemao and NCP state president Jose Philip D’Souza said that NCP will be stronger than the Congress, Verma pointed out that the Congress and NCP are natural allies. “Today in Maharashtra we are in alliance. Till 2014, for 15 years, we were in alliance with the Congress. Now also, we would like to contest when there is respectful seat sharing with the Congress,” Verma said. He also said that the party is confident that in 2022, the NCP will have more MLAs in the state legislative assembly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ready-for-tie-up-with-cong-in-goa-says-ncp/articleshow/79330881.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 21, 2020||Jaipur||Mercury dips across Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Night temperatures have dipped in several areas across Rajasthan following snowfall in Himachal Pradesh and Kashmir. The Met department’s forecast said that night temperatures are likely to fall further in the next 24 hours. However, bright sunshine kept the cold at bay in the desert state during the day. Many places saw their minimum temperatures dipping by a few degrees below normal. Mount Abu, the only hill station in the state, recorded 2 degrees Celsius, the meteorological department said here on Friday.  Churu recorded a minimum temperature of 5.7 degrees Celsius, Sikar 6 degrees Celsius, Pilani 7.1 degrees Celsius, Sriganganagar 9.8 degrees Celsius and Bikaner recorded a low of 10 degrees Celsius, it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mercury-dips-across-state/articleshow/79329485.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Varanasi||RSS, VHP worker Balkrishna Naik passes away||Gorakhpur: Senior RSS Pracharak and VHP National Samanvay Manch coordinator (Palak), Balkrishna Naik passed away in Gorakhpur on Wednesday around 11.30 pm. He was presently residing in Lucknow while his family was in Aurangabad, Maharashtra. “Naik’s body was sent to Maharashtra,” said , VHP worker Durgesh Tripathi. Naik had visited the Mahaparinirvan temple on Wednesday morning to offer prayers and went to meet private secretary of senior VHP leader late Ashok Singhal, Dharmendra Ojha after that. While returning from there, he fell sick. MLA Rajnikant Tripathi took him to a private hospital from where he was referred to Gorakhpur. VHP worker Durgesh Tripathi and DK Singh rushed him to the Gorakhpur BRD Medical College where doctors declared him dead. Balakrishna was also the Joint General Secretary of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad and the Central Vice President.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/rss-vhp-worker-balkrishna-naik-passes-away/articleshow/79311964.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Raja Singh denies leaving BJP||Hyderabad: Speculation about Goshamahal MLA T Raja Singh leaving the BJP created a flutter here for a brief while on Friday. Raja Singh, however, dispelled such rumours. Speaking to TOI, he said he had no idea as to who was behind these rumours. “I am not leaving the party. There is no truth in these rumours,” he said. Raja Singh was believed to be upset as he wanted some tickets for his followers in the wards falling under Goshamahal segment. Tension prevailed on Thursday night when the party leadership changed the second list at the last minute by withdrawing the candidature of Jambagh ward which comes under Goshamahal. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/raja-singh-denies-leaving-bjp/articleshow/79331671.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Goa||As Delhi chokes, Gandhis land in Goa on private visit||PANAJI: Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi and her son Rahul landed at Goa International Airport on Friday afternoon and were whisked away to a starred resort in Mobor, South Goa. The two are expected to stay there for a few days. A PTI report from Delhi said Sonia was advised by doctors to leave the national capital for a few days due to heavy pollution. Quoting an unnamed senior Congress functionary, PTI said her doctors were concerned about her persistent chest infection and asked her to stay away from Delhi till the air quality improves. Though several plans are afoot within Congress ahead of the upcoming election for the party’s new president as well as assembly elections scheduled to be held in five states next year, local party functionaries told TOI that there are no official engagements planned. “They always come (to Goa) and this is a private visit. There will be no meeting,” state opposition leader Digambar Kamat said. Sonia is expected to stay for a couple of days in South Goa before flying back to Delhi. Rahul is expected to stay on a bit longer. “They arrived on a chartered flight. Their plans are tentative for now,” said an official. In September, Sonia had gone to the US for her annual health check-up. Goa has been a traditional holiday destination for the Gandhi family. In 2017, pictures of Sonia Gandhi cycling at the same resort had gone viral on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-delhi-chokes-gandhis-land-in-goa-on-private-visit/articleshow/79330890.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Lucknow||Five Bundelkhand districts get funds for link road network||LUCKNOW: Developmental projects in at least five districts of Bundelkhand region — Hamirpur, Mahoba, Jalaun, Jhansi and Chaitrakoot — received a fresh thrust with Bundelkhand Development Board allocating a fresh tranche of funds to tune of Rs 3.18 crore. Nine projects would be taken up immediately, according to a proposal moved by public works department. These include three projects in Hamirpur, two each in Jhansi and Chitrakoot and one project each in Mahoba and Jalaun. The state government had earlier allocated Rs 8 crore for the project, whose total cost is pegged at Rs 16 crore. The projects proposed to be taken up include a connecting road network in Mau development block of Chitrakoot. The district also stands to gain by linking the road in Murka village to a national highway. In Jhansi, a link road is proposed to be constructed in Khariaram and another between Nandsiya and Nandkhas villages. The Harmirpur district will get three link roads, including one each in Jhirmauli, Kewat ka dera and Chanduli Ahir link road, according to the plan accessed by TOI. In Jalaun, a district a link road is proposed to be constructed in Anghaura to Prawar village, while a connecting road is proposed to be constructed near Kendraiya Vidyalaya, Disrapur, in Mahoba district. Deputy chief minister Keshav Maurya said the projects should be completed within deadline and under strict vigil. Officials said, chief development officers of these five district have been asked to ensure that funds released by the board be spend on projects and not diverted for any other purpose, which would be considered a financial irregularity. Also, officials will be required to maintain standards as suggested by the state government. The Bundelkhand development board, conceptualised for a holistic development of the otherwise economically backward Bundelkhand region comprises 14 committees for resolving development issues. These committees have members from the board, government officials and experts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/5-bundelkhand-dists-get-funds-for-link-road-network/articleshow/79331695.cms||Pankaj Shah
November 21, 2020||Delhi||Sharp rise in deadlier PM1 in Delhi-NCR worrisome: Experts||NEW DELHI: Scientists from Delhi University, JNU and IIT-Delhi, after analysing air quality data from a newly formed sensor-based network across the National Capital Region (NCR), not only found PM2.5 and PM10 from mid-October to the start of November, but also a sharp increase in PM1 concentration. Track the pollution level in your cityPM1 particles are finer and more dangerous than PM2.5 and can penetrate the mucous membrane of the lung and enter the blood, causing heart attacks and brain strokes, say experts. While PM1 data is currently not monitored by both Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC), a new network of 35 sensors within a 200km radius of Delhi has been set up now. This is a part of a Nasa-funded effort led by RTI International in collaboration with IIT-Delhi and other organisations. The data was analysed by various scientists, including Rajdhani College associate professor Dr SK Dhaka, JNU professor Dr AP Dimri and Dr Palak Balyan from Centre for Atmospheric Sciences at IIT-Delhi. They found that while PM1 concentration was less than 100 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m3) in September, it ranged from 200 to 300 µg/m3 from mid-October to mid-November. While there are no standards set for PM1 concentration, finer particles pose a greater threat than PM10, which has a standard of 100 µg/m3. PM2.5 has a standard of 60 µg/m3. The analysis showed that Delhi recorded two major spikes since October 15, both occurring in November. While the first spike saw PM2.5 touch close to 1,000 µg/m3 between November 6 and 11 on average, the second spike was recorded around Diwali. Data also showed PM1 peaks occurring at the same time as PM10 and PM2.5, touching close to 300 µg/m3. “In the past two weeks, concentration of pollutants in Delhi-NCR have been on the rise and broken records of four years showing very high emission. Air quality degraded to the lowest level causing an emergency situation. Between November 6 and 11, observations for 24 hours on almost each day showed a very high concentration of both PM2.5 and PM1. “Surprisingly, PM1 particles emerged to be of high density ranging from 250-280 µg/m3 from November 7 to 11,” said the study. Professor Dr Arun Sharma, director, Community Medicine, University College of Medical Sciences, Delhi University, said PM1 particles posed a greater risk to health and even increased the risk of cancer. “The main focus of air pollution has been around PM2.5, but the particles of 1 micron or less are even more harmful as they can cross the mucous barrier and through blood circulation, reach any organ and cause damage,” added Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sharp-rise-in-deadlier-pm1-in-ncr-worrisome-experts/articleshow/79330920.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
November 21, 2020||Lucknow||Mati Kala Board records Rs 2.3cr sale of Lakshmi Ganesh idols||Lucknow: The sale of Lakshmi-Ganesh idols and other clay artefacts fetched Rs 2.37 crore to Mati Kala Board and local artisans this Diwali. While the sale of Rs 1.87 crore was registered at stalls set up by the board across the state, the Mati Kala Mela-2020 at Khadi Bhawan in Lucknow recorded a sale of over Rs 50 lakh. UP MSME and khadi and village industry minister Sidharth Nath Singh said the sale of imported Chinese Laskhmi-Ganesh idols remained almost nil, encouraging the state government to prepare a detailed action plan for marketing of local products in the times to come. “The setting up of the Mati Kala Board has proved to be a milestone for the traditional clay artisans successfully. This is in sync with the UP government policy of `Vocal for Local’ and vision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” he said. Moradabad division topped in the sale of local products like Lakshmi-Ganesh idols, earthen lamps and decoration clay articles. Products prepared in the district fetched Rs 41.39 lakh, followed by Lucknow division (Rs 13 Lakh), Bareilly division (Rs 12 Lakh), Agra division (Rs 10 Lakh), Aligarh division (Rs 2.89 Lakh), Prayagraj (Rs 13 Lakh), Ayodhya division (Rs 7.36 Lakh), Gorakhpur division (Rs 6 Lakh), Jhansi division (Rs 6.46 Lakh), Kanpur division (Rs 3.82 Lakh) , Meerut (Rs 5.46 Lakh). Vindhyachal (Rs 10 Lakh), Varanasi (about Rs 4.17 Lakh), Chitrakoot division (Rs 3.90 Lakh), Devipatan division (Rs 3.60 Lakh), Basti division (Rs 3 Lakh) and Saharanpur (Rs 1.21 Lakh). Singh said that special priority was given to the Mati Kala integrated development programme to make this Diwali Vocal for Local. He said as many as 24,000 families associated with the pottery business were allotted revenue leases to dig clay while 2964 electric potter wheels were being distributed among artisans under the Mati Kala tool-kits distribution scheme. Along with this, the POP master dye has also been made available to the clay artisans for the manufacture of the modern furnace, lamp (diya) making machine, spray painting machine, painting wheel, idols, and sculptures. “Beneficiaries receiving the toolkit have also been given training. It helped hone up the local skills and increase income by two-three folds besides generating employment to at least 1000 persons,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mati-kala-board-records-rs-2-3cr-sale-of-lakshmi-ganesh-idols/articleshow/79331666.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 21, 2020||Jaipur||Fear of tigress ST-10 grips villages close to Sariska||JAIPUR: People in Bansur and Nathusar villages close to Sariska are living in intense fear due to the movement of tigress ST-10 and her cubs there. Several villagers have made videos of the tigress moving very close to the settlements. Many villagers have complained that their cattle have been attacked or eaten up by tigress ST-10. Also, they apprised the administration of the dangers it has posed to the villages and the hamlets around, but the administration is yet to act. Reports said that on Thursday for the third time, tigress ST-10 was spotted in Nathusar village causing fear among the villagers and till noon on Friday, nobody stepped out from their homes. “Since the past 20 days, the tigress has been moving around in these two villages in the night. It has attacked domestic animals several times, which has made people in the area vulnerable,” said a villager, who has been demanding to be shifted to a nearby village. The fear of the big cat is preventing the villagers from doing their daily chores in their agricultural farms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fear-of-tigress-st-10-grips-villages-close-to-sariska/articleshow/79329538.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Faridabad||Sharp rise in deadlier PM1 in Delhi-NCR worrisome: Experts||NEW DELHI: Scientists from Delhi University, JNU and IIT-Delhi, after analysing air quality data from a newly formed sensor-based network across the National Capital Region (NCR), not only found PM2.5 and PM10 from mid-October to the start of November, but also a sharp increase in PM1 concentration. Track the pollution level in your cityPM1 particles are finer and more dangerous than PM2.5 and can penetrate the mucous membrane of the lung and enter the blood, causing heart attacks and brain strokes, say experts. While PM1 data is currently not monitored by both Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC), a new network of 35 sensors within a 200km radius of Delhi has been set up now. This is a part of a Nasa-funded effort led by RTI International in collaboration with IIT-Delhi and other organisations. The data was analysed by various scientists, including Rajdhani College associate professor Dr SK Dhaka, JNU professor Dr AP Dimri and Dr Palak Balyan from Centre for Atmospheric Sciences at IIT-Delhi. They found that while PM1 concentration was less than 100 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m3) in September, it ranged from 200 to 300 µg/m3 from mid-October to mid-November. While there are no standards set for PM1 concentration, finer particles pose a greater threat than PM10, which has a standard of 100 µg/m3. PM2.5 has a standard of 60 µg/m3. The analysis showed that Delhi recorded two major spikes since October 15, both occurring in November. While the first spike saw PM2.5 touch close to 1,000 µg/m3 between November 6 and 11 on average, the second spike was recorded around Diwali. Data also showed PM1 peaks occurring at the same time as PM10 and PM2.5, touching close to 300 µg/m3. “In the past two weeks, concentration of pollutants in Delhi-NCR have been on the rise and broken records of four years showing very high emission. Air quality degraded to the lowest level causing an emergency situation. Between November 6 and 11, observations for 24 hours on almost each day showed a very high concentration of both PM2.5 and PM1. “Surprisingly, PM1 particles emerged to be of high density ranging from 250-280 µg/m3 from November 7 to 11,” said the study. Professor Dr Arun Sharma, director, Community Medicine, University College of Medical Sciences, Delhi University, said PM1 particles posed a greater risk to health and even increased the risk of cancer. “The main focus of air pollution has been around PM2.5, but the particles of 1 micron or less are even more harmful as they can cross the mucous barrier and through blood circulation, reach any organ and cause damage,” added Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/sharp-rise-in-deadlier-pm1-in-ncr-worrisome-experts/articleshow/79335241.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
November 21, 2020||Lucknow||MP Rita Joshi cautions parents against children playing with fire||Lucknow: Six-year-old Kiana Joshi’s life was lost in a tragic accident on Bhaidooj when her dress caught fire while playing with her cousins. Her grandmother, BJP MP from Allahabad Rita Bahuguna Joshi has cautioned parents to not let their children play with fire. Appreciating support from leaders of political parties, social organizations, friends, relatives and well-wishers for their support, Joshi has shared how the tragedy occurred. She writes: Let me share with you my misfortune. Mayank is my only child and Kiana was his only child. She along with her mother went from Lucknow to her maternal grandparents’ house in Prayagraj on November 16 for Bhaidooj. At some point of time she and her other two cousins, 5 & 8 years old, took their drawing books and crayons to the rooftop and sat on the floor to colour. The 5-year-old broke her crayon and the 8-year-old found a match box somewhere on the roof and lit a stick to fix the broken crayon. Probably she could not bear the heat and threw the lighted match stick that fell in the lap of Kiana who was wearing an acrylic dress that caught fire and within seconds engulfed her. By the time elders reached she had suffered 65% burns. All medical efforts failed and she breathed her last at 3am on November 17. Many of my acquaintances told me that their children too try the same method to mend their crayons. I again implore and plead with all to please warn and dissuade children from playing with fire so that they or some other innocent child does not become a victim and bring grief to the family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mp-rita-joshi-cautions-parents-against-children-playing-with-fire/articleshow/79331728.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 21, 2020||Jaipur||ACB raids 10 places of 3 Rajasthan govt officials||JAIPUR/UDAIPUR: The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) raided over 10 locations of three government officials in the state who were found to be have disproportionate income. The teams found unaccounted cash at few of the places along with office files. No one has been arrested yet. In Udaipur, searches were held at five locations belonging to Girish Kumar Joshi, superintendent engineer of Ajmer Vidyut Vitran Nigam Ltd. ACB ASP Sudhir Joshi told the media that the searches were held simultaneously at five locations in Udaipur and Rajsamand in the morning, that belonged to Joshi and his family members, The ACB sleuths have found some cash and many documents related to immovable properties. Officials said that approximately Rs 8 crore disproportionate assets against his income has been established from the documents and cash found. DG ACB B L Soni said, “We had received information and carried out simultaneous raids at various locations to find evidences about the disproportionate incomes of these three officials. We have seized certain amount of cash as well as official files which had no place being out of office. Investigations are underway though at the present no one has been taken into custody. In Bundi, four locations of Chiranjilal, assistant development officer, Panchayati Samiti Keshoraipatan were raided and preliminary investigation revealed that he had disproportionate income of Rs 2.68 crore. In Jaipur, two locations of Satish Kumar Gupta, DJM (civil), RICCO were raided and documents related to unaccountable income of Rs 4.13 crore were found. Additional on Friday, cops arrested a patwari in Chomu for accepting a bribe of Rs 11,000 and a constable of excise department in Bundi for accepting a bribe of Rs 10,000. The CB has been cracking down on corrupt government officials and regularly arresting them and had recently arrested a sub-inspector in Bikaner while accepting bribe. Just last week, ACB arrested more than half-a-dozen government officials in separate cases of corruption.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/acb-conducts-raids-at-10-places-of-three-officials-in-assets-case/articleshow/79329584.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Goa||TCP approves draft Mormugao ODP, gives 60 days for scrutiny||PANAJI: The Town and Country Planning Board met on Friday approved the draft outline development (ODP) plan prepared for the Mormugao planning area. The Mormugao draft ODP will be kept for public scrutiny for 60 days and will then be notified, said TCP minister Chandrakant Kavalekar. In February, the Mormugao Planning and Development Authority (MPDA) announced that it would re-draft the Outline Development Plan (ODP) for Vasco planning area. The TCP board also agreed to bring additional area in Old Goa under the Greater Panaji Planning and Development Authority. “The old Goa panchayat has moved a request to include some more area from Kadamba plateau into the Greater Panaji PDA area. Since the gram panchayat has given an application, we have decided to extend the GPPDA area till the railway track along the road itself with 150 metres on both sides of the road till the Corlim village boundary,” said Kavlekar. Kavlekar claimed that there is a gram panchayat resolution asking the government to include additional area in Old Goa and along the Kadamba Plateau into the planning area. Some private stakeholders also moved a similar suggestion asking for their land to be included in the PDA. “We discussed this and we said we don’t want to include to much area because last time there were objections and agitations because the inclusion of so much land,” said Kavlekar. The board also granted provisional approval for change of zone under Section 16B of the TCP act. Of the 46 applications received by the board, 35 applications were approved, four were rejected and the remaining were kept on hold. “At every board meeting we have given 90% preference to plots that are smaller than 500 sqm. Today also, 21 applications for change of zone were for land area below 500 sqm and 14 applications were for 500-1000sqm,” said Kavlekar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tcp-approves-draft-mormugao-odp-gives-60-days-for-scrutiny/articleshow/79330913.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Vadodara||MSU teacher bags copyrights for her script on Bhavai||Vadodara: A teacher of M S University has bagged two copyrights from the Copyright Office of government of India. Dr Sarjoo Patel, assistant professor at M S University’s Faculty of Family and Community Sciences, has bagged a copyright for her individual project of developing script of Gujarati folk drama — Bhavai — to enhance awareness of homemakers regarding consumer rights and responsibility. Patel along with her PhD student Nidhi Desai has bagged another copyright for a joint project of developing residential layout of a house for three generation families. “I had developed the script of Bhavai under a University Grants Commission (UGC) project,” said Patel, adding that the script is aimed at making people sensitive about their rights and responsibilities. It is also aimed at making them realize that besides putting pressure on all elected officials to take action against consumer problems, living a more sustainable life with awareness is a positive step forward.Patel and her student have designed a residential layout of a 1,367 sq feet house keeping in mind the needs and requirements of three generation families. “The layout has been designed keeping in mind requirements of parking area, foyer space, formal and informal sitting areas, dinning area, kitchen space with three work-centres, breakfast table, preparation centre among others,” said Patel. As per the layout, the bedroom for the elderly is planned with attached bathroom, wardrobe, table and chair on the ground floor while giving direct access in garden so that elderly can freshen up or take a walk in the garden. “Similarly, we have provisions of separate store room, common bathroom, separate utility area on ground floor, a master bedroom, library, two children’s bedroom and home theatre on first floor,” she said, adding that the layout include half covered terrace with a pantry area and terrace garden on second floor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/msu-teacher-bags-copyrights-for-her-script-on-bhavai/articleshow/79328449.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Udaipur||ACB raids 10 places of 3 Rajasthan govt officials||JAIPUR/UDAIPUR: The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) raided over 10 locations of three government officials in the state who were found to be have disproportionate income. The teams found unaccounted cash at few of the places along with office files. No one has been arrested yet. In Udaipur, searches were held at five locations belonging to Girish Kumar Joshi, superintendent engineer of Ajmer Vidyut Vitran Nigam Ltd. ACB ASP Sudhir Joshi told the media that the searches were held simultaneously at five locations in Udaipur and Rajsamand in the morning, that belonged to Joshi and his family members, The ACB sleuths have found some cash and many documents related to immovable properties. Officials said that approximately Rs 8 crore disproportionate assets against his income has been established from the documents and cash found. DG ACB B L Soni said, “We had received information and carried out simultaneous raids at various locations to find evidences about the disproportionate incomes of these three officials. We have seized certain amount of cash as well as official files which had no place being out of office. Investigations are underway though at the present no one has been taken into custody. In Bundi, four locations of Chiranjilal, assistant development officer, Panchayati Samiti Keshoraipatan were raided and preliminary investigation revealed that he had disproportionate income of Rs 2.68 crore. In Jaipur, two locations of Satish Kumar Gupta, DJM (civil), RICCO were raided and documents related to unaccountable income of Rs 4.13 crore were found. Additional on Friday, cops arrested a patwari in Chomu for accepting a bribe of Rs 11,000 and a constable of excise department in Bundi for accepting a bribe of Rs 10,000. The CB has been cracking down on corrupt government officials and regularly arresting them and had recently arrested a sub-inspector in Bikaner while accepting bribe. Just last week, ACB arrested more than half-a-dozen government officials in separate cases of corruption.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/acb-conducts-raids-at-10-places-of-three-officials-in-assets-case/articleshow/79333310.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Surat||Dumas, Suvali beaches closed for visitors||Surat: City police will ensure strict enforcement of Covid-19 related guidelines and rules to check the spread of the dreadedcoronavirus, after the rise in cases reported post-Diwali. City police commissioner, Ajay Tomar, clarified on Friday that the local authorities are not planning for curfew or lockdown at present but appealed to people to take all precautionary measures to stop spread of infection. Surat municipal commissioner, Banchhanidhi Pani, visited the police commissioner’s office on Friday and held a meeting to discuss issues related to the Covid-19 spread in the city. Tomar and Pani also held a meeting with textile business representatives at the Surat Textile Market in the evening and appealed to ensure use of masks, sanitiser and social distance. “During Ganesh immersion, people cooperated with local administration and did not organise public events, ” said the police officer. “Similarly in Chhath puja, too, police installed bandobast at river bank, although people did not come out to perform prayers on Friday,” said Tomar. Police started distribution of masks for free to people and a total of 27,000 masks were distributed on Friday. “Police will keep watch at locations where people gather in large numbers. We also seek people’s cooperation to stop the spread of the virus. Police will intensify the drive to penalise those found not wearing masks,” said Tomar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/dumas-suvali-beaches-closed-for-visitors/articleshow/79328603.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Farmer held for raping 13-year-old for over a year||RAJKOT: A 32-year-old married man with two children was arrested on Friday in Gokalpar village of Kalyanpur taluka of Devbhoomi Dwarka district for allegedly raping a 13-year-old girl mutiple times in the last one year. The accused identified as Raja Lakhman Kanjariya owns a farm adjacent to the farm where the survivor worked as a farm labourer with her parents. According to police, the incident came to light on Wednesday when the girl came home late. On questioning, the girl told her mother that Kanjariya had been sexually exploiting her for the past one year and that he had also threatened her not to reveal about his act to anybody. The girl’s father on Thursday lodged a complaint with the Kalyanpur police station following which Kanjariya was arrested late on the same evening. Kalyanpur sub-inspector V V Vagadiya said that Kanjariya was booked for rape, issuing threats and charged under various sections of POCSO Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/farmer-held-for-raping-13-year-old-for-over-a-year/articleshow/79328104.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Vadodara||SPU to set up Manubhai Shah chair in business studies||Vadodara/ Anand: Vallabh Vidyanagar based Sardar Patel University (SPU) will set up professor Manubhai M Shah chair at its business studies department.The chair will be set up in memory of the late professor, who was one of the first teachers during the foundation years of the post-graduate department in the education town.“We currently have eight chairs. Professor Manubhai M Shah Chair will be ninth in our university. His son Anil Shah, who is currently based in United States, has donated Rs 5 lakh towards setting up this chair in the business studies department,” said SPU vice-chancellor professor Shirish Kulkarni.Late professor Shah, who had studied MSc in economics from London School of Economics, had authored many books during his career.“As a teacher, he had also groomed many industrialists, professors, management experts among others,” said Kulkarni, adding that the chair will be formally inaugurated during a webinar on December 5. The department will carry out a series of activities including hosting seminars, webinars, organising talks among others in the area of commerce, business studies and associated subjects through the chair.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/spu-to-set-up-manubhai-shah-chair-in-business-studies/articleshow/79328865.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Mumbai||BEST rules out bus fare hike till March 2022||MUMBAI: There will be no BEST bus fare hike till March 2022. BEST's budget for 2021-22 was approved on Friday by a Shiv Sena-led committee, which also cleared nearly 2,500 new buses for Mumbai and an online portal for rooftop solar projects. As many BEST staff were charge-sheeted recently for being absent during Covid, BJP members staged a walkout in their support. The Rs 1,888-crore deficit budget proposes electronic boards at bus-stops showing expected time of arrival of buses, common mobility card project for BEST and Rs 446 crore for capital expenditure, part of which will be used to buy 100 new hi-tech double-decker buses. Prakash Gangadhare (BJP) had demanded a white paper on BEST on expenditure and a review of all 27 depots. He said one can generate permanent income from depot redevelopment. Former panel chairman Anil Patankar (Shiv Sena) said the fleet will increase to over 6,500 in two years and 10,000 in five years. "BEST should not entirely depend on BMC funding, and be self-reliant. It can explore advertisement revenue at bus-stops by allowing private agencies to redesign them, and commercially exploit depot space to generate more revenue," he said. He suggested rental housing on BEST plots, which can be given to students who come here for education, and can fetch more income for the transport body. "Mini- and midi-buses should be increased with good frequency in slum pockets, especially those with narrow lanes in eastern and western suburbs," he added. "BEST has 3,875 buses, including 1,099 on wet lease. Also, 300 electric buses have been ordered and bids for 600 single-decker CNG buses have been invited. We plan to increase the fleet to 6,337 on March 31, 2022," said BEST GM Surendrakumar Bagde. "BEST will also develop an online portal for grid connected rooftop solar projects and integration with ministry of new and renewable energy portal. It will encourage people to go in for solar rooftops," he added. Income expected in 2021-22 is Rs 4,939 crore, and expenditure Rs 6,827 crore, resulting in an overall deficit of Rs 1,888 crore. It includes a deficit of Rs 264 crore (power) and Rs 1,624 crore (transport), said committee chairman Pravin Shinde.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/best-rules-out-bus-fare-hike-till-march-2022/articleshow/79332671.cms||Somit Sen
November 21, 2020||Thane||Schools won't open on Monday in Mumbai metropolitan region, to remain shut till year-end||MUMBAI: Though the Maharashtra government's education department has allowed schools to reopen for classes IX to XII on November 23, the civic bodies of Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai and Panvel on Friday directed all schools in these cities to remain shut until the end of the year in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases and the possibility of a second wave. "While Covid-19 cases in the city are under control, there has been an increase in the past few days and the possibility of a second surge. It is happening across the world. That is something we wanted to be very careful about and not take a chance with children. The next 15 days (post Diwali) are critical, hence we have decided to wait," said Ashutosh Salil, joint commissioner in the BMC. The civic body has, however, allowed SSC and HSC re-exams to continue as per schedule. ‘Decision to keep schools shut till Dec 31 should have come earlier’After reporting 409 cases on Monday and 541 on Tuesday, fresh Covid-19 detections jumped to 871, 924 and 1.031 in Mumbai on Wednesday, Thursday and Friday respectively. In preparation for reopening campuses for classes IX to XII, the BMC had over the past few days facilitated RT-PCR testing for nearly 9,000 teachers. The state’s standard operating procedure (SoP) requires that teachers test negative for Covid-19 before they begin teaching. Schools and local bodies had also begun sanitizing premises ahead of Monday’s planned reopening. In Thane, guardian minister Eknath Shinde instructed the collector to keep schools and colleges shut till year-end in the district. Thane collector Rajesh Narvekar later issued orders to this effect to municipal corporations and zilla parishads. The Panvel City Municipal Corporation chief too issued similar orders on instructions of the Raigad guardian minister. Minister for school education Varsha Gaikwad said the final call on starting classes IX to XII is to be taken by local authorities. “The district collector, education officer and group development officer have been instructed to take a decision considering the Covid-19 cases in view of the health of students. Even though physical classes have not started, online teaching will continue,” Gaikwad said. While most schools were not planning to reopen immediately due to lack of consent from parents, some were hoping to resume classes and preparations were under way. “Our parents were willing to send the children to school as a lot of our students don’t have access to online education. Our teachers had undergone RT-PCR tests and we had sanitized our premises,” said the principal of an aided school in South Mumbai. Teachers’ groups said the decision should have come earlier to save the resources spent on sanitizing, testing etc. “The orders are also only for students. If students are going to study online, the government must also withdraw its decision that demands 50% attendance from teachers. Teachers travelling to schools will mean an additional strain on public transport,” said Prashant Redij of Mumbai Principals’ Association. A similar demand has been made another teachers’ group, Shikshak Parishad. (Inputs by B B Nayak)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/maharashtra-schools-wont-open-on-monday-to-remain-shut-till-year-end/articleshow/79332704.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Mumbai||Schools won't open on Monday in Mumbai metropolitan region, to remain shut till year-end||MUMBAI: Though the Maharashtra government's education department has allowed schools to reopen for classes IX to XII on November 23, the civic bodies of Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai and Panvel on Friday directed all schools in these cities to remain shut until the end of the year in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases and the possibility of a second wave. "While Covid-19 cases in the city are under control, there has been an increase in the past few days and the possibility of a second surge. It is happening across the world. That is something we wanted to be very careful about and not take a chance with children. The next 15 days (post Diwali) are critical, hence we have decided to wait," said Ashutosh Salil, joint commissioner in the BMC. The civic body has, however, allowed SSC and HSC re-exams to continue as per schedule. ‘Decision to keep schools shut till Dec 31 should have come earlier’After reporting 409 cases on Monday and 541 on Tuesday, fresh Covid-19 detections jumped to 871, 924 and 1.031 in Mumbai on Wednesday, Thursday and Friday respectively. In preparation for reopening campuses for classes IX to XII, the BMC had over the past few days facilitated RT-PCR testing for nearly 9,000 teachers. The state’s standard operating procedure (SoP) requires that teachers test negative for Covid-19 before they begin teaching. Schools and local bodies had also begun sanitizing premises ahead of Monday’s planned reopening. In Thane, guardian minister Eknath Shinde instructed the collector to keep schools and colleges shut till year-end in the district. Thane collector Rajesh Narvekar later issued orders to this effect to municipal corporations and zilla parishads. The Panvel City Municipal Corporation chief too issued similar orders on instructions of the Raigad guardian minister. Minister for school education Varsha Gaikwad said the final call on starting classes IX to XII is to be taken by local authorities. “The district collector, education officer and group development officer have been instructed to take a decision considering the Covid-19 cases in view of the health of students. Even though physical classes have not started, online teaching will continue,” Gaikwad said. While most schools were not planning to reopen immediately due to lack of consent from parents, some were hoping to resume classes and preparations were under way. “Our parents were willing to send the children to school as a lot of our students don’t have access to online education. Our teachers had undergone RT-PCR tests and we had sanitized our premises,” said the principal of an aided school in South Mumbai. Teachers’ groups said the decision should have come earlier to save the resources spent on sanitizing, testing etc. “The orders are also only for students. If students are going to study online, the government must also withdraw its decision that demands 50% attendance from teachers. Teachers travelling to schools will mean an additional strain on public transport,” said Prashant Redij of Mumbai Principals’ Association. A similar demand has been made another teachers’ group, Shikshak Parishad. (Inputs by B B Nayak)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-schools-wont-open-on-monday-to-remain-shut-till-year-end/articleshow/79332675.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Schools won't open on Monday in Mumbai metropolitan region, to remain shut till year-end||MUMBAI: Though the Maharashtra government's education department has allowed schools to reopen for classes IX to XII on November 23, the civic bodies of Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai and Panvel on Friday directed all schools in these cities to remain shut until the end of the year in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases and the possibility of a second wave. "While Covid-19 cases in the city are under control, there has been an increase in the past few days and the possibility of a second surge. It is happening across the world. That is something we wanted to be very careful about and not take a chance with children. The next 15 days (post Diwali) are critical, hence we have decided to wait," said Ashutosh Salil, joint commissioner in the BMC. The civic body has, however, allowed SSC and HSC re-exams to continue as per schedule. ‘Decision to keep schools shut till Dec 31 should have come earlier’After reporting 409 cases on Monday and 541 on Tuesday, fresh Covid-19 detections jumped to 871, 924 and 1.031 in Mumbai on Wednesday, Thursday and Friday respectively. In preparation for reopening campuses for classes IX to XII, the BMC had over the past few days facilitated RT-PCR testing for nearly 9,000 teachers. The state’s standard operating procedure (SoP) requires that teachers test negative for Covid-19 before they begin teaching. Schools and local bodies had also begun sanitizing premises ahead of Monday’s planned reopening. In Thane, guardian minister Eknath Shinde instructed the collector to keep schools and colleges shut till year-end in the district. Thane collector Rajesh Narvekar later issued orders to this effect to municipal corporations and zilla parishads. The Panvel City Municipal Corporation chief too issued similar orders on instructions of the Raigad guardian minister. Minister for school education Varsha Gaikwad said the final call on starting classes IX to XII is to be taken by local authorities. “The district collector, education officer and group development officer have been instructed to take a decision considering the Covid-19 cases in view of the health of students. Even though physical classes have not started, online teaching will continue,” Gaikwad said. While most schools were not planning to reopen immediately due to lack of consent from parents, some were hoping to resume classes and preparations were under way. “Our parents were willing to send the children to school as a lot of our students don’t have access to online education. Our teachers had undergone RT-PCR tests and we had sanitized our premises,” said the principal of an aided school in South Mumbai. Teachers’ groups said the decision should have come earlier to save the resources spent on sanitizing, testing etc. “The orders are also only for students. If students are going to study online, the government must also withdraw its decision that demands 50% attendance from teachers. Teachers travelling to schools will mean an additional strain on public transport,” said Prashant Redij of Mumbai Principals’ Association. A similar demand has been made another teachers’ group, Shikshak Parishad. (Inputs by B B Nayak)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/maharashtra-schools-wont-open-on-monday-to-remain-shut-till-year-end/articleshow/79332706.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Goa||Goa: Schools leave no stone unturned to create awareness on reopening SOPs||PANAJI: As schools in Goa partially reopen from Saturday for students of Class X and XII, institutes are doing everything in their capacity to create awareness about their SOPs among students. Some, like Panaji’s People’s High School, are employing innovative ways to drive home the point. The institute has filmed a video in which four of its students are seen demonstrating the SOPs. School managing trustee Rahul Deshpande said that besides circulating the video on class online groups to generate awareness among parents and students, the video was also made available to the managements of six other schools based in and around Panaji for use. “We had to create awareness among students about the dos and don’ts, so we sat down and decided the highlights on which students have to be educated,” said Deshpande. “They will come wearing their own masks. But it was important to educate them about not borrowing things like water bottles. Also, as students of Class X and XII do not get midday meals, they expect to go to the canteen. That is why we put the video in place.” He added that the institute has 120 students in Class X and around 160 in Class XII, across four streams. The video also urges students to take responsibility for sanitising their own desks by getting diluted disinfectants in a bottle from home and newspaper pieces to wipe it off. “We will be sanitising the school premises, but students need to be made aware about cleaning their own desks as the peon cannot be after every student. If students get the disinfectant from home, then continuous sanitisation can be ensured, and they also become responsible at their level,” said Deshpande, who shot the short video himself. In Curchorem, the New Educational Institute has printed their SOPs on the undertaking which the institute will make parents and students sign, consenting to them. “The school has carried out the required sanitisation with its own funds, but it is not clear from the directorate of education’s circular who will be responsible if anyone is infected during the physical classes,” said school manager Satyesh Kakodkar. “Therefore, besides the undertaking, we have also instructed our school security guard to check the students’ temperature with a thermal scanner when they enter as well as when they exit school. And the student will be made to sign a register confirming this.” At the Government Higher Secondary School, Sakhali, parents will have to attend a presentation on the SOPs on day-1 of school reopening, on November 21. “We have made batches of 30 parents, who will be given the presentation,” said principal Asha Naik. “We will explain the chart of class timings we have drawn up. To be able to maintain social distancing, students have been broken up into batches and classes will be held accordingly. And therefore, one student may only have classes once or twice a week. At times, some students may not inform parents about the school schedule. So we are conducting the presentation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/schools-leave-no-stone-unturned-to-create-awareness-on-reopening-sops/articleshow/79331153.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
November 21, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt mulls plan to regulate flights and trains from Delhi||MUMBAI: With Delhi reporting a surge in Covid-19 cases, the Maharashtra government is considering restricting flights and trains into the state from the national capital. The Mumbai-Delhi route is the busiest for air traffic. Senior officials from the state government said the issue came up during a discussion on steps the state needs to take in the post-Diwali phase to check the spread of infections. "It is still under consideration. The proposal came up in a discussion on precautionary measures to be taken. A final decision hasn't been taken as yet," said state chief secretary Sanjay Kumar. A senior official said whether trains and flights connecting the two cities need to be stopped altogether or merely restricted is a matter of debate. A decision will have to involve ministries of civil aviation and railways. Delhi has experienced a sudden spike since October 28 when the daily tally breached the 5,000-mark for the first time. It crossed the 8,000-mark on November 11, and there were a total of 5.1 lakh cases and over 8,041 fatalities in the capital as on Friday. The Mumbai-Delhi route is the busiest domestic route in India, with about 45 direct flights daily between the two cities (see graphic). Besides Mumbai, direct flights from Delhi are operated to Pune, Nashik, Nagpur and Aurangabad in Maharashtra. The railway route too is a busy one with over 15 trains operated from Mumbai and nearby stations in the surrounding region either on a daily or weekly basis to Delhi. Each train carries around 1,600 passengers. Delhi is also a popular transit stop for domestic passengers from Mumbai bound for destinations further up north. "Passengers bound for Delhi and Mumbai won't be the only category to be hit if a ban is enforced. Those travelling to Patna, Lucknow, Ranchi often opt to transit via Delhi as it's cheaper,'' said an airline official. Similarly, several trains that originate in other states come via Delhi into Maharashtra. A Mumbai International Airport Ltd spokesperson said they had not heard from the state about any such ban being proposed. The railway ministry in a tweet said, "There have been reports in section of media today about cancellation of certain trains on Delhi Mumbai sector. It may be clarified that Railways has NOT taken any decision regarding cancellation of trains on Mumbai Delhi sector." Meanwhile, Maharashtra has done away with the process of stamping for a 14-day home quarantine with indelible ink on the hands of passengers at railway stations and airports.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-govt-mulls-plan-to-regulate-flights-and-trains-from-delhi/articleshow/79332709.cms||Bhavika Jain
November 21, 2020||Goa||Goa: GCET 2021 on schedule in May||PANAJI: The Goa Common Entrance Test (GCET) for the next academic year 2021-22 will be held as per the usual dates, on May 4 and May 5, 2021 as of now, the directorate of technical education (DTE) has announced. GCET is held for admissions to engineering and pharmacy programme degree seats in Goa. The test will begin on May 4 with the physics paper to be held from 10am to 12noon. The chemistry paper will be held on the same day from 2pm to 4pm. On May 5, the mathematics paper will be conducted from 10am to 12 noon, the DTE said. “Admissions to BE, BPharm courses in Goa for the academic year 2021-22 shall be carried out on basis of GCET-2021, (Goa Common Entrance Test), which shall be conducted in various centres across Goa, in the subjects of physics, chemistry and maths, based on Class XII syllabus of Goa Board,” the directorate said. Students aspiring for admission only to BPharm course need not answer mathematics subject at GCET-2021, the DTE notice stated. In 2020, due to the pandemic, the GCET had to be rescheduled and admissions were delayed, as also the start of the current academic year 2020-21, which has only just begun.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gcet-2021-on-schedule-in-may/articleshow/79331206.cms||---
November 21, 2020||India||India for 'unequivocal' UNSC stand on terror||NEW DELHI: India has called on the UN Security Council to "speak unequivocally" against violence and terrorist forces and "act against terrorist sanctuaries and safe havens". Speaking in the Security Council on the Afghan peace process, India's permanent representative to the UN TS Tirumurti said, "For durable peace in Afghanistan, we have to put an end to terrorist safe havens and sanctuaries operating across the Durand Line. The report of the Analytical Support and Sanctions Monitoring Team under the al-Qaida/Da'esh Sanctions Committee has also highlighted the presence of foreign fighters in Afghanistan. For violence to end in Afghanistan, these terrorist supply chains must be broken." He also called for an immediate and comprehensive ceasefire in Afghanistan. For the peace process to move forward, India put forth four suggestions: First, that "the peace process must be Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled. Solutions must come from the Afghans themselves". Second, Tirumurti said, there must be "zero tolerance of terrorism in all its forms and manifestations". With a thinly veiled reference to Pakistan, he said, "Afghanistan can succeed only when terrorism no longer flows across the Durand Line. Terror and violence can't be the instrument to shape Afghanistan's future or dictate the choices Afghans make. It is important to ensure that no one provides sanctuary to terrorists who threaten Afghanistan or any other country in the region." India also made an impassioned plea that the "gains" of the past couple of decades should not be lost. In other words, India is cautioning the world against leaving Afghanistan in a place which could see the Taliban overrunning Kabul and taking the reins of power with Pakistan's help. With their regressive mindsets, the progress made in the past few years, notably among women, could be lost. "India is convinced that the rights of women need to be strongly protected," Tirumurti said. Addressing the problems Afghanistan faces due to its land-locked situation and the curbs imposed by Pakistan, India demanded that Afghanistan should get "full transit rights" and which could not be used by other states to extract political mileage. "The international community should discourage medieval mentalities and work towards removal of artificial transit barriers imposed on Afghanistan. It should ensure all transit rights guaranteed to Afghanistan under bilateral and multilateral transit agreements operate without hindrance," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-for-unequivocal-unsc-stand-on-terror/articleshow/79332712.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Goa||Moong, jaggery, oil to be part of midday meal for students in Goa||PANAJI: Moong, jaggery and soya bean oil will be provided to students from Class I to VIII as part of the midday meal scheme for a period of 100 days during the current academic year 2020-21, as schools for these classes are yet to resume due to the pandemic. The food items are being provided in lieu of the midday meal as part of food security allowance to primary and upper primary schools of government and government-aided schools. “The food items in packets will be delivered to schools by Goa Sahakar Bhandar, Panaji, as per the enrolment of the school, which are to be distributed with the help of cook cum helpers assigned to the school within a period of 12 working days,” the circular by director of education Santosh Amonkar stated. School heads have been told to keep track of the distribution of the food items and submit it to the office of the education inspector for the taluka within two days. “These instructions have been issued as per the guidelines of the ministry of education, government of India. Considering the guidelines of the National Food Security Act, you cooperation is highly solicited in this regard,” Amonkar told schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/moong-jaggery-oil-to-be-part-of-midday-meal-for-students/articleshow/79331255.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh reports 1,221 Covid-19 cases, 10 deaths||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 1,221 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the cumulative case load to 8,59,932. The toll increased to 6,920 as 10 more people succumbed to the novel coronavirus disease. As many as 1,829 patients were declared cured on Friday. There are currently 15,382 active cases with 8,37,630 cumulative recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of above 97%. The discharge rate was almost 99% in Kurnool and Vizianagaram districts. East Godavari reported 202 new infections on Friday, followed by Krishna (198 cases), Chittoor (175), West Godavari (145) and Guntur (144). The remaining eight districts recorded less than 100 cases with Kurnool registering as low as 19 cases. There are less than 1,000 active cases in seven districts. The state recorded 66,633 cases between October 21 and November 20. But five districts - East Godavari, West Godavari, Krishna, Chittoor and Guntur - collectively accounted for nearly 68% cases detected during this time. West Godavari with 10,692 cases, for the first time, surpassed its neighbouring East Godavari (9,631 cases). Krishna (8,505 cases) stood in the third place in terms of number of cases, followed by Guntur (8,312 cases) and Chittoor (7,885). Kurnool (1,070 cases) recorded the lowest number of infections among all districts in the last one month. Of the 10 deaths registered on Friday, two each are from Chittoor and Krishna, and one each from East Godavari, Guntur, Kurnool, Nellore, Prakasam and Visakhapatnam. Andhra Pradesh so far conducted about 95 lakh Covid-19 tests with an overall case positivity rate of 9%. The daily case positivity came down to some 2% in the last few days, including on Friday.  There are currently 15,382 active cases with 8,37,630 cumulative recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of above 97%. The discharge rate was almost 99% in Kurnool and Vizianagaram districts||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-reports-1221-covid-19-cases-10-deaths/articleshow/79328657.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Goa||‘Shut resort for discharging sewage in open’||Calangute: The Calangute Citizens Forum on Friday alleged that a resort in Agar Vaddo, Calangute, is releasing untreated sewage in an open place called ‘Fondvem’, which is used for rain water drainage. A video of the resort discharging sewage through a pipe has gone viral on social media platforms.’ “Releasing sewage in open spaces is illegal and creates pollution in surrounding areas, which may attract several diseases,” the forum stated in a letter to the chief secretary and other authorities. It has demanded that the resort be shut immediately and the management be directed to build the necessary infrastructure to handle its sewage. Calangute panchayat member Shawn Martins said the panchayat had received the memorandum. “We have seen the video and through locals we have tried to check whether it’s sewage or pool water. It seems to be sewage. We will be issuing the resort a notice for inspection,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/shut-resort-for-discharging-sewage-in-open/articleshow/79331287.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: No new Covid-19 cases at VIMS four days in a row||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS) — the most important hospital for high-risk Covid-19 patients in north Andhra Pradesh — has seen no new Covid-19 patients in the last four days. VIMS has handled 2,800 high-risk Covid-19 patients between April and November. “Of those admitted, nearly 200 patients have succumbed to Covid-19,” said VIMS director Dr K Satyavara Prasad. Speaking to TOI, the VIMS director said, “VIMS used to admit high-risk Covid-19 patients such as people with comorbidities, renal failures and those whose oxygen saturation levels have touched danger levels. For the last four days, we have not received a single Covid-19 patient.” “This doesn’t mean that Covid-19 has been completely controlled. We appeal to people to take all preventive measures to stop further spread of the disease,” the VIMS director said. District medical and health authorities said that King George Hospital (KGH) is currently treating Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/no-new-covid-cases-at-vims-4-days-in-a-row/articleshow/79328678.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
November 21, 2020||Mumbai||Bihar police file murder FIR in actor’s death in Andheri||MUMBAI: It sounds like a retelling of the tragic Sushant Singh Rajput story. Two months after an actor hailing from Bihar was found dead at his apartment in Mumbai, police from his home state have filed a case of murder against his female companion and her sister based on allegations made by his family back home. The similarity in the cases ends there though. Unlike the Rajput episode, Bihar's police is not insisting on participating in the probe this time. The case has, in fact,been transferred from Bihar to Amboli police station in Andheri. And Amboli police have said they will not make arrests without sufficient evidence. Actor Akshat Utkarsh (26) lived in Andheri (W) with a female friend. On the night of September 27, she woke up to use the washroom and found him hanging and summoned police. No suicide note was found. Based on preliminary investigations and statements recorded in the case, Amboli police had said it was a case of suicide. Police had also said Utkarsh was in financial distress as he did not find work during the lockdown. Utkarsh's uncle had then told the police they did not suspect foul play. An accidental death record was made by the Amboli police. Utkarsh hailed from Muzaffarpur. The actor was a travel enthusiast and fitness lover. His social media accounts had images of him working out and going for treks.In a complaint to Bihar police, though, Utkarsh's family said in his last phone conversation with them, the actor had spoken about his female friend pressuring him to tie the knot. His family added he had told the friend he would only marry a woman selected by his father. Based on his family's statement, Bihar police registered a case under Section 302 of Indian Penal Code for murder against Utkarsh's friend and her sister. "We will investigate the case thoroughly from all angles. There won't be any arrests without gathering sufficient evidence," said a senior officer. Earlier , in connection with Sushant Singh's death, Mumbai and Bihar police had conflicting views. While Mumbai police said Rajput's death was a suicide and filed an accidental death case, Bihar cops booked actor Rhea Chakraborty and six others on charges of abetment to suicide and cheating. Bihar police's case was lodged on the basis of a statement by Singh's father. A Bihar police team landed in Mumbai to investigate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bihar-police-file-murder-fir-in-actors-death-in-andheri/articleshow/79332735.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Goa||Send pics of those dumping waste illegally, says MMC||MARGAO: In order to rein in culprits dumping garbage in the open at night and odd hours, the Margao municipality has requested citizens to click photos of such persons as also that of the vehicles used to dump the waste and to forward them to the chief officer on the WhatsApp number 7030910926. Chief officer of Margao municipality Agnelo Fernandes pointed out how a vigilant citizen of Fatorda helped the municipality track down one such culprit. The alert citizen had clicked photos of a vehicle found dumping 20 bags of garbage at Fatorda and forwarded them to the chief officer. “After obtaining the vehicle details, a notice was issued to the vehicle owner, a resident of Calangute, asking him to pay a fine of Rs 10,000 or face imprisonment under Municipal Solid Waste Rules, 2016, and Section 5 of the Environment Protection Act, 1986,” Fernandes said. The vehicle owner appeared before the chief officer and submitted in writing that he had already sold the vehicle to a person from Margao, following which a notice was sent to the latest owner of the vehicle, a city-based restaurant owner. “He submitted that since the waste was not collected by the municipality’s garbage collectors, the waste was dumped at the aforesaid location, and prayed for leniency, this being his first offense,” Fernnades said. Issuing a stern warning, the chief officer fined him Rs 2,500. Dumping of garbage is an offense which is punishable under law with a fine upto Rs.10,000 or imprisonment of six months under the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/send-pics-of-those-dumping-waste-illegally-says-mmc/articleshow/79331297.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Cricket bookies come up with pocket-friendly betting apps||VIJAYAWADA: While the state government is cracking down on all forms on online gambling in Andhra Pradesh, recent trends show that cricket bookies are coming up with their own mobile applications to run operations. According to the police, bookies conventionally use betting apps from countries where gambling is legal. However, among the rackets busted recently, cops found that a number of apps were made locally. “In many international cricket betting apps, the minimum bet is predominantly Rs 50,000 which is difficult to afford for many participants and small-time bookies find it difficult to run the racket. Hence, they (bookies) have come up with their own apps,” a senior police official told TOI. A case-in-point is the October 24 bust at Murali Nagar under Penamaralu police station limits where nine alleged gamblers were arrested from an apartment. The group was allegedly using an application called ‘cricket mazza’. Prior to that, police busted another app-based cricket betting racket at Machavaram Employees Colony where the accused were allegedly using an app called ‘Avatar’. Police have found four such applications in use across AP. The apps seem to have been developed in Hyderabad and punters are predominantly from Vijayawada, Bengaluru, Visakhapatnam and other urban areas. Cops further warned that some of these applications are also designed by cyber conmen who use punters’ desperation to cheat them of money. “Victims of such cybercrimes don’t even come forward to report these incidents since gambling itself is a crime,” a police official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cricket-bookies-come-up-with-pocket-friendly-betting-apps/articleshow/79328710.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
November 21, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Quarantine on wheels; Bharat Darshan tourist trains to have isolation coaches||VISAKHAPATNAM: In a bid to improve pandemic-related safety in trains, the Indian Railways has now decided to attach isolation coaches to moving trains. The four trains run under the Bharat Darshan package will have isolation coaches where patients experiencing Covid-19 symptoms en route will be put. Speaking to TOI, IRTC Bhubaneswar regional manager Kaushik Banerjee said, “Such packages are usually designed for six to ten days. So, we have to keep some quarantine facilities for passengers who develop Covid-19 symptoms en route.” “Each train will have 11 sleeper class coaches and one AC-III tier coach as well as a pantry car. One of these sleeper class coaches will be used as an isolation coach if and when required,” Banerjee told TOI. Since the Covid-19 outbreak, the Indian Railways developed over 5,000 Covid-care coaches across the country. These coaches were restricted to stations and were catering to quarantine needs of respective state governments. Now, isolation coaches will be fitted with moving trains. Moreover, in order to maintain physical distancing on trains, the IRCTC has planned to allow booking of only 60% berths in these tourist trains. “Generally, an AC-III tier coach has 64 berths and a sleeper coach has 72. If you enter a coach, you will find six berths on one side and two side-berths on the other. Out of these eight, bookings are allowed for only five berths,” added Banerjee. Initially, IRCTC south central zone will resume operation for its first Bharat Darshan train from Secunderabad on December 12. The trip — Dakshin Bharat Yatra — will take passengers from Secunderabad to Warangal, Khammam, Vijayawada, Ongole, Nellore and Renigunta. The second train — South India Temple Tour — will start from Bhubaneswar on January 2, 2021 and take passengers to Berhampur, Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam. Later, two more such tourist trains will be run, one from Secunderbad and another from Visakhapatnam. These trains will tour pilgrimages in north India. As part of Covid-19 safety measures, berths will be sanitised periodically and there will be contactless delivery of meals. “Passengers are advised to bring a negative PCR report for a test conducted not more than 48–72 hours before boarding. Otherwise, they will have to give a declaration in writing at the time of boarding,” Kaushik Banerjee added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/quarantine-on-wheels-bharat-darshan-tourist-trains-to-have-isolation-coaches/articleshow/79328728.cms||Arpit Basu
November 21, 2020||Goa||Karnataka official’s vehicle clamped near casino||PANAJI: In its continued drive to penalise those parking haphazardly in the city limits, especially those wrongfully parked near casinos, the corporation of the city of Panaji (CCP) and the traffic cell clamped the official vehicle of the president of the Nipani municipal council on Friday. The four-wheeler with Karnataka registration was clamped at about 1am. Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar said that the occupants of the vehicle had likely gone to the casino leaving their vehicle behind. “The civic official has been fined and the vehicle was released on Friday morning,” he said. CCP along with the traffic cell commenced the night drive to crackdown on parking violations after several residents living near the casinos complained of congested or blocked paths. The crackdown will continue till the end of this month. The CCP will hold another meeting with the traffic cell to take steps to continue the drive in December. Panaji MLA Atanasio Monserrate had held a meeting with the DySP traffic and PI of the Panaji traffic cell, CCP commissioner and mayor in this regard on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ktaka-officials-vehicle-clamped-near-casino/articleshow/79331305.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Former Chittoor MLA Satyaprabha passes away||TIRUPATI: Former Chittoor MLA DA Satyaprabha died at a private hospital in Bengaluru in Karnataka on late night Thursday. The 70-year-old former MLA is survived by a son and two daughters. Satyaprabha tested positive for Covid-19 in October and was admitted to a private hospital after her condition worsened on November 3. Born at Sadum in Chittoor district, Satyaprabha was married to industrialist DK Adikesavulu Naidu, who had served as Chittoor MP and twice as TTD chairman. Following her husband’s death, Satyaprabha joined politics and was elected as an MLA from Chittoor on a TDP ticket in 2014. In 2019, she unsuccessfully contested against PV Mithun Reddy for the Rajampet Lok Sabha seat. Family sources informed TOI that final rites of the former MLA were carried out in Bengaluru on Friday. Several TDP functionaries extended their condolences to the bereaved family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/former-mla-satyaprabha-passes-away/articleshow/79328750.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
November 21, 2020||Goa||Incumbent among 8 aspirants for pollution board chief post||PANAJI: Eight persons have applied for the post of chairman of Goa State Pollution Control Board (GSPCB) while four persons have applied for the post of member secretary. GSPCB chairman Ganesh Shetgaonkar, Chandrashekher Rivonker, Dr K G Gupta, Rajas Salkar, Mahesh Patil, Dr Manoj Borkar, Dr Ulhas Sawaikar and Dr Dipak Gaitonde have applied for the post of chairman. Current member secretary Dr Shamila Monteiro, Maria Fernandes, Derrick Fernandes and Dr Geeta Nagvenkar have submitted applications for the post of member secretary. A senior officer said that as per procedure, the chief minister will hold a meeting to select the chairman, while the chief secretary will call a meeting to finalise the member secretary. In October, the department of environment and climate change has advertised for the posts of chairperson and member secretary for GSPCB. The chairperson will be nominated by the selection committee on a contract/deputation basis, while the member secretary will be nominated by the selection committee for a period of three years on the same criteria. The criteria for the candidates were knowledge of Konkani and residence in Goa for at least 15 years. The chairperson must hold a master’s degree in environmental sciences and environmental management or a bachelor’s degree in engineering/technology in environmental engineering or an equivalent degree or a bachelor’s degree either in geology, botany, chemistry or an allied subject and should have practical experience in matters relating to environment protection and abatement of pollution at least for 15 years. The age limit for the chairperson must be 62 on the last date for the receipt of applications, while the age limit for the member secretary must not exceed 60 years on the last date of receipt of applications.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/incumbent-among-8-aspirants-for-pollution-board-chief-post/articleshow/79331308.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Delhi||At 7.5°C, Delhi records coldest November night in 14 years||NEW DELHI: Delhi had its coldest night in November since 2006 as the minimum temperature early Friday dropped to 7.5°C, five notches below normal, with the city witnessing cold-wave conditions, met officials said. The last time that the minimum temperature dipped lower was on November 29, 2006 at 7.3°C. Track the pollution level in your cityThe lowest temperature recorded last November was 11.4°C, in 2018 it was 10.5°C. The India Meteorological Department is likely to declare a cold wave on Saturday if the temperature remains five degrees below normal. Snowfall in hills brings in cold airThe maximum temperature on Friday was 25.4°C, two notches below normal. Scientists at IMD said the sharp drop in temperature is mainly due to cold wind blowing from the snow-clad Himalayan region and lack of cloud cover. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head, regional weather forecasting centre, said, "As the wind direction continues to be north-westerly, cold winds are coming from Jammu and Himachal Pradesh, which received snowfall. Besides, clear skies in the day cause heat to dissipate quickly and make nights cooler than usual." On Thursday, the city had recorded a minimum temperature of 9.4°C. In 2017, the minimum temperature had dipped to 7.6°C in the last week of November. IMD data showed that the average normal minimum temperature is 12.9°C. Delhi even saw its coldest October in 58 years this time with an average minimum temperature of 17.2°C. According to the forecast, the minimum and maximum temperatures on Saturday are likely to be around 8o C and 25°C, respectively. "The minimum and maximum temperatures are expected to further reduce to 7°C and 24°C on Sunday," said Srivastava. Meanwhile, the city’s air quality index in the "poor" category on Friday with a reading of 296. The System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research, the forecasting body under the Union ministry of earth sciences, said 495 fire counts were observed in neighbouring states and the share of stubble burning in Delhi’s PM2.5 was 15%. Watch Delhi records coldest November night in 14 years||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/at-7-5c-delhi-records-coldest-november-night-in-14-years/articleshow/79332742.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
November 21, 2020||Goa||Vasco MLA proposes blue flag certification for Baina beach||Pic: Baina (No credit) Vasco: Vasco MLA Carlos Almeida on Friday announced that he has proposed to the state government for a blue flag certification for Baina beach. He said that the fishermen will be taken into confidence and the work will be carried out in a phased manner. “Although Baina was a red light area, it would still generate income to Vascoites. After the removal of the slum, the area was not utilised to generate income. If the beach gets a blue flag certification, it will attract tourists coming to Goa via rail, road, air and the port, and businesses in Vasco will benefit,” said Almeida. While stating that since the last three years tourists have been visiting the Baina beach, the Vasco MLA said, “Last year around 4,000 tourists came to Baina beach for water sports activities, but we don’t have proper facilities and attractions for them.” Commenting on the performance of the Mormugao Municipal Council (MMC), Almeida said stability of the civic body is very important for it to perform well. “There was no stability in the council during the last two terms, which saw many changes to the chairperson’s post.” Former MMC chairperson Deepak Naik said, “With our MLA’s support we have managed to increase revenue, settle the payment issue, purchase vehicles, etc.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/vasco-mla-proposes-blue-flag-certification-for-baina-beach/articleshow/79331315.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 21, 2020||Mumbai||5,640 test +ve in Maharashtra; Mumbai adds over 1,000 patients after 8 days||MUMBAI: For the second day in a row the state added more than 5,500 cases of Covid-19 on Friday, with the 5,640 new cases the highest daily detection figure for the month. The total caseload rose to 17,68,695. The state added 155 fatalities, taking the death toll to 46,511. After eight days, new Covid-19 cases in the city crossed the 1,000 mark for the first time with the addition of 1,031 cases, which took the tally since the first case in March to 2.73 lakh. There were 12 deaths. BMC officials said the higher number of cases was a reflection of increased testing. "During Diwali, fewer tests were conducted as people were in a festive mood," additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said. In the 24-hour period ending Friday morning, the BMC reported carrying out 17,260 tests. "Despite the increased tests, the positivity rate is only 7%. The increased tally is hence not a post-Diwali surge," Kakani said. He said the number of daily deaths continued to be low. Nine of the latest Covid-19 deaths in the city were of people over 60 years of age. "Deaths are lower, most of the oxygen-supported beds are vacant and ICU beds, too, are available in BMC hospitals," Kakani said. He said the BMC had adequate medicines, beds and facilities. The recovery rate in the city climbed to 92% but the doubling rate dropped from over 300 days to 296 days. A doctor who treats Covid-19 in the private sector said he was treating more patients this week over the last. Dr Rahul Pandit, who heads the ICU in Fortis Hospital, Mulund, and is a member of the state Covid-19 task force, said that ICU admissions had increased. "From eight patients, we are up to 21 now," he said. Doctors said the patient numbers, though, were not overwhelming as in May and September. While a public health department update on November 6 had added 6,870 cases for that day, way over Friday's 5,640, it had clarified that the new cases were only 5,027 and the higher figure was the result of 1,843 old cases being added to the progressive caseload of Nagpur. The state has now completed a crore Covid-19 tests and the cumulative positivity rate is around 17.6%. The recovery rate is nearly 93%. Public health minister Rajesh Tope said people violating guidelines should look at the spike in cases in Delhi and Kerala. "These days people have taken Covid-19 for granted. There is very little adherence to norms prescribed by the government. The cases in state are also slowly increasing," he said. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region added 1,963 cases and 27 deaths, taking the total cases to 6.1 lakh and the death toll to 18,468. Kalyan-Dombivli reported 144 new patients and four deaths, taking the tally to 52,384 and 1,039 deaths. In Thane, 180 new Covid-19 cases were reported, taking the tally to 49,573. With four deaths, the toll touched 1,148. Navi Mumbai added 168 cases, taking the total to 46,787. There were three deaths, taking the toll to 953.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/5640-test-ve-in-maharashtra-mumbai-adds-over-1000-patients-after-8-days/articleshow/79332750.cms||Bhavika Jain
November 21, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Travel on trains for SSC, HSC re-exams||MUMBAI: The Railways allowed teaching and non-teaching staff with valid identity cards, and students with valid hall tickets for the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Education (SSC and HSC) re-examinations to travel by local trains up to December 10. Valid ID cards/exam hall tickets are a must for entry at stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/travel-on-trains-for-ssc-hsc-re-exams/articleshow/79332753.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: No deaths reported in 21 districts||BENGALURU: Karnataka reported 1,781 fresh coronavirus infections on Friday. Of these, 1,067 were in Bengaluru. Seventeen Covid-19 patients, most of them male, died in the state. Bengaluru saw six deaths. Twenty-one districts didn’t report any fatalities. The daily mortality rate on Friday was less than 1 per cent. Overall, 11,621 people have died because of Covid-19 in the state. Seven districts reported less than 10 new infections on Friday. More than 2,180 patients were discharged across the state. The state’s Covid-19 case tally stands at 8.6 lakh. Nearly 96 per cent of the patients (8.3 lakh) have been discharged so far. Bengaluru has logged 3.6 lakh cases, the highest in Karnataka. Mysuru, which has seen 49,797 cases, is the second worst-affected district. Ballari (38,018), Dakshina Kannada (31,474) and Hassan (26,627) are next on the list. A total of 24,752 patients are currently undergoing treatment. Nearly 540 are in intensive care units. Bengaluru Urban district has 17,663 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-no-deaths-reported-in-21-districts/articleshow/79332755.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Delhi||Many patients flouting isolation norms in Delhi: Survey||NEW DELHI: The state government had to hike the fine for not wearing a mask in public from Rs 500 to Rs 2,000 on Thursday, but civil defence volunteers, who fanned out in different areas of South West district for a house-to-house survey covering 58 lakh Delhiites from Friday, came across far worse violations and irresponsible behaviour by Covid-positive people. At least 10 such patients, who were to stay in home isolation for 17 days, weren’t at home. One had gone for a stroll while another was out to buy milk. A man in Dwarka Sector 18, who had completed only seven days in home isolation, was already in his office in Gurugram. Another patient in Palam was found to be regularly going out to a park. His wife and son are also positive. ‘Patient’s son said she had gone to market’Vinod Bharadwaj, additional chief warden, civil defence, of South West district said the children of a woman in Palam told the survey team that their mother, a Covid patient, had gone to the bazaar to buy milk. Nearly 10,000 people — civil defence volunteers and ASHA workers — are going from house to house in and around containment zones and in super spreader areas to identify people who face a high risk, check on those under home isolation and their family members and neighbours and get the vulnerable tested. Beyond containment zones, people in places which have reported many Covid cases will also be screened. The teams are also educating people about Covid-appropriate behaviour. As part of the survey, the physical parameters of the residents of these areas, including their temperature and oxygen saturation, will be checked and those found with any symptoms will undergo RT-PCR tests. When one of the survey teams reached a house in Bindapur to check on a Covid positive person, they found that the house was locked. “The entire family went out somewhere a few days ago,” an official said, quoting neighbours. A 30-year-old Covid patient was found missing in Janakpuri when the survey team landed at his home. “We were told that the person does not stay at the given address. He had been put in home isolation at the same house but we were told that this was the residence of his father and he stays in Noida. The person never informed the medical team which has been monitoring him about his Noida address so that the district medical team could inform the authorities in Noida,” said an official. Bharadwaj said home isolation violations were also found in Mohan Garden, Uttam Nagar and Najafgarh and the age of the violators ranged from 22 to 55. The district officials informed the police about these cases on emergency helpline number 112. In one case, a field worker lodged a written complaint with the Dabri police station stating that the mother of a Covid positive person who was found missing from his house in Uttam Nagar had misbehaved with them. An official said some of these people turned up after some time and claimed that they had never left their home and were always there. “Most of them did not have any clear explanation about their absence from home. Some said they decided to go out because they did not have fever or any other symptom and were generally feeling well,” said an official. A Delhi government official said that the decision to not put up posters outside the homes of people under home isolation may have prompted them to step out of their homes. Dr Mahesh Verma, a member of the Delhi government’s expert panel on Covid, said the decision on posters has removed the stigma associated with Covid patients, adding that the government cannot deploy cops outside every home. “People should be careful and follow the guidelines because otherwise they will be risking their health as well as exposing others to infection. Since air quality is poor, outdoor activities of Covid positive persons may aggravate their health conditions,” he warned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/many-patients-flouting-isolation-norms-in-delhi-survey/articleshow/79332762.cms||AlokKNMishra
November 21, 2020||Mumbai||Favipiravir cuts treatment time: Mumbai trial||MUMBAI: While World Health Organisation (WHO) on Thursday recommended against using antiviral remdesivir for severely ill Covid-19 patients, Mumbai doctors published the first scientific study showing another antiviral, favipiravir, reduced "cure time" in mild cases. "We found favipiravir improved the time to clinical cure by around three days," said the study's main author Dr Zarir F Udwadia. Patients who took the drug cleared the virus 30% (two days) faster than those on standard treatment. The study has been published in the peer-reviewed International Journal of Infectious Diseases. "This may not sound like a very big difference, but is significant. There are so few treatment options that when a drug gives even a promising signal, it's exciting news," said Dr Udwadia. Since the Covid-19 pandemic began almost a year back in Wuhan, China, various drugs have been tried out to control it. Apart from steroids, though, none of the other drugs ranging from plasma to remdesivir to HCQS have been scientifically shown to help Covid-19 patients. The current favipiravir trial was conducted from May 3 to July 3 among 150 patients admitted at Breach Candy Hospital; as it was a randomised trial, 75 patients were given favipiravir and another 'control group' other drugs. "The median time to cessation of viral shedding was five days versus seven days in the control group," said the study. The median time to clinical cure was three days in the 75 patients treated with favipiravir versus five in the control group. The study concluded favipiravir may be beneficial in mild-to-moderate Covid-19 cases. "If the results from our study are validated by other larger studies currently underway in Boston and Stanford, favipiravir could have a role akin to oseltamivir (another antiviral used to treat influenza such H1N1)," said Dr Udwadia. Dr Shashank Joshi, member, state task force on Covid, concurred favipiravir is a "good" drug. "It is a good drug if used in the first 72 hours. One needs to hit hard and hit early," said Dr Joshi, who was not a part of the current study but had previously published one on favipiravir. The drug is widely prescribed in India for patients who prefer home isolation as it is an oral medicine (remdesivir is given in IV form in hospitals). "DCGI approved the use of this drug rather prematurely, I thought, in the early days when the pandemic was raging in June. It was important for us to put this drug to the test by rapidly designing a good randomised, multicentre Phase-3 study, which we implemented aided by the main manufacturer of this drug, Glenmark," said Dr Udwadia. "It's a safe drug, except in pregnant or lactating women."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/favipiravir-cuts-treatment-time-mumbai-trial/articleshow/79332766.cms||Malathy Iyer
November 21, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: After clinic’s hard work during lockdown, doctors push for slum health||BENGALURU: Fear of contracting Covid-19 and carrying the infection home and satisfaction of serving the needy were among the conflicting emotions that healthcare teams from Bangalore Baptist Hospital experienced while working at a slum clinic during the lockdown. A study on these doctors and nurses’ demanding stint in DJ Halli, from March 23 to May 1, has been published in the British Medical Journal. It’s called ‘Challenges, experience and coping of health professionals in delivering healthcare in an urban slum in India during the first 40 days of Covid-19 crisis’. Researchers involved in the study say that Covid-19 is a wake-up call and government officials must include ‘slum health’ in universal healthcare. “This is not going to be the first or the last pandemic. As per the 2011 census, more than 65 million people live in slums. Such areas account for 7 per cent of the country’s GDP. With this study, we urge policy makers to seriously consider slum health,” said study lead Dr Carolin Elizabeth George, who heads the community health and research division at Bangalore Baptist Hospital. The clinic in DJ Halli has been functioning for the past 10 years. The daily hours (except Sunday) are 8.30am to 4.30pm. It remained open to residents during the said lockdown period, when many medical establishments were forced to suspend operations. The team comprised family physicians, dentists and ophthalmologists. “Initially, we were all worried about reaching out to patients and ensuring safety. In March, when the mortality rate was believed to be high with several deaths in Italy, there was initial hesitation to continue working in the slum. But we saw how important the facility was to locals as patients with severe stomach infection, fever, infection in the gums and worsening diabetes status sought immediate treatment every day during the lockdown,” Dr George said. The clinic also screened suspected Covid-19 cases and advised such patients to undergo tests at government labs. Overcrowding and lack of personal hygiene among residents was the main worry of clinic staffers. The staffers wore PPEs and took other necessary precautions. To date, none of them have tested positive for Covid-19. In one instance, there was police intervention in the middle of consultation as public movement was not allowed during lockdown. The study describes the initial dilemmas, stress and adaptive measures of healthcare teams, which found ways to cope so they can continue to provide services to the needy. Eighty-seven healthcare professionals — doctors, nurses, paramedical and support staff — were divided into two groups for the study. Forty-two participated in the qualitative method of study and 64 in the quantitative survey. The majority of the staff members (75 per cent) experienced fear at some point. The participants in the quantitative survey cited hobbies (20.3 per cent) and spending more time with family (39.1 per cent) as means of emotional regulation. Happiness was the predominant feeling among 36 per cent of the team members. In qualitative interviews, the fear of death and infecting loved ones, anxiety about probable violence and stigma in slums and exhaustion emerged as the major themes causing stress among healthcare professionals. Dr Leeberk Raja Inbaraj and Dr Shon Rajukutty from Bangalore Baptist Hospital and Dr Luc P de Witte from the Centre for Assistive Technology and Connected Healthcare (CATCH) were the co-authors of the study.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/after-clinics-hard-work-during-lockdown-doctors-push-for-slum-health/articleshow/79331878.cms||Sunitha Rao R
November 21, 2020||Surat||Covid test must to enter Surat city||SURAT: Municipal commissioner, Banchhanidhi Pani, has stated that there is no plan to impose curfew in Surat, but warned that the residents who had gone out for vacation will have to undergo rapid antigen testing at the entry points in the city. “During Diwali vacation, many residents had gone out. We will ensure that each person entering into the city will be tested for Covid-19,” said Banchhanidhi. “People are expected to start coming from Monday and that our teams of doctors and nurses will be deployed at the railway station, bus stations and entry points to check people entering into the city” added Pani. Pani stated that it has been observed during the vacations that people were roaming around carefree without wearing masks. At this point of time till the vaccine is not found, mask is the only weapon to fight Covid-19. “It is a big cause of concern that people have become carefree. It is our humble request to all the residents to wear face masks when they move out of their houses and maintain social distancing. We do not want to impose curfew in the city, but if need be we may take such decision on the lines of Ahmedabad,” said Pani. According to Pani, the contact tracing activity has been beefed up in the city by the health teams. The persons suffering from cough, fever and cold have been requested to visit their nearest health centre or Dhanvantri Rath for the rapid antigen testing. As on Friday, the city has about 29,750 Covid-19 cases. Of these, the highest number of cases are reported from the posh Athwalines zone. Till now, the Athwalines zone has about 5,663 cases followed by 4,988 cases in Katargam, 4,403 cases in Rander, 3,265 cases in Varachha-A, 3,122 cases in Limbayat and 2,855 cases in central zone. “Scores of people from city have gone out to various tourist and other spots during the vacation. Once they will start coming into the city, there is a high chance of the spread of the infection. However, we are requesting each and every person who has gone out of the city to get themselves tested for the Covid-19,” said Dr Ashish Naik, deputy municipal commissioner. “The Covid-19 cases are expected to increase during the winter season. We are requesting the residents to always wear face masks and maintain social distancing,” added Naik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/covid-test-must-to-enter-surat-city/articleshow/79328655.cms||---
November 21, 2020||Rajkot||35-year-old man immolates self in hospital||Rajkot: A 35-year-old man immolated self in the premise of Morbi civil hospital on Thursday night. He sustained sever burns and was shifted to Rajkot civil hospital after his condition became critical. According to A division police station of Morbi, the man identified as Manoj Nagla was an outdoor patient and was undergoing psychological treatment. Police said that Nagla was seen moving in the Morbi hospital premise since evening and at about 10pm he sprinkled inflammable substance on his body and set himself ablaze. It is not know from where did Nagla get the inflammable substance, police said. Nagla is native of Nani Vavdi village on the outskirts of Morbi town. Police said that Nagla has a wife and a son in his family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/35-year-oldman-immolates-self-in-hospital/articleshow/79328158.cms||---
November 21, 2020||India||UP: Kappan PFI man, used cover of journo||NEW DELHI: The UP government told the Supreme Court on Friday that Siddique Kappan, who was arrested while trying to reach Hathras, was not a journalist but an officer-bearer of the radical Popular Front of India (PFI) and was masquerading as a mediaperson along with activists of PFI's students' wing to create social tension and a law and order situation in UP in the wake of the "gang-rape". "Kappan is the office secretary of Popular Front of India who was using a journalist cover by showing the identity card of a Kerala-based newspaper named 'Tejas' which was closed in 2018. It is revealed during investigation that he along with other PFI activists and their students' wing (Campus Front of India) leaders were going to Hathras under the garb of journalism with a very determined design to create a caste divide and disturb law and order situation," the UP government said in a strongly-worded response to the writ petition filed on behalf of Kappan. Rebutting a Kerala journalists' body's charge that Kappan had not got legal assistance and that he was arrested without any evidence, the UP government said Kappan and his three associates - Atikurrahman, Alam and Masood - were duly represented by lawyers before a Mathura court. The state government said the three accused had filed bail pleas before the Mathura court, which dismissed these after hearing a battery of lawyers from Delhi and other places for nine days. "It is a deliberate attempt by the journalists' body to move the SC for bail when the accused was competent to move the Allahabad high court for the same relief. It is pertinent to mention that on October 6, one advocate Maula Ali, who had come from Delhi, duly interacted with accused Kappan in the court premises with the permission of the CJM," it said. Denying the charges of the journalists' body that Kappan had not been allowed to talk to his relatives, solicitor general Tushar Mehta told a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian that Kappan had talked to his mother and wife and that his arrest on October 5 was immediately conveyed to his brother and uncle, whose phone numbers were provided by the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/up-kappan-pfi-man-used-cover-of-journo/articleshow/79332815.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
November 21, 2020||Bengaluru||Colleges in Bengaluru reopen, but teachers still on Covid-19 duty||BENGALURU: Colleges in the state reopened for offline classes from Tuesday and students are trickling in but several teachers in government colleges continue to be on Covid duty with the BBMP and unable to come to campuses. The department of collegiate education has written to the BBMP chief and principal secretary of higher education department to relieve all its teaching and non-teaching faculty so that they can return to administrative and academic duties. “We need to get back to campus for teaching. I finish my Covid duty around 3pm every day and even if I head back to college, I can’t meet students or take classes. We are also expected to create content for the new Learning Management System that provides content for a web/ app platform the department is launching. We don’t get to spend enough time on our primary duty of teaching,” said a lecturer from Government Science College, Bengaluru. Teachers point out that with several of them on Covid duty, those on campus are bearing the burden. “We have only two of eight teachers in the department currently on campus,” the teacher added. Students should be teachers’ primary focus, say expertsSome teachers have been relieved, while others continue with doorto-door surveys and uploading data. “Four of the 25 teachers recruited for Covid duty have returned. We have 60 of 85 faculty on campus now,” said a teacher of the science college of Maharani Cluster University. “The consolation is that we have only final-year students now, and since only 50% of students are coming to campus, we’re able to manage with staff we have,” said a teacher of the commerce stream of the University. Pradeep P, commissioner of collegiate education, said: “We’re trying our best to get teachers back to campus. We understand that colleges are short-staffed. We sent a proposal to the government on recruiting guest lecturers.” Maya Menon, founder-director of The Teacher Foundation, said that teachers’ main focus should be students. “Teachers’ primary role must be to meaningfully engage students in learning. When teachers are asked to do unrelated work just to keep them busy, the government is diminishing the status of teachers and of learning per se. This makes them cynical or indifferent early in their profession. They get by trying to do the bare minimum,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/colleges-in-bengaluru-reopen-but-teachers-still-on-covid-19-duty/articleshow/79332718.cms||---
