November 22, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru’s stage shows resume, in the new normal||Choreographer Diya Naidu staged her first live show after a gap of almost eight months, on Friday. The performance, which was held at an open venue in the city, saw a limited audience in attendance. The show, one of the first live performances to be held post lockdown, was held for an audience of only 20 members, who were seen wearing masks at all times. "It feels so nice to watch a live show after so many months. I missed all this and am glad that such a show was held," said a member of the audience. At the venue, the audience had to undergo mandatory temperature checks and sanitisation, and had to wear masks at all times during the performance. The piece, which spoke about longing and yearning, was performed by four dancers - Maitreyee Joshi, Snigdha Prabhakar, Paridhi Bihani and Diya Naidu - and witnessed an active engagement from the audience members, who were asked to write about their emotions through the event, which were later incorporated in the performance itself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengalurus-stage-shows-resume-in-the-new-normal/articleshow/79341065.cms||Sandra Marina Fernandes
November 22, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru's Live performances resume, in the new normal||Choreographer Diya Naidu staged her first live show after a gap of almost eight months, on Friday. The performance, which was held at an open venue in the city, saw a limited audience in attendance. The show, one of the first live performances to be held post lockdown, was held for an audience of only 20 members, who were seen wearing masks at all times. "It feels so nice to watch a live show after so many months. I missed all this and am glad that such a show was held," said a member of the audience. At the venue, the audience had to undergo mandatory temperature checks and sanitisation, and had to wear masks at all times during the performance. The piece, which spoke about longing and yearning, was performed by four dancers - Maitreyee Joshi, Snigdha Prabhakar, Paridhi Bihani and Diya Naidu - and witnessed an active engagement from the audience members, who were asked to write about their emotions through the event, which were later incorporated in the performance itself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengalurus-live-performances-resume-in-the-new-normal/articleshow/79340995.cms||Sandra Marina Fernandes
November 22, 2020||Goa||ISL: FC Goa begin new era with Bengaluru clash||PANAJI: This is a new era for FC Goa, an era where their most successful coach and players are no longer around. Instead, there is a new crop of players, many of them young, and guiding them all will be Juan Ferrando. The Indian Super League (ISL) draw does not do him any favour. He’s up against the might of Bengaluru FC at the Nehru Stadium in Fatorda on Sunday. The two teams have met on seven occasions and records don’t favour FC Goa, having secured their only win three years ago at the same venue in a 4-3 thriller. “Everyone knows that the pre-season was very short and the big problem for us and other teams is that all the players played last in March so it’s not possible working like a normal team. The intensity is not so great and it is time to pay attention to the muscle of the players ahead of important games,” Ferrando told TOI during an online interaction on Saturday. “This is the situation but most important thing for us is to control the emotions and forget the stress. We have to try to play and game by game improve our team,” he said. FC Goa had to rebuild their squad after the exit of coach Sergio Lobera who moved to Mumbai City FC along with key players including Golden Ball winner Hugo Boumous, Ahmed Jahouh, centre-back Mourtada Fall and captain Mandar Rao Desai.  “We play against a very good team. Last three years they have been with the same coach and more or less we share the same philosophy. Now we are in a new chapter and a new team. We have been working together for only six weeks. Some points are difficult, but our mentality is positive. All the players are ready,” said Ferrando. Since the early days of Zico when the franchise was launched in 2014, FC Goa have always believed that attack is the best form of defence. It will be interesting to see how Ferrando chooses his formation and playing 11. The club’s longest serving foreigner captain Edu Bedia is likely to be supported by Lenny Rodrigues who has proved his consistency in midfield after making the switch from Bengaluru two seasons ago. Since then he has featured in 41 games for Goa. Nobody needs reminding about Brandon Fernandes’s talent, while Spaniards Alberto Noguera, Jorge Ortiz and Igor Angulo will look to pile on the pressure up front. At the other end, Bengaluru have strengthened their side with Carles Cuadrat now into his fourth season. The former champions have retained their core and bolstered their foreign contingent with Norwegian striker Kristian Opseth and Brazilian winger Cleiton Silva. “Everybody knows Goa is a full complete squad with a new coach which means new ideas and foreigners. I’m sure the challenge for Juan Ferrando is to prepare for the first game as best as possible. “I’m sure they have been studying us and try another kind of intention from previous seasons, so we have to be ready for anything,” said Cuadrat. The Spanish coach had the edge over FC Goa in the 2018-19 final when they won 1-0 in extra time. The two teams have always provided for fierce encounters; at last count, there have been five red cards in seven games. Given their track record and consistency, Bengaluru FC are no doubt the favourites, but Ferrando’s arrival has given FC Goa a new belief.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fc-goa-begin-new-era-with-bengaluru-clash/articleshow/79345459.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
November 22, 2020||India||Nagrota encounter: Evidence show terrorists were in touch with Pak handlers||JAMMU: Investigations into the Nagrota encounter case have revealed that the four slain Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) terrorists were in constant touch with their handlers in Pakistan. According to sources, investigating agencies retrieved some text messages, suspected to have originated from the terrorists’ handlers in Pakistan, from the mobile phones recovered from the truck in which they had been travelling. One text message shared with the media reads, “Kahan phnche, kya soorte haal hai. Koi mushkil toh nahi (Where have you reached? How are things?. I hope no trouble so far).” The terrorist handling the mobile phone replied briefly: “at 2 o’clock”. Besides a huge haul of arms and ammunition, the security forces had recovered Pakistan-made digital mobile radios and mobile handsets, model MPD-2505, shoes manufactured in Pakistan, a wireless set, a GPS device and Pakistani SIM cards. Sources said a guide is believed to have brought the terrorists to the Jammu-Pathankot highway from where they boarded a truck. The investigating agencies have launched a manhunt for the guide. The sources added that Karachi-manufactured medicines and other items found on the slain terrorists also suggest Pakistani involvement. Watch Nagrota encounter: Pak High Commission officials in Delhi summoned by MEA||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nagrota-encounter-evidence-shows-terrorists-were-in-touch-with-pak-handlers/articleshow/79345491.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
November 22, 2020||Lucknow||Going to school in a rickshaw, bun kebab for one rupee, that was school in the 90s: Roshan Abbas||Every morning a line of rickshaws used to snake out of Lucknow bylanes at around 6.30 am with chattering chimps. Till 5th grade I was one of them. Six to a rickshaw (in some superhuman ones that defied the laws of physics, even 9), precariously balanced, making a pit stop at four houses in Aminabad with the rickshaw puller protesting about the ‘late lateef’, a mother shoving a last aloo puri in the mouth of an overfed child. These were typically school mornings. We used to pass a Hanuman temple, then a cinema hall, then a Church, bowing reverently at each (yes, even the cinema hall as it held our other Gods) and then it was the crossing past Rover’s (our local Pop Tates) and the final rush as the rickshaw would pick up speed heading downhill to La Martiniere. Jimmy Shiergill at St Francis College where he studied (BCCL)Claude Martin’s legacy lived in the beautiful architecture, the cannons, the golf course but for us, La Martineire was a treasure map of unexplored secrets, a boot camp for our boyhood, our Hogwarts with its secrets and stories. School was about shared tiffins and dreams. A one rupee pocket money was enough for a bun kebab but just glaringly low of 25 paise for a bun shami. We would gather during breaks for this treat. An occasional physical education class or NCC parade would have us trudging down the La Martiniere grounds as Mr Ireland checked us for polished shoes, smart socks, haircuts, etc. Roshan at a birthday party in 1982 (BCCL)I remember a spate of classes from different years. Seated in the classes adjoining Spence Hall where I would look forward to Geography with Mrs Kapoor, English with Elton, History with Mr Fernandes, Biology with Mr Dutta. The madcap chats with Mr Carville, Ma’am Savaille and Mrs Singhs unconditional love and support and the dreaded Mrs Shaw who could see through all our excuses. There are so many more names, pet names and characteristics that made each of them special during those school days. Roshan shot his debut film Always Kabhi Kabhi at his alma mater La Martiniere College, as a trubute to the school. Here he poses with the cast of (clockwise) Zoa Morani, Satyajeet Dubey, Ali Fazal and Giselli Monteiro (BCCL)1.30 pm and we would all head back, again the chain of sweaty rickshaws in the summer and the occasional senior with a bike. It didn't matter if it was a Hero Honda or an Explorer, it was a sign of manhood. Only a handful of students had Ambassador cars, Maruti OMNI vans and Fiats. Your drop off vehicle almost defined your social status even back then. My real joy was always the extracurricular activities that were held post 1.30PM. Debates, drama, elocution, Just a Minute, Quizzing. Our carefree life. No social media, no devices except the phone next door at my nani’s which was always under lock and key. You could receive a call but not make one. That would cost a LOT. I laugh when I see my kids’ phone bill today. Roshan (extreme right) and the teachers and students of the La Marts debating team in 1988 (BCCL)As class 12th had approached we started thinking about the future. Our parents’ brows would crease as they discussed viable career options. In those days it was IIT, CPMT or for the sturdier/sportier Mart kids, the armed forces. A batch before me one student had gone to Delhi University. His stories were amazing. My love for biology had shifted to a love of drama. And Delhi beckoned. Even today I remember how my parents were given advice to bring me back to the tested path. Here was a studious boy who had left the drive for being a world class doctor to being a world class dramatist? Or debater? Or god knows what. Faisal Hussain and Roshan in 1987 (BCCL)Today my peers’ children often speak to me from Lucknow about colleges in Mumbai, Delhi and Pune. About courses in dramatics or journalism, data science or machine learning. Many have their sights set on studying abroad. My dad used to teach at the Polytechnic and in those days we felt it was in another city, Colleges, I am told, are now stretching across the length and breadth of Lucknow and beyond. The roads in Lucknow are today mostly crowded beyond belief, with youth from all over UP arriving to make their mark. The fact that it is the state capital and the place for progress, protest or parivartan has the human melting pot arrive to try their luck and its sheer size amazes me. Roshan Abbas (BCCL) Lucknow was about lazy lunches, endless cups of tea meets that stretched for zoom. My dear friend Manav Thadani (of Mayfair fame) had his children over to school a few years ago, and I was there too and they all marvelled at the size, the sheer space available to us in school. Space not just in land, but in hearts too and experiences too!||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/going-to-school-in-a-rickshaw-bun-kebab-for-one-rupee-that-was-school-in-the-90s-roshan-abbas/articleshow/79341061.cms||Iti Shree Misra
November 22, 2020||Lucknow||The ball was in the LU court this time!||A nail biting basketball match between the present students and the alumni took place recently during on-going centenary celebrations of Lucknow University. The match was held on the LU ground in which the alumni team defeated the current students team by a huge margin. The basketball competition was inaugurated by Arvind Singh Gope, former UP minister and former President of Lucknow University Students Union and Prof. Alok Kumar Rai, LU VC. (L) Arvind Singh Gope (R) Boys playing basketball (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui)(L) Arvind Singh Gope (R) Boys playing basketball (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui) Players from the alumni team seemed more enthusiastic than the present team as they made maximum noise with their cheering and clapping. YEH BALL MUJHE DE DE BACHCHE! (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui)YEH BALL MUJHE DE DE BACHCHE! (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui) In the match, Ashish Singh shot three points 7 times, while Alok Shukla shot three points twice. Interestingly, the alumni won the match by 32-20.  — Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui HOWZZAT! (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui)HOWZZAT! (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/the-ball-was-in-the-lu-court-this-time/articleshow/79340915.cms||---
November 22, 2020||India||Amid shortage of essentials, Punjab farmers end rail roko||CHANDIGARH/BATHINDA/AMRITSAR: Punjab farmer unions, which have been protesting for over two months against the Centre's three contentious agri-marketing laws, agreed on Saturday to accept chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh's appeal and decided to allow passenger trains to run in the state from November 23 till December 10. The decision to lift the rail blockade was announced by Bharti Kisan Union (Rajewal) president Balbir Singh Rajewal at a meeting of farm group representatives with the Punjab CM. Rajewal, however, warned that the blockade would be resumed if the central government failed to hold talks with farmers' representatives in the next 15 days to address their concerns about the contentious laws. Farmer leaders Buta Singh Burjgill and Darshan Pal said despite the relaxation for passenger trains, all other protests, including blocking of toll plazas, petrol pumps and businesses owned by the Reliance Group, and protests outside BJP leaders' residences, would continue. "The proposed protest in Delhi on November 26-27 remains in force," they said. Amarinder also urged the Modi government to reciprocate by restoring all train services in the state, and also to hold talks with the farmers' representatives. The CM said the blockade had caused Punjab Rs 40,000 crore in losses so far. He also highlighted the acute shortage in the state of coal, fertilisers and urea, among other essential commodities. A large number of industrial units had closed down in Ludhiana and Jalandhar due to scarcity of raw material, resulting in six lakh migrant labourers going back to their natives places, he told the unions. He assured the farm leaders that he would meet the PM and home minister Amit Shah soon to press for their demands. The CM also promised the farm representatives he would look into their other demands, including sugarcane price hike and clearance of dues, as well as withdrawal of FIRs registered in stubble-burning cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/amid-shortage-of-essentials-punjab-farmers-end-rail-roko/articleshow/79345956.cms||---
November 22, 2020||India||Nod for Ayurveda doctors to do surgeries||In a move that has sent shock waves in the medical community, the government has brought out a notification that will allow Ayurveda doctors to be trained and legally allowed to perform a variety of general surgical, ENT, ophthalmology, ortho and dental procedures. However, the president of the Central Council of Indian Medicine said that these surgeries have been going on in ayurveda institutes and hospitals for over 25 years and that the notification was merely to clarify that it is legal. The notification dated November 19 listed the procedures that will be included in the PG training of Ayurveda doctors by amending the Indian Medicine Central Council (Post Graduate Ayurveda Education) Regulations, 2016. It stated that the amendments were being made with the sanction of the central government. During the period of study, post-graduate scholars of Shalya tantra (general surgery) and Shalakya tantra (surgeries of the ear, nose, throat, head and eye) will be practically trained to perform various surgical procedures independently. General surgical procedures include amputation of gangrene, skin grafting, laparotomy (opening up of the abdomen), many advanced gastro-intestinal surgeries. Under Shalakya tantra they will be trained to do fairly advanced ophthalmic surgeries such as iris prolapse surgery, squint surgery, cataract surgeries of all kinds. "Postgraduate courses in surgery, ENT and ophthalmology have been there in ayurved since 20-25 years and we have always had surgical OPDs... No one had looked into the legality of what has been happening for decades. So, after consultation with the ministry and Niti Aayog, it was decided to put it down in writing to make it clear that what is already being done is legal," explained Dr Jayant Deopujari the president of Central Council of Indian Medicine (CCIM). "General surgery is a part and parcel of modern medical science which cannot be mainstreamed with ayurveda. Introducing training modules to the postgraduate curriculum of ayurvedic studies leading to titles such as MS (Ayurved) can potentially disrupt and jeopardise the basic standards of care and safety of patients," said Dr P Raghu Ram, president of the Association of Surgeons of India. Watch In a first, Centre allows Ayurveda doctors to do surgeries||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nod-for-ayurveda-doctors-to-do-surgeries/articleshow/79346366.cms||---
November 22, 2020||India||BJP-AIADMK tie-up to continue for 2021 Tamil Nadu polls||CHENNAI: The ruling AIADMK on Saturday made it clear that its alliance with the BJP would continue for the forthcoming assembly elections. In the presence of Union home minister Amit Shah, AIADMK coordinator O Panneerselvam and joint coordinator Edappadi K Palaniswami vowed to continue the "victorious AIADMK-BJP alliance" in the next polls. They were speaking at a government function organised to lay foundation stones and inaugurate projects worth more than 67,000 crore in the city. The two leaders later called on Amit Shah at a hotel in MRC Nagar, where he will be staying for the night. Amit Shah, on his part, lauded the AIADMK government and its initiatives, especially in managing Covid-19, and assured the Central government's support to the state government and to the people of Tamil Nadu. Both the chief minister and deputy chief minister were providing good governance, said Shah. Extending a grand welcome at the airport and all along the route as Shah travelled into the city, the AIADMK leadership showered encomiums on PM Narendra Modi, and his trusted-aide. Panneerselvam said the state government would be able to ensure peace, progress and prosperity with the support of the Union home minister. Palaniswami said the AIADMK government had provided best governance in the last 10 years and had been receiving several awards for various departments. "I wish to state that our alliance will win majority of the seats in 2021 polls and the AIADMK will form the government," the CM said. He congratulated the Central government for kick starting the national economic recovery through multiple stimulus packages. Tamil Nadu benefitted immensely from the steps taken by the Centre for post-Covid economic recovery, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-aiadmk-tie-up-to-continue-for-2021-tamil-nadu-polls/articleshow/79346513.cms||Julie Mariappan
November 22, 2020||India||Stop launching terror attacks on our soil, India warns Pakistan||NEW DELHI: A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that the security forces had busted a plot to disrupt the district council elections in Jammu & Kashmir, the government warned Islamabad on Saturday against using terrorists to launch attacks in India and also said it will take all necessary action against terrorism to safeguard national security. Unusually, the PM tweeted on the Nagrota encounter, holding Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Muhammed responsible. It was a rare occasion that Modi commented on a security operation. India summoned Pakistan's charge d'affaires and conveyed "strong concern" over the attempted terror attack, saying it was only prevented by the alertness of Indian forces. Government sources said the Nagrota operation was a significant success for security forces, keeping in mind the recovery of a large number of arms and RDX. It was intended to cause a major terror incident and pointed to Pakistan's efforts to disrupt peace in the Union territory in the wake of several steps taken by the Centre following the nullification of Article 370. Read AlsoNagrota encounter: Evidence show terrorists were in touch with Pak handlersInvestigations into the Nagrota encounter case have revealed that the four slain Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) terrorists were in constant touch with their handlers in Pakistan. According to sources, investigating agencies retrieved some text messages, suspected to have originated from the terrorists’India reiterated its long-standing demand that Pakistan fulfil its international obligations and bilateral commitments to not let any territory under its control to be used for terrorism against India in any manner. The government of India is firmly and resolutely committed to take all necessary measures to safeguard its national security in the fight against terrorism,” it said. “The government of India expressed its serious concerns at continued terror attacks by JeM against India,” said the statement. The government recalled that JeM had been part of several attacks in India in the past, including the one in Pulwama in 2019 which led to the IAF strike on the jihadi training facility at Balakot. “The huge cache of arms, ammunition and explosive material indicate planning for a major attack to destabilise peace and security... in particular to derail the District Development Council elections,” it said. Watch Stop launching terror attacks on our soil, India tells Pakistan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/stop-launching-terror-attacks-on-our-soil-india-warns-pakistan/articleshow/79346597.cms||---
November 22, 2020||India||Kerala governor OKs controversial ordinance to protect women||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Kerala governor Arif Mohammed Khan has signed the controversial Kerala Police Act amendment ordinance, which the government claimed was intended to prevent cyber attacks on women and children. Various organisations, including CPI, a member of the ruling LDF government, had opposed the amendment that covers mass media too. The cabinet had proposed the 118(A) amendment to the Kerala Police Act, 2011 on October 21 and the governor had kept it pending till Friday. According to a press note issued by the CM's office on the day the ordinance was approved, the new section says, "anyone who produces content, publishes or propagates it through any means of communication with an intention to threaten, insult or harm the reputation of an individual will be punished with an imprisonment of five years or a fine of Rs 10,000 or with both". The government had reasoned that the ordinance was introduced amidst growing complaints about cyber bullying against women and children in which the accused persons couldn't be restrained by the existing provisions of law. Unlike a defamation case (Sections 499 and 500 of IPC), which needs a petitioner, the proposed amendment is a cognisable offence and any person can lodge a complaint or a police officer himself can suo motu register a case against the accused. Police can arrest the accused named in the FIR without a warrant too. The opposition UDF and internet and rights organisations had alleged that the amendment would give more power to police and curtail freedom of the press. Rebutting the charge, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the amendment would not be used against any news media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kerala-guv-oks-controversial-ordinance-to-protect-women/articleshow/79346714.cms||---
November 22, 2020||India||PM: With renewables push, India to cut carbon footprint by 35%||AHMEDABAD: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said that the country was moving briskly forward in its efforts to "reduce its carbon footprint by 30-35%" and exuded confidence that the target of renewable energy production would be achieved "before time". "We have set a target of 175 gigawatts of renewable energy by 2022 and 450 gigawatts by 2030. It's a big target, but I am confident of achieving it," Modi said while speaking at the eighth convocation of Pandit Deendayal Petroleum University (PDPU) via video conference. The PM said there are chances of exponential growth for the energy sector in India along with growth for enterprising spirit and employment. Reliance Industries Ltd chairman Mukesh Ambani, who is president of the board of governors at PDPU, said he was confident that India would be among the top three economies of the world in the next two decades, "In the post-Covid era, I clearly foresee explosive and exponential growth in the Indian economy," he said. Modi said efforts were on to improve the share of natural gas fourfold this decade and to double the oil refining capacity in the next five years. Stating that the energy sector will see massive investment this decade, Modi said students have a plethora of opportunities, from research to manufacturing. "You are in the right sector at the right time," he told the students. Acknowledging the hardships caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, Modi likened the current period to the Independence movement and exhorted students to champion the cause of Atmanirtbhar Bharat. Ambani added that a lot of opportunities would be created by young entrepreneurs. "By the middle of this century the world will use twice as much energy as we use today. In the next two decades, India's per-capita energy needs will be more than twice as much as today," he said. He said India has to simultaneously pursue the two goals of becoming an economic superpower and of becoming a green and clean energy superpower.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-with-renewables-push-india-to-cut-carbon-footprint-by-35/articleshow/79346746.cms||---
November 22, 2020||India||After 4 days, a slight dip in number of daily Covid cases||After having risen for four straight days, India's daily case count dropped marginally on Saturday even as three states reported their highest single-day tallies so far and the virus continued to surge in several other states. India reported 45,397 new cases on Saturday, down slightly from the previous day's count of 46,328, as per data collated from state governments. The day's death toll, at 500, had also reduced from the previous three days' numbers, all above 560. With this, the country's total caseload rose to 90,95,398 while the overall toll stood at 1,33,211. Rajasthan, Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh posted their highest daily addition of cases, with the tally crossing 3,000 in Rajasthan for the first time since the outbreak of the pandemic. The state recorded 3,007 infections while Gujarat logged 1,515 cases. Himachal Pradesh, too, was in the midst of a huge Covid-19 surge with 915 cases reported from the hill state in the past 24 hours. Cases were spiking in Madhya Pradesh as well, with the state reporting 1,700 fresh infections, the highest daily count since October 14. In Chhattisgarh, 2,284 new cases were recorded, the highest in the state since October 23. Haryana reported 2,666 cases, a slight drop from the record 3,104 recorded on Friday. Active cases rose by nearly 500 on Saturday. This was just the second time since October 1 that the count had registered a net rise in a day. In Maharashtra, a gentle surge in the daily number of Covid-19 cases was apparent across the state as well as in capital Mumbai for the fourth day in a row. A total of 5,760 cases and 62 deaths were reported on Saturday, taking the state's total caseload to 17,74,455 and fatalities to 46,573. The fatalities dropped by 60% from 155 on Friday to 62. The drop in fatalities was due to delay in uploading data by many districts, senior officials said. While the average number of cases in Mumbai was between 500 and 800 last week, cases have shot past 1,000 in the last two days. Tamil Nadu was among most states where the pandemic continues to decline. Active cases dropped to 12,916 on Saturday as the state set up three committees to oversee preparations for Covid-19 vaccination. The state reported 1,663 new cases and 18 deaths. Andhra Pradesh, meanwhile, reported 1,160 new Covid-19 cases and seven deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/after-4-days-a-slight-dip-in-number-of-daily-covid-cases/articleshow/79346762.cms||---
November 22, 2020||India||Covid-19: Rajasthan imposes night curfew in 8 districts; increases no-mask fine||JAIPUR: Amid spiralling Covid-19 cases, the Rajasthan cabinet on Saturday decided to impose night curfew in 8 districts and increased the fine amount on not wearing a face mask from Rs 200 to Rs 500, an official release said. Those venturing out to attend marriages, purchase essentials, train, bus and air travellers, and people related to essential services will be exempted, it said. The cabinet chaired by chief minister Ashok Gehlot met on Saturday night decided that a curfew will be clamped from 8 pm to 6 am in Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Bikaner, Udaipur, Ajmer, Alwar and Bhilwara, it said. Markets, restaurants, shopping malls and other commercial establishments in the urban areas of these districts will be closed by 7 pm and night curfew will start from 8 pm, it added. A maximum of 75 per cent employees will be called for duty in government and private offices in these districts where the number of employees is 100 or more. The staff will work on a rotation basis, the release said. In marriages, religious, social, cultural functions and political events, only 100 people will be allowed. The cabinet also decided that day care treatment facilities in private hospitals will be available on a rate fixed by the state government. Under this facility, non-critical Covid-19 patients will be sent back home in 2-3 hours after being given medication and treatment. It will also ease the availability of beds in hospitals, it said. It was informed in the meeting that hospitals attached with private medical colleges can now be acquired for making them dedicated Covid-19 facilities if required, it said. Also, the medical and health department will conduct door-to-door surveys in areas reporting a high number of cases, the release said. The number of new coronavirus cases in the state has increased to around 3,000 per day in November.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-rajasthan-imposes-night-curfew-in-8-districts-increases-no-mask-fine/articleshow/79346792.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Hubballi||KIMS opens exclusive cardiac block||Hubballi: Here is good news for patients suffering from cardiac related issues as the newly built cardiology block at the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) is all set to start treating the patients in the next few days. Presently poor patients requiring cardiac surgeries for their heart elements need to visit either Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research(JICSR) in Bengaluru or have to undergo treatment in private hospitals due to lack of facility in KIMS. The new cardiology block established here is expected to deliver quality cardiac care. KIMS sources said that on an average 500 patients visit the hospital to seek treatment for heart ailments, but despite having the infrastructure and equipment surgeries are not happening, the main reason being lack of cardiothoracic surgeons. As of now, the hospital has a cath lab, where minor procedures such as inserting stents, pacemaker, coronary angiography, angioplasty, balloon septostomy are being performed. KIMS director Ramlingappa Antartani said they are planning to appoint cardiothoracic surgeons. At present, KIMS has eight cardiologists. “G+3 block is having world-class infrastructure. We need a few equipment for the block and tenders have been floated in this regard. The new block has ICUs, operation theatres and outpatient department. The new block will have 60 beds. OPD for cardiac patients will also be available in this block,” he said. The construction of the new cardiology block started in 2010, but work came to a halt for some reasons. The work resumed in 2012 and completed a few months ago. Sanjay Lokappanavar, 60, from Annigeri said he underwent a heart valve replacement surgery at a private hospital in Hubballi and spent around Rs 8 lakh for the procedure. If the facility comes up at KIMS, patients will not have to spend so much and it will benefit for people in the districts of North Karnataka, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/kims-opens-exclusive-cardiac-block/articleshow/79344233.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
November 22, 2020||Patna||Braving winter chill, ‘vratis’ offer morning arghya in city||PATNA: Braving winter chill and cold weather, thousands of devotees offered ‘usha arghya’ on the concluding day of Chhath Puja on Saturday. Those, who wanted to avoid the crowded ghats, paid obeisance to the rising sun in their houses. The ‘vratis’ broke their 36-hour fast with sherbet, ginger tea, raw milk and home-cooked ‘prasad’. They also distributed ‘thekua’ and fruits among family members, relatives and neighbours. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, Kidwaipuri resident Mukti Sahay offered ‘arghya’ in her house and performed ‘havan’ before eating ‘prasad’. “The Chhath Puja rituals detoxify the body and create an aura of spirituality,” the 60-year-old told this newspaper. Quinquagenarian Rashmi Pandey, who celebrated Chhath at Gandhi Ghat, prayed for the well-being of her family. She hailed the district administration for all the arrangements made at the ghat. Another devotee, Neelam Devi, also thanked the administration as “Chhath celebrations went off peacefully”. Bahadurpur resident Annu Prakash broke her fast with tea and a meal that comprised ‘kaddu ki sabzi’, ‘palak saag’, raita, rice and ‘dal’. At the ghats, women applied ‘sindoor’ on the forehead of other ‘vratis’ after taking a dip in the Ganga. 47-year-old Pankhuri Agarwal said, “The vermilion is an epitome of good luck and prosperity.” The entire city wore a festive look and traditional Chhath songs resonated in every nook and corner on the last day of the festival. Idols of the sun God were also installed in different parts of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/braving-winter-chill-vratis-offer-morning-arghya-in-city/articleshow/79344217.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 22, 2020||Patna||A Vedic festival that knows no boundaries||PATNA: With thousands of devotees celebrating Chhath across the world, it is no more limited to any religion or region. They have embraced the ancient Vedic festival and pay obeisance to the sun God with full devotion. A native of Rajasthan, 50-year-old Sangeeta Goel, started performing Chhath rituals four years ago. Other Marwari families living in her apartment also celebrate the festival. “I was born and brought up in Bihar and have grown up listening to Chhath songs. That’s how I started observing fast during the four-day festival,” Sangeeta told this newspaper. Her neighbour, Sushma Ritolia, on the other hand, has been celebrating Chhath for the last 20 years. Boring Canal Road resident Archana Jain learnt about the Chhath rituals from her neighbour in 1995. The 61-year-old, who runs a boutique in the city, said, “This festival brought a positive change in my life with its purity and spirituality.” She thanked her entire family for supporting her throughout the four days. Punjabi Biradri president Diljeet Khanna, his wife Seema and sister-in-law Anju also observe fast during Chhath Puja. “In 2001, when I was facing some personal problems, my friend suggested me to celebrate Chhath Puja. By the grace of the sun God, all my wishes came true,” Khanna claimed. Several Muslims also celebrate the festival. 50-year-old Zulekha Khatoon and her husband Shahnawaz Alam began worshipping the sun God in hope of giving birth to a child. “After two miscarriages, my husband persuaded me to celebrate Chhath. We both observed fast with devotion and were blessed with a child,” said Zulekha, a utensil seller.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/a-vedic-festival-that-knows-no-boundaries/articleshow/79344229.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 22, 2020||Hubballi||Clarify stance on Gupkar Alliance, Joshi asks Rahul Gandhi||Dharwad: Union minister for parliamentary affairs and Dharwad MP Pralhad Joshi on Saturday called on former president of the All India Congress Committee (AICC) Rahul Gandhi to clarify his party’s stance on the ‘Gupkar Alliance’ of Jammu and Kashmir. Joshi said, “Representatives of this alliance are openly stating that they will not hoist the Indian flag, and are even talking of seeking China’s help for the restoration of Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir. The Congress is a part of this alliance, members of which are making flagrantly anti-national statements.” Joshi accused the Congress of trying to disavow any responsibility for being a part of the alliance, stating it was a decision taken by the Jammu and Kashmir unit of the party. “Rahul must clarify if his party stands for India’s integrity or the agenda of the Gupkar Gang,” the Union minister said. Training his guns at former chief ministers of Jammu and Kashmir, Farooq Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti, Joshi said, “The two leaders have been provoking the people to revolt against the Indian Army, and indirectly funding terrorist activities. Those who pelted stones on the Indian Army convoy were given amnesty when Mehbooba was the CM. Hundreds of such people were released and they are indulging in similar activities now.” Joshi asked Rahul to convene a meeting of senior leaders of the party, and make public the Congress’ stance on the Gupkar Alliance. “If the Congress fails to clarify its stand, one will infer that the grand old party that claims to be the guardian of the country is with China and Pakistan, and not India,” the MP said. Joshi was also critical of West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee for failing to crack down on political violence in the state. Claiming that more than 100 BJP workers in West Bengal had been killed, Joshi said that the BJP would defeat Trinamool Congress in the upcoming assembly elections, and work towards the development of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/clarify-stance-on-gupkar-alliance-joshi-asks-rahul-gandhi/articleshow/79345695.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Patna||‘Ensuring quality education is foremost priority of govt’||PATNA: JD(U) working president Ashok Choudhary, who is set to assume charge as the new education minister of the state, tells Faryal Rumi that ensuring quality education, boosting higher education and filling the vacancies of teachers in schools and colleges will be his priorities. Excerpts: What are your plans to improve education system in the state? We will focus on improving skills of teachers to ensure quality education. The state’s budget allocation for education sector has gone up to Rs 32,000 crore from Rs 24,000 crore. The Nitish Kumar-led NDA government was under attack from the opposition during electioneering, particularly for issues plaguing the education sector. Those who were criticising the government had forgotten what they had done in 15 years. Opening ‘charwaha vidyalaya’ in the state was their priority. From 12% till 2005, school dropout rate has come down to 1% now. The NDA government has created infrastructure and appointed teachers in schools. It will now focus on ensuring quality teaching. You are aware that there is still acute shortage of teachers in schools and colleges. For higher educational institutes, the process to recruit assistant professors through Bihar University Service Commission has already begun. As far as schoolteachers are concerned, advertisements have been issued to fill the vacant posts. What about quality of teaching in government-run schools? We will use new technology for teaching and assess the performance of teachers. Training will also be imparted to schoolteachers to ensure quality education. Are plans in place to improve the girls’ literacy rate and promote women’s education in the state? Chief minister Nitish Kumar has already announced that the government will give Rs 25,000 to the girls who pass Intermediate exams and Rs 50,000 to the ones who will graduate. The higher education infrastructure in the state will be improved further. Can Bihar be developed as the country’s education hub? There was no BIT, IIT and IIIT in Bihar before the NDA government led by Nitish Kumar came power. The CM is taking right steps to strengthen the state’s education system. There are so many demands of contract teachers. They are not satisfied with their service conditions. Teachers should concentrate on providing quality education to students and leave their grievances to us for redressal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ensuring-quality-education-is-foremost-priority-of-govt/articleshow/79344554.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Patna||ECR gears up to cope with post-Chhath rush||PATNA: In a bid to cope with the post-Chhath rush, the East Central Railway (ECR) is operating several special trains from all major stations under its jurisdiction. The occupancy rate of trains running on routes like New Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Chennai, Secunderabad and Bengaluru is quite high during the festive season. “Altogether 57 special trains, which originate from stations under the ECR’s jurisdiction, are helping passengers reach their destinations. There are 68 other trains that are passing through different stations under the ECR and clearing post-Chhath rush. Besides, 64 one-way trains are being operated from Patna and other places in Bihar,” ECR’s chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar told this newspaper on Saturday. More than one lakh people had reached Bihar from other states during Diwali and Chhath Puja. According to sources, a 30% increase has been witnessed in the number of passengers travelling to Delhi, Mumbai, Pune and Bengaluru from Patna after Chhath. Trains to Bengaluru and Delhi are running with a 100% occupancy rate. Railways beefs up security measures: With several trains originating from and passing through the Patna Junction and the Rajendra Nagar Terminal, the railways has beefed up security at the two stations. Premier trains like the Rajdhani Express and Sampoorna Kranti Express are also being checked thoroughly. Besides, RPF and GRP personnel are making sure that Covid-19 safety protocols are followed at the stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ecr-gears-up-to-cope-with-post-chhath-rush/articleshow/79344243.cms||Kumod Verma
November 22, 2020||Patna||AIMIM eyes expansion, will set up hubs in all 38 districts in Bihar||PATNA: Buoyed by its stellar showing in the Bihar assembly election, the Asaduddin Owaisi-led All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) has decided to strengthen its base across the state by setting up committees in all 38 districts. Hyderabad MP Owaisi has asked the AIMIM’s Bihar functionaries to ensure that the party builds organizational support in all districts. The process to set up the district-level committees has begun already. The need to strengthen AIMIM’s organisation in Bihar was discussed during a meeting between Owaisi and the five newly elected MLAs of the party in Hyderabad recently. The MLAs were led by AIMIM Bihar president Akhtarul Iman, who won from the Amour assembly constituency, earlier considered to be a stronghold of Congress. Sources within the party said due representation would be given to people belonging to all sections of the society in the district-level committees. They added that Owaisi had written to all the state-level functionaries of AIMIM on the need to increase the party’s support base in Bihar. As of now, AIMIM is limited to the Seemanchal region. It contested 14 out of the 20 constituencies in the region. “Our popularity and support base in Bihar have both increased. This is evident from the results of the assembly polls,” said AIMIM spokesperson and youth wing state president Adil Hasan Azad. The AIMIM bagged five seats in the elections. While Akhtarul Iman won from Amour, Md. Izhar Asfi was elected from Kochadhaman, Shahnawaz Alam from Jokihat, Syed Ruknuddin from Baisi and Azhar Nayeemi from Bahadurganj assembly constituency. The AIMIM fought the election in alliance with former Union minister Upendra Kushwaha’s RLSP and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Mayawati’s BSP. The RJD and Congress, which have an influence among the Muslim population in the Seemanchal and the Kosi belt, have expressed concern over AIMIM’s growing clout in the area. Senior RJD leader and former Rajya Sabha MP Shivanand Tiwari had earlier said AIMIM was single-handedly responsible for the debacle of the Mahagathbandhan in this region. He had also said the rise of AIMIM in the Muslim-dominated Seemanchal region, which comprises Kishanganj, Araria, Katihar and Purnia, would pose a serious threat to RJD and other secular parties. Senior BJP leader Giriraj Singh had also said the rise of AIMIM in Seemanchal would not be good for social harmony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/aimim-eyes-expansion-will-set-up-hubs-in-all-38-districts/articleshow/79344535.cms||Ramashankar
November 22, 2020||Patna||Giriraj Singh demands enactment of law in Bihar against ‘love jihad’||PATNA: Union minister Giriraj Singh has demanded that a strict law should be framed in Bihar against 'love jihad' following neighbouring Uttar Pradesh government's move to enact a similar law in that state. Giriraj, a firebrand BJP leader and MP from Begusarai, described 'love jihad' as a cancer for the society. Talking to media persons in Patna on Friday, the union minister said the Nitish Kumar government should enact a strict law to sort out the growing menace of 'love jihad'. “Issues like 'love jihad' and 'population control' have nothing to do with 'sampradayikta' (communalism) but it's aimed at maintaining 'samajik samrasta' (social harmony)”, he added. The BJP MP said that 'love jihad' is a menace in many states across the country. In many states, people have demanded enactment of law as it has become a menace not only for the Hindus but also for non-Muslim population. He cited the example of Kerala where the people belonging to Christian community have expressed their concern over the menace, he said. In January, Kerala's Syro-Malabar Church claimed that 12 Christian women had been converted to Islam through 'love jihad' in the last three years after which they were taken to Syria. “The Church described it as a part of larger conspiracy hatched by the Islamic State (IS) to destroy the religious and social harmony of Kerala,” the BJP leader said. “This menace needs to be rooted out and it will be desirable if the Bihar government enacts a law to deal with the incidents of 'love jihad' in the state. Some state governments such as Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka have initiated steps to introduce laws to prevent the incidents of 'love jihad',” he added. The JD(U), an ally of the coalition NDA government, however, preferred to maintain a safe distance on the controversial issue. JD(U) state president and Rajya Sabha MP Bashishtha Narain Singh on Saturday evaded questions on Giriraj's statement about 'love jihad'. However, JD(U) spokesperson Sanjay Singh said that CM Nitish Kumar has never worked under pressure. “For Nitish Kumar Ji, the issues like maintaining communal as well as social harmony in the society have always been in the priority list. This is the reason , no any major incident of communal violence has been reported in the state in the last one and a half decades,” he claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/giriraj-demands-enactment-of-law-in-bihar-against-love-jihad/articleshow/79345708.cms||Ramashankar
November 22, 2020||Kanpur||SC directives for completingtrial in three months presented||KANPUR: Piyush Shyamdasani, one of the accused in the much publicized Jyoti murder case, who was granted bail by the high court in October and released last week, appeared before the trial court on Saturday where the prosecution and the defence presented the directives of the Supreme Court (SC) directing the trial court to decide the case within three months time. According to Damodar Mishra, special prosecutor of the case, the time would not be extended further. Talking to TOI, Mishra said that the high court had granted bail to Piyush in the month of October and put a condition that Piyush would be released from jail only after giving his statement under section 313 of CrPC. Meanwhile, Shankar Nagdeo, father of deceased Jyoti, also filed a special leave petition (SLP) in the Supreme Court against the high court’s order submitting that the high court, which had twice rejected the bail application of Piyush, has granted him bail. He argued in the SLP that the accused, who had been a mastermind of the murder, might flee to a foreign country. Therefore, his bail should be cancelled. Mishra said that Piyush also filed an SLP in the Supreme Court and opposed the condition laid down by the high court that he would be released only after fulfilling the formality of recording his statement under section 313 of the CrPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/sc-directives-for-completingtrial-in-three-months-presented/articleshow/79344842.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS, BJP feigning rivalry to fool people: Congress||HYDERABAD: Congress ridiculed TRS and BJP, saying both parties are trying to mislead the people by acting as rival parties. Telangana Congress working president Ponnam Prabhakar on Saturday said the TRS-BJP friendly drama is being exposed. Raising questions, he said, “Why is Modi government at the Centre not booking cases or ordering investigation against chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao if state BJP president Bandi Sanjay has spoken truth that KCR has terror links?” Appealing to the voters to give their vote to a progressive and secular party like Congress, he asked why did TRS MPs support Modi government on demonetisation, GST, Article 370, triple talaq bills if KCR and minister KT Rama Rao were speaking truth that the central government has not given any funds for development of Greater Hyderabad. He said in Dubbak by-poll, voters defeated the ruling TRS. “It is not a victory achieved by BJP. Now, the saffron party wants to polarise voters by raising fingers at parties like AIMIM. The voters should realise that AIMIM contests in 50-odd wards in and around the Old City. So, BJP’s claim that its fight is against AIMIM is only to polarise voters as the Majlis party does not contest in nearly 100 of the total 150 wards,” Prabhakar said. The former Karimnagar MP said the people of Greater Hyderabad should teach a lesson to BJP for trying to poach his party leaders. “The BJP took away one of the woman leaders from our party and made her BJP national vice-president. Just listen to her speeches in video clips where she had abused Prime Minister Modi when she was in Congress,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-bjp-feigning-rivalry-to-fool-people-congress/articleshow/79344873.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Preparations on for Covid test of MLAs, MLCs||PATNA: The process for conducting Covid-19 tests on the newly-elected 243 MLAs, MLCs, as well as the state assembly and legislative council staff, will begin on Sunday as the five-day winter session of the state legislature is to start from Monday. The assembly secretariat has an arduous task ahead to inform the MLAs and MLCs, old and the newly elected ones, about the schedule of the programme related to conducting the Covid-19 tests as several MLAs and MLCs have gone to their villages and towns outside Patna for Chhath. A former minister and senior member of the state assembly said, “Yes, there is talk in general that Covid-19 tests have to be gone through before the start of the session. But no intimation has yet been made.” This arrangement has been made as a precautionary measure against the coronavirus pandemic that has begun to show an increasing trend in Delhi. It is feared that the state might also show a similar trend once the winter begins to set in after the ‘Chhath’ festivities that ended on Saturday. When contacted over the phone, the state assembly secretariat secretary R K Singh, who is the custodian of the legislature building and all activities taking place on its premises, said he has already issued a circular asking the chief medical officer of the hospital on the premises of the new legislature building to make arrangements for conducting Covid-19 tests on the staff of the assembly and legislative council secretariats. However, the ‘chhath’ festivities intervened and the staff have also gone on leave. “I will take stock of the situation in discussion with the CMO on Sunday morning, and also work out the details about conducting the Covid-19 tests on all the concerned. It is necessary,” Singh said. He added, “As to conducting the tests on the newly-elected MLAs and MLCs, existing or otherwise, it will also be discussed on Sunday.” As approved by governor Phagu Chauhan, the five-day session of the state assembly will be conducted in the central hall located in the new legislature building, while the two-day session of the legislative council will be conducted in the state assembly. The session will end on November 27. Earlier, it transpired that the general administration, home, cabinet secretariat and health departments were to coordinate among themselves, to make arrangements for conducting the Covid-19 tests before the start of the session from Monday. The state health department has to take the initiative in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/preparations-on-for-covid-test-of-mlas-mlcs/articleshow/79345697.cms||Abhay Singh
November 22, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Covid-19 testing van launched 50 days ago hasn’t tested a single sample yet||DEHRADUN: The mobile Covid-19 testing van that was inaugurated with great fanfare by the chief minister on October 10 hasn’t tested a single sample so far as the facility hasn’t yet received certification by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Talking to TOI, Dr Ajay Kumar, Covid-19 nodal officer of Haridwar, confirmed that the mobile ambulance hasn’t started testing so far. “Some formalities required before operating the mobile van are pending. We are constantly trying to get the necessary permissions from the ICMR,” added Kumar. Taking a dig, the state unit of Congress has said that “the CM is eager to inaugurate projects that never take off”. Uttarakhand Congress vice-president Suryakant Dhasmana has said that the government has failed to check the spread of coronavirus. “We had eight hill districts under green zone but now, hills are reporting more Covid-19 cases as the government has allowed free movement of tourists and returnees. The unfortunate part is that the cases in the hills are rising despite chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat himself holding the health portfolio,” added Dhasmana. Meanwhile, the state recorded 583 fresh cases of Covid-19. With this, the case tally reached 70,790 in the state. Also, deaths of eight more Covid-19 positive patients were reported on the day, pushing the toll of the virus to 1,146 in the state. Dr Dinesh Chauhan, district surveillance officer, said that two people were found positive for the virus in the random sampling tests conducted at Asharodi Check Post on Saturday. Among the new cases reported on Saturday, the maximum of 210 were recorded in Dehradun, followed by 71 in Nainital, 57 in Chamoli, 43 in Haridwar, 38 in Pauri, 34 in Pithoragarh, 31 in Tehri, 30 in Udham Singh Nagar, 28 in Rudraprayag, 24 in Almora, eight in Uttarkashi, six in Bageshwar, and five in Champawat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/mobile-covid-19-testing-ambulance-inaugurated-by-cm-around-50-days-ago-hasnt-tested-a-single-sample-so-far/articleshow/79344395.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 22, 2020||Hubballi||Kalaburagi airport turns fastest growing in the state||Kalaburagi: While the air traffic at domestic airports of the nation has fallen by 65.1% compared to September-2019, the Kalaburagi Airport, which is celebrating its first anniversary of inauguration on November 22, has witnessed thrice the number of passengers this month when compared to December 2019, the first month of the operation. According to the statistics released by Airport Authority of India (AAI) released on Friday evening, 5,828 passengers had travelled through Kalaburagi Airport by October 2020, while the figure stood at 1,643 December 2019. Number of operated flights has also increased from 34 to 124 in the same period. As on October 30, a total of 37,016 passengers have travelled by 924 flights through the airport. The average number of passengers per flight is over 40, according to the data. It may be recalled that the airport did not operate in April 2020 in the wake of the pandemic-induced lockdown. Sunil Kulkarni, president, Kalyan Karnataka Grahakara Vedike, Kalaburagi noted that the Kalaburagi airport is one among the fast growing airports in India and the fastest growing airport among tier-2 cities of Karnataka. “In less than a year, it has proved the potential of Kalaburagi. In spite of the pandemic, the airport is growing in terms of passengers,” he added. Venkatesh Mudagal, a frequent traveller and an engineer with Gulbarga University, asserted that there is need of improving facilities like lounges, restaurant/cafeteria at the airport. “Kalaburagi has potential as it’s situated at a geographically strategic location. If we get evening flights from and to Bengaluru, it will be helpful for passengers of both Kalaburagi and Bengaluru to return home by evening.” Having longest runway after Bengaluru International Airport, Kalaburagi Airport is also capable to operate international flights.Moreover, night landing should be allowed here to boost the flight services,” he stressed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/kalaburagi-airport-turns-fastest-growing-in-the-state/articleshow/79344604.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
November 22, 2020||Varanasi||BHU to reopen from Nov 23 in phased manner||Varanasi: Banaras Hindu University (BHU) is set to reopen from November 23, 2020, onwards in a phased manner. Giving this information, BHU spokesman said that in the first phase, the final year students of PhD programmes of science streams will be permitted to visit their respective departments and laboratories concerned for their research work. “Core committees are being constituted for the implementation and monitoring of UGC guidelines and SOPs. These committees will assess the situation periodically and further re-opening of the departments of other streams will be decided after that,” BHU spokesman said. Each faculty has been directed to constitute core committee for developing SOPs to be followed after their reopening and for its effective implementation as well as monitoring. The SOPs will be based on the centre and state governments guidelines on safety measures for the prevention of spread of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bhu-to-reopen-from-nov-23-in-phased-manner/articleshow/79344689.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
November 22, 2020||Patna||Rabri skips Chhath, again||PATNA: The RJD first family, which had always been at the centre of attraction during Chhath festival, skipped the celebrations even this time. It was RJD chief Lalu Prasad who had brought Chhath celebrations by politicians in the limelight. Reviving the old memories, Lalu shared a photo of his family doing Chhath on his Twitter handle and extended his greetings to everyone. “I pray that Goddess Chhati fulfils all your wishes and grants you happiness, peace, prosperity, fame and love,” Lalu tweeted. Lalu’s elder son Tej Pratap also shared his old photo in which he could be seen carrying ‘daura’. Chhath used to be a big occasion at Lalu’s bungalow, with all the family members coming together and helping former CM Rabri Devi in performing rituals. However, Rabri last celebrated Chhath at her house in 2017. Lalu’s close aide Bhola Yadav said health issues forced Rabri to take a break from performing Chhath. Even though the RJD first family did not do Chhath, they extended greetings to everyone through social media. Deputy CM Tarkishore Prasad offered evening and morning ‘arghya’ at a ghat in Katihar. “I personally ensured cleaning of ghats in coordination with Katihar Nagar Nigam. It is a blessing to serve devotees. I prayed for betterment and prosperity of the state on the occasion,” Tarkishore said. Another deputy CM, Renu Devi, also uploaded several videos and photos of her performing Chhath. Former deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi offered ‘arghya’ to the Sun God at home. Union minister Nityanand Rai also shared several photos of him participating in various Chhath rituals at his native place. JD(U) MLA and former minister Maheshwar Hazari said his wife and son performed Chhath with the help of family members. Congress state president Madan Mohan Jha also posted his photos with family members performing Chhath.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rabri-skips-chhath-again/articleshow/79344267.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 22, 2020||Patna||Is Bihar on verge of a second Covid wave?||PATNA: Health experts had warned of a spike in Covid-19 cases after the assembly election in Bihar. However, data shared by the Bihar government does not indicate any significant increase even though several cities across the country are facing a massive spike in the cases. Preparation for the assembly election began almost 50 days ago and in the past one month scores of rallies were organized by political parties without following any Covid-19 norms. People without masks jostling at these rallies was a common sight, and doctors were worried it would lead to a large-scale rise in the cases of Covid-19. But post-election, the state has been recording barely 500 to 800 cases daily, even less than the average per day cases in October. So the question uppermost on the minds of experts is whether the Covid tide has finally turned in Bihar or is the state sitting on a Covid powder keg? “If infection began spreading from the rally, I guess we should wait for a week. I don’t have an explanation right now,” said Dr T Jacob John, senior virologist and former head of ICMR's centre for advanced research in virology. However, he said under-reporting, if being done, could be a reason as well as less use of RT-PCR method for the test. Dr Jacob said while RT-PCR has chances of 20 to 30% misses, rapid antigen kit may miss the report by more than 50%. In Bihar, the majority of samples are tested using the rapid antigen method. He cited the example of Sweden, where not many have been infected with SARS-CoV-2. Dr Jacob said a researcher in Sweden had found preexisting immunity due to common cold coronavirus which was because of repeated common cold there. However, he said this aspect needed to be studied in the context of Bihar, even though it is a difficult job. AIIMS nodal incharge for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar too said the number of cases registered daily is less than what was expected after the election. He denied it could be because of herd immunity. “To achieve herd immunity, 70% of the population needs to be infected, which has not happened in Bihar. So this cannot be the reason. We have to wait and watch. But one thing is clear that we can’t relax now.” Former IMA president Dr Rajiv Ranjan Prasad cautioned that the state may be sitting on a volcano which could erupt anytime and advised wearing a mask. However, he said the healthy rural lifestyle followed in Bihar could be a reason for the virus not spreading rapidly, unlike western countries and metros like Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/is-bihar-on-verge-of-a-second-covid-wave/articleshow/79344442.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 22, 2020||Patna||Bihar’s corona tally crosses 2.30L-mark||PATNA: The number of Covid-19 cases in the state crossed 2,30,000-mark on Saturday with 278 people more people testing positive for the virus in the last 24 hours. With four official deaths reported by the state health department, the Covid toll in Bihar has gone up to 1,216. Among the deceased, two were from Patnaand one each from East Champaran and Siwan. Patna’s Covid toll has now increased to 310. Of the 2,30,247 people who have contracted the virus in the state so far, 2,23,615 have recovered. At 462, the number of recovered cases in the last 24 hours surpassed the fresh cases during the day. Munger MP and JD(U) leader Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan Singh was among the patients who got discharged after full recovery from AIIMS-Patna on Saturday. Covid-19 nodal officer of AIIMS-Patna Dr Sanjeev Kumar said the condition of former Union minister Dr C P Thakur is stable. “Dr Thakur’s CT scan has been done and he is on oxygen support,” he added. The state’s recovery rate increased to 97.12% on Saturday from 97.04% reported on Friday. Active cases in the state stood at 5,416 on Saturday. As many as 85,174 new samples were tested at different health facilities and laboratories in the last 24 hours. With this, 1,35,43,542 samples have so far been tested in the state since the outbreak of the virus in March this year. On Saturday, Patna reported 109 fresh Covid cases, taking the caseload of the district to 40,374. However, the number of active cases in the district dropped to 1,729 as the district reported 260 recoveries on Saturday. So far, 38,335 people have recovered in the district. AIIMS-Patna on Saturday registered four more deaths and the victims were a 65- year-old man from Kumhrar in Patna, a 43-year-old man from Nalanda, a 64-year-old man and a 75-year-old man, both from Madhubani. Dr Sanjeev Kumar said 12 patients were discharged from the hospital and 16 admitted in the last 24 hours. The new patients included many from different localities in Patna like Rajendra Nagar, Patliputra, Dariyapur, Buddha Colony and Alamganj. At NMCH-Patna, no Covid casualty was reported on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihars-corona-tally-crosses-2-30l-mark/articleshow/79344459.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 22, 2020||Kanpur||Commissioner inspects liquor, beer shops||Kanpur: On the orders of the government and with an objective to curb sale of illicit liquor, the divisional commissioner conducted surprise check of liquor shops on Saturday in Bilhaur area of the district. Divisional commissioner Raj Shekhar inspected country liquor shop no: 21872 and a beer shop no: 27551 in Billhaur randomly. “The licences of both the shops was found to be renewed and valid, besides the sale register and stock register were found to be updated,” said Raj Shekhar. He added, “We also checked the holograms for their validity and authenticity. No illicit or unauthorised liquor found.” The commissioner, however, said he observed a few shortcomings in some cases. “Like in some cases the transit permit didn’t have the signature of the dispatcher, which is not at all acceptable,” he said. Similarly, detailed inspection note of the excise inspection team was not found. Only “short signature & Seen” were mentioned by the excise department officers in their last inspection, he added. Also, the official said that place especially the country liquor shop premise was found filthy and dirty. Looking into the above, the commissioner asked the DM Kanpur to take note of the same and to get a detailed enquiry of the same done by the joint team of ADM and deputy commissioner of excise, Kanpur division and take appropriate action by November 30 and report to the commissioner. The commissioner also issued instructions to all DMs/DIG/SSP/SPs and all excise officers to conduct regular surprise checking and strong enforcement action on all suspected shops and areas from time to time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/commissioner-inspects-liquor-beer-shops/articleshow/79344752.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Lucknow||Hooch deaths: Accused to be booked under Gangster Act, says CM||Lucknow: Taking congnisance of the hooch deaths in Prayagraj on Friday, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has said those involved in selling and manufacture of spurious liquor will be booked under the stringent Gangster Act. Their property will also be auctioned and the proceeds will go towards providing aid to the aggrieved families, he said. At least six persons died, while another 15 were hospitalised after they consumed illicit liquor in Prayagraj. The incident came days after a special drive was launched in the state to crack down on manufacture of spurious liquor. The CM has directed ACS excise to fix the responsibility for this incident and take strict action against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/hooch-deaths-accused-to-be-booked-under-gangster-act-says-cm/articleshow/79346515.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Kolkata||Educationist Nabarun De passes away||Kolkata: The principal of Central Modern School, Baranagar, Nabarun De, passed away at his Salt Lake residence following a massive cardiac arrest on Saturday afternoon. He is survived by his wife, son and daughter. De, 55, was an alumnus of Calcutta Boys’ School and held an engineering degree in electronics from MS Ramaiah College in Bengaluru. Born on December 20, 1964, De was an executive member of the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) since 2011 and also held the post of the national joint secretary of the Association of Schools for the ISC (ASISC). “He has been associated with the association for a long time. He left behind several plans for the CISCE schools in Bengal, which we shall take forward,” said Sujoy Biswas, ASISC president and principal of Ram Mohan Mission School.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/educationist-nabarun-de-passes-away/articleshow/79344864.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Seven hurt in celebratory firing during Chhath||CHHAPRA: At least seven people were injured in alleged celebratory firing during Chhath festival at Mubarakhpur Ghat under the Manjhi police station area of Chhapra in Saran district on Friday. The condition of two injured people is stated to be critical. They are undergoing treatment at Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH). A purported video of the incident has also gone viral on social media. Saran civil surgeon Dr Madhveshwar Jha on Saturday said the left elbow of one of the two critically injured people was badly damaged from gunshot injury. SHO of Manjhi police station Niraj Kumar Mishra said the incident took place when devotees were offering evening ‘arghya’ to Sun God at the ghat. “One Pranav Kumar Singh had come to the ghat with an illegal firearm. While others were engaged in worshipping, Pranav loaded the firearm and fired few rounds in air, injuring seven devotees,” he said. Mishra said all the injured people were rushed to Ekma primary health centre from where two critically injured devotees – Rohit Kumar and Ritik Kumar – were rushed to district sadar hospital before being shifted to PMCH. The SHO said at least four criminal cases were lodged against Pranav with Manjhi police station. “He had come out of jail after securing bail just 12 days back,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/7-hurt-in-celebratory-firing-during-chhath/articleshow/79344254.cms||H K Verma
November 22, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Birati man returns from hospital day before shradh||KOLKATA: In a bizarre case of mistaken identity, a 75-year-old Covid patient declared dead by a Barasat hospital on November 13 returned to his Birati home on Saturday, a day before his shradh. This came a day after family members of another 75-year-old, who were told by a Khardah hospital to take the patient home, realized that he had died of Covid after being shifted to the Barasat Covid hospital, but his identity had been mistaken. Shibdas Banerjee’s son Sudip said, “After the hospital told us of my father’s death, we were shown a body wrapped in plastic with the face covered. Before cremation, we asked civic staffers to let us see his face, but they said it was against Covid norms.” On the other hand, Sandip, son of victim Mohini Mohan Mukherjee, said, “We were informed my father had recovered from Covid. But when we went to the hospital, we found an unknown person. We showed them my father’s Aadhaar card, after which the hospital authorities told us he had been shifted to Barasat Covid hospital on November 10. Authorities of that hospital told us his documents had been changed when he was shifted. They also told us he passed away on November 13 and the body had been handed to the family of Shibdas Banerjee.” Taposh Ray, North 24 Parganas CMOH, said, “We will form an inquiry committee. Action will be taken against the guilty.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/birati-man-returns-from-hosp-day-before-shradh/articleshow/79344860.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
November 22, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: CNMC among country’s best in maternity care||KOLKATA: The labour room and the maternity operation theatre at Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital have received the LaQshya (labour room quality improvement initiative) certificate from the Union health ministry, becoming the first medical institute in Bengal to get it. Several criteria, including quality of service starting from antenatal check-ups, during childbirth and post-delivery, equipment, manpower, fortifying of maternity critical care services and respectful maternity care, are taken into account while certifying hospitals across the country. The programme under the National Health Mission (NHM) is aimed at reducing preventable maternal, as well as newborn, mortality. The labour room and the maternity OT scored 89% and 83% respectively during the final assessment by a two-member empanelled external assessor team on October 14. A letter congratulating and confirming the certification from additional secretary and mission director (NHM) Vandana Gurnani to state health secretary Narayan Swaroop Nigam has arrived at the health department. The gynaecology and obstetrics department at CNMC has a dedicated six-bedded ICU and a 10-bedded HDU to deal with critical cases of pregnancies. The number of yearly deliveries range from 12,000 to 13,000 with the majority of patients being referred from other hospitals. The hospital’s medical superintendent and vice-principal Sandip Ghosh credited gynaecology professor Arati Biswas and her team’s hard work for the achievement. Biswas had superannuated as the department head recently, but the health department has extended her tenure to continue as a professor of the department. In addition to improving its medical services, the CNMCH gynaecology and obstetrics department has been rolling out patient-friendly concepts, like having a birth companion — someone close to the expecting mother — by her side during delivery. The department has also ranked high in maintaining hygiene and initiation of breastfeeding within the stipulated time, giving timely medication to tackle post-partum haemorrhage and pre-term deliveries. “We have a team that includes doctors, nurses and group D employees who sits down every weekend to assess our lacunae and work on improving. The team work has paid off. We wish we could improve the normal delivery rate as well, but that has been quite difficult as about half of the cases we handle are referred from other hospitals,” said Biswas. Heaping praises on Biswas as the main architect of this achievement, director of health services Ajay Chakraborty said the state cares for its mothers and newborns and would see more reduction in maternal and neonatal mortality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cnmc-among-countrys-best-in-maternity-care/articleshow/79344840.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
November 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Posani Krishna Murali urges people to vote for TRS||HYDERABAD: Telugu film actor Posani Krishna Murali has urged electors to give their vote to TRS on December 1. Speaking to mediapersons on Saturday, Posani heaped praises on the leadership of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao stating no incident of attacks on people of Seemandhra living in the city were reported during the last six-and-a-half years of TRS governance. “CM KCR doesn’t have any enmity towards AP people. His intention was development of Telangana as he always thought that with all the available resources, the state can see tremendous development if the State is governed by the people of Telangana,” Posani said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/posani-urges-people-to-vote-for-trs/articleshow/79344868.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Woman forced to ‘marry’ man as ‘revenge’ for her son eloping with girl||PATNA: A 43-year-old woman was forcibly “married off” to a physically challenged septuagenarian Dalit man as an act of revenge against her son, who had eloped with a neighbour’s daughter at a village in Darbhanga. After the eloped couple posted their wedding photos on social media, the girl’s family took “revenge” by forcibly putting vermillion on the forehead of the youth’s mother and making her exchange garlands with the Dalit man. They also tonsured her head. A video of the incident, which took place on November 14, went viral on social media on Friday. Police said the woman’s son is 21 and the girl he married is around 18 years old, but the couple is untraced. However, two of the accused are in custody. Biraul SDPO Dilip Kumar Jha said Ghyanshyampur SHO has been directed to contact the cyber cell and get the video removed from social media platforms. “The incident took place on November 14. The woman's hair was chopped off and was forced to undergo wedding rituals. The woman’s husband lodged an FIR with Ghanshyampur police station against 15 relatives of the girl. Both families are neighbours,” Jha said. The SDPO said the girl’s uncles Shivji Jha (50) and Bhawendra Jha (35) were arrested on November 18. “Thirteen others, including some aged above 80, are yet to be arrested. Police would move court on Monday to procure arrest warrants against them,” he added. Jha said a magistrate, a police officer and additional force is deployed near the woman’s house to avoid any further untoward incidents. He said both families belong to the same caste. Jha said the girl went out on November 12 on the pretext of attending coaching classes. “She eloped with the youth. On the evening of November 13, the girl’s family approached Ghanshyampur police station and lodged an FIR against the boy, his parents and five more family members for kidnapping her with intention of marriage,” he said. SDPO said probably the youth and girl got to know about the FIR after which both posted photographs of their marriage on their respective social media profiles. “These photographs infuriated the girl’s family and they barged inside the youth’s residence and ransacked it. They forcibly took the youth’s mother to their home where the ugly incident took place,” Jha said. The SDPO said the woman’s husband had alleged that the girl’s family members had also looted some jewellery and other items. “A cycle which was taken was later recovered from girl’s residence by the police,” he added. Ghanshyampur SHO Ashutosh Jha said the youth worked in Mumbai and had returned after lockdown. “Both families knew about their affair since long,” he said, adding, that the physically challenged Dalit man, also a neighbour, was forcibly brought to the spot by the girl’s family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/woman-forced-to-marry-man-as-revenge-for-her-son-eloping-with-girl/articleshow/79344476.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Housing society chairman who failed to audit his old building acquitted||MUMBAI: A magistrate court recently acquitted the chairman of a Ghatkopar (W) housing society two years after he was booked for failing to get a structural audit done on the old and reportedly dilapidated building despite a BMC notice. The court held that without making the legal entity, the housing society, an accused, only the office-bearer could not be held responsible in his personal capacity. “Evidence on record reveals the notice is issued only to the chairman and secretary of the premises without issuing a notice to the society. The owner is the society. Hence, without making the legal entity an accused, only office-bearers cannot be held responsible in their personal capacity,” the court said. The court said provisions of Mumbai Municipal Corporation (MMC) Act, under which chairman Deepak Doshi was facing prosecution, every owner or occupier of the premises was bound to carry out a structural audit of the building. “As the society is not prosecuted, the accused cannot be held guilty in his personal capacity for not carrying out the audit. Therefore, I hold the accused not guilty. He is entitled for acquittal,” the court said. The complaint was submitted to court by the municipal corporation in July 2018. It was alleged that after receipt of a complaint from building resident Vanmani Bhuvan, a junior engineer inspected the premises in January 2018. He observed that there were two- and four-storeyed structures on the premises. The corporation said the engineer noticed cracks on beams and columns and vegetation growth on the buildings. He prepared the inspection report and submitted it to the assistant engineer. Subsequently, in March, 2018 a notice was issued to Doshi. He was directed to carry out a structural audit of the building through a licensed structural engineer registered with the corporation. He was told to submit the structural stability certificate within a month. It was alleged that since Doshi failed to comply, an offence sheet was prepared against him and forwarded to the legal department of N ward for prosecution under MMC Act. In February 2019, Doshi pleaded not guilty to the charges against him and denied the allegations. During trial, the corporation’s lawyer examined five witnesses including the building resident who first complained, the junior engineer, assistant engineer, executive engineer and head clerk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hsg-society-chairman-who-failed-to-audit-old-building-acquitted/articleshow/79344779.cms||Rebecca Samervel
November 22, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS using public property for campaign: Congress to SEC||HYDERABAD: The Congress has lodged a complaint with the state election commission (SEC) that TRS is using Hyderabad metro rail pillars, RTC buses, bus shelters, public toilets and footpaths to advertise government schemes as part of its poll campaign. Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy-led delegation met state election commissioner, C Partha Sarathi on Saturday and urged him to issue orders for immediate removal of TRS advertisements. “The TRS has put up advertisements on pillars of L&T metro rail. There is a viability gap funding of over Rs.2,000 crore and costly land in the city has been given to L&T metro rail by central and state governments respectively,” he said. “No advertisements of political parties should be displayed on government or semi-government properties during elections. The SEC should issue an order for removal of TRS party advertisements on L&T metro rail pillars, RTC bus shelters, public toilets and other government properties. It is a clear breach of election code of conduct by the ruling TRS,” Uttam said after coming out of his meeting with the SEC. He charged BJP and MIM of having a tacit understanding to polarise the voters on religious lines in GHMC elections. “The BJP government has done nothing for Hyderabad. The Information Technology Investment Region (ITIR), which was sanctioned by the Congress-led UPA government was cancelled by the present BJP government. The ITIR project involved investment of Rs. 2.5 lakh crore and would have provided 50 lakh direct and indirect jobs. Let the BJP leaders, especially Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy, explain why ITIR did not take shape and why it got cancelled,” he asked. “The previous Congress governments had spent over Rs 1 lakh crore during 2004-2014 for the development of Hyderabad. The international airport, outer ring road, PVNR Expressway, metro rail, drinking water from Krishna and Godavari rivers and several other projects were either started or completed during the previous Congress regimes. It was the Congress government which developed Hyderabad into an IT and pharma hub too. The TRS has only indulged in corruption with focus on projects getting them commissions,” he alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-using-public-property-for-campaign-cong-to-sec/articleshow/79344879.cms||Roushan Ali
November 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Over 9,000 polling stations for GHMC elections||HYDERABAD: There will be 9,101 polling stations in Greater Hyderabad for the ensuing civic body polls, according to the final list released by State Election Commission (SEC) on Saturday. Kondapur ward (99) has the highest number of polling stations, 99, while RC Puram ward the lowest, 33. Nearly 1,700 stations have been increased compared to the previous elections in 2016 due to Covid-19. In the 2016 Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) election, in every polling station the number of electors accommodated were around 1,400. This year the polling stations have been rationalised to ensure a polling booth accommodates only 800 to 1,000 voters. On Thursday, officials deployed on election duty were instructed by SEC to ensure all arrangements pertaining to Covid-19 were taken. SEC had also instructed officials to ensure facilities for specially-abled and senior citizens. Ramps would be provided at polling stations, wheelchairs and volunteers to operate them were some of the facilities to be provided, said officials deployed on election duty. Electors above 80 years and women with children in their arms would be directly allowed inside the polling station, they need not stand in the queue for their turn to cast the vote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/over-9k-polling-stns-for-ghmc-elections/articleshow/79344882.cms||Nabinder Bommala
November 22, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: New Covid-19 cases at secretariat, count up at 89||BHOPAL: The number of Covid positive cases in the secretariat rose to 89 on Friday. Employees of 25 departments of the secretariat have been infected due to coronavirus so far. The 89 positive cases so far also include senior bureaucrats. In the fresh cases, employees of a higher education department and an assistant grade II employee have tested Covid positive. The month-wise trend of employees getting positive in the secretariat points the rate of employees getting Covid positive slightly went down in October. But started rising again in November, like in the state. July witnessed the maximum Covid positive cases in the secretariat with 22 cases in the month. September witnessed second highest number of Covid positives with 20 people testing positive. First Covid positive case was reported in May in the secretariat. Only one positive case was found in May. In June, the number of positive cases rose to 8 while it shot to 22 in July. Eight employees were found positive in August and 20 in September. Over 12 employees tested positive in October and over 18 so far this month. If the rate continues, the month would see the highest positive in the secretariat so far. Almost all the big departments have witnessed Covid positive cases. The departments in which positives have been found in all three Vallabh Bhavan buildings are commercial taxes department, urban administration department, energy department, CM secretariat, health department, finance department, law department, medical education, home department, transport department, forest department, panchayat department, science and technology department, general administration department, technical education, Ayush department, sports, parliamentary work department, planning, economics & Statistics, food and civil supplies, higher education department and mining besides staffers in different ministers’ office in the secretariat and horticulture and food processing department. Of the total found corona positives in Vallabh Bhavan buildings including I, II and III, two employees have lost lives due to Covid so far. Vallabh Bhavan II building had witnessed more than half of the total positive found employees in the secretariat so far. The same building houses offices of chief minister and chief secretary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/new-cases-at-secretariat-count-up-at-89/articleshow/79344886.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Hyderabad||VHP seeks action against Kavitha||Hyderabad: The Vishwa Hindu Parishad on Saturday urged the Telangana State Election Commission to initiate criminal proceedings against Telangana Rashtra Samithi MLC K Kavitha and MLA M Gopal and disqualify the candidature of TRS candidate M Padma from Gandhi Nagar ward for hurting the religious sentiments of Hindus in violation of election code. A delegation of VHP members led by its Telangana state unit president M Ramaraju in their representation to the SEC stated that Kavitha, Gopal and Padma laid a “TRS party kanduva” on the idol of Lord Ganesha in Ganesh temple at Gandhi Nagar when they came for filing of nomination on November 19. Padma filed her nomination from Gandhi Nagar ward. The VHP leader urged the SEC to initiate criminal proceedings against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vhp-seeks-action-against-kavitha/articleshow/79344892.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 22, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh records seven Covid-19 deaths, lowest in 140 days||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 1,160 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the cumulative caseload to 8,61,092. The toll increased to 6,927 as seven more patients succumbed to the novel coronavirus. This is the lowest single-day fatality count in the last 140 days after the state recorded six deaths on July 1. As many as 1,765 patients were declared cured. There are currently 14,770 active cases with 8,39,395 cumulative recoveries and 6,927 deaths. Despite reporting over 60,000 cases, Kurnool district had only 203 active cases as of Saturday, followed by Vizianagaram (215) and Kadapa (282) districts. Other than Krishna district, the recovery rate was above 95% in all the 12 remaining districts, while there are less than 1,000 active cases in seven districts. Krishna reported 189 new infections, followed by East Godavari (165), Chittoor (148), Guntur (121) and West Godavari (120). All other eight districts recorded less than 100 cases. As has become the trend, Kurnool reported the lowest number of infections (23) among all districts. East Godavari leads the table with a cumulative caseload of 1.21 lakh infections, with West Godavari in second place with 91,433 cases. Of the seven deaths, two are from Chittoor and one each from Anantapur, East Godavari, Guntur, Kadapa and Krishna. Andhra Pradesh has so far conducted 95 lakh Covid-19 tests with an overall case positivity rate of 9 per cent. The state conducted 68,307 tests on Saturday and detected 1,160 new cases with a positivity rate under two per cent. There are currently 14,770 active cases with 8,39,395 cumulative recoveries and 6,927 deaths. Other than Krishna, the recovery rate is above 95% in all districts||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/state-records-seven-covid-19-deaths-lowest-in-140-days/articleshow/79344410.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Lucknow||Stop faulty billing, don’t bug consumers: Minister to PCL boss||LUCKNOW: As non-payment of power bills, coupled with transmission and distribution losses, keep mounting, energy minister Shrikant Sharma has taken up the issue of faulty billing and jumping meters, which are often the reasons for rising dues. Sharma has written to UPPCL chairman Arvind Kumar to fix accountability and take action against billing companies on these issues. He has also highlighted the violation of the provisions in the agreement by billing companies. “I will take a serious action against erring billing companies and UPPCL authorities,” the energy minister told TOI. The energy minister has also asked the chairman not to shift the blame for non-payment of bills upon power consumers because in most of the cases proper bills have not reached the consumers. In his letter to the chairman, the energy minister has mentioned that the UPPCL went into an agreement with 18 billing companies for providing downloadable bills through handheld machines within two years, profiling ‘know your consumer’ (KYC) details and identification of chronic defaulters. “Unfortunately, the billing companies miserably failed on all three clauses of the agreement and the UPPCL authorities did not take action against them for this persistent failure and allowed the billing companies to function arbitrarily and harass consumers,” he wrote. As the billing companies failed to keep up their part of the agreement, consumers were forced to make rounds of the power substation offices, delaying the payment of their dues, which is causing loss to not only the UPPCL, but also to the state government, felt the energy minister. “Instead of 100% downloadable billing by now, in the last two years it has hardly reached 10% thus defeating the very purpose of engaging the billing agencies and above all, no action has been taken against the billing companies and the officers who overlooked the billing companies”, said the minister. The minister warned UPPCL authorities that without proper billing, consumers should not be made to bear the brunt and in case of overbilling and meter jumping, the authorities should first install a check meter of a new company and detect the fault. Action against the consumer should be considered only if they do not pay up even after that. “Power supply should not be disconnected without taking the consumer into confidence”, reiterated the energy minister. The minister said that it was an easy excuse to claim that one crore consumers have not paid their bills, but somebody should check how many of them received proper bills and how many of them have not even received the bills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dont-harass-consumers-check-faulty-billing-jumping-meters-energy-min-writes-to-pcl-boss/articleshow/79346530.cms||Subhash Mishra
November 22, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh govt committed to integration of scheduled tribes into mainstream: Shivraj Singh Chouhan||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has said that the state government is committed for overall development of scheduled tribes and weaker sections and to facilitate their integration into the mainstream of the society. They should have faith that the government is always standing with them. We have to make them economically, socially and educationally strong. ‘Janjatiya Gaurav Diwas’ is being celebrated in the state to give benefits of various schemes to the members of Scheduled Tribe community and to honour those who have done excellent works in the community. ‘Janjatiya Gaurav Diwas’ will be celebrated on November 25 in Umaria district and in Barwani district on November 27. On the ‘Janjatiya Guarav Diwas’, one thousand forest right pattas in Barwani district and 28 in Umaria district will be distributed. Bhumi pujan for construction of buildings of newly sanctioned government institutions will be performed and sale cum exhibition of products, produced by self-help groups will be organized. In the programme, the students of Scheduled Tribe community, selected in JEE, NEET and CLAT will be honoured with ‘Janjatiya Gaurav Samman’. Moreover, a film ‘Ranbankure’ based on the saga of Tribal heroes will also be screened. Chouhan said that along with the development of members of scheduled tribe community, it is important to connect them with the mainstream of the society. We want to establish harmony by eradicating casteism. For this, ‘Samras Chhatravas’ should be established in the state, where along with the students of scheduled tribe community, the students of other sections of society will also dwell. There is also a plan to establish ‘Food Park’ in Scheduled Tribe dominated districts of the state to promote local products of these areas. Along with this, there is also a plan to promote traditional medicines of the tribal community. Moreover, tribal dialects will also be encouraged. Chouhan was holding a meeting at secretariat on Friday in connection to arrangements of the programme. Chief secretary Iqbal Singh Bains, principal secretary Sheoshekhar Shukla, principal secretary Pallavi Jain Govil and others were present at the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/govt-committed-to-overall-devpt-of-scheduled-tribes-cm/articleshow/79344894.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Varanasi||Three shot dead in separate incidents in a day in dist||VARANASI: A man was shot dead in Varanasi, while another was sprayed with bullets in Ballia on Saturday. Earlier, on late Friday night, a former village head who was also the owner of a highway-side dhaba outlet was shot dead in Mirzapur. One Shahid Iqbal while Hiraman Yadav was lia to kill on Saturday. Before it a highway side food outlet owner and former village head Rajesh Yadav on Friday late night. In Varanasi, Shahid Iqbal (45) along with his neighbour Farid alias Jugnu was sitting near his house adjacent to Lalpur mosque under of Lalpur-Pandeypur police station on Saturday. Their other neighbour informed police that while they were eating apples together, a heated argument took place between them after which Jugnu shot Shahid in his head, killing him on the spot. Jugnu, thereafter, fled the scene. On being informed, Lalpur-Pandeypur police, SSP Amit Pathak, SP (city) Vikas Chandra Tripathi and other officials reached the spot and investigated the spot. Jugnu’s wife was taken under custody for interrogation. The SSP said that during initial investigation, it came to light that Shahid had opened fire on Jugnu’s father over two decades ago. Due to this incident, there was an old enmity between the two families for a long time, but for the past few years they had been living amicably, said Pathak. “It is suspected that some argument between Shahid and Jugnu would have reignited the old dispute and led to the unfortunate incident. The exact reason behind the killing will be clear only after Jugnu’s arrest,” added the SSP. A named FIR was lodged against Jugnu and Shahid’s body was sent for postmortem, informed police. In another incident, Hiraman Yadav (45), native to Sarya Bagdaura under Nagra police station in Ballia, had gone for a morning walk when a group of men opened indiscriminate fire on him. He died on the spot while the men fled the scene. Angered over his killing, locals blocked the Nagra road and staged a massive demonstration. Ballia SP Devendra Nath, on being informed, reached the spot and spoke to Hiraman’s family. Hiraman’s family alleged that they had an old enmity with one Ramakant of their village and they had also filed a complaint at the police station in this regard but no action was taken and he was killed. The police eventually managed to convince the villagers to call off their stir. Nagra cops said that a person Ramakant’s side had been taken under custody while others were being searched after a named FIR was lodged in this connection. Earlier, on late Friday night, Rajesh Yadav (47), a former village head of Hardi Khurd under Manihan police station in Mirzapur district who was associated with Samajwadi Party and ran a dhaba, was shot at near Belahra area of Mirzapur. He was immediately rushed to the hospital, where doctors referred him to Varanasi, but he died on the way. Mirzapur SP Ajay Kumar Singh said that police are investigating the matter and the killers would be nabbed soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/3-shot-dead-in-separate-incidents-in-a-day-in-dist/articleshow/79344740.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Limit crowd to less than 20 in containment zones||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: District collector and district election officer Navjot Khosa said on Saturday that campaign activities in containment zones shall not involve more than 20 people. She said strict vigil shall be observed while holding hustings in containment zones. The collector appealed to political parties and candidates to avoid large gatherings for campaign in places outside containment zones. The regulations are being implemented as part of prevention of spread of Covid-19. “We have been able to check the spread of Covid-19 to a good extent. We cannot retract from the present situation. Hence regulations to prevent spread of infection shall be strictly followed during election campaign,’’ she said. The collector added that the maximum number of people allowed for house visits shall be five and this condition should be followed without compromise. Anti-defacement squads removed 177 campaign boards that were installed in violation of norms. The squads were formed to ensure that political parties erect campaign boards strictly in compliance with existing norms. The functions of the squads will be intensified in the coming days. The number of squads will also be increased. Political parties and candidates have been asked to remove campaign boards placed on roadsides and other places within two days. If they fail to remove the boards within the stipulated timeline, it shall be removed by the squads and expense will be added to the poll expenditure of candidates. A meeting was convened by district collector on Saturday. Panchayat deputy director Thresiamma Antony, district police chief B Ashokan and deputy collector (elections) John Samuel took part in the meeting. Meanwhile, the nominations can be withdrawn till 3pm on Monday. The symbol will be allotted to each candidate after the time period for withdrawal of nomination ends.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/limit-crowd-to-less-than-20-in-containment-zones/articleshow/79344949.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Trichy||Woman, son die by suicide upset over banana crop loss||Trichy: A mother and son died by suicide after consuming poison at their house in Thiruvanaikovil near Srirangam in Trichy on Saturday. The reason behind their extreme step was said to be the losses suffered in banana cultivation. The deceased were identified as Chellammal, 65 and her son Ramesh Babu, 45 of Ganapathi Nagar in Thiruvanaikovil. Babu is survived by his wife Ilakkiya, 25, and a one-year-old daughter. The incident came to light when the house owner found the two dead. The Srirangam police visited the house and recovered the bodies. Police also recovered a bottle of pesticide near their bodies. Ilakkiya lodged a complaint with the police stating that her husband and her mother-in-law were cultivating banana in their farm land near Kondaiyampettai. They suffered a huge loss in the cultivation. The damage caused to the crop during the recent rain added to their woes. A couple of days ago, Babu had dropped Ilakkiya and his daughter at his in-laws house, while he and his mother stayed back in their upset over the financial loss. Police said that the postmortem on the two bodies was performed and handed over to the family. Investigations are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/woman-son-die-by-suicide-upset-over-banana-crop-loss/articleshow/79345754.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Fees paid and classes on hold, engineering students feel Covid-19 pinch||BHOPAL: Navin Saxena took admission in a Bhopal-based engineering college and was excited to attend it. All his enthusiasm was dashed after the opening of colleges was put on hold following the anticipated second Covid-19 wave. “I was very eager to join classes. Now, I have heard that the district administration has started putting in place restrictions again. Colleges will not be opened any time soon. This is a painful situation,” says a worried Navin. “Had it been normal situation, December would have exams. As of now, nothing is decided about opening of classes, which has put me in a dicey situation. Will this year go waste?,” asks Navin. The uncertainty is getting on the nerves of some. “I know every student is facing the same problem, but for how long? We are clueless on when will online classes start. Even when they start conducting online classes, what about the lab work? I think the government should come with some concrete arrangement in this regard,” says another student Shirish Mukherji. Several students were admitted in the first round have deposited their fees. But, there is no word yet on classes. “This is a situation where you have secured the seat, but the engine refused to move. I do not know what will happen after this. Classes suffering today will have a cascading effect. Other classes will also suffer next year if the situation persists,” said a student Animesh Jain. Teachers say students are indeed in a precarious situation. “This is a situation where students are the biggest sufferers. Their academics have completely hit due to Covid. This may be frustrating for any student, who was planning to attend college from this session. I do not know when campuses will be opened for students,” said a teacher, asking for anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/fees-paid-and-classes-on-hold-engg-students-feel-covid-pinch/articleshow/79344915.cms||Ramendra Singh
November 22, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS tries to douse rebel fire, claims 90% success||HYDERABAD: A day after more than 500 nominations were filed on behalf of TRS, ministers and party in-charges got into a rearguard action to see that all the rebel candidates withdraw their nominations. With Sunday 3 pm being the deadline for withdrawal of nominations, party leaders are reaching out to rebels. The party claimed 90% of rebels are withdrawing nominations. Of the 557 nominations filed on Friday on behalf of the TRS, 520 were found to be correct during the scrutiny of the nominations. The party is likely to issue B-forms on Sunday. The party had denied tickets to 26 sitting TRS corporators. “Ninety per cent of the party leaders who filed their nominations as TRS nominees (without B-forms) and as independents have agreed to withdraw their nominations,” a senior party functionary said. Ministers visited the houses of dissidents and urged them to withdraw from the fray. “Honour the party’s decision and the party will take care of you,” this was the assurance given by them to the rebels. At some places, they were asked to canvass for the party official candidates. TRS working president KT Rama Rao spoke to some of the rebel candidates and asked them to work for the party. For instance, women and child welfare minister and Chilkanagar division incharge Satyavathi Rathod went to the houses of three TRS members — Pittala Naresh Mudiraj, Kompally Ravinder Mudiraj and Akiti Balreddy — and convinced them to withdraw their nominations and work for the party. The party had announced Geetha Praveen Mudiraj as its candidate. “The party will recognise your services and will give suitable positions later,” she told them. Panchayat raj minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao visited the house of G Anjaiah, who represented Meerpet Housing Board Colony and did not get ticket, and asked him to honour the party’s decision and work for the party. The party ticket was given to Prabhudas Jerripothula. He took Anjaiah to canvass for him. In another meeting, the minister along with Nacharam in-charge MLA Gandra Venkata Ramana Reddy pacified rrebel candidate Chilla Padmavathi. The party gave ticket to Sajjan Shekhar from Nacharam. Another minister Gangula Kamalakar, who is in-charge of Himayatnagar division, held a meeting with dissident leaders, who opposed ticket to sitting corporator Hemalatha Yadav and said they should work for the party leaving the differences among themselves. The party incharges also reached out to rebels in places like Adikmet, Uppal, Cherlapally and Saroornagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-tries-to-douse-rebel-fire-claims-90-success/articleshow/79344931.cms||Koride Mahesh
November 22, 2020||Vijayawada||RTC draws up plan to mop up lost funds||VIJAYAWADA: To cover the lost revenue due to the new inter-state agreement with Telangana, the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) is planning to reorganise bus services within the state. The state-run corporation is estimated to lose Rs 260 crore in revenue per year due to the scaling down of its operations to Telangana. With the redeployment of surplus buses within the state, APSRTC hopes to mop up part of the lost revenue. It may be recalled that APSRTC has reduced its operations in Telangana by one lakh kilometres because of which 372 buses across the state have become surplus. More than 90% of these buses used to run to Hyderabad. As the number of buses to Hyderabad have been reduced across all depots, officials are anticipating increased demand for the buses to Hyderabad. With fewer buses running to Hyderabad, APSRTC officials are planning to make these services exclusive to only Hyderabad by reducing the number of halts within the state. K S Brahmananda Reddy, executive director of operations, said passengers going out of the state will only be given priority in buses travelling to Hyderabad. “If a bus is starting from Kakinada to Hyderabad, there will not be any halts for that bus within the state and tickets will be issued in these buses to destinations in Telangana only. The surplus buses will be deployed in these long-distance routes for passengers travelling within the state,” Brahmananda Reddy said. Earlier, a passenger travelling to Vijayawada from Kakinada could take a bus going to Hyderabad and get down at Vijayawada, which will not be possible now. The RTC officials are also working out a strategy to readjust the frequency of buses within the state as well as for buses going out of the state to accommodate the passengers. They have already completed the exercise of redeployment of buses in six districts and are planning to complete the same in the other seven districts by next week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/rtc-draws-up-plan-to-mop-up-lost-funds/articleshow/79344418.cms||Srikanth Aluri
November 22, 2020||Trichy||Trichy food park takes shape as Sipcot earmarks 220 acres||Trichy: The state industries promotion corporation of Tamil Nadu (Sipcot) has identified 220 acres of land for the proposed Trichy food park in the Sipcot industrial park in Manapparai. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had announced the food park in June this year.Sipcot has now embarked on a study to prepare the cost estimate to establish basic amenities like road, stormwater drain, water supply, street lights and administrative building required for the food park, which will come up in a portion of the industrial park on the Trichy-Dindigul national highway.“We will complete the estimate and float a tender to identify a suitable contractor for executing the basic amenities to facilitate a food park within a month,” a Sipcot source told TOI. MSMEs have welcomed the decision to allot 220 acres of land saying that Trichy and neighbouring district have a huge potential for agro and food processing sector. “Drumsticks from Karur, onions from Perambalur and bananas from Trichy can be processed and exported from the food park through the Trichy airport. Once the civil work begins, the demand to utilise the remaining area of the industrial park will also surge,” N Kanagasabapathy, director, Trichy trade centre said. The state government had earlier sanctioned Rs 200 crore for the food park. MSMEs said that the need for more government cold storage facilities will be apprised to the district administration to attract investors eyeing exports. Though 1,077 acres of land were acquired in Kannudaiyanpatti, K Periyapatti and Chathirapatti villages in Manapparai, the layout process to earmark land for large and small scale industries and amenities were delayed for the past four years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-food-park-takes-shape-as-sipcot-earmarks-220-acres/articleshow/79345766.cms||Deepak Karthik
November 22, 2020||Trichy||300kg of shallots stolen near Perambalur||Trichy: A farmer on Saturday lodged a complaint with the Padalur police in Perambalur district alleging that his shallots weighing 300kg which were stocked at a farmland was stolen. Police identified the complainant as Ganesan, 65, from Nattarmangalam village in Perambalur district.The farmer in his complaint said that he had stocked the shallots in five sacks at his farmland. On returning to his farm on Saturday, Ganesan found that the shallots had vanished.The value of the missing vegetable produce according to the complainant was estimated at Rs 27,000. “We have received a complaint from the farmer. We are yet to ascertain the quantity of shallots stolen,” a police source said. It may be recalled that in a similar incident happened in December last year when 300kg of shallots were stolen from a farmer in Koothanur village near Padalur, Perambalur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/300kg-of-shallots-stolen-near-perambalur/articleshow/79345798.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam civic body prepares to hand over 24,000 TIDCO houses||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) is working on a list of eligible beneficiaries to hand over nearly 24,000 houses built by Andhra Pradesh Township and Infrastructure Corporation (APTIDCO) soon. Around 56,000 housing units were sanctioned to Vizag under the ‘affordable housing in partnership category’ of PMAY (Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana). The works surrounding these housing units saw meagre progress over the last three years. Now, the government has directed officials to complete TIDCO housing allocation by December. In all, GVMC has received around 3.4 lakh applications for the housing project. After thorough scrutiny, 2.4 lakh people have been found eligible as beneficiaries. Nearly 24,000 TIDCO housing units, measuring 300 square feet, 365 square feet and 430 square feet, are currently under construction in various parts of the district. The 300 square feet housing units will be given to beneficiaries for just one rupee. GVMC commissioner G Srijana recently directed officials to prepare for allocation of the 24,000 housing units. “Officials should also prepare a list of applicants found ineligible to return their demand drafts,” she said. While these 24,000 beneficiaries will get TIDCO flats, the remaining would get one-cent plots. The Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) has developed 2,800 acres as one-cent layouts in several mandals in Visakhapatnam district. A total of 58,861 beneficiaries will be given one cent plots in Sabbavaram mandal, including Gollapalem village (15,108 plots), Nanginarapadu (11,936), Yerukunaidupalem (3,363), Pydiwada (9,953) and Gangavaram (18,501). Sites will be allocated to nearly 38,000 families in Thangudubilli, Gandigundam and Ramavaram villages in Anandapuram mandal. About 20,187 plots will be provided to the homeless in Mudapaka mandal. Nearly 13,000 housing sites have been developed in various villages of Parawada mandal. The other layouts have come up in Gajuwaka, Anakapalli and Pedagantyada mandal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/civic-body-prepares-to-hand-over-24000-tidco-houses/articleshow/79344433.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
November 22, 2020||Trichy||Fishers want estuary of three rivers desilted to anchor boats||Thanjavur: Following the warning by the state disaster management authority of extremely heavy rainfall in delta districts including Thanjavur and Nagapattinam, functionaries of Tamil Nadu Fishermen Federation in Mallipattinam have appealed to the state government to safeguard their trawlers at Mallipattinam coast in case of any emergency. As per the IMD forecast, extreme heavy rainfall may occur at Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur, Thanjavur, Pudukottai and Ramanathapuram districts and heavy to very heavy rain in Trichy, Ariyalur, Perambalur, Mayiladuthurai, Sivaganga, Cuddalore, Villupuram, Kallakuruchi and Salem districts on November 25. “The announcement has caused fear among the fishing community,” said A Thajudeen, general secretary of the federation in Mallipattinam.“250 mechanized boats which were anchored were destroyed during cyclone Gaja. Each fisherman incurred losses ranging from Rs 15-20 lakh. However, the state government provided only Rs 5 lakh each as compensation to fishermen,” he added.Tamil Nadu government constructed a new fishing harbour at Mallipattinam in 2018, but without a bait curve to safeguard their boats from giant waves and winds. “Constructing a bait curve will take some time. To safeguard the boats from any disaster, the government should desilt the estuary of Manora, Rajamadam and Ammani Chathiram rivers on a war-footing. This will help fishermen to anchor their boats without any difficulties,” Thajudeen said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/fishers-want-estuary-of-three-rivers-desilted-to-anchor-boats/articleshow/79345807.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
November 22, 2020||Nagpur||Widow, RTI worker’s notice to rly ministry over family pension delay||Nagpur: A widow and an RTI worker have issued a legal notice to the Railway Ministry alleging that its staff is inordinately delaying family pension to widowed and divorced daughters of deceased railway employees. The notice issued through lawyer Sandeep Tiwari mentioned that the Government of India had decided to provide pension to such woman who were dependent on their parents. Accordingly, the family pension which is usually paid to children up to 25 years can be paid to widowed/divorced daughters even after that. The Department of Pensions and Pensioners’ Welfare under the Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pension had issued a memorandum in this regard on August 20, 2004, the notice stated. The notice added that statutory changes made in the Central Civil Services (Pension) Rules, 1972, and Railway Service Pension Rules, 1993, making the widowed/divorced daughters eligible for family pension. “The timely sanction of family pension would serve the government’s objective to help several such helpless daughters who are practically without any income and on the verge of vagrancy. However, it’s a common experience that the railway staff don’t cooperate and their applications are kept pending on the pretext of documents, which remain with the department itself. The aggrieved applicants are made to run pillar to post for their genuine claims,” the notice issued by RTI activist Sanjay Thul and Shobha Bohre, widowed daughter of Nathulal Brahmankar, said. Citing her case, Bohre said her father served in the Divisional Personnel Office (DPO) at South East Central Railway (SECR). After his death on December 31, 2018, she applied for the family pension to SECR general manager in Bilaspur on January 24. Despite repeated requests and many visits to the office, she hasn’t been given her dues till date, stated Bohre. She also lodged a complaint that the staff was forcing her to visit the office repeatedly under one or other excuses. Despite submitting all the requisite documents as demanded by the authorities, her pension wasn’t sanctioned, alleged Bohre. Senior manager Vikas Kashyap said he didn’t have any idea about the issue and demanded that the documents in this regard be sent to him. According to Thul, who is fighting for granting pension to such widows/divorcees, about 157 applications by such women are pending with the authority, leading to their harassment. He obtained this information under the RTI Act from SECR headquarters. “The lack of proper mechanism and instructions to staff with no accountability fixed to deal with applications of such aggrieved women seem to be a root cause for the inordinate delay. There’s no time-bound mechanism to process such applications to mitigate hardships faced by them,” he said. The lawyer, in his notice to Union pension secretary along with SECR general and divisional managers, besides ministry, warned that his clients would knock the judiciary’s doors, including the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court and Supreme Court, in individual and collective public interest, if authorities failed to release the dues of 151 women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/widow-rti-workers-notice-to-rly-ministry-over-family-pension-delay/articleshow/79345879.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
November 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala government seeks fresh probe against Ramesh Chennithala, 2 ex-ministers||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Close on the heels of the arrest of two Muslim League MLAs in separate cases, the LDF government has initiated a fresh vigilance probe against opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala and former ministers K Babu and V S Sivakumar over the recent disclosures in the bar bribery case. The opposition, however, termed the development as a witch hunt to divert attention from the charges against the government. The three-phase local body polls will be held from December 8 and central agencies are probing many government projects. IUML legislators V K Ebrahim Kunju and M C Kamarudeen were arrested in corruption and cheating cases recently. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has given his consent to the vigilance probe against the Congress leaders on the basis of hotelier Biju Ramesh’s latest claims that bar hotel owners had pooled Rs 10 crore to be given as bribe to the UDF leaders. He had claimed that of this amount, Rs 1 crore was given to former KPCC president Ramesh Chennithala, Rs 50 lakh to former excise minister K Babu and Rs 25 lakh to former health minister V S Sivakumar. The government has sought the permission of governor Arif Mohammed Khan and speaker Sreeramakrishnan to initiate the vigilance probe, as mandated by the latest amendments to the Prevention of Corruption Act. It was claimed that the UDF leaders had collected a large amount of money from bar hotel owners by promising them a favourable decision on the bar licence fee. Ramesh Chennithala said the government's move was politically motivated. "My hands are clean. The vigilance had twice found the bribery allegation baseless. In fact, what the CM did is contempt of court. He doesn’t have the right to order preliminary inquiry into a case pending in the court. Biju Ramesh has only repeated what he had claimed earlier and was proved wrong. I welcome any probe; I have nothing to fear or hide," he said. KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran said the chief minister has lost his balance. "He knows he will be hauled to jail any time soon. It’s this realisation that prompts him to frame opposition leaders in cases. The chief minister should also clarify why he did not order a probe into Biju Ramesh's allegations against Jose K Mani?," he said. Biju Ramesh had also alleged that the Jose K Mani faction in the KC (M), which joined the LDF recently, had offered money to withdraw the bribery allegations against K M Mani. Former chief minister Oommen Chandy said the LDF government was trying to resurrect the bar bribery case with political motives. "The government knows very well that the case won’t stand legal scrutiny. There is nothing new in the complainant's statements. The government won't get clearance for another probe if the governor goes through the chronology of the case," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/govt-seeks-fresh-probe-against-chennithala-2-ex-mins/articleshow/79344946.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Love & blackmail? Teacher whips out gun, kills colleague||LUCKNOW: A 40-year-old woman, who worked as a teacher at a government school, was allegedly shot by her male colleague inside the school premises in Sitapur on Saturday evening. Police said that the male colleague identified as Amit Kaushal (30) was arrested and an illegal pistol which he used to shoot the teacher was recovered from his possession. Kaushal told police that he was in a relationship with the victim Aradhna Rai and of late she had started blackmailing her. The incident took place inside the government school in Pakriya village under Maanpur police station of the district. Police said that the victim Aradhna Rai was married and a resident of Lucknow. She was working in the Sitapur school for the past five years. The accused is unmarried and had joined the school last year, police said. “On Saturday morning, a verbal spat took place between the duo after Kaushal reportedly marked a casual leave (CL) against the name of Aradhna on the teachers’ attendance register,” said the Superintendent of police, Sitapur, RP Singh. Later, after the school got over in the evening while the victim was sitting inside staff room and finishing her work, the accused barged inside and shot at her before fleeing, the officer said. Aradhna died on the spot. Singh further added that on the information of the principal, police teams nabbed the accused. “I was in a relationship with Aradhna and she had promised to divorce her husband. In August, we had decided to get married. But of late she started behaving strangely and blackmailing me,” Kaushal told police during interrogation. “I was so obsessed with her that I had no choice but to end this all,” said the accused to newsmen. Singh, however, said that an FIR has been registered on the complaint of the victim’s husband and a probe would be conducted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/teacher-shoots-dead-female-colleague-inside-sitapur-school/articleshow/79346547.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Task force nabs ganja gang||Warangal : Task force police arrested four inter-state ganja smugglers on Saturday. According to commissioner of police Pramod Kumar, police suspected the smugglers car during the vehicle checking at Kakatiya University cross roads and took them to custody. Around 200kg ganga worth Rs 20lakh and a lorry was seized from them. They were identified as Vavar Ganapathi, A Ranjith, Divyaka Vinay Kumar and Goud Khan. Ganapathi had been cultivating ganja in his fields since 2005. He had been arrested several times for ganja smuggling and sent to prison. After being released from jail four days ago, he contacted his old friends, bought 200kg ganja in Dharakonda village, Sangareddy and tried to smuggle the packets to Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/task-force-nabs-ganja-gang/articleshow/79344956.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||District records highest recovery rate along with Kasaragod||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Thiruvananthapuram has attained above 90% recovery rate along with Kasaragod by the third week of November. Till Saturday, Thiruvananthapuram and Kasaragod recorded recovery rates of 91.33% and 91.09% respectively. While Kasaragod had reported one of the highest number of cases in the state during the first wave of Covid-19, the capital had recorded high number of active cases continuously for three months since July when community transmission was officially confirmed in the coastal areas of the district. Thiruvananthapuram has recorded 60% fall in daily admission by the third week of November. The district’s daily admissions numbered between 1,000 and 1,074 between September and first week of October. It has now dropped to 374. Since the first week of November, there has been a steep decline in daily admission in the district as the number fell from 642 to 374. Compared to peak days, a 40% fall has been noted in admission of category C patients in the district. During the peak days in October, admission of category C patients touched 319, which has now fallen to 187. Even in the case of category B patients admitted to Covid hospitals, secondary-line treatment centres and private hospitals, there has been an evident dip in numbers. Between the last week of September and a major part of October, the patient load under category B was frequently between 1,100 and 1,200. The patient load began to drop since the middle of October, and November has been hopeful so far with patient load dropping from 1,000 to 784. The officials have recorded a 35% fall from the peak in patient load under category B. ICU occupancy has also recorded a 25% fall from the peak. “November has so far remained good in terms of drop in trends of patient load, active cases and daily admissions. We are keeping strict vigil to make sure that we go on reducing numbers and current elections are a real challenge but we hope we can keep disease spread under check,” said a health official. As on Saturday, Thiruvananthapuram recorded one of the lowest percentage of active cases in the state — 7.85%. At the start of November, the active case percentage stood at 14.12, and in 20 days the percentage has come down to less than 10. The district recorded 399 positive cases on Saturday and 609 people recovered from infection. A total of 5,307 people are presently under treatment for Covid-19 in the district. Seven people died of Covid-19 in the district. A total of 271 people acquired infection through local transmission, of which five of them are health workers. A total of 1,381 people were brought under disease surveillance in the district on Saturday. A total of 25,819 persons are under observation in houses and 132 persons are under institutional quarantine in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/dist-records-highest-recovery-rate-along-with-kasaragod/articleshow/79344975.cms||Aswin J Kumar
November 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat likely to announce new IT/ITES policy in December||GANDHINAGAR: The state government has completed consultations with different stakeholders in the field of information technology and is expected to announce new, more flexible policy for Information technology (IT) and information technology-enabled services (ITES) next month. The government hopes the new policy will ensure higher investment by attracting new IT/ITES companies to Gujarat. Hareet Shukla, secretary, science & technology said, “We have had diverse consultations with stakeholders at state and national level. Companies and startups have also been part of the discussions. We have studied policies of other states also and are trying to come out with the best policy to suit present and future needs of the IT/ITES sector.’‘ He added that the endeavour of the state government is to have a flexible policy. “The current policy is about facilitating IT parks etc, but the new policy will be flexible to promote all round development of the sector. The new policy will have a scheme for data centres, cloud technologies promotion as well as work from anywhere and shared work spaces. “The focus will be on incentivizing companies for hiring manpower from Gujarat and generate maximum possible investment in the sector,’‘ Shukla said. The official added that in principle, the state government has decided to continue with most of the features of the current policy and will add a series of new features in the next policy. “Our current policy will be in force until March next year, but we expect to announce the new policy in December this year,” Shukla said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-likely-to-announce-new-it/ites-policy-in-december/articleshow/79344962.cms||Kapil Dave
November 22, 2020||Kanpur||Div Commissioner inspects liquor shops||Kanpur: On the orders of the government and with an objective to curb sale of illicit liquor, the divisional commissioner conducted surprise check of liquor shops on Saturday in Bilhaur area of the district. Divisional commissioner Raj Shekhar inspected country liquor shop no: 21872 and a beer shop no: 27551 in Billhaur randomly. “The licences of both the shops was found to be renewed and valid, besides the sale register and stock register were found to be updated,” said Raj Shekhar. He added, “We also checked the holograms for their validity and authenticity. No illicit or unauthorised liquor found.” The commissioner, however, said he observed a few shortcomings in some cases. “Like in some cases the transit permit didn’t have the signature of the dispatcher, which is not at all acceptable,” he said. Similarly, detailed inspection note of the excise inspection team was not found. Only “short signature & Seen” were mentioned by the excise department officers in their last inspection, he added. Also, the official said that place especially the country liquor shop premise was found filthy and dirty. Looking into the above, the commissioner asked the DM Kanpur to take note of the same and to get a detailed enquiry of the same done by the joint team of ADM and deputy commissioner of excise, Kanpur division and take appropriate action by November 30 and report to the commissioner. The commissioner also issued instructions to all DMs/DIG/SSP/SPs and all excise officers to conduct regular surprise checking and strong enforcement action on all suspected shops and areas from time to time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/div-commissioner-inspects-liquor-shops/articleshow/79344777.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Trichy||Udhayanidhi Stalin arrested for second day||TRICHY: DMK youth wing secretary Udhayanidhi Stalin was arrested in Akkaraipettai coastal village in Nagapattinam for the second consecutive day on Saturday, during his ‘Vidiyal nokki Stalin kural’ (Stalin’s voice for awakening) election campaign. While visiting fishermen at Akkaraipettai, he boarded a boat and sailed a short distance to listen to their grievances. However, police arrested him along with party workers on charges of violating Covid-19 restrictions and detained him at a marriage hall near the office of the district SP in Nagapattinam till 7pm. On Friday, his first day of on the campaign trail, police arrested him in Thirukkuvalai.  A change of regime is sure, and they were making the arrests to thwart the campaign, Udhayanidhi told reporters after his arrest. “The next course of action will be decided after consulting with the party president. I will continue my campaign if I am released,” he added. DMK treasurer T R Baalu submitted a complaint to the director-general of police (DGP) calling the arrest of Udhayanidhi indiscriminate and illegal. Party functionaries staged protests across the delta districts condemning his arrest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/udhayanidhi-stalin-arrested-for-2nd-day/articleshow/79345840.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Trichy||Monsoon alert: 195 vulnerable villages identified in Thanjavur||Thanjavur: In view of monsoon, 195 villages have been identified by the district administration in Thanjavur as highly vulnerable to flooding and 1.43 lakh sandbags are made available to check breaches in irrigation canals and waterbodies, district collector M Govinda Rao said. Meanwhile, Tiruvarur district collector V Santha inspected regulators and took stock of the measures to meet any exigency in the event of flood.To take swift action in case of any emergency, the Thanjavur district administration has created several teams in the district, divisional, taluk and block levels. To accommodate people in the event of exigencies, the revenue authorities have identified 251 centres across the district, the collector said. 2,398 frontline volunteers have been identified and given training on how to act swiftly during an emergency situation, the collector said.Meanwhile, Tiruvarur collector visited the Munaru head across the Vennaru river near Needamangalam to inspect the regulators and take stock of the measures in place to face any emergency situation in the event of a flood in rivers and all the canals.The collector also said that sandbags, motor pumps and other equipment have been kept ready near vulnerable areas. The general public is asked to be cautious during rain and while they approach waterbodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/monsoon-alert-195-vulnerable-villages-identified-in-thanjavur/articleshow/79345820.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Trichy||Trichy dist launches survey to identify, rehabilitate dropouts||Trichy: With the Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) state project directorate targeting to identify 973 children who have never enrolled into schools for the 2020-21 academic year, the Trichy district administration has launched a survey to find out such children.The joint survey by various departments will be conducted till December 10. The survey, rolled out by Trichy collector S Sivarasu on Saturday, ensures primary education to all the children in the 6 to 14 age groups under SSA. The anj survey, which is usually conducted in April and May every year, was postponed owing to the pandemic.The survey will be done based on the criteria laid down by the SSA. A child absent in the class for 30 days continuously will be considered as a dropout. The child with the chance of not discontinuing the studies will also be brought under the same category.The drive will also count the children who were never enrolled into schools. Not only dropouts between 6 and 14 years but those from 15 years to 18 years will also be identified. Other categories that will be considered are the migrant children and in-bound students. The survey will also identify children with disabilities under the inclusive education for disabled (IED) scheme. Workers of the integrated child development scheme (ICDS), village health nurses (VHN) and self-help groups (SHGs) can be utilized for identification. The differently-abled children between 0 and 5 years will be referred to the district early intervention centre (DEIC) and those under 6 to 14 years category will be inducted into school readiness programme (SRP). Children with severe and multiple disabilities will be considered for home-based education.The field workers have been asked to visit all the 2,599 habitations across Trichy district to conduct the survey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-dist-launches-survey-to-identify-rehabilitate-dropouts/articleshow/79345853.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: People are wise; they know who to elect, says KT Rama Rao||HYDERABAD: A sea of pink hit the streets of Kukatpally and Moosapet, on Saturday, as the TRS working president, K T Rama Rao, lay the ground for an aggressive campaign season — promising the electorate to hit a century this time around. “We missed it by one seat, the last time. This time we will certainly hit a 100,” the minister said, adding he was certain of the voters’ support on December 1. “This is Hyderabad not Ahmedabad. People are not innocent here to believe whatever they (BJP) say. This is ushar (smart) Hyderabad and people here wise enough to know whom to elect,” the Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS) leader said hitting out at the opposition for making false assurances only to win elections. As part of a series of road shows for contesting TRS candidates, the senior leader arrived at Old Allapur junction in Borabanda, and later moved to Chittharamma Thalli junction at Moosapet junction. Later, he addressed roadshows at IDPL junction and Sagar Hotel junction. All through, he was accompanied by TRS supporters along with folk artists, singers and women — dancing to the tunes of Bathukamma songs. Addressing the crowds amidst cheers, KTR said that when TRS government came to power six years ago, there were lot of apprehensions about the welfare of the people from Andhra Pradesh, who had settled down in Moosapet and Kukatpally. “But we proved all of them wrong. We allayed their fears through strict maintenance of law and order,” he said. Promising financial assistance to all those who were affected by the recent floods after elections and accusing BJP leaders of sending complaint letters to the election commission, he said, “These are the same leaders who disturbed the distribution of financial assistance of Rs 10,000 to the citizens and they are coming up with such promises to bluff people.” From Basti Dawakhanas to white-topping roads to link roads, roads over and under bridges, flyovers and underpasses, Rao spelt out each developmental programme under the TRS government, which he said had spent Rs 67,000 crore for the city over the last six years. The BJP’s leaders have nothing on their hands to face the public and ask for votes. “What work have they done for Hyderabad? The Central government has not spent a single paisa on Hyderabad in the last six years. Moreover, they are trying to disturb the law and order in the city,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/people-are-wise-they-know-who-to-elect-says-ktr/articleshow/79344964.cms||Moulika.KV
November 22, 2020||Bareilly||Man, 28, fatally shot in abdomen by brother-in-law||Pilibhit: A 28-year-old man was fatally shot allegedly by his brother-in-law, 35, with a country-made pistol in the abdomen over a petty dispute in Kasganja village under Puranpur kotwali on Saturday morning. The critically injured man was rushed to Puranpur community health centre, where doctors referred him to the Pilibhit district hospital after administering preliminary treatment. In her complaint, accused Rahmat Shah’s stepdaughter Arshi stated that her mother Husn Ara had gone to attend a family function to the house of her maternal uncle on Thursday, which annoyed her stepfather. “On Saturday morning when my mother returned to my stepfather’s house, he pointed a pistol at her. As my maternal uncle Ashfaq, too, arrived at the scene at that moment, my stepfather shot him in his abdomen in a fit of rage,” alleged Arshi. SHO SK Singh said Rahmat Shah, who has been on the run, was booked under section 307 (attempt to kill) of the Indian Penal Code IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-28-fatally-shot-in-abdomen-by-brother-in-law/articleshow/79343135.cms||Keshav Agarwal
November 22, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Covid-19 training for government lab technicians in twin Telugu states||VISAKHAPATNAM: Government and government-aided laboratory technicians in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana are all set to attend training sessions on RT-PCR and other types of Covid-19 tests designed by the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine (LSHTM). “This would essentially mean imparting training to the technicians in critical components such as bio-safety, sample collection, transportation, testing and reporting while carrying out Covid-19 tests,” Professor Dr P Apparao, president of the Indian Association of Medical Microbiologist (IAMM), Telangana and Andhra Pradesh Chapter (TAAPC), told STOI. Officials said that upon request from IAMM-TAAPC, an NGO that works on innovative diagnostic methodologies—the Foundation for Innovative New Diagnostics (FIND)—roped in LSHTM to impart this course to technicians in the government-run Covid-19 network laboratories in the two states. FIND also helped LSHTM along with the African Society of Laboratory Medicine (ASLM) to design this course “Around 800 to 1,000 technicians are expected to benefit from this programme,” added Apparao, who is also head of the microbiology department at Andhra Medical College (AMC). The module of the course has two programmes—the first with a duration of 12 hours and the other for six hours. The 18-hour programme needs to be completed within a month. While the fee for this course is $50 (around Rs 3,700), it will be offered free-of-cost for government lab technicians in the two Telugu-speaking states. While Andhra Pradesh is one of the leading states in terms of the Covid-19 tally, with over 8,60,000 positive cases and around 7,000 deaths, Telangana has reported around 2,61,000 cases and 1,423 deaths. Till date, Andhra Pradesh has conducted around 94.74 lakh Covid-19 tests—the highest in the country in terms of per million population. Neighbouring Telangana has carried out around 50.11 lakh Covid-19 tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/covid-19-training-for-govt-lab-technicians-in-twin-telugu-states/articleshow/79344452.cms||Arpit Basu
November 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man sues jewellery showroom over 0.375g gold item||AHMEDABAD: A customer sued a jewellery showroom for charging Rs 948 extra on a pair of 0.375-gram gold earrings and won the case with the assertion that he had not approached the court for large compensation, but for the breach of trust that he valued the most. On the other hand, after a long debate, the showroom agreed to pay the sum to the customer with the statement that it would prefer to maintain its prestige and credibility over the meagre amount. The consumer court asked the jeweller to refund the extra amount claimed by the customer along with Rs 1,500 extra towards compensation for mental harassment. The case is from Savarkundla town in Amreli district, where Ramesh Hirani bought a jewellery set for his daughter-in-law from Sonic Jewellers. The customer found fault with one earring, which could not hold its diamonds and was sent for repair on four occasions. The jeweller also got fed up with the repeated repairs and offered to replace the earrings. Accordingly, a new pair of earrings was given to the customer with a bill of Rs 2,070. Hirani was not comfortable with the bill and raised a dispute that the earrings had 0.375g of gold, costing Rs 1,022 and silver used was worth Rs 100. The showroom charged Rs 948 more for the earrings towards labour, but it was only a replacement. The gold article was not a new order. The showroom owners tried to settle the dispute but maintained that there was no deficiency in service on their part. The customer argued that he wanted to highlight the issue because most customers in India are duped when they buy gold.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-sues-jewellery-showroom-over-0-375g-gold-item/articleshow/79344980.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Police Act 118(A) comes into force: Threat to press freedom?||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Governor Arif Mohammed Khan has signed the controversial Kerala Police Act amendment ordinance, which the government claimed was intended to prevent cyber attacks against women and children but criticised for curbing freedom of expression. Various organisations including the CPI, a member of the ruling LDF government, had opposed the amendment that covers mass media also. The cabinet had proposed the 118 (A) amendment to the Kerala Police Act, 2011 on October 21 and the governor had kept it pending till Friday. According to a press note issued by the chief minister’s office on the day the ordinance was approved, the new section says, “anyone who produces content, publishes or propagates it through any means of communication with an intention to threaten, insult or harm the reputation of an individual will be punished with an imprisonment of five years or a fine of Rs 10,000 or with both”. The government had reasoned that the ordinance was introduced amidst growing complaints about cyber bullying against women and children in which the accused persons couldn’t be restrained by the existing provisions of law. Unlike a defamation case (Sections 499 and 500 of IPC), which needs a petitioner, the proposed amendment is a cognisable offence and any person can lodge a complaint or a police officer himself can suo motu register a case against the accused. Police can arrest the accused named in the FIR without a warrant too. The opposition UDF and internet and rights organisations had alleged that the amendment would give more power to police and curtail freedom of the press. Rebutting the charge, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the amendment would not be used against any news media. The government had also said that the Centre hasn’t introduced any new legislation after the Supreme Court repealed Section 66-A of the IT Act and Section 118 (d) of the Kerala Police Act on the grounds that they were against freedom of expression. The wording of the amendment, as per the press release from the CMO, indicates that it would cover not only social media but the mass media too, including print and visual media, and even posters and billboards. The critics of the amendment said the existing Section 119 of the Kerala Police Act was enough to control misuse of social media. The section seeks to punish any person who performs, in public places, any sexual gestures or acts degrading the dignity of women or takes photographs or records videos or propagates them at any place in a manner affecting the reasonable privacy of women, with imprisonment which may extend up to three years or with fine not exceeding Rs 10,000 or with both.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/police-act-118a-comes-into-force-threat-to-press-freedom/articleshow/79344955.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Nagpur||Wrong right turn near Ajni Chowk causing traffic chaos on Wardha Road||Nagpur: Motorists are having a harrowing time while using the stretch from Ajni Chowk to NKY Tower on Wardha Road. Traffic moving in five directions — Ajni FCI Godown Road, Chhatrapati Square, Rahate Colony T-Point, RPTS Road and Khamla Road — converges at the intersection near Ajni Chowk and in front of NKY Tower, causing chaos on the busy Wardha road in absence of any monitoring. A couple of years ago, the stretch was closed for vehicular movement due to construction work of Ajni Chowk Metro station. For smooth vehicular movement, the road divider in front of NKY Tower was removed to divert traffic heading to RPTS and Khamla from Ajni FCI Godown Road, and for vehicles coming from Rahate Colony and going toward Chhatrapati Square and beyond. Recently, the stretch was reopened for traffic after completion of Ajni Chowk Metro station work but the road divider in front of NKY Tower was not restored. According to local shopkeepers, at least 70% of vehicles coming from Ajni FCI Godown Road take a right turn at the intersection in front of NKY Tower to go toward Khamla or RPTS Road. It piles up traffic on either side of Wardha road — toward Chhatrapati Square and Rahate Colony T-Point. Earlier, vehicles coming from Ajni FCI Godown Road used to take a left turn before Sai Mandir Square on Wardha Road to reach Khamla or RPTS Road. But due to landing of double decker flyover near Ajni Chowk Metro station, the left turn was closed. Shopkeepers also said vehicles are coming from Wardha Road at a greater speed since the opening of double decker flyover. Team TOI which was at the intersection in front of NKY Tower for an hour on Friday witnessed chaos and continuous honking. “It has become an accident-prone spot,” said Sachin Dhawde, a medical shop owner at Ajni Chowk. Adding to the confusion is haphazard parking of four-wheelers, especially in front of commercial buildings on the patch between Ajni Chowk and the Metro station. Vehicles are parked even on the footpath, especially in front of commercial complexes including NKY Tower, Saraswat Bank etc, compelling pedestrians to use the road. Abrupt halts by autorickshaws on the stretch is adding to the mess. ACP (traffic) Ajay Malviya, also in-charge of Sitabuldi traffic zone, visited the spot with TOI. After witnessing the chaos, he admitted that closing the intersection was the only solution. “On Saturday, the Sitabuldi traffic zone closed the divider with barricades. Next week, we will ask MahaMetro to close the intersection,” said Malviya. He also said motorists will be diverted from different routes. THE PROBLEM* Traffic from five directions converges at the road cut in front of NKY Tower near Ajni Chowk * As vehicles coming from Ajni FCI Godown Road and Rahate Colony T-Point take right turn here to move toward RPTS Road and Khamla, the traffic on either side of Wardha road is stalled * Traffic from RPTS Road, Khamla and many motorists from Wardha Road take a right turn at Ajni Chowk to reach Chhatrapati Square, thus adding to the traffic chaos SOLUTIONS OFFERED* Road cut in front of NKY Tower to be closed * Motorists coming from Ajni FCI Godown Road will have to take right turn at Sai Mandir Square for going toward Khamla or RPTS Road * Motorists coming from RPTS Road toward Wardha Road will have to either take U-turn at Ajni Chowk and move toward Chhatrapati Square or take right turn from Ajni sub-station on Khamla Road and then use Sai Mandir Road||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/wrong-right-turn-near-ajni-chowk-causing-traffic-chaos-on-wardha-road/articleshow/79346304.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
November 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Revenue officials appeal against judge’s order on Gandipet land||HYDERABAD: Revenue officials have filed an appeal before the high court challenging the order of a single judge who directed them to issue e-pattadar passbooks to farmers in Sikandarguda village of Gandipet mandal in Rangareddy district. The appellants also sought suspension of the costs slapped on them for not according passbooks to farmers Burra Venugopal Goud and others over 38 acres of their land in survey numbers 1 to 5, 17 and 18 of the village. The single judge, in his order, declared that Sikandarguda village is neither a Paigah village nor the land in question belongs to the state. Yet the state and its revenue officials chose to harass the farmers over trivial issues despite the fact that the families of the farmers were holding this land for more than 120 years and they were given rights over the land four decades ago, the judge said in his order. The attempts to term the village as a Paigah one were also rejected by the judge, who said the chief commissioner of land administration had already removed the village from the list of Paigah villages. The judge found fault with the action of the officials in cancelling the pattadar passbooks issued to the farmers in the past. The judge highlighted a finding that the revenue authorities had tried to suppress the facts before the court. The state filed this appeal seeking suspension of the single judge order. The judge, in his order, directed the revenue officials to pay Rs 5,000 costs to each of the 28 farmers in the two pleas they had filed before the court. “You gave them pattadar passbooks under the Pattadar Passbooks Act and it is not fair to refuse them digital passbooks now,” the judge said. The claims of a few other private persons who described the village as a Paigah village and hence sought rights over 187 acres were rejected with the finding that this village was not a Paigah village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/revenue-officials-appeal-against-judges-order-on-gandipet-land/articleshow/79344993.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Visakhapatnam||GVMC razes go-karting centre in Visakhapatnam||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) demolished temporary structures and a boundary wall located in the Hub for Youth (Go Karting) situated on five acres of land in Mangamaripeta near Bheemili on Saturday morning. GVMC officials also identified encroachments on 44 cents of government gedda land located next to the adventure activity centre. The demolition assumes significance as the Hub was being operated by a close associate of a key TDP leader of Visakhapatnam district. The GVMC officials said the Hub constructed these temporary structures by violating the Andhra Pradesh Coastal Zone Management Authority regulations. While the GVMC officials claimed that they served notices on November 17, management at the centre alleged they had not received any notice and said the centre occupies private land. A large police force was deployed for the operation, which started as early as 4:30 am on Saturday. GVMC chief city planner AJ Vidyullatha, deputy city planner D Rambabu and other town planning officials oversaw the demolition activity. Meanwhile, the GVMC on Saturday demolished an asbestos structure belonging to former BJP MP Gokaraju Ganga Raju. According to GVMC officials, the structure was constructed by damaging the seafront and violating coastal regulation zone (CRZ) rules. The GVMC also took action against four other structures that were in violation of CRZ rules. The GVMC razed 11 structures in various parts of the city on Saturday. Commissioner G Srijana said the GVMC would initiate stringent action against those who encroach upon open spaces, water bodies, parking places and master plan roads and construct illegal structures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/gvmc-razes-go-karting-centre/articleshow/79344471.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Bareilly||Mentally ill man injures two cops, vandalises police response vehicle||BAREILLY: A man suffering from “mental illness” allegedly grievously injured two policemen, including a sub-inspector, and vandalised their vehicle in Nawadia Banki village under Banda block in Shahjahanpur district on Friday night. The policemen were deployed at 112 Police Response Vehicle (PRV) and had gone to the village after receiving a distress call. The accused, Palwinder Singh, alias, Kaala, was thrashing his family members and when the policemen attempted to stop him, he attacked them with an iron rod grievously injuring constable Amit Kumar, and also vandalised the PRV, said police. Soon, an extra police force was called in, but the accused then injured sub-inspector Ramesh Kumar, said police, adding that Kaala was, finally, controlled by administering sedatives. Shahjahanpur SSP S Anand said, “The mentally ill accused was beating his wife and father in an inebriated condition when the police team arrived at his house. Two policemen were injured in a bid to control him. The accused has been kept under medical supervision.” “The accused was booked under sections 427 (mischief causing damage), 353 (assault or criminal force used to deter public servant on duty), 333 (grievous hurt to any public servant in the discharge of his duty), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty and 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code,” added the SSP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/mentally-ill-man-injures-two-cops-vandalises-police-response-vehicle/articleshow/79343152.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||UDF promises Covid vaccine in Thiruvananthapuram||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: If elected to power in the local body poll, distribution of Covid-19 vaccine will be ensured in all wards, promises the manifesto of UDF that was released in the capital on Saturday. The manifesto promises a proper distribution chain for Covid-19 vaccine using the network of government hospitals and primary health centres though there is still no clarity on how many doses of vaccine could be distributed in state in the near future and whether local bodies would have any role in the distribution activities. Opening Covid-quarantine centres in all panchayats and community kitchens to feed Covid-19 patients and those in quarantine are other promises made in the health sector. The manifesto themed on ‘Rejuvenation of villages and awakening cities’ was released by opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala by handing over the first copy to KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran. "LDF government has troubled local bodies during Covid-19 outbreak and natural calamities. Though local bodies were placed at the forefront of the fight against Covid-19, they were not given enough funds. Local bodies were asked to spend from their own fund or plan funds. This led to a subsequent stagnation in development projects in all local bodies. If UDF comes to power, such situations won’t arise. We will make functioning of local bodies transparent," Chennithala said while releasing the manifesto. The manifesto offers 100 days job in all panchayats under MGNREGS and additional man days during tough times. Sub-plans for fisher folk and workers in traditional industries like the sub plans for SC/ST in all panchayats is another promise in the manifesto. More facilities, including online education facilities will be introduced for education of children in fishermen families. For addressing the waste management issue in towns, UDF proposed multiple decentralized garbage processing units in each city. The local units will be set up with the concurrence of people. Promoting segregation and composting of waste at the source and using CSR funds of private companies effectively to manage garbage in public places are also part of the promises. A separate authority to manage disposal of sewage and septage waste like Kerala Water Authority is another promise aimed at city voters. A scientific plan for controlling stray dog menace and a detailed plan for improving the quality of public toilets, waiting sheds and parking lots are also part of the manifesto. Panchayats and municipalities will use plan fund for internet connectivity and road connectivity in remote places, the manifesto said after noting that work from home culture has become universal following Covid-19 outbreak. The manifesto was prepared by a committee headed by CMP leader and former planning board member CP John and comprising of UDF leaders Manjalamkuzhy Ali, Kutty Ahammed Kutty, N Venugopal, NK Premachandran, Mons Joseph, Anoop Jacob, G Devarajan and experts BA Prakash and PP Balan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/udf-promises-covid-vaccine/articleshow/79344995.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||39-year-old woman alleges torture, harassment for dowry||AHMEDABAD: A 39-year-old woman, Sherbanu Jariwala, who is presently living at her parents’ house in Paldi, lodged a complaint at the Women’s police station (West) on Friday, alleging that her husband, Hasan Kagadwala, his parents Sakina and Suber, and sister Zainab were torturing her for dowry. The accused are from Telangana. According to Jariwala’s FIR, she married Hasan in December 2002. She alleged that fifteen days into the marriage Hasan went to Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. She stated that her in-laws demanded Rs 5 lakh from her parents to cover Hasan’s spending on going to Jeddah. Their demand was fulfilled by the complainant’s parents and she was then allowed to go Jeddah where she worked as a teacher in a private school. According to the FIR, her husband subjected to her to torture and harassment there. In 2006, she returned to India and delivered a son. Hasan took her back to Jeddah 40 days after the delivery. They then returned to India and started living in Telangana. In 2007, she gave birth to another son. The complainant alleged that after Hasan came back to India, her in-laws demanded another Rs 15 lakh, to buy a new house for Hasan. They then shifted to a new house. According to the FIR, her in-laws demanded another Rs 5 lakh for furniture for the new house from her parents. As her parents did not fulfil this demand, she was subjected to more torture by her in-laws. “She stated that in 2015 she was driven out of the house and has been living with her parents ever since. As her in-laws never contacted them to take her back, she decided to file a complaint,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/39-year-old-woman-alleges-torture-harassment-for-dowry/articleshow/79344994.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Ludhiana||International drug racket: STF nabs woman accomplice of smuggler from Himachal Pradesh||LUDHIANA: The special task force (STF) has arrested the absconding woman accomplice of high-profile drug smuggler Gurdeep Singh Rano from Himachal Pradesh on Friday evening. According to STF officials, the woman was involved in drug smuggling with Rano for the last one year. The accused used to accompany Rano, posing as a police, while dealing drugs. The accused is identified as Manpreet Kaur Reet of Ludhiana. According to STF, the accused has no permanent address. She would often change her houses. STF official inspector Harbans Singh said Reet was wanted by the STF in the drug smuggling case in which on November 6 the STF arrested four, including the former SAD sarpanch of Rano village, Gurdeep Singh Rano. During investigation, Gurdeep confessed about Reet’s involvement. “For security, Gurdeep used to take the help of a dismissed cop Harbhajan Singh, a Punjab police constable Amrinder Singh Ravi and Reet. While Harbhajan and Amrinder used to be in uniform, posing as the gunmen of Rano, Reet used to pretend to be a police woman in civil dress. The woman used to accompany Rano when he was dealing drugs,” added the inspector. According to the police, Reet came in contact with Gurdeep about one and a half years ago. For the last one year, she was working for him. Besides, she is also into human trafficking. On July 30, Shimlapuri police had arrested Reet along with her accomplice for trafficking foreign girls, alleging that she was pushing them into prostitution. STF is also trying to trace dismissed cop Harbhajan Singh. On November 6, STF had arrested the former sarpanch Gurdeep Rano of Payal area, Ravej of Mahavir Colony, Iqbal Singh of Payal area and Randeep Singh of Khanna with 5.39 kg heroin, .315 bore rifle with cartridges, 12 bore pump action gun and .32 bore revolver along with cartridges, Rs 21,04,950 drug money and eight cars including a Toyota Fortuner, Audi Q7, two Toyota Innova cars, two BMW cars, one Mercedes Benz and one Jaguar. According to STF officials, these smugglers are a part of an international organised drug network being run by infamous smuggler Tanveer Singh Bedi, from Australia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/stf-arrests-woman-accomplice-of-smuggler-rano-who-was-part-of-internatl-drug-racket/articleshow/79344461.cms||Payal Dhawan
November 22, 2020||Ludhiana||MC’s plan to flush Buddha Nullah by pumping fresh water divides city||LUDHIANA: The plan to release fresh water in Buddha Nullah is almost at final stage and the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) has finalised the tenders for the project. The officials claim by next year, the fresh water from Neelon river will reach the drain to improve water quality to some extent. However, environmentalists and activists, who are fighting for clean Buddha Nullah are divided over this ‘solution’. Some say it will bring some relief, while some say it will not prove beneficial because as it is only a temporary relief and it will rather leave negative impact on aquatic life in Satluj river. The PPCB and the municipal corporation (MC) are jointly doing this project and near Neelon there is one small dead channel, which will be revived for releasing water in drain. The project is estimated to cost Rs 5.76 crore. The officials claimed that by April, required infrastructure will be ready and they can release water any time. The plan is to release around 200 cusecs of fresh water in Buddha Nullah for dissemination of water. Member secretary of PPCB, Karunesh Garg said, “We have finalised the firm and it will now start work at the site. The common effluent treatment plants for dyeing units will become operational in December and by next year we can release water in drain.” However, on being asked about releasing water before upgradation of STPs, he said they are keeping the infrastructure ready and then authorities will decide when to release the water into the drain. Meanwhile, one of the members of special task force for Buddha Nullah, Colonel (retd) Jasjit Gill said, the one-time flushing of Buddha Dariya will take the impurities, both organic and inorganic, and dump it in Sutlej river. But the pollution, which was to go slowly into the Sutlej over a period of time, will go into the river in a matter of a few hours in the first flush, he said. Secondly, according to him, all the dissolved impurities and solid waste, including thermocol, plastic trash, hosiery waste, glass tube lights will be drained into the Sutlej in one go. Also dissolved impurities, including harmful dyeing chemicals, raw sewage bacteria and dairy waste living organisms, will go to the Sutlej in a concentrated form compared with normal slow flow of Buddha Dariya in one go, which in turn gets distributed in Punjab and Rajasthan where people use this water for irrigation and drinking by humans as well as animals, he said. Therefore, a concentrated dose will also affect the aquatic life of the Sutlej, whatever minimum is left in it, he added. However, on the other hand, city-based activist Jaskirat Singh said, “I feel we must try it once, as it will clear impurities. Moreover, once the infrastructure will be created, then water can be released every now and then.” He said when water will be released in one go into the drain, water quality will improve in the city limits. He said at this time oxygen level in drain is almost nil, but fresh water will have oxygen in it so there are chances for some revival not complete but there will be certain relief. He said for the complete relief, the government should do something about the sewerage treatment plants upgradation and other measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mcs-plan-to-flush-buddha-nullah-by-pumping-fresh-water-divides-city/articleshow/79344467.cms||Nidhi Bhardwaj
November 22, 2020||India||Pricing norms for private hospitals may have saved lives: House panel||NEW DELHI: The parliamentary standing committee on health has asserted that a sustainable pricing model could have averted many Covid deaths in the country as inadequate beds in government hospitals and absence of specific guidelines for treatment amid rising cases resulted in private hospitals charging exorbitant fees. Chairperson of the committee, Ram Gopal Yadav, submitted virtually the report on 'Outbreak of Pandemic Covid-19 and its Management' to Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu, the first by any parliamentary panel on the government's handling of the pandemic. Underlining that healthcare spending in the country with a population of 1.3 billion is "abysmally low", the panel said the fragility of Indian health ecosystem posed a big hurdle in generating an effective response against the pandemic. "The committee, therefore, strongly recommends the government to increase its investments in the public healthcare system and make consistent efforts to achieve the National Health Policy targets of expenditure up to 2.5% of GDP within two years as the set time frame of year 2025 is far away and the public health cannot be jeopardised till that time schedule," the report stated. The committee has recommended that post-Covid clinics should be set up. "Even among people who recover, complications are rampant and they are serious. So there should be regular and comprehensive follow up among people," it suggested. Stating that the public had to undergo trauma and distress due to absence of a dedicated healthcare system, the committee observed that the number of government hospital beds in the country were not adequate to handle the increasing number of Covid and non-Covid patients. Stressing on the need for better partnership between the government and private hospitals in wake of the pandemic and shortage of state-run healthcare facilities, the report said, "The committee is of the view that arriving at a sustainable pricing model to treat Covid patients could have averted many deaths." The committee believes healthcare should move towards universal health coverage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pricing-norms-for-private-hospitals-may-have-saved-lives-house-panel/articleshow/79346805.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Poacher held with coots at Nalsarovar||AHMEDABAD: While wintering migratory birds may just have started to arrive at Nalsarovar, poachers seems to be making their way to the lake. On Friday night, forest department staff arrested one Lakshman Dethala, a resident of Nani Kathechi village, with two poached common coots.Brijesh Chaudhary, deputy conservator of forests, Nalsarovar, said, that while staffers were patrolling they intercepted Laxman with the two birds. The birds were alive and their wings and legs were intact and they were thus released immediately. He said Laxman was produced in a Limbdi court and was remanded in custody for two days. A senior officer said that this was the second such incident in less than a fortnight and the third incident since January. Earlier, one person was arrested with 16 birds. He said it was surprising that the person had not caused any injury to the birds. Poachers usually clip their wings or even twist their legs to make sure they can’t fly. The officer said poaching is an old activity at the lake and it was thus decided that teams carry out patrolling at the night in nearby villages and too so such activity could be detected. In January, two persons including a women were caught poaching.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/poacher-held-with-coots-at-nalsarovar/articleshow/79345003.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP extends invitation to Swamy Goud||HYDERABAD: After successfully wooing several Congress leaders, the BJP leadership has extended an invitation to TRS leader and former chairman of the legislative council K Swamy Goud. Party leaders Bandi Sanjay and union minister G Kishan Reddy reportedly met the former and invited him into the party. Swamy Goud, who worked as president of Telangana non-gazetted officers association played a crucial role during the Telangana movement. He was made MLC and chairman after formation of separate state. His term as MLC from Medak-Nizamabad, Karimnagar and Adilabad constituency ended last year. Since then he is not active in the party activities. When contacted, BJP sources said he is “most likely’ to join the party. However, Goud was not available for comment. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-extends-invitation-to-swamy-goud/articleshow/79344989.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Fake major cons 17 women, nets Rs 6.6 crore as dowry||HYDERABAD: A fraudster who posed as a major in the Indian Army, duped 17 women by promising to marry them and collected Rs 6.6 crore in dowry. He was arrested from his house by the Hyderabad police on Saturday. Using the money, the man had bought himself a house and three cars, including a Mercedes Benz. Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar said M Srinu Naik, a native of Prakasam district in Andhra Pradesh, got married to a superintendent in DM&HO office, Guntur, in 2002 . In 2014, he migrated to Hyderabad. He first informed his family that he became a major in the Army. He obtained an Aadhaar card with a date of birth of August 27, 1986, instead of 1979, which is his actual year of birth. “He procured a fake Army ID card in the name of M S Chauhan, purchased an Army uniform, caps, shoes, insignia, toy pistols, among other things. He dressed in the military fatigues and took photographs. Later, he posted the photos on social media,” the police chief said. He also obtained fake education certificate of M Tech from a university in Meghalaya. He used to collect information from marriage consultancies or from his friends and trap prospective brides impersonating as a major in the Indian Army. To make them believe, he would show fake Army ID and photos. Until recently, he met 17 families and impressed them. The women had given their consent to marry him and he collected dowry from their families. “With the Rs 6.6 crore dowry, he bought a house, a Mercedes Benz car, Mahendra Thar jeep and a Fortuner,’’ Anjani Kumar said. Police said the accused was supposed to get engaged on Friday, but he was nabbed after they got a complaint from one of his victims. Rachakonda police registered two different cases apart from the case by Hyderabad police. Until police nabbed him, most of the brides besides his wife were unaware that he conned them as a major in the Indian Army.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fake-major-cons-17-women-nets-rs-6-6cr/articleshow/79346034.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam can be a top industrial city: V Vijayasai Reddy||VISAKHAPATNAM: Rajya Sabha MP V Vijayasai Reddy said Vizag has the essential qualities required to develop it as a major industrial city. The YSRC MP, speaking at an industrial meet at the VMRDA Children’s Arena on Saturday, said the city is well connected via rail, road, air and sea. It has two major ports close to southeast Asia and Australia. The city has sufficient land and human resources and the government is targeting to develop the Port City as one of the top industrial cities in the country. Visakhapatnam district in-charge and agriculture minister K Kannababu said the government will bring out a food processing policy soon with changes suggested by chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy. He said Vizag is a brand that it has to be protected and the city has to welcome industrialists. — Siva G||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vizag-can-be-a-top-industrial-city-vijayasai/articleshow/79344504.cms||Siva G
November 22, 2020||Bareilly||12-year-old missing boy found dead in Shahjahanpur, sexual assault suspected||BAREILLY: The body of a 12-year-old boy, who had been missing since Thursday afternoon, was found abandoned in a sugarcane field on Friday night with injuries marks on his head and face, said police. The autopsy was conducted by a panel of doctors on Saturday; the report is, however, awaited. An FIR under IPC section 366 (kidnapping) was registered at Tilhar police station after the boy went missing, but section 302 (murder) was added to the FIR after the recovery of the body. The boy’s family said they did not have enmity with anyone and suspected that he was sexually assaulted and then killed. Shahjahanpur SSP S Anand said, “The boy was playing outside his house when he went missing. The family had not named anybody (suspect) in their complaint. The motive behind the murder is still unclear. We are trying to check details of the people active in the area using mobile surveillance and collecting information about drunkards and other suspects. Three teams, including a crime branch team, are working on the case and the killer will be identified and nabbed soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/12-year-old-missing-boy-found-dead-in-shahjahanpur-sexual-assault-suspected/articleshow/79343167.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 22, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Post lockdown locals flock sto nearby hill stations||LUDHIANA: Due to coronavirus and the resultant lockdowns several locals were stuck in town for months. But now that everything is opening up slowly, residents of Ludhiana are enjoying their weekends by going to the nearby hill stations like Kasauli and Shimla on weekends. Gurvinder Pal Singh, a businessman from Gill Road said, “Being stuck at home for a long time, I really got bored and then I decided to go to Kasauli with family so we can relax our mind. Sitting at home made us a bit dull and I really enjoyed with my wife the beautiful nature and the long drive to Kasauli.” Another local businessmen, Vaibhav Malhotra from Dugri, said, “For almost half of the year, I was stuck at home like others. Now, as the weather is getting nice, I got the news that there is snow in the hills so I just rang up some of my friends and we went to Manali for some fun at the weekend. These kinds of trips are really great to beat the stress, which everyone is facing. Now, I can say not everything is bad this year. Of course, it goes without saying, one has to follow Covid-19 precautions while venturing out.” Inderpartap Singh, a student from Model Town, said, “I used to go to the hills with my friends in the summer season, but due to Covid-19, I was not able to. Recently, we went to Shimla after long. Pollution-free nature and good organic food are the things for which I go there. One can click a lot of good pictures due to picturesque background.” This has given some boost to the tourism and hotel industry in the hill state. “A lot of tourists are coming from Ludhiana, Mohali and Chandigarh on weekends. We are happy to see that the tourists are back. The markets are filled with tourists, but many people are getting home-packed food to eat here because of corona — they are scared and not many are eating outside food. More tourists can be seen on weekends, especially day trippers — they come in the morning and go back at night,” said Maninder Singh Ahluwalia, a hotelier at Kasauli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/post-lockdown-locals-flock-sto-nearby-hill-stations/articleshow/79344490.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Nagpur||‘We didn’t rest, used Covid break to rev up infra & the entire system’||Dr Avinash Gawande took charge as the superintendent of government medical college and hospital (GMCH) over a year ago, just when the world was about to the face its worst-ever pandemic in Covid-19. Hailing from a rural background in Yavatmal and specializing in community health and academics, Dr Gawande was initially a bit reluctant to take up his new role. Prodded by GMCH dean Dr Sajal Mitra and seniors, Dr Gawande eventually took the plunge, dealing with infrastructural issues like shortage of beds, outcry of asymptomatic patients, staff grievances and the need to keep students in the loop. A year down the line, Dr Gawande spoke to TOI about the challenges GMCH faced and its preparation ahead of a possible second wave. Excerpts from the interview... Q. The beginning of your term and Covid ran parallel. How tough was it? A. When I took over on November 7, 2019, a lot of people, organizations, NGOs came to felicitate me. As soon as Covid-19 reached the city, the people who honoured me started blaming me for it (laughs). Initially, I was focusing on staff punctuality and overall patient care. This being a medical college and hospital, I had to work as per the needs of students, institutional development and good infrastructure for patients. I did not avail of any leave or weekly Sunday off since March 12 till the completion of my first year in office. After gathering information about the functioning of GMCH, I realized that I could do a lot more for the institution. One of my initiatives was getting erring students and staff to do social work or help out a needy patient. Q. What are the lessons that you learnt from Covid19? A. It was decided to start 600 Covid beds at GMCH. We never thought that all of them would be fully occupied. Yet, there was a time when we had no beds. Every day, we would think there won’t be any new problem but each day came with a new challenge. I’m thankful to GMCH and the society. I learnt a lot during this phase. Q. How were the Covid admissions initially? A. As per the prevailing policy, asymptomatic patients were admitted. They mostly don’t have any health complains. Hence, it was not easy to keep a normal person at one place in a hall for a period stretching over two weeks or more. For them, it was unnecessary confinement. We analyzed the situation and came to the conclusion that food was the main factor which would keep them content. We got two donors who provided food for patients, nurses, attendants and doctors engaged in Covid duties. Over 70,000 to 80000 meals were served free of charge with the support of donors. We are thankful to them. We ensured that the asymptomatic patients celebrated festivals during their hospital stay. We also made several modifications and exceptions for the well to do and some foreigners who couldn’t adjust to the general wards. Two large TVs were installed for their entertainment. Despite our sincere efforts, miscreants shot videos and made them viral to malign GMCH. Q. What was the scene like when critical patients started getting admitted? A. The oxygen requirement shot up. The demand in August and September was more than GMCH has ever consumed in its lifetime. We had set up a security team to ensure that there was no problem in oxygen supply, no leakage and pressure fall. We made a daily checklist of oxygen, water, sanitation, diet and serious patient analysis from each ward. Q. What measures did you take to ensure better morgue management? A. Just once, a relative was misinformed about a deceased because both the patients came at the same time and their files got mixed. Relatives are shown the body before it is taken out. Now we have a tag system. It can’t be removed. So even if files are mixed the tag will remain. We ideally try to foresee challenges but being a big institute, the scope for improvement remains. Q. In what way are you prepared for the second wave if at all it comes? A. We have got a contractual staff from the divisional commissioner, collector’s offices and public health department for the additional 400 beds. One ward needs 4-6 doctors for clinical and non-clinical works depending on HDU or ICU beds. Third and fourth-year students from our nursing college have been trained and kept ready for the next wave. The class IV staff has been outsourced by the collector’s office. Now, we have 1,000 Covid beds, including 250 for the ICU. Q. Why do patients prefer GMCH over IGGMCH? A. Patients, who come from all over, especially far off places, prefer GMCH because it has one of the largest medical facilities in the country. We never stop providing services like routine surgeries, super specialities and interventional radiology. Q. How did you cope with the intense pressure? A. The focus is always on patient care and better communication with relatives. You have to keep your cool and carry on with your work. However, the way patients are increasing now, the situation is likely to turn chaotic again. The positive point is that the antibody titre in urban and rural population is good. By December 15, cases may peak. Compared to the first wave, we are better prepared now. We didn't’ rest in the last six weeks even though the number of cases came down significantly. We strengthened our infrastructure during this break. We are prepared even for a bigger challenge. Help desks for patients and relatives have been set up. Q. Any new measure to manage patients better? A. Both the medical colleges have started using a remote sensing application called Dozee. It helps in monitoring a patient’s heart rate, respiration, SPo2 and other activity. The medical superintendent, dean and treating doctor can track the patient’s health. The application was put to use towards the later stage of the first wave. It will prove handy in the future as well. Stopping the progress from mild to moderate, moderate to severe, early diagnosis and management before the patient turns serious is the key. Also, we are constantly training and counselling Class III and IV staff to help them overcome fear and occupational anxiety.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/we-didnt-rest-used-covid-break-to-rev-up-infra-the-entire-system/articleshow/79345013.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
November 22, 2020||Bareilly||Tiger strays into village just 1 km from Pilibhit city||PILIBHIT: Encroachments into forest areas have forced tigers to stray into human habitats in Pilibhit district. Just how dangerous the situation is becoming was evident on Friday evening, when a tiger barged into Bhood Gautia village in Pilibhit Sadar tehsil and killed a cow. The village is barely 1 km from Pilibhit city and 6 km from Mala forest range of Pilibhit tiger reserve (PTR). Earlier on Friday morning, the tiger was spotted at Mobinganj village, near the district court campus in the city, and 1.7 km Bhood Gautia. The presence of a stray tiger so close to the city sent the forest department into a tizzy and it scrambled teams to the affected area in order to ensure safety of both villagers and the tiger. Divisional forest officer (DFO) of forest and wildlife division, Sanjeev Kumar had his hands full as his teams monitored the situation, trying to keep the panic-stricken villagers calm and preventing them from taking on the big cats on their own, on the one hand, and pushing back the animals into the forests, on the other. “The stray big cat was three or four years old as deduced by the forest team from its pugmarks. It may have been lurking amid the sugarcane fields and moved out as harvesting is on,” said DFO Kumar. He also did not rule out the possibility of the tiger straying out of PTR in search of new territory due to the increasing number of big cats in the reserve. Another stray tiger killed a calf at Pipra Mujapta village under Puranpur tehsil circle on Saturday morning. Angry villagers staged a demonstration against the forest department’s failure to protect them and their livestock from the big cats. Last week, a stray tiger was spotted on the banks of Kharja canal, near Madhotanda village under Kalinagar tehsil. According to reports, the big cat is still hiding among the dense shrubs. The presence of a tiger at this spot is a great threat to the commuters passing through the Madhotanda–Kalinagar and Madhotanda–Khatema roads, said Kiran Singh, gram pradhan of Madhotanda village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/tiger-strays-into-village-just-1-km-from-pilibhit-city/articleshow/79343183.cms||Keshav Agarwal
November 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Vulture rescue centre to be set up in Hyderabad as part of action plan||HYDERABAD: In its five-year action plan to protect the vulture population in India, the Central government has proposed to set up four dedicated rescue centres in the country, out of which one is in Hyderabad. According to the 2020-25 action plan, the dedicated rescue centre which will be established 5km from the breeding centres such that veterinary expertise of the breeding centres could be utilized for treatment of sick and injured birds. There are currently no dedicated vulture rescue centres to treat vultures that get injured in accidents and fall sick from exposure to diclofenac, a veterinary drug present in the livestock carcasses that they scavenge. “Rescue centres will help in saving birds that are injured or young hatchlings that are at times abandoned by mother. These centres are part of the conservation programme and will help protect the birds that might otherwise not survive,” said A Shankaran, senior forest department official. Further, the Telangana state forest officials informed that they have also submitted proposals for funding to further improve the already existing vulture conservation programme in Telangana. “While the conservation is going on irrespective of the funds being granted, the funding from the Union government will help in having a full-time biologist, bird tracker, a better monitoring mechanism, photography and videography to record activities like hatching and nesting which are all essential activities in conservation of the species,” said Shankaran. As per the five-year plan, the rescue centres will be set up about 5-6 km from the vulture conservation breeding centres so that the distance is good enough to keep the vulture conservation breeding facilities away from the spread of infections but not too far to utilize the veterinary facilities of the centre. In Hyderabad, the vulture conservation breeding facility will be set up at the Nehru Zoological Park with an estimated budget of Rs 15 crore. Nehru Zoological Park currently has 11 oriental white backed vultures and most of them are 35-years-old.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vulture-rescue-centre-to-be-set-up-in-city-as-part-of-action-plan/articleshow/79345030.cms||Moulika.KV
November 22, 2020||Allahabad||Uttar Pradesh: Starved for 4 days, man & son killed in sorcery ritual||PRAYAGRAJ: It was Safdar Ali’s belief that he could revive the dead using sorcery that cost a tailor and his three-year-old son their lives in Kaushambi. Safdar, his wife Noor, sister-in-law Gulnaz and daughter Anas were arrested on Saturday for the alleged murder of Vakeel and his son Arham, under Pipri police station, in Chayal area of the district. The father-son duo were found dead in their home on Friday, while Vakeel’s wife Gulnaz was found unconscious in another room of the house. Vakeel was a tailor by profession. SP (Kaushambi) Abhinandan said, “Police had found items like lemons and amulets at the crime scene which had indicated the use of black magic. During interrogation, Safdar alias Bablu confessed that he had killed Vakeel and Arham as part of a sorcery ritual. He also said that Vakeel’s wife Gulnaz was also a party to the crime. The sorcery rituals had been going on for four days and the father-son duo were kept without food and water.” According to police, Safdar had been staying with Vakeel’s family for three days before the twin murders came to light. Safdar said that he believed he could revive the two with black magic, but fled the house after he failed to do so. Based on Safdar’s confession, police then also arrested Gulnaz. They also recovered the knife used in the crime, police added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/starved-for-4-days-man-son-killed-in-sorcery-ritual/articleshow/79345730.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Winter sun keeps chilly November warm, even as temperature slips||LUDHIANA: Weather continues to be chilly with both day and night temperatures recording below normal on Saturday. The met department predicts weather disturbance in the city in the next few days. It was sunny in Ludhiana for most part of the day on Saturday. However, it was cold on Friday night. According to the met department, the maximum (day) temperature in city was recorded at 21.8 degrees Celsius, which is five degrees less than normal. On Friday, the day temperature was recorded at 23.2 degrees, which was four degrees less than normal. Meanwhile, minimum (night) temperature in Ludhiana was recorded a degree below normal at 9.1 degrees Celsius, which is 1.1 degree less than a day before. A met department official at Chandigarh said Sunday and Monday is likely to have generally cloudy sky. It is expected to be partly cloudy on Tuesday and generally cloud day after, he said, adding that temperatures may witness a fall in the next week and night temperatures might increase. The met department website suggests that the day temperature is expected to rise to 24 degrees on Sunday and then fall to 21 degrees by Friday whereas night temperature is expected to fall to eight degrees on Sunday and then rise to 11 degrees by Tuesday and remain the same for the next two days. People are expecting things to turn harsh soon. “It is getting colder every passing day and I think if it gets further colder, we can enter harsh phase of winter by the beginning of December. However, the good part about the prevailing weather is that one can bask in the sun in the afternoons, as sky has been clear for the last two days. We have started wearing warm clothes during evening, night and early morning hours,” said Maninder Singh, a businessman from Chandigarh road. Children are enjoying the winter sun. “As it is sunny for the last few days, we have been playing cricket after having lunch. My parents tell me it helps my body get Vitamin D, which is good for immunity,” said Rahul, an 11-year-old student from Civil Lines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/winter-sun-keeps-chilly-november-warm-even-as-temperature-slips/articleshow/79344507.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: CPM to keep Centre’s enmity as hot poll topic||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The LDF will organize mass gatherings in all panchayats, municipalities and corporations on November 25 to raise a protest against central agencies which are interfering with the prestigious development projects of the state. The gatherings that will be held from 5pm to 6pm at these centres will raise the slogan ‘Save Kerala, Protect Development’. “The central agencies have already meddled with projects such as Life Mission, K-FON, e-mobility and Taurus downtown. CAG’s report that challenges even the right of KIIFB to avail loan is a continuation of this agenda. They want to stall development works worth Rs 60,000 cr being implemented in the state using KIIFB fund,” said LDF convener A Vijayaraghavan. Dubbing this as an open challenge to the people of Kerala, Vijayaraghavan alleged that BJP and UDF were playing this game as they are afraid of the political mileage gained by LDF through these development projects. The CPM state secretariat on Friday suggested continuous protests to keep Centre’s enmity to the state as a hot topic till the local body election. As per the directive of CPM panel, the LDF convener – who is also the secretary in charge of CPM – consulted with other partners of the front and announced the protest on November 25. The LDF will keep the issue active in the local body poll campaign. On Saturday, CPM state secretariat stepped up its attack against enforcement directorate. Pointing out media report on ED’s version of the leaked audio clip of gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh, CPM secretariat said, “As per reports in a section of the media, ED has parroted the version of UDF and BJP. This clearly shows that ED is part of the criminal conspiracy against LDF government. Instead of issuing an official statement, ED has followed the selective leak model here too.” CPM alleged that the agency – which had come to probe gold smuggling – is probing everything else than the smuggling and trying to sabotage LDF government. “Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala has dismissed even the stance of Congress national leadership and is acting as a spokesperson of ED,” CPM alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cpm-to-keep-centres-enmity-as-hot-poll-topic/articleshow/79345018.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Tea at Rs 5 & banner cost Rs 120: GHMC rate chart||HYDERABAD: With nominations closing for GHMC polls on Friday, State Election Commission has started keeping an eye on election expenditure. A rate card has also been created for vehicles, advertisement and food too. For instance, a cloth banner’s price has been fixed at Rs 120, a candidate should not fill the ward with thousands of cloth banners claiming he purchased them for Rs 50 or Rs 100. Similarly, the price for tea (small cup) has been fixed as Rs 5, while for tea (big cup) it would Rs 10. Candidates’ expenditure would be monitored by officials exclusively appointed to keep a check on it. SEC had appointed 30 expenditure observers, with an observer in each of the 30 circles. Apart from the expenditure observers, six general observers have also been appointed. Most expenditure observers were deputy registrars and audit officers working in the agriculture department. They have been instructed by SEC to deploy shadow teams to check the daily expenditure. “Final expenditure submitted by candidates should match with daily report filed by shadow teams,” said S Vani, expenditure observer looking after Madhapur, Miyapur, Hafeezpet and Chandanagard. A circle-wise meet has also been scheduled to be held on November 23 where candidates would be briefed by observers of their respective wards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-rate-chart-tea-at-rs-5-banner-cost-rs-120/articleshow/79344999.cms||Nabinder Bommala
November 22, 2020||Hyderabad||2,690 weapons deposited so far: Hyderabad Police||HYDERABAD: Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar on Saturday said that till now police seized Rs 1.35 crore of unaccounted cash as part of a special drive for the upcoming polls. Police had executed 27 non-bailable warrants and they were monitoring history-sheeters. Police said till now 2,698 weapons were deposited by licence holders in Hyderabad. “We have inspected the strong room, counting room at DRC Centre, working of CCTV cameras at centres and talked to the authorities about arrangements. Nine cases were registered over unaccounted cash,’’ Kumar said. He also not to carry over Rs 50,000 cash and, if required more, carry documents. Rachakonda police on Saturday said 10,000 policemen were drawn into bandobust duties in 30 wards. Bound over proceedings were executed against 89 persons. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2690-weapons-deposited-so-far-police/articleshow/79345006.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Jaipur||Debt-ridden Jaipur mahouts demand to resume jumbo ride at Amber||JAIPUR: Reeling under debt, the mahouts of Jaipur have urged the state government to resume elephant safari at Amber Fort. The Haathi Gaon in Amber area that was meant to be a retreat for the pachyderms is witnessing a gloomy environment in absence of employment due to Covid. In past nine months, mahout Ballu Khan along with his family members who owns 10 elephants are neck deep in debt. Khan says, “To sustain, I have taken a loan over Rs 12 lakh. After the Amber Fort was re-opened for tourists, we had made several requests to the tourism department to resume elephant ride. The mahouts assured to follow all safety protocols. But requests went unheard. If the situation continues, our survival will be a challenge,” he said. The pandemic for nearly nine months has severely affected the earnings of the mahouts at “Haathi Gaon” in Jaipur. With ride closed, and elephants are forced to rest in the stands. Nearly 10,000 family members are waiting with bated breath for normalcy to return. The tourism at Amber Fort was re-started on June 2, 2020. But elephant rides continue to be restricted. Memorandum submitted by the Elephant Village Development Society, reads, “The elephant ride was suspended on March 18. As our livelihood has been seriously affected, we are facing immense difficulty to pay school fees of our children and meet our day to day expenses.” In Jaipur, during the tourist season, the elephant owners earn around Rs 6,000 to 8,000 per day from tourists who visit Haathi Gaon. The abrupt shutdown of elephant village has affected the lives of these captive animals and their caretakers whose main job is to serve the thousands of domestic and foreign tourists. “We know our earnings will not be the same, but even 50% income could make our lives better. Also, ride will keep the giant animals healthy. After lockdown, four elephants died as their digestion ability has weakened due to lack of exercise,” said mahout Abdul Raoof. After earnings of mahouts came to an end and without an urgent bailout, fear of hunger and survival looms large over these animals and their caretakers. “Mahouts had created an ‘elephant welfare fund’ in 2005. An amount of Rs 20 from every ride was deposited in the fund which is monitored by the forest department. After Covid, the state decided to provide Rs 600 per elephant per day, which was far too less. We made peace with the fact. However, that money is also not provided to us. Money of four months is still pending and mahouts are managing on their own,” said a mahout.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/debt-ridden-mahouts-demand-to-resume-jumbo-ride-at-amber/articleshow/79346041.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Bareilly||Man, 28, killed in road accident||PILIBHIT: A 28-year-old farmer died when his bike collided with a mini-truck near Chapraua Kuan village under Bilsanda police station on Saturday morning. An FIR has been lodged in the matter. In his complaint, the deceased’s father, Kanwaljeet Singh, said his son, Gurjeevan Singh, was on way to Puvayan on his bike when he was hit by a speeding mini-truck. He died on the spot, he said. Birja Ram, SHO, said the truck driver was booked under IPC section 304 A (causing death by negligence) 279 (rash driving on a public way) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees or over).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-28-killed-in-road-accident/articleshow/79343201.cms||Keshav Agarwal
November 22, 2020||Pune||Sanghvi Police registers FIR against three for illegal sand mining||Pune: The Sanghvi Police have registered an FIR against the driver of an earthmover and two other unidentified persons for their alleged involvement in illegal sand mining at the confluence of Ramnadi and Mula river. Several residents of Aundh and volunteers of Jeevitnadi, an NGO, along with police personnel visited the patch behind the Aundh Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) on Friday night after getting information about illegal mining in the area. “There were two tractors without any number plates at the spot and the earthmover, which also had no registration number. When the people at the spot saw the police coming towards them, they took to heels. Only the driver of the earth mover was nabbed,” said Vaishali Patkar, a local resident and social worker, who filed the FIR. The FIR was filed against Vijaykumar Saav, the driver of an earth mover, and two unidentified persons under section 379 of the Indian Penal Code and sections 9 and 15 of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986. According to Patkar, she received a call around 11pm on Friday about mining activities at the confluence of both the rivers. “I was told that someone had seen an earthmover going towards the riverbed. I called another resident, Pushkar Kulkarni, and some others before reaching the spot by 11.45 pm. After seeing the earthmover, we dialled 100 to inform the police and went back to wait on the bridge over Ramnadi. Once some personnel arrived from Chaturshringi police station, Kulkarni went with them towards the spot where digging was going on.” According to Patkar, instances of illegal mining have been reported from across the city. “Recently, a few citizens from the city also discussed the issue, so we called the police to nab those involved in the theft of sand from the riverbed. The police could catch one person and they are conducting further investigatiions,” she added. “We want stringent action against those involved in the incident so that such instances of illegal mining can be checked,” said Shailaja Deshpande, a member of Jeevitnadi. Senior police inspector of Sangvi police station Rangnath Unde confirmed that a FIR has been registered in the matter and investigations are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sanghvi-police-registers-fir-against-three-for-illegal-sand-mining/articleshow/79345021.cms||Rujuta Parekh
November 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Technical vendor workshop held at Porbandar naval base||Ahmedabad: The increased presence of Indian naval platforms at Porbandar and other ports of Gujarat has led to the necessity of technical and logistics support. To address this, Headquarters Gujarat Daman and Diu Naval Area organised a technical vendor base workshop at Porbandar on Friday to create a strong vendor base to support the Indian Navy’s requirements. Rear Admiral Puruvir Das, Flag Officer Commanding, Gujarat Naval Area, presided over the event and highlighted the importance of the workshop. The workshop was aligned with the ‘Vocal for Local’ clarion call by the Prime Minister of India. Around 70 renowned firms attended the workshop from the shipping industry of Gujarat, one of the prime maritime states of India, providing an ideal platform for aspiring technical firms to facilitate growth of their businesses and be a part of the success of the nation’s fighting forces.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/technical-vendor-workshop-held-at-porbandar-naval-base/articleshow/79345016.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP misrepresenting Hindutva agenda: K Keshava Rao||HYDERABAD: TRS secretary general and Rajya Sabha MP K Keshava Rao said every scheme being implemented by the state government has a touch of social justice attached to it. He said no other state in the country has implemented so many welfare schemes as Telangana has done. “People of Hyderabad are aware of this and will vote for the party,” he said. Addressing a press conference with minister Koppula Eshwar on Saturday, he said the BJP was misrepresenting Hindutva agenda. “Hindu religion embraces every section of the citizen and is known for its tolerance. Some Hindus believe in god and some do not. KCR is a true Hindu who performs yagams and rituals,” said Keshava Rao. While running the party and government, KCR has never moved away from the path of communal harmony and social justice, he added, rebutting the charges made by BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay. Keshava Rao said the party would resume disbursing floor relief to affected families after the GHMC elections. He said both Congress and BJP have opposed the flood relief to the people. Former MP and Telangana State Planning Board vice-chairman B Vinod Kumar at a separate meeting said some parties were trying to create communal tension in Hyderabad and urged people to be wary about their game plan. “PM Modi has a wide chest but not a wider heart to redress the issues of people and come to their rescue,” he said. Farmers and labourers were hit the most during Modi’s regime at the Centre, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-misrepresenting-hindutva-agenda-kk/articleshow/79345019.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ambulances to take Covid patients to hospitals directly in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), in order to cut down on admission time for Covid patients, has now decided that instead of taking patients to the Sardar Vallabbhhai Patel Hospital (SVP) first for their admission procedure, AMC doctors will point them directly to the hospital they are to be admitted to. Rajiv Kumar Gupta, additional chief secretary, forests and environment, who is in charge of Covid management in the city, said, “Thus far the patient was taken to SVP from where he or she was referred to a private hospital. Now the AMC will deploy senior officers at the EMRI 108 control room to steer ambulances to hospitals with beds available. This will save about 30 minutes.” Officials said the decision was taken after photographs of long queues of ambulances were reported. An officer said the ambulance staff will provide the medical history of the patient and based on this the doctor will decide if a high dependency unit or ICU is needed. The ambulance will then be dispatched to the appropriate hospital. Gupta said, “Apart from the decision to transfer patients to Gandhinagar, we have also decided to transfer patients from Lambha, Odhav and other such areas to Anand, Karamsad or Nadiad, where the AMC has reserved more than 100 beds for Ahmedabad patients. There are some good hospitals there and patients will get better treatment.” Moreover, he said due to the spurt in infections, the AMC is preparing support infrastructure to increase Covid beds at SVP by 300.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ambulances-to-take-covid-patients-to-hospitals-directly/articleshow/79345020.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Minister meets Gaddar, seeks his support for TRS candidate||HYDERABAD: With the TRS leadership asking its ministers and MLAs not to spare any effort in ensuring that the party emerges victorious in the GHMC elections, party leaders are literally going out of their way to attempt to garner support from even those who have been bitter critics of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao. Social welfare minister Koppula Eshwar went to the house of balladeer Gaddar to seek support for the party candidates contesting in the polls. Eshwar went to Gaddar’s house at Venkatapuram at Alwal on November 19 and introduced TRS candidate Sabitha Kishore, who is seeking a re-election from the division. Gaddar himself did not make any comment about Eshwar meeting him. “It was a courtesy call,” he said after the meeting. Eshwar said they had met Gaddar to seek his blessings for the TRS nominee from Venkatapuram. Gaddar and his son met the Congress top leaders — Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi — in New Delhi in October 2018 giving rise to speculation that he was joining the Congress. Subsequently, at a public meeting in the run-up to the Telangana assembly elections, Gaddar attended a public meeting addressed by Sonia Gandhi at Medchal and also recited a poem in her praise. Though Gaddar’s son Surya Kiran, had joined in April 2018 and was an aspirant for the party ticket for the assembly polls, he could not be accommodated. In fact, prior to the 2018 assembly polls, Gaddar himself made an offer to contest the elections against KCR from Gajwel or any other constituency provided all opposition parties came to an understanding and fielded him. Eashwar, who represents Dharmapuri constituency and holds SC, minorities and senior citizens’ welfare portfolio in cabinet, has been given the task of ensuring the win of TRS candidates in some divisions||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/min-meets-gaddar-seeks-hissupport-for-trs-candidate/articleshow/79345010.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Man beats up wife for objecting to his sex trips to Thailand||AHMEDABAD: A 41-year-old woman from Isanpur, Neepa Dubey, lodged a police at the Women’s police station (East) on Friday stating that her husband Harsh Dubey, a resident of Ramol, does not have sex with her and instead frequents Thailand. She stated in the FIR that she heard her husband talking to his friends over the phone about having sex with women in Thailand. Police lodged a complaint of domestic violence against the husband. According to the FIR, the complainant married Dubey in January 2003 in court and in February 2003 they had a wedding ceremony. She stated that though her husband is a manager at a private company, he does not give her money for household expenses and has not had sex with her for ten years. She alleged he that he goes to Bangkok instead and has sex with women there. “The complainant claimed that when she confronted her husband about this, he got angry and beat her up. She alleged that her husband would abuse their 16-year-old son when he tried to save her from the beatings,” said a police official. According to FIR, in January 2020, when she sent her son to buy flowers from the market for pooja, her husband got angry and threw her out of the house. She has been living with her parents since then. She stated that as the efforts of elders of their community to broker a compromise between the couple failed, she decided to lodge a complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-beats-up-wife-for-objecting-to-his-sex-trips-to-thailand/articleshow/79345045.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Bagladesh cargo ship to now host an eatery||VISAKHAPATNAM: The government is considering converting the Bangladesh merchant ship at Tenneti Park into a restaurant. Under the impact of heavy winds, the 80-meter-long ship had drifted towards Tenneti Park on Beach Road from its anchorage point at Visakhapatnam Port Trust on October 13. With the acceptance of the ship’s owners, local authorities had removed the 40,000 tonnes of fuel from the ship three days after the incident. Sources said that taking it back into the deep waters would be an expensive affair and the government is now focusing on utilising the opportunity. “We are planning to utilise it if the owners are not interested in taking away the ship. Bringing a ship of any size to shore is not easy. The Vizagites have already witnessed the INS Kurusura Submarine that was brought to shore after facing many hardships,” tourism minister M Srinivasa Rao told STOI. He further added that the ship is very close to the shore and as its owners have not come forward with a proposal to move it back into deep waters, the government is planning to set up a restaurant inside it after getting the permission of its owners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/bdesh-cargo-ship-to-now-host-an-eatery/articleshow/79344519.cms||Siva G
November 22, 2020||Jodhpur||Jodhpur swings into action to tackle Covid||JODHPUR: Following an abrupt surge in Covid cases in Jodhpur, the administration has swung into action and issued directions to increase resources and facilities in both private and government hospitals. At a meeting held by the divisional commissioner with the State Human Rights Commission, directions had been issued to hospitals to increase Covid and ICU beds in hospitals in addition to providing adequate oxygen cylinders and ventilators. Registrar of the commission Omi Purohit, while insisting on better facilities and availability of resources to meet the emergency, said the commission team would visit hospitals to review the arrangements on Monday. “The administration should identify the lacunas in Covid management and rectify them. Private hospitals should also provide better facilities,” Purohit said. Positive cases have crossed the 1,000 mark in Jodhpur and the toll was hovering around 10 per day. All beds in MG and MDM hospitals as well as in AIIMS are occupied forcing the administrations of these facilities to make immediate arrangements for additional beds to meet the alarming surge in positive cases for the past few days. This emergency like situation has also forced the administration, which failed to keep a regular watch on hospitals and assess the situation, to constantly review the arrangements and issue directions for increasing the resources. On Friday, the district collector had visited the secondary and tertiary level medical facilities to ensure that patients with mild symptoms were treated there and only those with serious conditions were referred to main hospitals so that the pressure on these hospitals could be eased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/jodhpur-swings-into-action-to-tackle-covid/articleshow/79346048.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vehicle in speaker’s convoy hit||SRIKAKULAM: Assembly speaker Tammineni Sitaram suffered some anxious moments when a vehicle in his convoy was hit by an autorickshaw between Vakalavalasa and Vanjangi on Palakonda road, near Amudalavalasa, on Saturday. Four persons travelling in the auto received injuries when it rammed one of the vehicles in the convoy. The accident happened when the speaker was returning home from the collectorate. While the driver of Sitaram’s vehicle managed to evade the recklessly driven auto by driving the car into the farm land on the side of the main road, the auto hit the other vehicle in the convoy. After the vehicle stopped in the farm field, gunmen escorted the speaker to a safe place. Before leaving the spot, the speaker arranged a vehicle for the injured. — Siva G||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vehicle-in-speakers-convoy-hit/articleshow/79344531.cms||Siva G
November 22, 2020||Nagpur||Docs anticipate Covid spike after reopening of schools||Nagpur: Doctors in city have welcomed NMC’s decision to keep schools and junior colleges closed till at least December 13. Doctors say the earlier plan to reopen on Monday was a cause for concern. Onset of winter, possibility of a second wave of Covid-19 post festive season and inability to monitor every child’s activity on campus are some of the things which were raising the red flag. Dr Rajiv Mohta, paediatrician and adolescent counsellor, said, “Once inside the classroom, there is no way you can either control or monitor students. Regardless of the guidelines, they will congregate together, may remove masks or touch their face unknowingly. There was a strong possibility that it will lead to spread in infection.” He added that many people have got into a false safety zone. “They feel cases are going down and casual attitude has crept in. Fact is that many people are not getting themselves tested, which leads to these statistical differences,” said Dr Mohta. Cardiac surgeon Dr Ashish Badhkal said it’s almost guaranteed that cases will rise if schools had reopened. “I am very sure that there would have been a spike in cases after reopening. What happens is that regardless of the guidelines, it becomes difficult to control people’s actions once they are outside their home. In Diwali, we saw people moving out a lot as well,” said Dr Badhkal. Orthopaedic surgeon Dr Sushrut Babhulkar feels the second wave may come soon. “If it does, then it will be around November 29 or 30. In Ahmedabad, it hit two weeks after Navratri. In Nagpur people took everything casually during Diwali, so that impact maybe seen soon. It’s wise to keep schools closed for now,” he said. “Masks need to be N-95 as the normal cloth won’t be able to stop the mutated aerosol virus, which is being seen in second and third wave. Adhering to social distancing norms and testing of entire staff needs to be done,” said Dr Babhulkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/docs-anticipate-covid-spike-after-reopening-of-schools/articleshow/79345041.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
November 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Forget big & fat: Curfew makes weddings knotty in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: The curfew has made wedding bells ring softly, without ostentation, in Ahmedabad. Estimates suggest that about 1,000 weddings were scheduled at various venues in the city over the weekend. But plans, already curtailed by corona norms, had to be pared down further. Tushar Shah (name changed) had scheduled the wedding of his daughter at a party plot on Sunday. However, because of the curfew imposed in Ahmedabad, the event had to be moved home. Sachin Pandya, the director of an events management company involved in the wedding, said: “The family has decided to invite a limited number of people home and shift the event from evening to morning.” Even though the day curfew is restricted to the weekend, even those who have weddings planned in the days to come are concerned because the night curfew has been indefinitely imposed in Ahmedabad. “I am to get married in December and the events are set for the evening,” said Aman Kumar, a city-based professional. “I am still waiting for a change in the guidelines. But if the night curfew stays, I will have to reschedule a few events.” This year, there are few muhurats for weddings. “Most wedding muhurats fall between November 30 and December 2 and from December 7-10,” said Kunal Shukla, a pandit. “Therefore, more events are packed into a single day.” Sukurt Desai, a city-based businessman, who is set to tie the knot on December 10, said: “If there is a change in norms for weddings, I will be in a fix. Changes come at a cost as the availability of resources will be an issue.” The pandemic has thrown uncertainty into weddings because they are pre-planned to the last detail. “We have received several inquiries from guests in the wake of the night curfew,” said Vivek Sharma, general manager, Renaissance Ahmedabad Hotel. “Some are facing constraints due to family members testing Covid positive. We have offered to shift their events to another date within the next one year under the same terms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/forget-big-fat-curfew-makes-weddings-knotty/articleshow/79345048.cms||Bharat Yagnik
November 22, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: With sole ambulance on Covid-19 duty, woman, her baby die||MUMBAI: A pregnant tribal from a village in Mokhada, around 157km from here, lost her baby and her life, allegedly due to an over two-hour delay in arrival of an ambulance. District health officer Dr Dayanand Suryavanshi admitted a delay as the sole ambulance was on Covid-19 duty at a Vikramgad facility, around 50km from Mokhada in Jawhar taluka of Palghar district on Tuesday. He said a standby ambulance is being made available at primary health centres in the district. TimesViewThis tragedy highlights the sorry state of healthcare infrastructure in pockets not too far from Mumbai. If ambulances are not available, it would be too much to hope for other health facilities. The state government must bridge the gap between Mumbai and its surroundings in this regard at the earliest so that such incidents do not recur.Manisha Dhore (25), from Amle village, was seven months pregnant and around 5pm went into labour. Health worker Mangala Vare dialed 108 for an ambulance. Villagers carried Manisha with a bedsheet and walked three km to reach the main road. The ambulance arrived over two hours later and admitted her to Khodala primary health centre (PHC). As she was bleeding profusely, Manisha was shifted to Nashik civil hospital, around 58km from Mokhada. Doctors performed a C-section but could not save the 800gm baby boy. Manisha, who had suffered severe blood loss, died around 6.30am on Thursday. Her husband Sanya (26) blamed delay in arrival of the ambulance for the deaths. It was their first child. He said by the time the ambulance arrived Manisha had lost a lot of blood and was lying on Khodala-Wada road. Health officer of Khodala PHC Dr Sagar Mukne said the ambulance had gone on Covid duty and hence got delayed. He said the ambulance assigned to Mokhada town was not working, and district health officers were informed. Dr Suryavanshi said Manisha was underweight when conceived and had low blood pressure. As adviced by PHC doctors, Manisha and her husband moved to Nashik as they expected delivery complications. The couple had returned to their village for Diwali, when she went into labour. A villager, Pandurang Vare, said Amle village, with 62 houses and a population of 322, lacked basic healthcare facilities. He said only in the last few years the village got a bridge and earlier during monsoon, pregnant women would be transported on make-shift stretchers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/with-sole-ambulance-on-covid-duty-woman-baby-die/articleshow/79344778.cms||Sandhya Nair
November 22, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur Development Authority’s ‘wall’ for mask distribution||JAIPUR: With Covid cases increasing, the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) is finding innovative ways to distribute masks. Taking cue from ‘Neki ki Deewar’ concept (to help those in need), the civic body in front of its headquarters has erected a wall to distribute the mask free of cost. The residents who wish to donate can also give masks at this wall. An official said, “It won’t be unusual because of graffiti or slogans. People can donate masks for poor people here. Also, the volunteers would motivate the residents to wear masks,” he said. Source said, the idea was coined by the Press Information Bureau (PIB). The civic body executed the proposal after spending the amount from its fund. The JDA plans to distribute 5 lakh masks in the city and a campaign is already ongoing. The official said, “So far, the JDA has distributed over three lakh masks. A dedicated vehicle has been deployed to distribute the masks. The JDA staff, including senior officials who are visiting sites, are also giving masks to labourers and workers,” he said. To minimise the human interaction for office related works, the online JDA system has been strengthen during the pandemic. For the residents’ convinence, online applications related to JDA’s work has also been allowed to be accepted at the e-mitra centres in the city. The civic body has now authorise these centres for people’s benefit. The JDA had started online application facility for major services a long time ago. However, many people were not able to take advantage of this facility due to lack of necessary resources for online application. A senior official at JDA said, “The move was initiated a month ago. But now, we have integrated the services with e-mitra. The move will reduce corruption and bring transparency.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jdas-wall-initiative-for-mask-distribution/articleshow/79346042.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Jaipur||Alwar: Hubby kills woman over suspicion of affair, held||ALWAR: Police solved the murder of a woman whose body was found in a dry drain in Alwar’s Chopanaki on Friday. The deceased, who was identified as Sarita Yadav (32), was found wrapped in a bedsheet with her limbs tied up. Cops arrested Sarita’s husband Krishan Kumar Yadav for his wife’s murder. “The accused killed his wife as he suspected that she was having an illicit relationship with someone. The accused worked in Manesar and the duo had gotten married in 2001. The victim stayed in Chopanaki in a rented accommodation,” said an official. After the woman was identified, police repeatedly tried to get in touch with her husband but he kept disconnecting the calls which made the cops suspect him. Elaborating further, the official said, “After Diwali, the accused went back to work and the victim went to her parents’ house. On Wednesday, the victim called the accused and said that she was going to their house in Chopanaki. After a while she called him again and said that since she was not getting a direct bus, she was returning to her parents’ house.” When the accused reached Chopanaki, he found Sarita there and it raised his suspicion. He was supposed to go to Gurugram for a job interview and asked his wife to return to her parents’ house but when she refused, he decided that she was having an extramarital affair. He hit her on the head with a blunt object and to doubly ensure that she dies, he strangled her and dumped her body at the where it was found. The accused was arrested from Manesar. After killing his wife, he continued to speak to his relatives pretending as if nothing is wrong.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hubby-kills-woman-over-suspicion-of-affair-held/articleshow/79345034.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Development report a bundle of lies: Telangana Congress||HYDERABAD: Congress has disputed the claims made by TRS working president and municipal minister K T Rama Rao that the state government has spent Rs 67,000 crore on development of Greater Hyderabad in the last six-and-a-half years. Telangana Congress treasurer Gudur Narayana Reddy termed the Hyderabad Development Report, released by KTR, as a bundle of lies. “KTR twisted the facts to paint a rosy picture. He mentioned amount which was spent on various projects after formation of Telangana. He skipped the dates of launch of those projects and also the amount spent by previous Congress government,” he said. “Previous Congress governments had constructed new international airport, ORR, PVNR Expressway, Metro Rail and took up several projects for beautification of city. He did not show minimum courtesy to mention that the projects, which brought global recognition to city, were actually either started or completed by previous Congress governments,” Reddy said.  Reddy appealed to voters to just “Google Search” history of each project which TRS claims to have completed and they would know that almost 90% of those projects were initiated by the Congress governments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/development-report-a-bundle-of-lies-cong/articleshow/79345024.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Twenty higher education institutions set to undergo SAAC evaluation||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: After an initial resistance, at least 20 higher education institutions in the state have readied themselves to undergo the state-level assessment and accreditation mooted by Kerala state higher education council. Even though the council had prepared the modalities for the assessment and accreditation of institutions and set up a State Assessment and Accreditation Centre (SAAC) in 2018, it could barely kindle the enthusiasm of higher education institutions in the state. “Many institutions have recently shown interest in SAAC evaluation. At least 20 have almost completed the preparations necessary for the assessment and accreditation. We hope we would be able to complete the evaluation of those institutions early next week. The institution visits would start in January. What we offer can be called a threshold accreditation that would help the accredited institutions to scale up their standards to new levels in a phased manner,” said higher education council member secretary Rajan Varghese. Representatives of at least 200 higher education institutions in government, aided and unaided sector have registered their names for the online programme the council is organizing next week. Former director, National Assessment and Accreditation Council ( NAAC), Hassan Annegowda Ranganath would be addressing the representatives of institutions eager to seek SAAC evaluation. The UGC guidelines insist that all higher education institutions start undergoing accreditation process six years after their inception. However, very few colleges in the state do so and the government too has little idea about the academic quality and infrastructure facilities in colleges heavily funded by it. The higher education experts view the renewed interest shown by several institutions as a result of a series of developments, including the preferential treatment that accredited institutions received when the state government sanctioned new courses. When the government sanctioned new courses, institutions that were accredited by National Board of Accreditation (NBA) and NAAC got better and more courses. Catholic management association and a few colleges under SN Trust are learnt to have expressed interest in undergoing SAAC evaluation. However, institutions run by NSS are yet to respond to the call.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/twenty-higher-edu-institutions-set-to-undergo-saac-evaluation/articleshow/79345057.cms||B S Anilkumar
November 22, 2020||Pune||Barely 18% cyclists use dedicated tracks: Survey||PUNE: Only one in every seven cyclists from the city uses the cycle tracks developed by the Pune Municipal Corporation and the Pune Smart City Development Corporation Limited, a survey conducted by Save Pune Traffic Movement through October and November has revealed. The survey, conducted at several spots along Karve Road, FC Road and JM Road, attributed the trend to several factors, including various types of obstructions on the cycle track and quality of the surface of these tracks. TimesViewThe survey highlighting that not even 20% cyclists use dedicated tracks in the city should come as an eyeopener for the planners. It is a known fact that several cycle tracks have obstructions, either in the form of illegal vendors or parked vehicles. The municipal corporation should impose heavy fines on these encroachers. Also, the ridership on the tracks will increase only after the tracks are designed in such a way that they have longer connectivity and are interlinked. A cycle track which runs just a couple of kilometers discourages its use for commuting.Out of the 630 cyclists observed during the survey, only 55 were found using the tracks, while 575 were seen riding on the carriageway. Save Pune Traffic Movement director Harshad Abhyankar said the survey aimed at establishing a baseline for various parameters so that “improvements made later and the impact it has on usability can be quantified”. Besides the obstructions on the cycle track, the survey found that walkability of adjacent footpaths, number of vehicles on the carriageway and their speed were among other factors that needed to be addressed before making any major design changes to cycle tracks for increasing their usability. “Only 8-18% cyclists are using the cycle tracks and that is a fairly low number. We are confident that addressing issues like obstructions, quality of riding surface, ensuring adequate width of cycle track and increasing the length of the cycle track network in the city will not only improve the cycle track use but also increase the overall number of cyclists on the road,” Abhyankar said. He said the report had been sent to officials at the Pune Municipal Corporation and the Pune Smart City Development Corporation Limited. “We are working with PMC on developing a cycle track along Pashan Road with a new design. The cycle track here is set to be along the carriageway, while the footpath will remain elevated. We are also pushing for making the footpath on this stretch walkable so that pedestrians use it instead of the cycle track, thus, making way for cyclists on the cycle track,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/barely-20-cyclists-use-dedicated-tracks-in-city-sptm-survey/articleshow/79345039.cms||Rujuta Parekh
November 22, 2020||Kolhapur||Ceasefire violation claims life of Kolhapur Havildar||PUNE: The Indian Army’s Havildar Sangram Shivaji Patil (38) from Kolhapur district succumbed to his injuries incurred in an unprovoked ceasefire violation at the line of control (LoC) in the Nowshera sector of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday. A statement released by the Army stated, “On November 21, Pakistan Army resorted to unprovoked ceasefire violation on the line of control (LoC) in Nowshera Sector, District Rajouri (J & K). Own troops responded strongly to the enemy fire. In the incident, Havildar Patil was critically injured and later succumbed to his injuries.” “Havildar Patil was a brave, highly motivated and a sincere soldier. The nation will always remain indebted to him for his supreme sacrifice and devotion to duty,” the statement added. The brave soldier belongs to a farmer’s family and hails from Nigave village in Karveer tehsil of Kolhapur district in the western Maharashtra region. He is survived by his parents, wife, two children and brother’s family. Patil was serving with the 16th battalion of the Maratha Light Infantry (MLI). He is the second soldier from Kolhapur district to lay down his life in the line of duty along the LoC in a week. Retired soldiers and family friend Mhadji Patil told TOI over the phone, “He was a spirited infantry man and was very proud to serve with the MLI. He had been motivating youths in the village to join the regiment to serve the nation. He has served previously in northern and north eastern sectors. We all stand and support his family in this tough time. It’s a big loss for us.” The mortal remains of the soldier is yet to reach his native place even as the district welfare officials are closely coordinating with the army authorities. The last rites of the soldiers will be performed with a proper military honour at his native place mostly on Sunday (November 22) said an official from the Sainik welfare department. Last week, 20-year-old Rushikesh Ramchandra Jondhale was among the four Army personnel killed in an unprovoked ceasefire violation by the Pakistan Army in the Uri and Gurez sectors at multiple locations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/ceasefire-violation-claims-life-of-kolhapur-havildar/articleshow/79345027.cms||Sandip Dighe
November 22, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Social activists demand protocol for night shelters||JAIPUR: A group of social activists has expressed concern over no clear guidelines on winter shelter homes in view of Covid-19. They contended that shelter homes should have a cap on the number of occupants and Covid test be made compulsory before the first entry. Mukesh Goswami of Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sangathan (MKSS) said that this year re-planning is required for night shelters. “Almost all Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) right from bedding to food and entry and exit will not work under the present situation,” said Goswami. The activist is preparing the guidelines in the light of Covid protocol to ensure that the stay is safe and secure. Another aspect highlighted by MKSS is that this year night shelters have to be placed near all major public and private hospitals due to high patient load. “Instead of one at Ramnivas Bagh, this time the Jaipur Municipal Corporation has to erect atleast 5-6 shelters considering social distancing and comparatively large crowd due to patients’ attendants,” said Goswami. Pranjal Singh of Abhyutthnam Society, working on legal awareness, has asked the state government to make night shelter guidelines public for its better implementation. “We understand that this time the responsibility of the government is bigger than ever before. Their job will end by merely erecting waterproof tents and mobilising civil society members for food, but they have to carry out a mandatory test before entry and regular test to check the spread before it’s too late,” said Singh. The night shelters are run from November till March and mostly homeless people who stay on pavements shift there to protect themselves from the harsh weather. In these tents, end number of people has been living so far, but in current situation, the state has to fix the number of inmates on the basis of the size of the shelter home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/activists-demand-protocol-for-night-shelters/articleshow/79346044.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Another former corporator returns back to AIMIM fold||HYDERABAD: Only three days after a former AIMIM corporator-turned-Congress leader, Mohammed Ghouse, made a comeback to the party, yet another Congress leader from old city, Khaja Bilal Ahmed, followed suit. Part of Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM earlier , Khaja Bilal was elected corporator, under the party ticket, from Rein Bazaar division of the Old City in 2009. However, following differences with the party leadership, he left MIM in 2017 and joined the Congress. Since then, he has been actively taking part in the activities of the party, along with other Telangana Congress leaders. Given that Khaja Bilal has also taken on Asad Owaisi publicly, in the past, and accused him of double standards, he took people by surprise, on Saturday when he reached the Hyderabad MP’s residence at Shastripuram, along with a few followers. Previously, Khaja Bilal was named in five communal cases that were reported during the dispute over the Bhagyalaxmi temple abutting Charminar in 2012. The Rachakonda police too had invoked PD Act against the former corporator after he was arrested in connection with the alleged murder of a realtor. Later, the Supreme court had set aside the detention orders. With just nine days left for the GHMC polls, this development of two former corporators returning to the MIM party fold from the Congress, holds some significance, say political observers. Given that Khaja Bilal has also taken on Owaisi publicly, in the past, he took people by surprise, on Saturday when he reached the Hyderabad MP’s residence at Shastripuram||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/another-former-corporator-returns-back-to-aimim-fold/articleshow/79345033.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Chennai||BJP will form its own govt in Tamil Nadu in our time: Amit Shah||CHENNAI: Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday urged party functionaries to work hard to achieve the BJP’s eventual goal “to capture the government” in Tamil Nadu. The senior BJP leader, during a meeting with local party workers as part of a pre-election exercise, expressed confidence that the party would “emerge as the single largest party in the state and form its own government within our time”. Referring to the ongoing faceoff with the AIADMK government, which has banned BJP’s Vetrivel yatra in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, a few district secretaries were against the BJP’s decision to continue the alliance with the AIADMK. They said the ruling AIADMK was acting against their (BJP) interests, sources privy to the meeting told TOI. In respones, Shah advised the functionaries to “stop worrying about alliance matters” saying the party leadership would take care of it and related issues. He reiterated that the functionaries and cadre should focus on spreading the party’s ideology . Those in attendance said Shah recalled the party’s poor presence in Assam, where it had 0.3% vote, and Tripura with no MLA until the late ‘90s. But functionaries there worked hard and now, the BJP has formed its government in these states, the home minister said. “We have struggled hard for 40 years and formed governments in various states. So, I am confident that the party will come to power on its own in Tamil Nadu in our time,” Shah said. This was the former national BJP president’s first visit to TN after the 2019 LS polls, in which the BJP-AIADMK alliance fared poorly. Party ideology, PM Narendra Modi’s charisma and strengthening of booth-level committee would help the party to achieve the ultimate goal (forming government on its own), he said. Emphasising the importance of the party’s growth in Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Odisha and West Bengal, he said the BJP can bring about “a paradigm shift” in the country by being in power continuously. Ahead of the meeting, state president L Murugan introduced new entrants actor Khushbu Sundar, former DMK MP K P Ramalingam, Thousand Lights MLA Ku Ka Selvam to Shah. They too attended the meet along with former AIADMK MP Sasikala Pushpa. National general secretary and Tamil Nadu in-charge C T Ravi, senior party leaders as L Ganeshan, C P Radhakrishnan, H Raja and national president of BJP’s women wing Vanathi Srinivasan attended the meeting. Ramalingam, who joined the party earlier in the day at Kamalayalam, said he would try to convince M K Alagiri to join the BJP. After his interaction with functionaries, Shah held a meeting with state-level senior leaders||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/bjp-will-form-its-own-govt-in-tn-in-our-time/articleshow/79345056.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Ludhiana||Haibowal to have leisure valley on seven acres: Bharat Bhushan Ashu||LUDHIANA: Punjab food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Saturday said that in a bid to provide clean and green environment, a place for exercise and spending leisure time for residents of Haibowal area, a leisure valley on 7 acres would be constructed by the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT). Besides, a road along Buddha Nullah at a cost of Rs 84 lakh would be constructed along with installation of iron mesh at a cost of Rs 13 crore. Accompanied by mayor Balkar Sandhu, LIT chairman Raman Balasubramaniam, MC commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal, MC councillor Maharaj Singh Raji, besides several others Bharat Bhushan Ashu inspected the site and issued necessary instructions to the officials. Ashu said that the work orders of all these three projects had been issued and the work would start soon. He said that the work related to construction of leisure valley and road and installation of iron mesh would be completed within the next six months. He said that he would personally monitor these projects and no lapse on anyone’s part would be tolerated. He further said that the Haibowal area lacked projects such as leisure valley and for that reason only a vacant chunk of land had been identified for developing it. He said that these projects would prove very beneficial for the area residents. Ashu said that the leisure valley would be constructed in a manner that it would have play areas for children, besides grounds and recreation areas for adults. Ashu also directed the MC officials to ensure that all encroachments on the sites to be used for these projects would also be cleared. He said that the new road, along the Buddha Nullah, would be joined with the existing road along the nullah and would be constructed till the MC limits and would prove very beneficial for motorists. He said that even the iron mesh had been installed at some places, but now the entire nullah would be covered. Three leisure valleys are coming up near DAV Public School (along Sidhwan Canal) in Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar, near Lodhi Club and behind blocks D and E in Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/haibowal-to-have-leisure-valley-on-7-acres-ashu/articleshow/79344540.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Glue addict slashes friend with razor in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: A case was registered at Airport police station on Friday after a youth, who allegedly abuses glue for intoxication and is addicted to it, went berserk and slashed his ‘friend’ with a razor when the latter tried to stop him in the Bhadreshwar area near the airport. Airport police registered a case under Sections 294(b), 323 and 324 of the IPC against the accused. Inspector R R Desai of Airport police station said they have formed a team to track down the accused. Ajay Vaghdhadia, 24, a resident of Sardarnagar, in his complaint stated that the accused, Deepak Bavri, 20, who is also from Sardarnagar, has been known to him for about two years and they meet ocasssionally. According to police sources, when the complainant was near Bhadreshwar Temple, Bavri came there with a box of glue in his hand, which he was abusing. “Vaghdhadia tried to stop him but Bavri got angry and hurled abuses at him. Bavri then pulled out a razor from his pocket and slasked Vaghdhadia on the neck. Vaghdhadia’s sister-in-law Rekha and brother Amit rush to his aid. Bavri then ran away,” said Desai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/glue-addict-slashes-friend-with-razor/articleshow/79345058.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Jaipur||JDA invites tenders to construct underpass to connect Army cantt||Jaipur: To provide seamless connectivity for defence vehicles within the Army cantonment, the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) has invited tenders for an underpass that would connect Haldighati Gate to Ajay Meru Enclave. Following the request of South Western Command, JDA has drawn a proposal for the project to connect two parts of the cantonment area. This will avoid any civilian intervention and is good from a security point of view. The length and width of the underpass would be 415 metres and 7.5 metres, respectively. The estimated cost of the project is Rs 17.5 crore, which will be borne by the Army.An official said, “Last date to submit the tender is December 14. The tender was earlier expected to be invited in March, but process got delayed due to Covid. The project will be completed within a year after the work is awarded.” Once constructed, the Army will not have to take any civilian route. At present, for any activity, the Army has to cross the public road. Also, 61 Cavalry and Polo Ground are situated on the opposite side of the road, crossing the main road with horses in massive traffic jam remains a challenge. “From the security point of view, the Army wants to avoid civilian intervention or traffic. This underpass will provide swift passage for army vehicles and horses. We will construct the underpass on behalf of the Army and they will provide all the financial assistance,” added a source. As per JDA officials, the Army had given them a proposal in 2016 to construct an underpass. There are already two underpasses inside the cantonment but this is the only one that will pass through the civilian area.The JDA has proposed to install a sensor at the underpass to help in avoiding waterlogging. “Waterlogging has become a perennial problem at many underpasses of the old city. A tank will be constructed where a submersible pump will be installed. In case of flooding or waterlogging, the sensor will automatically start and pump out the water into Dravyavati river.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jda-invites-tenders-to-construct-underpass-to-connect-army-cantt/articleshow/79345052.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Pune||Tailors double back to Pune, thanks to wedding season rush||PUNE: Come wedding season, city tailors are usually the busiest. After suffering major losses this year due to the lockdown and restrictions on public gatherings, the wedding season has started to remedy the situation. City tailors say business is finally in full swing after months of losses. “From March, we were completely closed for business and we reopened just before Ganeshotsav but as compared to previous years, we had few customers. Things have started looking up this month with customers coming to the shop to get their clothes stitched for Diwali and the wedding season. We are getting orders for stitching blouses, lehngas, shararas, and so on, that provide a much higher profit margin than kurta-pyjama sets and anarkalis,” said Shabbir Shaikh, who works at his family-run tailor shop. Tailor Rajesh Kandpal has continued the modification of his operations to visit clients homes to pick up the material and deliver the finished product as per requirement. “Wedding orders include clothes for the family and instead of having the clients come to the shop, we are still sending staff over to their homes to get measurements and pick up fabric. We are also delivering stitched clothes. We agree to undertake house calls for fittings too. Since work has increased, I called back the workers who had gone to their villages and taken up some odd jobs there to run their homes,” Kandpal said. The last quarter of the year is always the most profitable time for tailors due to the wedding season, said Abdul Murad, who specializes in creating bespoke blouses. “Boutiques also went through severe losses, but now they are getting back on their feet and giving us work. We are getting work from many boutiques and designers. We don’t just have to survive on alterations and other miscellaneous work that does not suffice for a substantial income to run our shop and homes.” Rafiqul Islam, a tailoring shop owner, said, “I have a staff of five tailors, four of whom went to their hometown in Solapur, Satara, Dhule and Chiplun during the lockdown. They have come back only this month as we are seeing things return to normal. The orders are pouring in now. Clients have requested me to call back the embroiders as they want to commission special work for weddings.” Shabbir Shaikh, a tailor who has returned from his hometown Akola, said, “My family has farmland in the village. When I went back in April, I lent a hand on the farm but times were very tough. With no work here, it was impossible for me to afford to stay in Pune, even though my employer offered us boarding and food. I was called back in September, but I was not sure if the lockdown would be announced again. I came back to the city in the last week of October. We have a rush for the wedding season, which seems almost like the rush we had during previous years.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/tailors-double-back-to-the-city-thanks-to-wedding-season-rush/articleshow/79345054.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Man found dead; kin accuse in-laws of harassment||LUDHIANA: A 40-year-old man was found dead under mysterious circumstances at his in-laws’ house in Bhora Colony, Salem Tabri, on Friday night. His father has accused his daughter-in-law and her parents for harassing his son, following which he allegedly committed suicide. The deceased has been identified as Sumit Sharma (40) of Phillaur. After the death of Sumit, his father Darshan Kumar Sharma gave a complaint to the police stating that he had three sons and Sumit was the eldest one. Sumit got married to Monu Sharma of Salem Tabri and the couple had two children. He alleged that Monu used to harass his son. He said, “Monu used to beat up Sumit. Also, she used to fight with all in the house to pressurise Sumit to get separated from the family. A few months ago, I gave Sumit his share of Rs 14.50 lakh and separated him. While giving the money, Monu and Sumit had stated that they would buy a house with this money in Ludhiana. However, later on, Monu gave the money to her parents and they started living with her parents in their house.” He further said that Monu and her parents did not give a single penny to Sumit. They used to harass him and would also beat him often. About 20 days back Sumit called me and shared that he was upset and fed up. He also said that he wanted to commit suicide and sent a suicide note to him also, but he consoled Sumit and convinced him not to commit suicide. On Friday evening also, Sumit called him by saying that he was upset. After receiving the call, he reached Ludhiana, talked to the family and managed the situation. Then Darshan returned to Phillaur. Hours later, he received a call that Sumit had died. He alleged, “My son has committed suicide by consuming some poisonous substance.” Inspector Gopal Krishan, SHO at police station Salem Tabri said, “While the father has alleged that Sumit has committed suicide. But according to his wife, Sumit had died due to excessive consumption of liquor. The police are waiting for the autopsy report to further proceed in the case.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/man-found-dead-kin-accuse-in-laws-of-harassment/articleshow/79344542.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Hyderabad||T-born US doc closes in on Covid-19 therapy||Washington: A Telangana-born American scientist has discovered a potential strategy to prevent life-threatening inflammation, lung damage and organ failure in patients diagnosed with Covid-19. Published online in the journal ‘Cell’, the research coming from the lab of Dr Thirumala Devi Kanneganti, a researcher working at St. Jude Children's Research Hospital in Tennessee, identified the drugs after discovering that the hyperinflammatory immune response associated with Covid-19 leads to tissue damage and multi-organ failure in mice by triggering inflammatory cell death pathways. “Understanding the pathways and mechanism driving this inflammation is critical to develop effective treatment strategies,” said Kanneganti, vice chair of the St Jude department of immunology. Kanneganti was born and raised in Telangana. She received her undergraduate degree at Kakatiya University in Warangal, where she majored in chemistry, zoology, and botany. She then received her MSc and Ph D from Osmania University in Hyderabad and joined St. Jude in 2007. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-born-us-doc-closes-in-on-covid-19-therapy/articleshow/79346065.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Minister’s handling ensures sulking leader comes around||HYDERABAD: For panchayat raj minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao, who has been drafted for campaigning for TRS in GHMC polls, it was not just about making a padayatra in Meerpet House Board Colony division campaigning for the party candidate on Saturday. With the sitting corporator, Golluru Anjaiah, sulking because he was denied the party ticket to contest the polls again, the task became onerous for Dayakar Rao. “As a corporator, he did a splendid job as you saw,” he told the public as he engaged in streetside conversations with the electorate having a word of appreciation for Anjaiah and acknowledge the work he did. For those who rallied behind Anjaiah, he gave an assurance that he had a good future and the party would make use of his services though this time the ticket has been given to another person. Dayakar Rao is known to tour extensively in his constituency everyday, which is what he was doing even during Covid time this summer. During his campaigning in Meerpet Housing Board Colony, he was questioned by the local public about the Rs 10,000 compensation that they did not get which was announced for flood victims. Dayakar Rao said everyone who applied at MeeSeva would get later and also blamed BJP for being a hindrance for the distribution. Dejected Anjaiah chose to sit at home, but Dayakar Rao went to his house at Navodaya Colony and got him to join the campaigning, walking with him on the road||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mins-handling-ensures-sulking-leader-comes-around/articleshow/79345050.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Extra round: 4,381 apply for 2,000 seats||AHMEDABAD: After holding two rounds of admissions for engineering courses in government-run colleges, the admission committee had organized an additional round for filling up 2,200 seats. So far, about 4,381 students have applied for the 2,200 seats, said sources in the admission committee. Colleges will be allotted on merit on December 23, according to sources. Currently, 64,642 seats are available in degree engineering colleges. Of these, 9,086 seats are of 16 government-run colleges, 1,622 of four grant-in-aid colleges, and 543 of two engineering institutes run on the PPP model. Besides, 29,134 are of 72 self-financed institutes (SFIs) affiliated to Gujarat Technological University and 24,013 are of 38 SFIs associated with private universities in the state. The remaining 204 seats are of an autonomous college. About 25,000 students have been allotted colleges in the first two rounds for all colleges, including SFIs. The admission committee had initiated the proceedings for a total of 55,000 seats in degree engineering courses. This year, the total number of seats for engineering has reduced compared to 73,345 last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/extra-round-4381-apply-for-2k-seats/articleshow/79345061.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||1,500 vie for Gujarat University commerce spot in Round 7||AHMEDABAD: In the seventh round of admission for commerce courses in Gujarat University affiliated colleges for about 9,000 seats, about 1,500 fresh registrations have been received by the admission committee. The admission committee had initiated the admission process for a total of 40,744 seats of various commerce courses including BCom, BBA and BCA. The fifth round of admission for commerce courses in Gujarat University affiliated colleges saw as many as 30,000 candidates being enlisted. This left close to 10,000 seats vacant. In the fourth round, 2,899 candidates had enrolled of which 2,797 were allocated colleges by the admission committee. The fourth round was only for the 11,000-odd candidates who could not secure admission in earlier rounds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/1-5k-vie-for-gu-commerce-spot-in-round-7/articleshow/79345079.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||BJP candidate dies during campaigning||KOLLAM: A candidate of Bharatiya Janata Party contesting in a grama panchayat ward in Panmana panchayat collapsed during his campaign works and later died in a hospital on Saturday. Viswanathan (60) of Nellipparampil house, Vadakkumthala, Panmana, is the deceased. He was a candidate in Parampimukku ward of the Panmana panchayat. The incident occurred by noon at Kollisseri Junction in Panmana while he was actively engaged in his campaign along with his party workers. Then he collapsed suddenly and his party workers brought him to a nearby hospital. But his life could not be saved. His body was alter shifted to Karunagappally taluk hospital mortuary. After conducting Covid-19 test, his body will be cremated at his house premises on Sunday afternoon He is survived by his wife Sathidevi, children Vipinkumar, Biji, Vinu Kumar, and daughter-in-law Aarya and son-in-law Ratheesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/bjp-candidate-dies-during-campaigning/articleshow/79345086.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Nagpur||‘Online classes is an elitist concept, min 3 months of phy classes needed’||As the debate over schools reopening rages on, senior academic and founder-president of School Headmasters’ Charitable Association (SHCA) Zafar Khan says physical reopening is the need of the hour. Khan says a majority of students are unable to access online classes due to their poor socio-economic background, thus leaving physical teaching as the only way out. You seem to be going against the general consensus on reopening of schools. This must not be viewed from an elitist point of view, where children are sitting in front of their laptops and attending online classes powered by high speed Internet. We are talking about students in Hindi, Marathi and Urdu medium schools who can’t even afford to buy a smartphone. We did a survey and found that only 30% have a phone, which means 70% of students have not studied for even a single day this academic session. But the government says they are broadcasting classes on Doordarshan and some other platforms. Please ask anyone as to when was the last time they watched DD. You go to villages and hardly anyone watches these channels. In some remote places, they don’t even have a TV. Online classes and broadcasting education has failed because it has not reached the last student of the state. Is it fair that an upper middle class child from Nagpur, who has access to quality online classes, appears for the same SSC exam as the child from slums who studies in a vernacular school? The latter has been deprived of education since day one for no fault of his. Physical teaching is the only way this imbalance can be resolved. Many say that schools can be reopened later Streets are crowded, youngsters are moving around visiting friends and relatives, people are travelling to other cities. Is the virus lurking only on school campuses? We need to make sure that all safety guidelines are followed and that solves all the problems. With the government hinting that board exams may get delayed, schools will anyway get time to cover the curriculum. Again, I am speaking for the majority of students who are deprived of online classes. Apart from this, there are schools where online classes are just on paper. For such students it’s not only important that they come back to school but also that they get minimum three months with teachers. Or else, they stand no chance in the SSC and HSC exams of 2021. Every day we keep schools closed. This delay rolls over. Apart from this, 50% of the syllabus needs to be cut to enable schools to cover the backlog.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/online-classes-is-an-elitist-concept-min-3-months-of-phy-classes-needed/articleshow/79345071.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
November 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Bike switch: Cop under suspension||Hyderabad: Choudarigudem police station sub-inspector S Krishna was placed under suspension on Saturday after it was found that he replaced a vehicle involved in an accident, with another vehicle. Around six months back, a road accident took place and Krishna was the investigation officer. During a review, senior officials found that Krishna replaced the seized bike of the accused with another vehicle. The vehicle which was involved in mishap did not have insurance, so the sub-inspector allegedly helped the accused to replace it with another vehicle, which has insurance. “SI Krishna is placed under suspension,” Prakash Reddy, DCP (Shamshabad Zone) told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bike-switch-cop-under-suspension/articleshow/79345073.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Chennai||BJP will back AIADMK in providing good governance: Amit Shah||CHENNAI: Asserting that the AIADMK government under the leadership of CM Edappadi K Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam were providing good governance in the state, Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday said the BJP would back the regime and the take care of the welfare of people of Tamil Nadu. “The state has made good progress under the AIADMK government led by CM and deputy CM. We believe this government will continue to provide good governance,” he told a packed hall at Kalaivanar Arangam in Chennai on Saturday, further cementing the AIADMK-BJP pre-poll ties. He addressed the gathering in Hindi and expressed regret about doing so. Taking a dig at the DMK leaders for alleging that the Centre had done injustice to the state, Shah said the Congress and DMK should give an account of what the parties did for the benefit of Tamil Nadu while in power for 10 years. “In 2013-14, the UPA regime allotted Rs 16,155 crore to the state. In our last budget, we increased this to Rs 32,850 crore and additional allocation was also made,” he said. The Centre had allotted Rs 2.25 lakh crore under Sagarmala project, a flagship programme for coastline development in TN. Modi laid the foundation stone for construction of AIIMS in Tamil Nadu and opened former President A P J Abdul Kalam memorial. The efforts of the TN government during the Covid-19 pandemic came in for praise from the Union minister in his 30-minute speech. Shah said the PM had flagged three issues, corruption, dynastic politics and caste politics (for the 2019 Lok Sabha elections) and he won too. The country had been teaching a fitting lesson against dynastic politics, he said. “Similarly, I firmly believe such a lesson would be taught in Tamil Nadu,” Shah said. Pointing to the 2G scam and other multi-score scams, he said the DMK and Congress combine did not have the locus standi to talk about corruption. Shah allotted a good part of his speech to the several welfare schemes being implemented by his government at the Centre, including Rs 6,000 credited to each farmer’s account directly. At least 45 lakh farmers in Tamil Nadu received Rs 4,400 crore under PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana since its launch, while there are 52.76 lakh women beneficiaries of PM Ujjwala Yojana that offers free cooking gas. Under the centrally-sponsored Rs 20,000 crore Blue Revolution scheme for the development of fisheries sector, Tamil Nadu, which ranks number four, has potential to emerge number one. “I can tell you Tamil Nadu remains a frontrunner if there is a competition in implementing schemes,” he said. Earlier,Shah dedicated the city’s fifth reservoir at Thervoy Kandigai and laid foundation stones for various state and central government projects, including phase II of Chennai Metro Rail at Rs 67,378 crore. He also laid foundation stone for the AIADMK government’s elevated highway project along Avinashi Road in Coimbatore at Rs 1,620 crore, barrage across Cauvery in Nanjai Pugalur in Karur at Rs 406 crore and expansion of Chennai Trade Centre at Rs 309 crore. The central government projects included, Indian Oil Corporation Limited’s Rs 900 crore Petroleum, Oil and Lubricant (POL) terminal at Vallur, Rs 1,400 crore Lube Plant in Amullaivoyal and Rs 900 crore new jetty at Kamarajar Port.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/shah-bjp-will-back-aiadmk-in-providing-good-governance/articleshow/79345075.cms||Julie Mariappan
November 22, 2020||Pune||Congress to push PMC on civic issues, key projects||Pune: More than 80 former and sitting corporators from the Congress party on Saturday held a meeting and decided to bring pressure to bear on the civic body to resolve pending projects and civic issues. Among the matters discussed were transport-related projects, including the revival of the struggling Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML), the ongoing Metro project, execution of the High-Capacity Mass Transit Route (HCMTR) and widening of the existing roads. The functionaries put forth their suggestions on how these projects can be given a push. Aba Bagul, Congress leader in the PMC general body, said the meeting was attended by every Congress corporator elected since 1992. “Everyone expressed their views on various issues. We will incorporate these suggestions and draft a plan for every project,” Bagul said. These plans will be submitted to the state government as well as the BJP-controlled civic administration, he said. Bagul said that the attendees also raised questions over the civic body’s contribution of Rs918 crore to the Metro project. “If the Mumbai and Nagpur municipal corporations are not contributing to their metro projects, PMC too must stop releasing funds for this project,” Bagul said. “The functionaries also suggested reviving the Pune Municipal Transport (PMT) body to replace the existing PMPML for effective management of transport services,” Bagul said. Former MLA Mohan Joshi suggested that the party’s city unit start preparing for the 2022 civic elections, while another former MLA, Balasaheb Shivarkar, pushed for a separate civic body to govern villages proposed for the recent merger.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/congress-to-push-pmc-on-civic-issues-key-projects/articleshow/79345060.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Satellite police detain drunk man quarrelling with wife||AHMEDABAD: Satellite police on Saturday held one Shrinil Dave of Om Apartment, Azad Society, lane no-2 in Ambawadi for allegedly quarrelling with his wife in an inebriated condition. Police said that on Friday night they received a control room message that one Jagdishbhai had informed that his daughter is being tortured by her husband who is drunk. “We rushed to the spot and brought Dave to the police station. He seemed heavily drunk. We have sent him for medical and Covid-19 test. We have held him under Section 66(1)(b), 85 (1) of Prohibition Act and Section 110 and 117 of Gujarat Police Act,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/satellite-police-detain-drunk-man-quarrelling-with-wife/articleshow/79345068.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Devotees don’t care two hoots about Covid norms at Chhath Puja||LUDHIANA: Covid-19 related norms went for a toss as thousands of devotees, mostly without masks, gathered for Chhath Puja at Sidhwan canal on Pakhowal road on its concluding day early on Saturday. The district administration indicated that it was unfortunate that norms were flouted during the celebrations. The district administration and commissioner of police had recently held a meeting with the organisers of Chhath Puja and deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma had claimed then that, “We will persuade them to keep the count of the gathering to not more than 50 persons at any place”. Commissioner of police Rakesh Aggarwal had also said that to avoid large gatherings, no sound system and DJ system would be allowed at the places where puja would be held and similarly no food stalls and swings would be allowed as well. However, despite such claims by the district administration and police, TOI found that thousands of devotees had gathered at Sidhwan canal on Pakhowal road and these included even children. It was seen that majority of the devotees were not wearing masks and thousands of devotees had gathered at the place completely ignoring the social distancing norms. TOI also found that the DJ system was also installed at the venue that completely was against the claims of the police. Also there were small food stalls at the canal even as swings were not there. It was also seen that policemen who were there mostly were busy managing traffic and didn’t seem to take note of the huge rush at the spot. Even as one of the organisers Ram Nath didn’t respond to repeated calls, a migrant community member, who belongs to Darbhanga in Bihar and has been working in Ludhiana for many years, admitted that the gathering at Sidhwan canal on Pakhowal road, where the function was organised, was huge. He added that it was because of the fact that the organisers organised Chhath Puja at lesser venues as compared to previous years when such pujas used to be held at Barewal and South City areas along Sidhwan canal and the Satluj. “Though Chhath Puja can be celebrated even by observing the norms related to Covid-19, but the truth is that majority of the devotees were not even wearing masks,” said a person who also attended the puja at Pakhowal road area. Reacting to a question on norms being violated by devotees and huge rush of people at Sidhwan canal, the deputy commissioner said that it was unfortunate. “I will take up the issue with commissioner of police,” he said. Meanwhile, the Ludhiana police commissioner didn’t respond to any question on the issue till evening. On the other hand, some social activists have expressed disappointment with the authorities for their inaction. “It is a wilful mistake by the police and administration as they virtually turned a blind eye to such violation of norms by people in Chhath Puja. After holding a meeting with the organisers they had made tall claims and had also stated that there would be one volunteer for 20 devotees but nothing of that sort has happened. Because of inaction by the authorities there can be Covid explosion in Ludhiana in about a week,” said Narinder Singh Masson, a social activist and a Pakhowal road resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/devotees-dont-care-two-hoots-about-covid-norms-at-chhath-puja/articleshow/79344546.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Jaipur||Man fails to cough up dowry cash for daughter, ends life in Alwar||ALWAR: A 50-year-old man committed suicide in Alwar as he was unable to arrange for the dowry which his daughter’s would be in-laws were asking for. The man who hailed from Haryana had come to Alwar to meet his sister and brother-in-law was found hanging on Saturday morning. The deceased has been identified as Kailash Rajput whose daughter was to get married on November 25. “The deceased left behind a suicide note in which he wrote that while he had arranged around Rs 13 lakh for the wedding. However, he was not able to arrange Rs 11 lakh to meet the demands of the would be in-laws. He has named the would be groom and in-laws in the note claiming that they were not budging from their demands and he was worried that he would be humiliated in society if he was unable to pay the dowry,” said a police official. In the note, Rajput also appealed to the state government to take strict action against the people who forced him to take his own life. The body was handed over to the family after post-mortem on Saturday. Cops have initiated an investigation into the matter though it is likely that the case would be transferred to Haryana police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-fails-to-cough-up-dowry-cash-for-daughter-ends-life/articleshow/79345067.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Dharani one-stop solution for all land records: Telangana to HC||HYDERABAD: Telangana government said the Dharani land portal will bring transparency in maintaining digital records of private properties in the state and put an end to fraudulent means in the revenue and registration offices. In response to a direction by the high court, chief secretary Somesh Kumar said the objective behind creating a repository of digital records of private properties is to integrate all the records of rights in one place instead of leaving them to panchayats in villages and municipal bodies in the urban areas and exposing them to frauds at the offices. In an affidavit filed before the court, the CS said the Dharani portal would not only ensure seamless transactions of registrations, succession and partition but also enable a hassle-free and instant mutation of properties. He was responding to apprehensions raised by advocate Gopal Sharma, who questioned in his PIL the validity and legal basis for Dharani. The CS said Dharani is a single-window solution for all ills afflicting land records in the state. Maintaining that a separate law for supporting Dharani was not required since the government is not doing anything new, the CS, however, said they brought required amendments to the Panchayat Raj Act, the Municipalities Act and the GHMC Act to cover both agricultural and non-agricultural properties. “We have also repealed the old Telangana Rights in Land and Pattadar Passbooks Act of 1971 and brought in Pattadar Passbooks Act, 2020. This legal basis is enough and no new law is required,” he contended. The CS further said the Constitution has accorded protection to right to property through Article 300-A and Dharani aims at strengthening this in a foolproof manner. “Owners themselves can enter the details through MeeSeva centres and aggrieved persons will always have the option of approaching civil courts if there are any disputes,” he explained. He said registration of properties in the new system is linked to the ownership and hence only the owners would be able to sell or transact on their property on an end-to-end secure portal that will integrate both registration and mutation. “Discretion available to the officials in fixing the market value of the property has been removed because the portal carries all such details,” he pointed out. Dharani portal also has provisions for identity confirmation, while registration transactions will be allowed through digital signatures. “The question of land records still holding the names of ancestors and dead persons will no longer be there. Entry of current owners will take place in a scientific manner thereby removing scope for malpractices,” he told the court. Stating that Dharani would allow only the rightful owners to transact, he said discretion accorded to the sub-registrars was removed in the new system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dharani-one-stop-solution-for-all-land-records-t-to-hc/articleshow/79345093.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Jaipur||Man defrauded of Rs 1.2 lakh, probe begins||Jaipur: A man was defrauded of over Rs 1 lakh here and it appears that his ATM card was cloned for withdrawing the cash. Cops have started an investigation and have contacted the bank. Victim Jitendra Saini has lodged a case at Bajaj Nagar police station. “The victim claimed that between November 14 and 19, Rs 1.2 lakh was withdrawn from his account in installments of Rs 20,000. We have started the investigation and contacted the bank to find details about the transaction,” said a police official. “It appears that the ATM card was cloned and we are trying to figure out as to how it was done and by whom.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-defrauded-of-rs-1-2-lakh-probe-begins/articleshow/79345078.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Jodhpur||Fine for not wearing masks hiked to Rs 500 from Rs 200 in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The state cabinet on Saturday night imposed night curfew in eight cities - Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Bikaner, Udaipur, Ajmer, Bhilwara and Alwar – following a sudden spike in Covid cases. The curfew will be in force from 8pm to 6am. The cabinet also decided to increase the penalty for not wearing mask from Rs 200 to Rs 500. In offices and workplaces employing over 100 workers, 75% of the staff will be allowed to attend at a time. The cabinet expressed concern on the sudden spike of cases from 1,700 to 3,000. Emergency services, weddings, pharmacies, bus, train and air passengers have been exempted from curfew. The meeting, however, said in the curfew-bound cities, number of people attending marriages, religious, social, cultural and political functions should not exceed 100. The meeting decided that private hospitals would also provide daycare facilities to serious Covid patients at government rates. The cabinet also gave in-principle approval to the proposal of converting some hospitals attached to private medical colleges to dedicated Covid hospitals. Medical students of third and fourth year could be deployed for Covid duty, the meeting observed. Medical teams will launch door-to-door surveys in containment zones where cases have shown a spike and surveillance and testings would be increased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/mask-fine-hiked-75-staff-can-attend-office-at-a-time/articleshow/79347128.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Udaipur||Fine for not wearing masks hiked to Rs 500 from Rs 200 in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The state cabinet on Saturday night imposed night curfew in eight cities - Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Bikaner, Udaipur, Ajmer, Bhilwara and Alwar – following a sudden spike in Covid cases. The curfew will be in force from 8pm to 6am. The cabinet also decided to increase the penalty for not wearing mask from Rs 200 to Rs 500. In offices and workplaces employing over 100 workers, 75% of the staff will be allowed to attend at a time. The cabinet expressed concern on the sudden spike of cases from 1,700 to 3,000. Emergency services, weddings, pharmacies, bus, train and air passengers have been exempted from curfew. The meeting, however, said in the curfew-bound cities, number of people attending marriages, religious, social, cultural and political functions should not exceed 100. The meeting decided that private hospitals would also provide daycare facilities to serious Covid patients at government rates. The cabinet also gave in-principle approval to the proposal of converting some hospitals attached to private medical colleges to dedicated Covid hospitals. Medical students of third and fourth year could be deployed for Covid duty, the meeting observed. Medical teams will launch door-to-door surveys in containment zones where cases have shown a spike and surveillance and testings would be increased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/mask-fine-hiked-75-staff-can-attend-office-at-a-time/articleshow/79347129.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Jaipur||Reserve 40% of beds for Covid patients, Rajasthan private hospitals told||JAIPUR: The state health department has asked private hospitals having more than 100 beds to to reserve 40% for Covid patients. The order has been issued keeping an eye on increasing number of Covid cases across the state post Diwali. On September 25, the health department had issued an order reserving 30% of beds for Covid patients in private hospitals having more than 80 beds. The health department has also instructed private hospitals having bed capacity from 60 to 100 beds to reserve 30% for Covid patients. A senior health department official said, “There are some private hospitals which are providing Covid treatment and are running with full capacity. For creating more space in hospitals, they have been asked to create more facilities for Covid patients by increasing the reservation of beds to 40% of their bed strength.” The hospitals have also been directed to provide the treatment to patients on the rates fixed by the state government on September 3. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot had also pointed out in a video conferencing with health officials on Friday that due to winter and festive season, cases had been increasing in the state. While government hospitals were expanding facilities for Covid-19 treatment, private hospitals have also been told to expand their facilities. As of now, private hospitals have 2,615 beds and government hospitals have 1821 reserved for Covid patients in Jaipur. But the requirement of beds has been increasing in the past few days with the sudden spurt in cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/reserve-40-of-beds-for-covid-patients-private-hospitals-told/articleshow/79346075.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali administration plans Covid-19 tests at religious places||MOHALI: The local administration has requested religious leaders to help them detect Covid-19 cases at places of worship by allowing them to conduct tests on the premises on Saturdays and Sundays. Additional deputy commissioner Aashika Jain said, “We have decided to request religious leaders to allow the administration to put up Covid-19 testing points at the places of worship. The goal is to combat the upcoming second Covid wave. Since Unlock 5.0, devotees have been thronging places of worships, especially on Saturdays and Sundays. We will only put up stalls subject to the consent of religious leaders.” On the other hand, Punjab chief secretary Vini Mahajan on Saturday directed administrative secretaries to visit districts assigned to them for monitoring Covid response efforts and to review preparedness in case of a second wave of infections, including contact tracing and patient tracking, protocols for referral, strengthening of level-3 facilities and ramping up testing across the state. Chief secretary Vini Mahajan said all the officials have been directed to ensure that minimum 15 contacts of each positive patient must be identified and tested according to the set guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mohali-admn-plans-covid-tests-at-religious-places/articleshow/79344556.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Jaipur||Chilly winds drive temp down by avg 3°C in Raj||Jaipur: Minimum temperatures dipped across parts of Rajasthan on Saturday by an average of about 3 degrees due to the chilly northerly wind.Snowfall in high reaches of Himalayas and Jammu & Kashmir and the change in wind direction due to the western disturbance have resulted in a dip in night temperatures, according to Met office here.Mount Abu experienced the season’s lowest temperature at 1 degree, which is a departure of minus 4.9 from normal. The normal temperature at the hill station at this time of the year is about 6 degrees. Churu has been the coldest in the plains at 5.5 degrees.In Jaipur, the maximum temperature recorded was 24.8, which is 3-degree below normal while the minimum temperature remained 11.6, one degree below normal.The weather forecast for Jaipur said mainly clear sky with shallow fog in the morning hours. Not much change in temperatures is expected. People could be seen basking in the sun and sitting in open places. The temperatures are likely to dip further, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/chilly-winds-drive-temp-down-by-avg-3c-in-raj/articleshow/79345089.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Jaipur||IAS, RAS deployed as nodal officers for pvt hosps||Jaipur: With spike in infections, the state government has deployed IAS and RAS officers as nodal staff for each dedicated private Covid-19 hospital for proper coordination. Besides, a committee has been formed by the state government at district level for redressal of complaints against private hospitals for overcharging.The order said, the officers posted in different government departments have been assigned the job of nodal officers of private hospitals. They will visit their respective dedicated Covid-19 private hospital regularly to ensure that it is providing Covid-19 treatment on the beds reserved for the purpose. The health department has issued orders of reserving 40% beds having more than 100 beds and 30% beds in private hospitals having 60 to 100 beds. They will also help in getting beds to the patients in private hospital, it said.Principal secretary (health) Siddhartha Mahajan said the nodal officers have been deployed from the government side for coordination with private hospitals providing Covid-19 treatment. They will also keep an eye on the availability of oxygen and requirement of oxygen for Covid-19 treatment. The nodal officers will keep the state government updated about the situation in their respective private hospital.Besides, each district will have a committee of four members to look into the complaints of patients against private hospitals for overcharging bills for Covid-19 treatment than the rates fixed by the state government. The committee will consist of an additional district magistrate nominated by the collector of the district, chief medical health officer, senior doctor (medicine) and senior doctor (anaesthesia). The committee has been asked to resolve the complaints in seven days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ias-ras-deployed-as-nodal-officers-for-pvt-hosps/articleshow/79346077.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Ajmer||Fine for not wearing masks hiked to Rs 500 from Rs 200 in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The state cabinet on Saturday night imposed night curfew in eight cities - Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Bikaner, Udaipur, Ajmer, Bhilwara and Alwar – following a sudden spike in Covid cases. The curfew will be in force from 8pm to 6am. The cabinet also decided to increase the penalty for not wearing mask from Rs 200 to Rs 500. In offices and workplaces employing over 100 workers, 75% of the staff will be allowed to attend at a time. The cabinet expressed concern on the sudden spike of cases from 1,700 to 3,000. Emergency services, weddings, pharmacies, bus, train and air passengers have been exempted from curfew. The meeting, however, said in the curfew-bound cities, number of people attending marriages, religious, social, cultural and political functions should not exceed 100. The meeting decided that private hospitals would also provide daycare facilities to serious Covid patients at government rates. The cabinet also gave in-principle approval to the proposal of converting some hospitals attached to private medical colleges to dedicated Covid hospitals. Medical students of third and fourth year could be deployed for Covid duty, the meeting observed. Medical teams will launch door-to-door surveys in containment zones where cases have shown a spike and surveillance and testings would be increased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/mask-fine-hiked-75-staff-can-attend-office-at-a-time/articleshow/79347130.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Jaipur||Fine for not wearing masks hiked to Rs 500 from Rs 200 in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The state cabinet on Saturday night imposed night curfew in eight cities - Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Bikaner, Udaipur, Ajmer, Bhilwara and Alwar – following a sudden spike in Covid cases. The curfew will be in force from 8pm to 6am. The cabinet also decided to increase the penalty for not wearing mask from Rs 200 to Rs 500. In offices and workplaces employing over 100 workers, 75% of the staff will be allowed to attend at a time. The cabinet expressed concern on the sudden spike of cases from 1,700 to 3,000. Emergency services, weddings, pharmacies, bus, train and air passengers have been exempted from curfew. The meeting, however, said in the curfew-bound cities, number of people attending marriages, religious, social, cultural and political functions should not exceed 100. The meeting decided that private hospitals would also provide daycare facilities to serious Covid patients at government rates. The cabinet also gave in-principle approval to the proposal of converting some hospitals attached to private medical colleges to dedicated Covid hospitals. Medical students of third and fourth year could be deployed for Covid duty, the meeting observed. Medical teams will launch door-to-door surveys in containment zones where cases have shown a spike and surveillance and testings would be increased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mask-fine-hiked-75-staff-can-attend-office-at-a-time/articleshow/79346069.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Nursery admissions to begin from December 3||CHANDIGARH: Private schools of the UT Chandigarh have started the process of finalising the common admission schedule for entry-level classes. A tentative common admission schedule was also shared by the UT education department with the private schools on Friday. According to the schedule (a copy of which is with the TOI), schools will have to upload information like name of the entry class, dates of admission, total number of seats, age requirement, fee structure, admission criteria, documents required and date of draw of lots on their websites by December 2. The issue and receipt of admission forms and submission of the same will be done from December 3 to 16. The date to put up a list of eligible candidates will be from January 15, 2021 for the convenience of schools. Schools will have to display the list of eligible candidates on the notice boards too. Selection of final candidates and the waiting list will be done by February 1, 2021 and students will have to deposit the fees by February 12, 2021. The date and criteria for admissions (draw of lots, first come, first serve basis, point system, among others) will be fixed by the schools. The decision on whether the draw of lots will be held online or offline has been left on schools. However, they have been asked to ensure that SOPs are followed if draw of lots are conducted in offline mode. Principal of a private school shared, “We witness huge crowd for draw of lots and therefore we will leave it open ended and decide on the date closer to the draw of lots.” The UT education held a meeting with private schools in two batches to discuss the common admission schedule.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/nursery-admissions-to-begin-from-december-3/articleshow/79344553.cms||Kamini Mehta
November 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Pharma firms see profit growth in Q2||AHMEDABAD: The pharmaceutical industry has continued its growth momentum with most of the companies registering an increase in their net profits during the second quarter (July-Sept) of the current fiscal year. While companies across sectors had taken a major beating in revenues and profitability during the first quarter (April-June), pharma firms had posted a good growth in that quarter as well, despite challenges posed by the lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19. Driven by good demand, Cadila Healthcare Ltd, the flagship company of the Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila group, registered a 342% jump in its consolidated net profit to Rs 473 crores for the quarter ended September 2020 from Rs 107 crores in the same period last fiscal. Vadodara-based Alembic Pharmaceuticals Ltd’s net profit rose 35% to Rs 333 crores on the back of growth in the domestic and international business, while that of Torrent Pharmaceuticals Ltd net profit surged 27% to Rs 310 crores. Gujarat-based other pharma firms such as Lincoln Pharmaceuticals and Eris Lifesciences Ltd’s profits in July-September quarter grew by 12% and 16%, respectively. According to industry players, there is a strong demand for medicines. Exports have been encouraging and the domestic market has also recovered. This has helped pharma industry maintain their overall growth momentum. The situation in the pharma industry is much better than in other industries. “The exports grew by 11% in the first quarter and 19% in the second quarter. The pharma exports have surged by 14% in the first six months of the current fiscal,” said Viranchi Shah, senior vice-president, Indian Drug Manufacturers Association (IDMA). On the domestic front, the monthly sales growth bounced back to 4% and then reached 10% in October. “Most of the Gujarat-based pharma companies saw a good jump in operating profit this quarter, as they witnessed a surge in demand for drugs in both domestic as well as global markets. These companies continued to perform well across all key geographies and segments which helped them in reporting strong set of earnings,” said Asif Hirani, director at a city-based brokerage firm. Although the demand is robust, some companies saw their profit growth rate remaining lower than the preceding quarter. “The primary reasons for this are increases in input and operational costs. The prices of pharma raw materials — Active pharma ingredients (APIs) and packaging material have surged,” said an industry player.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pharma-firms-see-profit-growth-in-q2/articleshow/79345085.cms||Kalpesh Damor
November 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Congress candidate papers rejected, party cries foul||HYDERABAD: Even as very few nominations for GHMC polls were rejected, high drama unfolded on Saturday over a Congress candidate’s papers getting rejected in Qutbullapur on the ground that he has more than two children. Tension prevailed as police resorted to a mild lathicharge to disperse Congress supporters who were staging a protest. Though no police case was booked till late in the evening, former MLA Srisailam Goud, brother of Congress candidate Kuna Srinivas Goud, was injured in the lathicharge. Srinivas entered the fray on Congress ticket from Gajularamaram ward in Qutbullapur constituency. Officials said the candidature of Srinivas was rejected since he has three children, which is against the election rules. Officials acted following a complaint lodged by TRS candidate Ravula Seshagiri. Upset over the rejection of its candidate’s nomination, Congress moved a lunch motion in court. The case is likely to be heard on Sunday. TPCC working president A Revanth Reddy blamed it on the TRS. “This is a TRS game plan as Srinivas along with his elder brother Srisailam have the capacity to win at least five wards in Qutbullapur constituency,” he said. TRS leaders, however, claimed that Srinivas has three children and one of them is adopted by Srisailam. Disputing this, Congress leaders said Srisailam is the child’s father and his name was also mentioned in the passport and birth certificate of the child. The state government had initially planned to do away with two-children norm for candidates contesting GHMC elections. However, it dropped the idea to tweak the rule and like in the previous elections, persons having more than two children are ineligible to contest the GHMC polls. Meanwhile, only 68 nominations of the total 2,575 filed for 150 wards of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation were rejected. This leaves the TRS, BJP and Congress with the major task of cajoling the rebels to withdraw from the electoral fray in favour of party finalised candidates before 3 pm on Sunday. The deadline for withdrawal of nominations is 3 pm on Sunday. After the completion of scrutiny of nominations, 539 candidates from BJP, 527 from TRS, 348 from Congress, 202 from TDP, 72 from MIM, 143 from recognised and registered political parties are in the fray, apart from 613 independents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-candidate-papers-rejected-party-cries-foul/articleshow/79346099.cms||Roushan Ali
November 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Social distancing goes for a toss on last day of Chhath Puja||CHANDIGARH: The four-day Chhath Puja festivity concluded with lakhs of devotees performing rituals at the Sector 42 lake. Different ghats were made in Chandigarh villages and in Panchkula on Saturday. Social distancing was not maintained by devotees. Despite the cold weather, people stood inside the water to give offerings to the rising sun. Though the sun showed up around 6.45am, people started gathering at the lake from 4 am onwards. After 36 hours of fasting, people broke their fast amid mantras, prayers and devotional songs on the concluding day of the Chhath Puja. Like Saturday, Sunday too saw huge rush of devotees, who walked till the lake bare feet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/social-distancing-goes-for-a-toss-on-last-day-of-chhath-puja/articleshow/79344558.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Jaipur||Gangster shifted to high security prison in Ajmer||JAIPUR: In a major security lapse, a mobile phone, a charger and a SIM card were found on gangster Lawrence Bishnoi who was shifted from Bharatpur jail to Ajmer’s high security prison on Saturday. It was found that the gangster was using mobile phones and was active on social media as well. Bishnoi was shifted due to administrative reasons. The main reason for Bishnoi to be shifted from Bharatpur was his access to mobile phones, but somehow the gangster managed to get the phone out of the jail undetected during his transfer. When he was checked and his luggage searched, the cops found the device. Bishnoi (35) lodged in Bharatpur jail was in the news for various reasons including threatening actor Salman Khan through a social media post and being in touch with contract killers through his subordinates. Bishnoi is facing over 20 cases of attempt to murder, carjacking, extortion, snatching and under arms Act in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Rajasthan. Recently Bishnoi had also made a threat call to a businessman in Haryana’s Panchkula though officials are still confirming it. After Vikas Dubey’s encounter in UP, Bishnoi had petitioned in the Punjab and Haryana High Court in August claiming a threat to his life following which the court had directed Haryana police to interrogate him in Bharatpur jail if required. Senior officials had also visited Ajmer’s high security prison recently to decide if the jail met adequate requirements to lodge Bishnoi. According to officials, Bishnoi did not interact directly with the youths working for him outside, but would give them the task using various levels of subordinates. Access to a mobile phone allowed him to do so comfortably. He has been in Rajasthan prison since 2017 after he was brought from Punjab jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gangster-shifted-to-high-security-prison-in-ajmer/articleshow/79345095.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
November 22, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Bizman hires quotation gang to kill rival, held||KOTTAYAM: Three men who were in a vehicle and a businessman were taken into custody after the vehicle hit and injured a person out on morning walk near here on Saturday. Police suspect the three men to be members of a quotation gang hired to kill the injured by the businessman following a financial dispute. The incident took place at Aikarakunnu junction along Athirampuzha-Parolickal road where Nelson, 58, Athirampuzha native, was hit by a car. Those taken into custody by Ettumanur police include Jose K Sebastian, 45, an Ernakulam native, K Suresh, 32, a Palakkad native, C V Eliaskutty, a Thrissur native and Reji Prothasis, 52. A case was earlier registered regarding a financial dispute between Nelson and the businessman. Nelson, who was also a real estate agent, had also intervened in dispute over a land deal involving the merchant. The vehicle lost control after hitting Nelson and rammed into a wall. While Nelson took refuge in a neighbouring house, those who came in the vehicle went to an hospital in an autorickshaw. Nelson was taken to the same hospital by the house owner. While in hospital, Nelson saw the men from the vehicle there and informed police. Police took the three into custody. On interrogation, they found that the businessman had hired them to kill Nelson. Police have begun a detailed probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/bizman-hires-quotation-gang-to-kill-rival-held/articleshow/79345096.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Nagpur||Schools add legal liability clause in consent form||Nagpur: Schools which had planned to reopening from Monday, a plan which has now been cancelled by NMC, have sent consent forms to parents with a legal liability clause. Since there is no government issued format, every school is wording it differently but the intent is to avoid legal repercussions if students get infected after reopening. Dilip Bose, a senior principal, said, “We sent the forms to parents and made it clear that responsibility will be theirs if anything happens. This clause had to be inserted because we do not want any issues to crop up later on.” Another high enrolment English medium school principal’s said he has added the same content at the end of the form. “In the upper part we have sought consent of parents in a simple ‘yes’ or ‘no’ format. At the end we have printed a column which says ‘I agree’ to the terms and conditions. These terms and conditions include parents’ taking full responsibility of any infection happening to students,” said the principal. Vitthal Junghare, a senior teacher at a Marathi medium school in Reshimbagh, said they have also prepared an elaborate consent form. “Some of the schools in Dhule district were using the same form in which it is mentioned that if students show an symptoms of Covid-19 or get infected, then school authorities can’t be held responsible,” said Junghare. While such clause in the consent letter may give psychological comfort to principals, legal experts say it’s not enough. Advocate Amit Khare said, “Adding such clauses does not absolve any school from its responsibility. Currently they are taking it down on a normal paper, even if it was on a stamp paper it can be challenged in the court of law. Schools are mandated to take all precautions and adhere to safety guidelines if they decide to reopen.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/schools-add-legal-liability-clause-in-consent-form/articleshow/79345094.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
November 22, 2020||Patna||Follow Mewalal Choudhary, forget LoP post: JD(U) to Tejashwi Prasad Yadav||PATNA: JD(U) on Saturday said Mahagathbandhan leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav should not accept the post of the Leader of Opposition in the 17th assembly till he is proved not guilty in the IRCTC hotel-for-land case. The ruling party, whose education minister Mewalal Choudhary resigned over corruption charges two days ago, said, Tejashwi should also maintain the same level of transparency in political life and refuse the post. The CBI and the ED had filed a charge-sheet against Tejashwi, his mother and former CM Rabri Devi in the IRCTC case. Hitting back at Tejashwi for speaking on corruption charges against Mewalal, JD(U) state president and Rajya Sabha member Bashishtha Narayan Singh on Saturday said, “Does Tejashwi who himself is facing corruption charges, hold moral right to speak on Mewalal’s issue?” Talking to media persons at the JD(U) headquarters here, Singh said, "I am thankful to Mewalal Choudhary who has set a good example by resigning as education minister." He added, "CM Nitish Kumar has maintained zero-tolerance for corruption. In the past, the CM had also taken similar action against former ministers like Jitan Ram Manjhi, Ramanand Singh and Ramadhar Singh when they faced allegations of corruption. These days, Tejashwi Yadav is being very vocal against Mewalal Choudhary. I want to tell him he has no moral right to talk on this matter. He is also facing similar corruption charges.” JD(U) on Saturday fielded its five senior leaders to speak against Tejashwi and corner him on the issue of corruption. Besides Singh, JD(U) state working president and building construction minister Ashok Choudhary and s three spokespersons Sanjay Singh, Neeraj Kumar and Ajay Alok addressed a joint press conference and sought to know from Tejashwi whether he would follow Mewalal's example. Some JD(U) leaders asked Tejashwi to resign from his post. But Tejashwi is currently holding no post. Tejashwi was the leader of the opposition in the dissolved 16th assembly. The 17th assembly will resume on Monday and after that Tejashwi may be notified as the LoP. Speaking at the press conference, Ashok Choudhary said, "Our leader (Nitish Kumar) cannot tolerate three ‘Cs’: crime, corruption and communalism. The Mewalal Choudhary episode is a prime example of our leader’s zero tolerance on such issues.” The JD(U) leaders also revealed that Choudhary was asked to resign after the police on November 17 sought permission from the Raj Bhawan to prosecute him on the charges of corruption. “The permission to prosecute him is yet to be given. Still, our government asked Choudhary to resign. We showed an example of propriety in public and political life. Will Tejashwi act on similar lines and quit his post?” JD(U) spokesperson Ajay Alok asked. Three days after being sworn-in as education minister, Mewalal resigned on Thursday, after CM Nitish Kumar asked him to do so. Mewalal was booked in 2017 under Sections 409, 420, 467, 468, 471 and 120B of the IPC, for alleged discrepancies in the appointment of more than 160 assistant-cum-junior scientists at the Bihar Agriculture University at Sabour in Bhagalpur district, while he was vice-chancellor of the university between 2010 and 2015.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/follow-mewalal-forget-lop-post-jdu-to-tejas/articleshow/79344637.cms||Madan Kumar
November 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||GIDC eyes investments of Rs 29,000 crore in 12 new estates||GANDHINAGAR: The GIDC (Gujarat Industrial Development Corporation) has notified the establishment of 12 new industrial estates in the state. The corporation expects investments to the tune of $3-4 billion (about Rs 29,000 crore) over the next three years at these industrial estates. Land acquisition has been competed for most of these industrial estates. Key sources in the GIDC said that major industrial development is likely in the coming years at the 12 new estates. “To promote industrialization and attract overseas and domestic investments in several sectors, the GIDC is developing new industrial estates across Gujarat,” a source said. “These 12 estates are expected to cumulatively house 5,000 to 6,000 units.” The GIDC is also in the process of acquiring land in other areas where there is a potential for industrial activity and an announcement in this regard will be made in 2021, sources said. Moreover, the GIDC expects $2.8 billion (over Rs 20,000 crore) in the next two to three years at Japan Industrial Township (Sanand-III), Bulk Drugs Park at Jambusar near Bharuch, and Medical Devices Park near Rajkot. These are sector-specific industrial clusters proposed by the GIDC. The GIDC said that land acquisition has been completed for Japan Industrial Township, Bulk Drugs Park, and Medical Devices Park. The state government expects substantial funding from the Government of India for the drugs and medical devices parks. Many Japanese companies have announced that they are shifting their facilities out of China. The Gujarat government expects to benefit from that move and is thus expanding the Japan Industrial Township near Sanand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gidc-eyes-investments-of-rs-29k-cr-in-12-new-estates/articleshow/79345100.cms||Kapil Dave
November 22, 2020||Hubballi||Dimhans to be upgraded on lines of Nimhans, promises health minister||Dharwad: The government will take measures to upgrade Dharwad Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences (Dimhans) to the level of Nimhans at the earliest to help the people of north Karnataka, said minister for health and medical education Dr K Sudhakar. Speaking after inaugurating new facilities at Dimhans here on Saturday, the minister said steps will be taken to ensure that both Dimhans and Nimhans will work in coordination and help the people. Sudhakar said steps will be taken to increase the number of primary health centers in north Karnataka as the region lacks them when compared to the PHCs in south Karnataka and they will be made to work 24x7. The government, in a bid to attract doctors to rural areas, will make amendment to the law and provide incentives to the doctors working in rural areas. There will be provision to give promotion to them earlier as compared to their counterparts in urban areas, he stated. He informed that the government will start para medical and nursing courses in all government medical colleges in the state as there is shortage of nurses and para medical staff. The minister inaugurated the Bendre Block, 32-slide full-body CT Scan machine and digital library set up at a cost of Rs 15.7 crore under the National Mental Health Programme. Union minister Prahlad Joshi said the new facilities have come up with the Centre and State contributing 60 per cent and 40 percent of the cost respectively. He claimed that Dimhans is the first in the country to complete the work under NMHP in the given time frame. He said the Narendra Modi government has permitted setting up of 156 medical colleges in the country and Karnatak will have four new medical colleges. MLA Amrut Desai, MLC Basavaraj horatti and Dimhans director Dr Mahesh Desai were present. NEW FACILITY: Dr K Sudhakar, minister for health and medical education, interacts with Union minister Prahlad Joshi after inaugurating the CT scan machine at Dimhans in Dharwad on Saturday||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/dimhans-to-be-upgraded-on-lines-of-nimhans-promises-health-minister/articleshow/79344140.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Ajmer||Gangster shifted to high security prison in Ajmer||JAIPUR: In a major security lapse, a mobile phone, a charger and a SIM card were found on gangster Lawrence Bishnoi who was shifted from Bharatpur jail to Ajmer’s high security prison on Saturday. It was found that the gangster was using mobile phones and was active on social media as well. Bishnoi was shifted due to administrative reasons. The main reason for Bishnoi to be shifted from Bharatpur was his access to mobile phones, but somehow the gangster managed to get the phone out of the jail undetected during his transfer. When he was checked and his luggage searched, the cops found the device. Bishnoi (35) lodged in Bharatpur jail was in the news for various reasons including threatening actor Salman Khan through a social media post and being in touch with contract killers through his subordinates. Bishnoi is facing over 20 cases of attempt to murder, carjacking, extortion, snatching and under arms Act in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Rajasthan. Recently Bishnoi had also made a threat call to a businessman in Haryana’s Panchkula though officials are still confirming it. After Vikas Dubey’s encounter in UP, Bishnoi had petitioned in the Punjab and Haryana High Court in August claiming a threat to his life following which the court had directed Haryana police to interrogate him in Bharatpur jail if required. Senior officials had also visited Ajmer’s high security prison recently to decide if the jail met adequate requirements to lodge Bishnoi. According to officials, Bishnoi did not interact directly with the youths working for him outside, but would give them the task using various levels of subordinates. Access to a mobile phone allowed him to do so comfortably. He has been in Rajasthan prison since 2017 after he was brought from Punjab jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/gangster-shifted-to-high-security-prison-in-ajmer/articleshow/79347695.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
November 22, 2020||Hyderabad||‘Government policies have helped realty sector’||HYDERABAD: Government policies like the TS-bPass -- self-certification system for obtaining building permissions – will set the state’s realty market on a path of progress, said members of Telangana Real Estate Developers’ Association (TREDA). At a conference, held in the city on Saturday to discuss Hyderabad’s property market, members said that the city has bounced back strongly and is already on a recovery path. “This growth is largely due to the revolutionary policies and reforms the state government undertook over the past few years,” said R Chalapathi Rao, president TREDA. Rao added that “The government’s focus on sustainability and transparency clubbed with investment-friendly policies that drew the attention of multinational companies to Telangana, has led to a major economic growth especially in the last few years.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-policies-have-helped-realty-sector/articleshow/79345102.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Smart City Limited receives four tenders for Rs 12 crore sanitary landfill project||CHANDIGARH: The Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL) has received four tenders for the sanitary landfill site at Daddu Majra. The Rs 12-crore project is being set-up for proper disposal of remains of garbage after processing. According to the plan, drainage will be laid down at the site and one plant will also be constructed. After the construction, the MC will run this site. “Since the bids for the project has been received, we will start technical evaluation of the received bids from next week by checking clause of the laid down terms and conditions of the project. Thereafter, a financial bid of the project will be opened to decide and select the competent bidder for the project,” said sources at the CSCL. The said project will come up on the 8-acre land, which is lying vacant along the Daddu Majra dumping ground. The project will come up as per scientific parameters for proper disposal of the left over garbage so that it can be disposed without damaging the environmental or other related issue. “According to the specification, proper drainage pipes will be laid down at the site. Moreover, a leached treatment plant, having latest technology, will also be set up so that all the required specifications can be met for the project and it can work properly for a long period of time. After the processing of the garbage, around 8% to 10 % leached is left and the same will be treated,” said sources. According to information, the actual cost of the project was Rs 18 crore, which included Rs 6-crore machinery, but since the Chandigarh municipal corporation has maximum machinery and if required, the remaining will be purchased later. Therefore, the CSCL has floated the tender of Rs 12 crore for interested bidders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cscl-receives-4-tenders-for-rs-12cr-sanitary-landfill-project/articleshow/79344559.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Jaipur||Minor survivor’s statements be taken in presence of parents: HC||Jaipur: Rajasthan High Court has ordered that statements of minors in sexual assault cases be recorded only in the presence of their parents or guardians.The single bench of S P Sharma gave the direction while setting aside the orders of Baran judicial magistrate and district and sessions judge in a sexual assault case of a minor disallowing the application moved by the investigating officer for recording statements of rape survivors. The investigating officer moved the application as the earlier statements recorded under Section 164 CrPC was not in order. They were not recorded in the presence of parents as per Section 26 of Pocso Act 2012. The court said it was the exclusive domain of the investigating officer alone to move an application for getting statements recorded of any witness under Section 164 CrPC. On moving such an application, the magistrate got the statement recorded. The court ordered magistrates to proceed to record statements according to the procedure laid down under section 26 of the Pocso Act. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/minor-survivors-statements-be-taken-in-presence-of-parents-hc/articleshow/79345107.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Jaipur||MLA gets angry at cops over challan||Jaipur: Congress MLA Amin Kagzi was seen getting angry with cops in a video shot on Saturday while police was penalising motorists for riding power bikes in Jalupura. The video showed that Kagzi was visibly agitated. Kagzi said, “Police were asking people for license and vehicle registration papers and around 40 personnel were posted at the checkpost. People were harassed and came to me seeking intervention.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mla-gets-angry-at-cops-over-challan/articleshow/79345105.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Night temperatures likely to dip in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: The weathermen have forecast that the night temperature in Ahmedabad city is likely to fall and expected to be around 15°C. The cold wave condition prevailed in Kutch district. The maximum temperature in the city on Saturday was 29.2 degrees, 2.6 degrees below normal. Night temperature was 16°C, 0.4 degree below normal. Naliya remained the coldest town in the state with minimum temperature of 8.8 degrees. This was followed by 11.2°C in Rajkot and 12.5°C in Keshod. Gandhinagar recorded the minimum temperature of 14.5°C.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/night-temperatures-likely-to-dip/articleshow/79345115.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan breaches 3,000 daily count, night curfew imposed in 8 cities||JAIPUR: State Covid cases touched another grim milestone on Saturday as it breached the 3,000 mark for the first time since the pandemic hit. In view of the sudden spike in cases, the state cabinet clamped night curfew in eight cities – Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Bikaner, Udaipur, Ajmer, Bhilwara and Alwar. The curfew will be in effect from 8pm to 6am. In offices and workplaces employing over 100 workers, 75% of the staff will be allowed to attend at a time. Jaipur, too, registered its highest-ever one-day spike recording 551 cases and four deaths in the last 24 hours. The previous highest was 519 infections on Thursday. With 3,007 fresh cases, the cumulative count of the state touched 2,40,676. For the third day in a row, the state’s growth rate remained over 8%. After a massive spike of 17% on Thursday, it stood at 8.3% on Friday and 8.7% on Saturday. While daily new infections have been setting new records, active cases also touched a new high of 21,951, surpassing the earlier record of 21,924 reported on October 13. Since October 31, active cases have constantly been on the rise riding on increasing number of daily new infections being reported from different parts of the state. Fatalities have also seen a spike over the last few days. After 44 days (October 7), the state reported 16 fatalities. As on Saturday, the casualty count stood at 2,146. A senior health department official said, “The state government is alert on increasing number of Covid cases and taking measures accordingly to provide healthcare facilities to patients and to contain the spread of the virus.” Jaipur reported four deaths taking its toll to 408, Jodhpur (212), Ajmer (162), Bikaner (156), Kota (122), Bharatpur (100), Udaipur (83), Sikar (73), Nagaur (72), Churu (33), Bhilwara (31), Tonk (29) and Sawai Madhopur reported 24 cases. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (551), Jodhpur (444), Bikaner (215), Ajmer (210), Kota (203), Alwar (139), Bhilawara (128), Sriganganagar (115), Sikar (95), Nagaur (94), Tonk (85), Pali (84), Udaipur (82), Bharatpur (56), Chittorgarh (55), Barmer (53), Jhunjhunu (46), Sawai Madhopur (43), Dungarpur (39), Baran (31), Dausa (30), Bundi (29), Churu (28), Rajsamand (27), Hanumangarh (26), Jaisalmer (24), Sirohi (23), Jalore (17), Jhalawar (15), Dholpur (12), Banswara (4) and Pratapgarh (4).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-breaches-3k-daily-count-night-curfew-imposed-in-8-cities/articleshow/79346080.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Trade union strike on November 26||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The all-India strike called by the joint trade unions on November 26 as mark of protest against the Union government’s alleged anti-labour policies, including labour law reforms and farm laws, is likely to end up as a near total shutdown in Kerala. A joint committee of 10 central trade unions and several other independent trade unions has given the strike call. The 24-hour strike would be from November 25 midnight to November 26 midnight. The union leaders, in a news conference, sought the solidarity of private vehicles owners and requested them not to hit road except for emergencies. They, however, said the protest programmes in the state would be organized in such a manner that it would not disrupt the electioneering. Employee’s unions in banking, railway, insurance sectors and employees in central and state government institutions and departments would participate in the strike. The unions seek the cancellation of anti-farmer, anti-labour laws, direct payment of Rs 7,500 each to non-tax paying families, monthly distribution of 10kg free food grains to poor families, increased wages to MNREG workers, cancellation of privatization of defence, railways, ports, power, mining, finance and aviation sectors, etc. The only major trade union that keeps away from the strike is the Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/trade-union-strike-on-nov-26/articleshow/79345111.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Ex-RAS officer in ACB net for Rs 5 lakh bribe||JAIPUR/JAISALMER: The ACB on Friday night arrested retired RAS officer Premram Parmar in Barmer while accepting a bribe of Rs 5 lakh. A middleman has also been held. ACB sleuths conducted raids at the official’s residences in Jaipur, Jodhpur and Barmer and seized lakhs of rupees. Additionally, the agency has found evidence of crores of rupees of disproportionate income while investigating against three officials whose properties were also raided. TNN Premram Parmar, who was additional commissioner (colonisation department), retired in Bikaner on October 31. ACB DG B L Soni said, “Around a month ago, we received information that Parmar was giving land to real estate dealers in the names of veterans, people displaced due to Pong dam, landless farmers and others. Teams were constituted to trap the accused.” Parmar was arrested while accepting a bribe of Rs 5 lakh along with middleman Nazir Khan. According to officials, Khan would pay small amounts to people under whose names plots were purchased and then would get it registered in his own name. After that he would sell the plots at exorbitant prices to real estate dealers. From Parmar’s Jaipur residence, the ACB seized Rs 8 lakh and property documents, from his Jodhpur residence, the sleuths seized Rs 7.72 lakh, gold jewellery worth Rs 15 lakh, property documents and L&T shares and from his Barmer house, Rs 3 lakh cash apart from Rs 5 lakh of bribe money and gold ornaments worth Rs 20 lakh were recovered. While searching his Jodhpur house, the ACB also recovered huge quantities of foreign liquor following which the agency lodged a case at Bornada police station under the excise Act. The ACB had raided over 10 locations of three government officials in the state who were found to be have disproportionate income. The teams found unaccounted cash at few of the places along with office files. On further investigation, cops found that all three officials have properties worth over Rs 10 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ex-ras-officer-in-acb-net-for-rs-5-lakh-bribe/articleshow/79346089.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Aurangabad||Hurried transfer of 5 constables raises questions||Aurangabad: The transfer of five constables from the detection branch of the Satara police station to the police headquarters even before establishing their guilt has raised several questions. Moreover, a PSI who had also been issued a show-cause notice over the same issue has not been shifted. The transfer orders were issued by deputy commissioner of police (headquarters) Meena Makwana on November 12. The officer could not be reached for comment despite repeated attempts. When contacted, police commissioner Nikhil Gupta said, “Nobody has been absolved or punished in this case. We are studying the written replies filed by all the six policemen. The role or innocence of these policemen would be established and accordingly action initiated.” An officer privy to the development said that on August 31, one Vilas More was brutally assaulted by five men who accused him of providing information to police about their gambling den being run from a hotel. The five suspests were arrested on the charges of attempt to murder, rioting, unlawful assembly on September 1. Recently, the city police chief was apprised of the alleged attempt to murder at a gambling den. Taking cognizance of the same, he ordered a discreet inquiry into the role of policemen in keeping a check on illicit businesses in their respective jurisdictions. Accordingly, show cause notices were issued to six policemen, including the PSI who headed the detection branch of the Satara area police station. “All the six policemen filed a common and identical reply to the show-cause notices and when the transfer orders were issued, the PSI’s name was missing,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hurried-transfer-of-5-constables-raises-questions/articleshow/79343965.cms||Mohammed Akhef
November 22, 2020||Nagpur||Samples of teachers were piling up at Covid testing labs over last two days||Nagpur: Samples have piled up in the last two days at all the five public as well as some private Covid testing labs. Testing centres have blamed the “unnecessary” and “irrational” move by the government machinery to conduct only RT-PCR Covid testing on all teachers in the wake of the reopening of schools, which has now been put off till December 13 by the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC). Pending samples and teachers testing positive is one of the main reasons behind the NMC’s late Saturday evening move to keep schools shut till next month. On November 10, the school education department had mandated RT-PCR of every teacher between November 17 and 22. This led to a sudden rush at all testing centres as well as labs since teachers had to get the report before the deadline set by the government. Civil surgeon Dr Devendra Paturkar said that samples have gone up but ruled out any additional labs or facilities to test teachers. “These samples are being processed by using the same facilities. Those on priority are getting tested,” he said. Asked if health assessment of teachers is being done to ascertain if RT-PCT is really needed, Dr Paturkar said, “We are following what the government has advised. I don’t suppose common citizens are being neglected because of additional testing. We are trying to carry out the tests as smoothly as possible,” he said. Additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi said that all labs have 200 to 400 samples pending because of the sudden rush. Asked if the Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) can be preferred for teachers, he said, “It was discussed but the government insisted on RT-PCT. Some places in the district do not even have labs. So samples are collected and taken to neighbouring cities. We are getting 75% results in one day. But in last two days, the numbers have increased and so, the results will come a bit late,” he said. Lab officials said the excess burden is posing a threat to the facilities and staff as well. “Each lab now has more than 400 samples pending. Samples from not just Nagpur but across Vidarbha are coming in. The machines have a limit and can’t be stretched,” they said. They also said that the state could have opted for RAT instead of RTPCR. Health officials said the indiscriminate focus on the teaching community has left the more needy ones at a loss. “Even the ICMR has issued guidelines regarding RT-PCR. RAT is best for teachers as it gives instant results. As per the norms, only teachers with any symptoms must be subjected to RTPCR. This will result in the judicious use of resources,” they said. Some public lab officials said that if they are burdened like this, reliability and quality of results will get affected. “Ultimately, the staff too has a limit. They have to work using PPE kits and under trying circumstances. The government must rationalize the process,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/samples-of-teachers-were-piling-up-at-covid-testing-labs-over-last-two-days/articleshow/79345126.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
November 22, 2020||Jaipur||‘Love jihad’ law only politics to divide people: Hardik Patel||Ajmer: Gujarat Congress working president Hardik Patel said the law on ‘love jihad’ was nothing but to divide people communally for political reasons. Patel was here on Saturday to offer a chaddar in the dargah of Khwaja Moinuddin Chisty. While talking to media, Patel said for tge last six years, the BJP was playing the politics of religion to remain in power. He said a government has to work for the development of every individual, “But politics of religion is dangerous to the nation,” added Patel.He said nations which are into politicics of religion do not prosper. “Look at Dubai where there is love and prosperity. It developed just because they do not have any communal politics,” added Patel.On the issue of Covid, Patel claimed that both Centre and the Gujarat government failed to curb infection proving that the governments failed to develop medical infrastructure in the country. He said curfew was again imposed in Ahmedabad on Friday night because the Gujarat government failed to control the infection. “It proved that there is no medical facilities in Gujarat,” he said. Patel said that Dargah of Ajmer is the place from where message of love and harmony had been spread across the globe. He said when he was struggling during the Patidar agitation, he came to the dargah. He said he offered prayers and sought blessings so that the country developed without any discrimination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/love-jihad-law-only-politics-to-divide-people-hardik-patel/articleshow/79345162.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Goa||Jellyfish continue to invade North Goa coast||CALANGUTE: In the last two days, 10 more cases of tourists suffering from painful jellyfish stings were reported in Calangute , said Drishti Marine lifeguards. Since Wednesday, this beach stretch has seen 65 such cases. On Wednesday-Thursday, 55 jelly fish sting were reported in the Calangute-Candolim beach belt in the last week. The cases are caused due to a sudden bloom of the jellyfish which come close to the shore, with some getting deposited on the beach, Drishti Marine said. The number of cases reported are only those which were given first-aid by the lifeguards. Sources said that many more have been actually affected as many were provided assistance by staff of beach shacks and water sports operators. There is under-reporting of jellyfish sting cases, they said. Lifeguards, using loudspeakers, have been warning tourists on the beaches entering the water to watch out for the jellyfish and avoid touching them to prevent a painful sting. On North Goa beaches, swarms of jellyfish blooms bobbing in the sea and troubling the visitors with its memorable sting is not new. Besides Calangute and Candolim, in recent years, such cases have been reported in Baga, Vagator, Keri and Morjim too. Lifeguards administer some preliminary treatment, placing ice packs on the stung area to reduce pain and swelling. The irritation lasts for some hours, but the pain could be worse if stung by a bluebottle jellyfish, sources said. Increasing marine pollution and climate change are attributed as factors responsible for more frequent swarms of the organisms in coastal waters. Higher ocean temperatures create favourable reproductive conditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/jellyfish-continue-to-invade-north-goa-coast/articleshow/79345177.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Bareilly||Congress workers hold demonstration against three farm bills in Pilibhit||Pilibhit: Scores of workers of the Pilibhit district’s Congress committee held demonstrations on the collectorate campus on Saturday to protest against the three farm bills.The protesters handed over a 15-point memorandum of demands to the SDM of Pilibhit sadar circle, Avinash Chandra Maury. The memorandum was addressed to the governor.The district president of Congress, Harpreet Singh Chabba said he was stunned at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s silence amid countrywide resentment by farmers against the bills.“Keeping aside the federal structure of the country, the Prime Minister did not even discuss the issue with several chief ministers, given that agriculture falls under the purview of state government under the 7 Schedule of Indian Constitution,” he said.“By excluding the provisions of procuring agricultural produce out of the APMCs ambit, the Union government has jeopardized the interests of marginal and small farmers, since they would directly be subjected to exploitation by middlemen and private traders without paying any heed to the Minimum Support Price,” Chabba alleged.He said the elimination of APMC system will block the means of sustenance for lakhs of labourers, transporters and petty licensed traders of fruit and vegetables.“Also, it will chock the state government’s important source of revenue raised in the form of APMC charges. This, in turn, will adversely affect the infrastructural development of rural areas, which is at present met by the fund generated through the APMC charges,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/congress-workers-hold-demonstration-against-three-farm-bills-in-pilibhit/articleshow/79467186.cms||Keshav Agarwal
November 22, 2020||Hyderabad||25% spurt in respiratory complaints this month in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Onset of winter, recurrent cough and breathing trouble in the backdrop of covid19 is propelling queries related to respiratory disorders in most cities. With people increasingly consulting doctors online to ensure that no symptom goes undiagnosed, healthcare experts said there is a 20 to 25 per cent increase in respiratory-related queries this month in Hyderabad when compared to the previous month. “Most patient queries since the onset of winter are about breathing issues, dust allergy, asthma, respiratory problems, and dry cough. There is an increase in such queries because it is during this time when we move from monsoon to winter and the air we breathe begins to get more polluted. This happens due to various factors - since cold air is more dense, particles remain suspended in it for a long period and remain on the surface,” said Rajesh Bhardwaj, ENT specialist, who consults on Practo. According to the experts, a large number of queries came from people in the 21 to 30 age group followed by people aged 60 and above. Experts also said that they have been getting queries about respiratory ailments and symptoms from patients who have recovered from Covid-19. “We are seeing a definite increase in the number of respiratory ailments in the city from past few years. People who have recovered from Covid-19, live in industrial areas, polluted environments or in poorly ventilated homes can be more prone to the disease and need to take extra precautions to be safe, especially during this season,” said Dr V V Ramana Prasad, consultant pulmonologist at KIMS Hospitals – Hyderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/25-spurt-in-respiratory-complaints-this-month/articleshow/79345155.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Daily Covid case tallies in Ahmedabad, Gujarat at record highs||AHMEDABAD: In the 24 hours ending 5pm on Saturday, Gujarat breached the 1,500 Covid-19 cases in a day for the first time, reporting 1,515 cases. Ahmedabad city and district also reported their highest one-day tallies of new cases, at 354 and 373, respectively. Five Covid patients also died in this period, the most for 85 days. Across the state, nine patients died, which last occurred 31 days ago. The surge in new cases continued in Ahmedabad city, which accounted for 22% of new Covid-19 cases in Gujarat on November 20 and 21, and occupancy of Covid beds remained high. According to the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) update on social media, as of 7pm on Saturday, 558 Covid beds in the AMC quota and 239 beds in the private quota were vacant.  According to the Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA) website, as of 9.30am on Saturday, 91% of their 2,658 Covid beds were occupied. Of the ICU beds in the non-requisitioned (where private hospitals can admit patients at their discretion) category, 16 were available with ventilators and 19 without ventilators. At government hospitals, bed occupancy is fast rising. At the Asarwa Civil Hospital campus, after earmarking beds at GCRI and IKDRC, UNMICRC was once again taken under the umbrella for Covid-19 patients. “Ventilators are available in good number at the 1,200-bed hospital. However, based on our experience, oxygen is the best medicine for a large number of patients. Thus, those needing high-flow oxygen and BiPAP are shifted to other hospitals on the campus,” said a senior Civil Hospital official. The other four major cities of Gujarat also reported record high numbers of new cases. While Surat recorded 211, its highest for 112 days, Vadodara’s daily count of 125 was its highest for five months. Together, the eight municipal corporations in the state accounted for 58% of the day’s new cases. Gujarat carried out 70,388 tests, its highest number for 65 days. “Queues outside testing kiosks revealed a high number of infections in several areas. The post-Diwali surge in the city may continue for a few more days,” said a city-based epidemiologist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/daily-covid-case-tallies-in-city-state-at-record-highs/articleshow/79345377.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Tiger pug marks in Kothagudem||HYDERABAD: Villagers of Allapalli and Gundala mandals in Kothagudem district reported to the forest officials about the presence of an elusive tiger in the region after spotting pug marks in the forest area on Saturday. Forest officials who started efforts to track the movement of the animal after receiving the confirmation of a presence of a big cat in the forest range. Villagers also suspect that a buffalo, which was recently killed in Allapalli mandal, was attacked by the same tiger. “The pug marks were found in the forests in and around Gundala mandal. However, the movement of the animal was not recorded by camera traps set up in the forests,” said Ranjith Naik, district forest officer, Kothagudem. When asked if it could be the same tiger whose pug marks were found in Mahbubabad, he said, “We are yet to ascertain whether the tiger whose pug marks were recently found in the neighbouring Mahabubabad district, moved into Kothagudem district or there were parallel reports about the animal’s movements.”  Forest officials have recently identified pug marks of a tiger at as many as 16 different places in Mahabubabad. With the recent incident of a tiger killing a 22-year-old youth in Kumarambheem Asifabad , forest officials have cautioned the villagers not to venture into the forest during nights said that they are also conducting awareness programmes. They have urged villagers not to set up any animal traps or cause any hindrance to the tiger’s movement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tiger-pug-marks-in-kothagudem/articleshow/79345176.cms||Moulika.KV
November 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: 343 booked for venturing out||AHMEDABAD: A total of 343 persons were detained for curfew violations, since 9pm on Friday till 5pm on Saturday, in 315 discrete cases. One person held in Vastrapur tested positive for Covid and was sent for treatment. Senior police officials said all violators were booked under Section 188 for violation of curfew and Sections 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act. Senior police officials said 113 cases were registered in Sector 1 of the city with 120 persons detained, while 202 cases were registered in Sector 2, with 223 persons detained. According to senior police officials, the highest number of violations, 39, were registered in the Sola, Sarkhej and Shaherkotda jurisdictions with 39 persons detained in each. Some 17 cases were registered at Krishnanagar police station and 14 at Khadia. Two cases were registered in which four persons were detained in Vastrapur, while one person was detained in Satellite. In Naranpura, seven persons were detained in six cases and Gaekwad Haveli police registered 10 cases and detained 12 persons. Besides the bandobust involving some 10,000 cops and other security personnel including the SRPF, a hawk’s eye is being kept on the city through the feeds of CCTV cameras. Senior police officials said every nook and corner is being monitored through CCTV from the control room set up at the police commissioner’s office in Shahibaug.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/343-booked-for-venturing-out/articleshow/79345341.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Jaipur||Gang that stole masonry material busted||Ajmer: Police busted a gang of four which stole material from under-construction sites and sold them at low prices back in the market. Police claimed that the gang admitted its involvement in nine such cases.According to Christian Ganj police, there were reports of robberies in the area, mostly from under-construction sites where material like bags of cements, pipes, cutter machines, gas cylinders were being stolen during night. After investigation, police on Saturday arrested nine accused, Mukesh Rawat, 20, a resident of Prithivraj Nagar, Kanna Rawat, 20, a resident of Pushkar, Mohan Singh, 19, Heera Lal, 21, and others.Police said the gang went to different sites in the day for a recce and where they found that there is no watchman for the night they stole whatever they got from the site. When some neighbours questioned the gang members they reportedly said that they came to deliver raw materials. Police said they recovered many things from their possession and are investigating. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gang-that-stole-masonry-material-busted/articleshow/79345171.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Jaipur||Union mins, MPs canvassing for BJP candidates in villages||Jaipur: The BJP is leaving no stone unturned to win the panchayat elections even by involving its central ministers and MPs. Union ministers—Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, Arjun Ram Meghwal and Kailash Choudhary — have been travelling from one village to another addressing 10-20 villagers at a time for the polls.Shekhawat is in Pokhran campaigning for party candidates for the last two days. He held meetings in several poll-bound villages including Nokh and Madasar. Though local body polls are contested on local issues, the minister is seeking votes on the robust leadership of PM Narendra Modi. Choudhary is also busy traversing the length and breadth of Barmer-Jaisalmer addressing the crowd for both municipal council and gram panchayat polls. On Saturday, the minister of state for agriculture campaigned for BJP candidates in Baytu assembly segment. His speeches were focused on advantages of the agriculture reforms brought by the BJP government at the Centre while promising that after the polls, they will force the Congress to fulfil its poll promise of loan waivers.Meghwal has held 15 campaign addresses for 15 candidates in Kolayat assembly under his constituency Bikaner on Saturday. “By 2024, every household in the country will get water piped water. It is not a small project and other similar projects have been taken up by Modiji for the common people,” said Meghwal at Kolayat on Saturday. The presence of Union ministers indicates that BJP was taking poll seriously. “The defeat in the recent corporation polls has alerted the saffron party that the ruling government has upper hand over them. To save them from any further embarrassment, it is important for the party to score over the ruling party. Also, the presence of three Union ministers and aggressive campaign by BJP MPs have taken the elections between the senior brass of both the parties,” said Avadhesh Akodia, a political analyst.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/union-mins-mps-canvassing-for-bjp-candidates-in-villages/articleshow/79345175.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Govt fixes stipend for ‘Covid helpers’||Ahmedabad: With the surge in Covid-19 cases and requirement for the more helping hands at the state hospitals, the state government on Saturday issued a notification, fixing the stipend for ‘Covid helpers’ including all medical students along with nursing and microbiology students. According to the notification, final year students of MBBS/BDS/BAMS/BHMS/ physiotherapy/BSc (nursing)/BSc (microbiology) will get Rs 15,000 stipend. Students apart from those in the final year will be getting Rs 10,000. The duties will be required till March 31, 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-fixes-stipend-for-covid-helpers/articleshow/79345328.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad comes to screeching halt||AHMEDABAD: Ahmedabad once again seemed put to slumber, thanks to the curfew imposed in the city since 9pm Friday till Monday 6am. Roads wore a deserted look and a screeching silence replaced the chaotic traffic. Stretches of roads and circles such as Mansi Crossroads, IIM, Subhash Bridge Circle, which are otherwise bustling with people and traffic snarls yet again turned into While all shops and commercial establishments remained shut across the city, milk booths and medical stores only remained operational. “Customers had queued up on Friday evening itself to stock up on milk and we were out of stock early. Milk tetrapaks went off shelves quickly as people gathered up stocks for multiple days,” said Parag Solanki, who manages a milk shop in Vejalpur area of the city. Medical stores across the city remained open however, there were hardly any customers. “Some of our customers did place orders over the phone and we delivered them in time. Hardly a customer or two walked in seeking supplies,” said Mitesh Patel, a chemist. Rumours of the Ahmedabad-Vadodara expressway getting shut only added to people’s woes. Rajat Solanki, a professional, said, “I was supposed to travel early on Saturday morning from Vadodara to Ahmedabad; and had planned to stay back for a night and then move towards Jaisalmer. However, the rumours and the confusion regarding curfew and road closures made me decide to skip my stay at Ahmedabad and drive straight to Jaisalmer. I did take a detour along certain roads, but overall it was fine.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-comes-to-screeching-halt/articleshow/79345297.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Female tiger found dead, two male cubs rescued||Udhagamandalam: Forest department field staff on Friday found a female tiger dead at Seemarkuli Odai near Aachakarai in the Singara forest range in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) and rescued two male tiger cubs from the area. “The carcass was found on the course of a dry stream. She was in her prime and her nails and teeth were intact,” MTR field director K K Kaushal said. “The carcass was lying on the back and the bulging teats indicated that the tiger was lactating. As per the protocol of the national tiger conservation authority (NTCA), the field staff combed the surrounding area and found two male cubs aged around three weeks,” the official said. The cubs are kept at the animal dispensary in Theppakadu. “They were given goat milk. We have sought the help of cub rearing expert from Anna Zoo, Dr Sreedharan, who happens to be in Sathyamangalam forest,” Kaushal said. “Normally, abandoned tiger cubs are sent to the Anna Zoo in Vandalur where theywould be housed for their entire life. The alternative way is of in situ rearing for which NTCA guidelines provide an elaborate and arduous SOP of two years culminating in their release into the wild. We have requested permission from the chief wildlife warden for in situ rearing of the cubs.” Samples from the carcass were collected for pathological and forensic lab tests, deputy director of MTR-buffer zone L C S Srikanth said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/female-tiger-found-dead-two-male-cubs-rescued/articleshow/79345193.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: St John’s offline exam circular triggers row||CHANDIGARH: St John’s School, Sector 26, has sent out a circular to parents of classes IX to XI to give consent to send their children to the school for offline exams, prompting many parents to question why there is no option of online exams at a time when Covid-19 cases have started spiking again. Some of the parents said they were not willing to send their children to the school owing to the fear of contracting the deadly virus. “There is no option of online exams. It is like we have no choice but to send our kids. Isn’t this a violation of the Covid guidelines? asked a parent. The ministry of home affairs in its reopening guidelines for schools and colleges has made consent of parents mandatory for calling students to school. School principal Kavita Das said, “Students have lost the practice of writing. The idea is to get kids back into writing in an exam setting. This exam does not affect promotion but is simply for practice. It is being done with parental consent according to the guidelines.” She said all protocols, like making 12 students sit in a class, wearing of masks, use of sanitisers and sanitisation of premises, would be followed. The notice reads, “Please find herewith the date sheet for December examination along with the syllabus. These tests will be offline and will be held on the school premises. We request you to allow your child to appear for the said examination as we want to prepare him for his finals. There will be no online December assessment.” Rubinderjit Singh Brar, director school education, said, “The guidelines issued by the ministry of home affairs are about classroom teaching. I doubt there is any mention of exams. However, we will examine the issue.” The school said students who do not submit the form and do not carry a hard copy would not be allowed to appear for the examinations. The school sent out instructions to be followed for the safety of students. These included wearing a mask, a shield and carrying sanitiser. It discouraged bringing eatables to the school, pointing out the students would be in the school for a short time. “Students will have to bring their own stationery and water bottles and sharing of any material will be strictly prohibited,” the notice said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/st-johns-offline-exam-circular-triggers-row/articleshow/79344598.cms||Kamini Mehta
November 22, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Talks fail, Jacobites back on warpath||KOCHI: With the Orthodox faction withdrawing from reconciliatory talks amid fresh church takeovers across the state, the Jacobite faction of the Malankara Church has decided to relaunch protests that were halted for the parleys. The Jacobite Church will hold ‘satyagraha’ meetings at all churches on Sunday marking the resumption of the agitation against takeover of its churches. The decision to revive protests was taken at a working committee meeting held at the Puthencruz Patriarch Centre on Friday. The meeting was presided over by the metropolitan trustee of the Jacobite Church, Joseph Mar Gregorios. The Jacobite faction said the takeover of St George Church in Mudavoor was a condemnable act on the side of the government. Sources said this happened despite a case relating to the church pending before the high court. Sleeba Paul Vattuvelil, clergy trustee of the Jacobite faction, alleged unnecessary haste on the side of authorities in taking control of the church. “Revenue officials and police used force to take over the church. The locked gate was opened using machine cutters at Mudavoor. At Mulanthuruthy, priests and bishops were dragged into vehicles. We called off the protests after the chief minister took the initiative to hold discussions. But the use of force left the working committee with no choice but to plan a strong campaign against the injustices meted out to us. We are also demanding an ordinance to protect our rights,” said Fr Vattuvelil. Jacobite faction sources said that after Sunday’s ‘satyagraha’ meetings, a series of protests will be launched in the coming days. The faction is most concerned by the possible takeover of Kothamangalam Cheriyapally. The fears were compounded when the HC, on November 11, pulled up the Ernakulam district collector for not implementing the nearly year-old directive to take over the church and hand it over to the Orthodox faction. Matha Maithri Samrakshana Samiti, an organization formed to maintain religious harmony in Kothamangalam, had even declared a hartal in the locality last week, amid rumours of the takeover.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/talks-fail-jacobites-back-on-warpath/articleshow/79345225.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Campaign ends for phase-1 of panchayat polls, 72 lakh to vote||JAIPUR: As campaigning for the first phase of elections to the posts of panchayat samiti and Zila Parishad members in 21 districts ends on Saturday, over 72 lakh voters will exercise their franchise at 10,131 polling booths in this phase, scheduled to be held on November 23. However, the residents of a village in Peeplu, Tonk had submitted a representation to the collector stating that they would boycott the elections. Meanwhile, the SDM was sent to the village by the collector to resolve the issues of the villagers. “They had an issue with regard to an anicut which was destroyed by some people. They were demanding a probe into the matter. Our SDM went to the village today (Saturday) and the investigation is underway. Now, the villagers have agreed to participate in the elections,” said Tonk collector Gaurav Agarwal. State election commissioner P S Mehra informed that in the first phase, elections will be held for the posts of 1310 members in 65 panchayat samitis of 21 districts. He informed that 25,000 EVMs will be used in the first phase and more than 50,000 officials will conduct the elections. Polls will be held in Ajmer, Banswara, Barmer, Bhilwara, Bikaner, Bundi, Chittorgarh, Churu, Dungarpur, Hanumangarh, Jaisalmer, Jalore, Jhalawar, Jhunjhunu, Nagaur, Pali, Pratapgarh, Rajsamand, Sikar, Tonk, and Udaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/panchayat-polls-campaign-ends-for-phase-1-72l-to-vote/articleshow/79345194.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Aurangabad||State turns down transfer plea of Aurangabad ACP||Aurangabad: The state government, citing Maharashtra police establishment board’s (PEB) recommendations, has turned down the transfer plea of HS Bhapkar, an assistant commissioner in Aurangabad city police.  Bhapkar had moved Maharashtra Administrative Tribunal (MAT) against the office of director-general of police (DGP) and the state for failing to consider his plea for transfer to any vacant post in or around Pune city during the last few months of his service. Taking cognizance of his plea and the government resolution (GR) cited by the officer, MAT had ordered the state and the DGP office to decide on the officer’s plea on merit. Bhapkar, who is currently serving as ACP city division, was transferred to Aurangabad in August 2017. As per the norms, senior officers get a fixed term of two years at a given posting and in exceptional cases, their term is extended by another year. In the case of Bhapkar, the officer has already completed over three years in the city and his retirement is due in May 2021. According to GRs, officers are eligible to request to be posted in or around their home town during their last couple of years of service In June and October this year, Bhapkar, citing GR, made a representation to the DG office and requested posting in or around his home town, Pune. But when the transfer orders in the ranks of deputy superintendent of police, sub-divisional police officers and assistant commissioner of police came, Bhapkar’s name did not appear in the list. Following which, he moved to MAT seeking relief. The PEB, in its report sent to the state, said, “He has no enforceable right to claim the choice of posting as per the settled position of law.” PEB concluded that the reasons cited by the officer while seeking a choice of posting are not exceptional or composite. While stating, “Due to administrative reasons, it has been decided that the officer will continue to serve in Aurangabad city, till his retirement”, the PEB added that the officer out of his 33 years of service, has remained posted for over 14 years in Pune and its surrounding areas. The communication has also stated that prolonged postings in one particular area result in fears of vested interest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/state-turns-down-transfer-plea-of-aurangabad-acp/articleshow/79343991.cms||Mohammed Akhef
November 22, 2020||Jaipur||Two from Gujarat held in Barmer with fake ID card of army jawan||JAISALMER: Military intelligence in Barmer caught two persons from Palanpur in Gujarat who were misusing the ID card of an army jawan at toll booths and handed them over to Barmer police. According to sources, the military intelligence team received information that two persons in a car with Gujarat registration were asking to waive toll fee by showing the ID card of an army jawan. The team immediately reached the spot and caught the duo identified as Harsh Mandro and Priyank Mali, residents of Palanpur. The car was also seized. Following a search, a scanned ID card of army Jawan Dinesh Bairathi was recovered from them. The jawan was also being inquired as how the scanned ID copy of his ID reached them. Both were handed over to police for further investigation. Three days ago, police had arrested two persons of Banaskantha in Gujarat following information by military intelligence. The duo had a fake ID card of CRPF constable which did not have any seal or sign. A week ago, a person was caught with the fake ID card of a police constable and on inquiring he turned out to be the relative of a cop. He, too, was misusing the card at toll booths. The culprit disappeared with the card and the SP later had issued a notice to the constable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-from-gujarat-heldin-barmer-with-fake-i-card-of-army-jawan/articleshow/79345180.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Nagpur||Amid 2nd wave scare, NMC puts off school reopening till December 13||NAGPUR: Amid growing concerns from all quarters over spike in Covid cases, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) late on Saturday evening decided to keep all public and private schools under its jurisdiction closed till December 13 and asked them to continue with online teaching as of now. The civic body didn’t place any restriction on state board’s ongoing winter exams, also known as supplementary papers, for SSC and HSC students. School reopening was, however, allowed for classes IX to XII. NMC is the fourth civic body to take the decision after Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Thane and Panvel to keep the schools closed. The district collector is yet to take a call on zilla parishad schools though around 64 schools comes under his jurisdiction in Nagpur rural. Of the 6,823 ZP teachers tested so far, 41 have tested positive. Similarly, several teachers tested by NMC too have tested positive but no separate data was available. Sources said so far 100 schoolteachers have tested positive. The state school education department had allowed all schools to reopen from November 23 while mandating RT-PCR testing of all teachers and non-teaching staff between November 17 and 22. There are around 593 schools having 6,252 teachers in the city. This had put a tremendous load on NMC testing centres, schools as well as labs. Additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi told TOI that the civic body wanted to go ahead with November 23 reopening. “Following a meeting on Saturday it was decided to put off the reopening as concerns were raised by stakeholders. We took into consideration that many teachers were yet to be tested while many have tested positive. Parents association too had opposed reopening of schools. At the same time, fresh Covid cases are gradually increasing in the city,” he said. Before the NMC move, TOI spoke to a couple of stakeholders in the wake of teachers testing positive ahead of school reopening. Yogesh Pathare, a parent, said, “Priority has to be the safety of children. If people around them start turning positive, it is a cause for concern. This is proof enough that this entire idea of reopening schools is flawed.” Madhusudhan Mude, principal of Hemant Jakate School and Junior College, said, “The rising cases of teachers testing positive is something which was expected. The state government should have simply extended this reopening till December 31. Now there are many teachers who have still not been tested, which means these numbers will rise further.” Ashnarayan Tiwari, principal of Adarsh Vidyalaya, said, “Parents are already scared of sending their children to school and now after hearing this, they will be convinced against it. The state has asked teachers to get tested between November 17-22, but reports of many are awaited. Apart from this many have not even got a chance to get tested, so this leading to a major issue for us. It was the best thing to defer school reopening.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/amid-2nd-wave-scare-nmc-puts-off-school-reopening-till-dec-13/articleshow/79345200.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
November 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Inspector suspended for misbehaviour||HYDERABAD: An inspector at Dharur police station was suspended after he allegedly misbehaved with Vikarabad superintendent of police M Narayana on Friday. Vikarabad police said that on November 16, when the district SP was reviewing an unsolved murder case of an unidentified woman, inspector Murali allegedly got annoyed and shouted back at SP. While reviewing the murder case, the SP found alleged shortcomings on part of Murali and questioned him before reprimanding him. “There was a woman inspector and my PA present when the incident took place in my chamber. The inspector misbehaved with me and subsequently I submitted a report to higher officials explaining about the incident,” Narayana told TOI. Later, IGP Stephen Ravindra suspended inspector Murali. When TOI contacted Murali, he alleged that Narayana ill-treats all his sub-ordinates and hurts their self-respect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/inspector-suspended-for-misbehaviour/articleshow/79345202.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Smooth run at airport, chaos at train station||AHMEDABAD: The city airport and railway station were a picture in contrast. While at the airport the passengers had the option to use radio cabs and even rickshaws, those getting off at the railway station had only AMTS buses and a few radio cabs. A senior officer in the Bus Rapid Transport System said they made 32 trips and about 326 passengers used the BRT bus from the airport. The official said that with not much rush, social distancing was followed and there were few passengers in the buses. Officials said passengers at the airport could book taxis or even use rickshaws. In contrast, there was chaos at the railway station with the number of passengers coming out being higher and no rickshaws available.  Kishan Sharma, a resident of Delhi, said, “I usually book a taxi after coming out, but today the booking was cancelled due to the surge in demand at the station due to the curfew. I looked for a rickshaw but could not find one and finally had to take the AMTS bus to Shivranjani.” As there were not enough buses, people were crammed close to each other and some buses even had passengers standing, sources said. Ratan Shah, a resident of Gota, said, “I had gone on vacation and when we returned to Delhi on Friday, we got news of the curfew. We were worried about how we would get to our destination. When we got down we could not find rickshaws or radio cabs and had to settle for the bus which had about 35 passengers.” As news of the overcrowding spread, AMTS chairman Atul Bhavsar rushed to the railway station and directed AMTS control staff to deploy more buses. “I went to the station and ensures buses were kept in spare so that there was no overcrowding,” Bhavsar said. The AMC deployed 25 buses to serve the Airport and more than 100 at the railway station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/smooth-run-at-airport-chaos-at-train-station/articleshow/79345264.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Goa||Tourist rescued from drowning off Calangute||CALANGUTE: A male tourist from Bengaluru was rescued from drowning by Drishti lifeguards off Calangute beach on Saturday morning. Drishti Marine said while the 30-year-old tourist, who was part of a group of four men, was enjoying in the sea, he started drifting 20-25m seaward. Lifeguards patrolling the area spotted the tourist and a lifeguard brought him safely to the shore. A large number of tourists besides locals have been visiting Calangute since the Diwali weekend keeping the lifeguards on their toes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tourist-rescued-from-drowning-off-calangute/articleshow/79345318.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Kochi||CSML to start renovation of Ernakulam market soon||Kochi: The much-awaited Ernakulam market renovation project undertaken by the Cochin Smart Mission Ltd (CSML) has got a new lease of life. CSML is set to start the renovation of Ernakulam market as the Supreme Court has disposed of a case thereby clearing the major hurdle for getting the land required for rehabilitating merchants from the market before starting the work. Though there was a plan to set up a temporary facility at an old school premises to rehabilitate the merchants, the land was caught in a legal tangle. Rehabilitation of more than 200 stall owners to a makeshift facility was required for starting the work. The authorities had identified premises of a non-functional school for arranging the temporary set up. But a dispute among the landowners stood in the way. Then, the Kochi corporation authorities moved the Kerala high court where a petition regarding partition of the land among the owners has been pending. The court allowed the corporation and CSML to use the land for two years for arranging a temporary set up for rehabilitating the stall owners. CSML should complete the renovation of the market within two years and allocate stalls in the renovated market to the stall owners. Then, the merchants can be evicted from the school premises and the land can be given back to the owners. But, one of the landowners moved the Supreme Court against the high court order. “The Supreme Court, which had stayed the high court order for three weeks, disposed of the case a few days ago. So, we can start the work on the temporary stalls on the school premises soon,” said CSML CEO Jafar Malik. Authorities plan to complete the work on the temporary stalls by the end of January. “We are making all the preparations for starting the work on market renovation by February. We have expedited the tender process and all other preliminary works in this regard,” an official with CSML said. The contractor has almost completed the ground clearance works. Though the work on the temporary stalls should be completed within 75 days as per schedule, the authorities are planning to complete it within two months. Meanwhile, the authorities will have to scrap some components from the Rs 100-crore project. ‘A skywalk connecting the market and the Marine Drive was one of the component projects. But, the same has been included in integrated urban regeneration and water transport system. So, we have decided to scrapped it. Another component which we had to scrap is a multilevel car parking facility,” an official with CSML said. Now, the cost of the Ernakulam market renovation project is Rs 73 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/csml-to-start-renovation-of-ernakulam-market-soon/articleshow/79344610.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Jaipur||Will look into Jat quota issue: Gehlot assures Vishvendra||Jaipur: On the issue of inclusion of Jats of Bharatpur and Dholpur in the central OBC list, former minister and Deeg-Kumher MLA Vishvendra Singh met chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday. Gehlot assured Singh that he would look into the matter.“He (the chief minister) said he will look into the matter and get back to me. In my personal view, there is no need to have an agitation with regard to this. The government is looking into it,” Vishvendra told TOI. “Even as it pertains to the central OBC list, the recommendation has to go from the state government,” he added. The state government may also write to the Centre giving its recommendations in this regard. Jat leader Nem Singh Faujdar had organised one of the eight mahapanchayats, he had announced, on the same issue in Bharatpur recently.“We have three demands. First, the state government should write to the Centre demanding reservation for Jats of Bharatpur and Dholpur in the central OBC list. Second, the candidates, who were selected between 2013 and 2017, should be given appointments (94) in the state. The High Court has already given its order in this regard,” Faujdar told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/will-look-into-jat-quota-issue-gehlot-assures-vishvendra/articleshow/79345229.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 22, 2020||Bhopal||Liquor shops, eateries in Bhopal to shut at 10pm||BHOPAL: The district crisis management committee met on Saturday and decided to recommend to the state government to restrict wedding guests to 100 if it is held indoors, and 200 if it’s outdoors. The committee also welcomed the traders' organisations decision to close markets at 8pm. Collector Avinash Lavania, who is convener of the committee, however clarified that it is not a decision, and the recommendations would be sent to the state government for approval. The committee resolved to strictly enforce wearing of masks in public. Those not wearing masks will not be allowed into any public place, function or office. Pro tem Speaker Rameshwar Sharma, who presided over the meeting, said masks are compulsory, even if someone goes for morning walk. “Those riding a car or a bike will also have to wear a mask,” he said. With night curfew kicking in on Saturday in Bhopal and four other places, liquor shops, eateries and restaurants will also be shut at 10pm. “We have not decided on early closure of markets but if night curfew is imposed from 10pm, then liquor shops and restaurants can’t remain open till 11.30pm unless they are given exemption,” said Lavania. The committee also discussed revival of ‘containment zone’ protocol in hotspots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/liquor-shops-eateries-in-bhopal-to-shut-at-10pm/articleshow/79345236.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
November 22, 2020||Goa||‘Health centre infra proved vital during Covid in Sattari’||VALPOI: Valpoi community health centre has always been in the news for wrong reasons despite it being spacious and equipped with modern infrastructure. However, doctors here claimed that they made maximum use of the available facilities during the pandemic and contained Covid spread. Unlike other primary and community health centres in the state, Corona facilities here are made available at the ground floor. There is a separate outpatient department to treat flu and a casualty ward for Covid-19 positive patients. There is a swab collection centre besides rapid antigen test facility. The hospital also has a Covid control room and post-Covid complications clinic to attend to patients. Up to November 17, the Valpoi CHC tested more than 7,000 people, out of which 1,269 were found positive. In all, 1,228 patients were cured while six deaths were reported. Presently, there are 35 active cases under the jurisdiction of CHC, Valpoi. A senior medical officer of Valpoi CHC, Dr Shyam Kankonkar told TOI that they created a setup for Covid management, ensuring that other medical services are not hampered. “Our Covid related works are exclusively at the separate block and we have a sample collection kiosk, which acts as a barrier and safeguards our medical officers while collecting samples,” Kankonkar said. Kankonkar further said that Valpoi CHC has a separate x-ray machine set up at Covid casualty ward to cater to positive patients. “We also check patients’ oxygen level. If required, we keep them under observation before shifting them to Covid hospital until the ambulance arrives,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/health-centre-infra-proved-vital-during-covid-in-sattari/articleshow/79345233.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Nagpur||Kids at risk, no one wanted restart||Nagpur: The civic body’s decision late on Saturday to defer reopening of schools till at least December 13 has been welcomed by all stakeholders. Many teachers association and parents had vehemently opposed the earlier reopening date of November 23. The consensus among critics is that the timing, right after Diwali, was flawed. MLC from teachers constituency, Nago Ganar, said that public representatives must lead from the front if they talk about reopening. “The reason why government deferred the Nagpur winter assembly session was because of fear of increase in cases. All this points to fear among these adults. Then it did not make any sense to put our kids being put at risk,” said Ganar. Yogesh Pathare, national coordinator of Rashtriya Shikshak Palak Sangh (RSPS), said, “There is a possibility of a second Covid-19 wave coming and so it’s good that NMC has changed its decision. However instead of December 13, it should be extended till the year end like Mumbai and Thane.” Ravindra Fadnavis, karyavaha of Maharashtra Rajya Shikshan Sanstha Mahamandal, said, “Happy that they changed their decision. I fail to understand this rush to reopen schools and put our children at risk. Look at some of the states which had reopened schools and you will find that many students and teachers have got infected. If we wait for a just a bit longer, it will not inconvenience us.” Ashok Gavhankar, general secretary of Vidarbha Junior College Teachers’ Association (VJUCTA), said, “We are playing with the health of our teachers and children. Nobody is against schools reopening, the objection is solely regarding the timing. The biggest festival has just ended and should we not wait for two to three weeks to assess the health impact on our community.” Sandeep Agrawal, head of Vidarbha Parents’ Association, said, “Reopening of schools is a bad decision, period. The state government has not taken into account the problems it will pose for students and parents. The risk of infection is too high.” Purshottam Panchbhai, vice president of Maharashtra Rajya Rashtravadi Shikshak Sangh, said the government must go for a uniform policy. “The timing was always questionable as it’s right after Diwali. Following Mumbai and Thane’s decision, I strongly believe that every district must implement the same. Medical professionals themselves are saying that there is a possibility of a second wave coming. Good that NMC has changed its decision.” Dr Anoop Marar, an executive member of Vidarbha Hospitals Association too welcomed the decision. “Even when adults are behaving in an irresponsible manner by flouting all rules, one has to be extra careful when young students will gather at a common place. The common places like washrooms always pose a risk to students. Ensuring compliance of Covid prevention norms would have been a difficult task and would have hastened the second surge. It’s good that NMC has put its plan to reopen schools on hold,” said Marar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/kids-at-risk-no-one-wanted-restart/articleshow/79345257.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
November 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Search on for farmer who harassed minor girls||Coimbatore: The Salem city police have formed a special team to nab a farmer who sexually abused two girls aged 17 and 15 years. An investigation officer said the girls’ parents had taken them to a black magician, identified as Sekar, 50, of Mangalapuram in Namakkal. after they saw them depressed. “He told the girls’ parents that he would conduct a special puja for two days and asked them to leave their daughter at his house. They obliged him. Sekar sexually assaulted the girls, who revealed the incident to their mother.” Based on their mother’s compliant, the Mangalapuram police in Namakkal registered a case and arrested Sekar under the Protection of Children from Sexual offences (Pocso) Act on November 18. When the girls were brought back to their home istrict on Friday, they told their mother that they were sexually harassed by a farmer, identified as Raveendran, when they went for agricultural work at Sukkampatti in Salem. Their mother lodged a complaint with the Veeranam police against the farmer. Salem city police commissioner Senthilkumar has formed a special team to nab Raveendran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/search-on-for-farmer-who-harassed-minor-girls/articleshow/79345235.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 22, 2020||Goa||Goa: Poor response sees KTC drop shuttle buses by 70%||PANAJI: Kadamba Transport Corporation’s (KTC) shuttle buses have been decreased by 70% owing to poor response. “There is poor demand from passengers for shuttle buses even after we have restored the same timings we were operating on prior to the lockdown. Due to this, we have decreased the number of buses on the shuttle routes by around 70%,” KTC general manager, Sanjay Ghate said. Though there are working professionals travelling in these buses during the peak hours, the hustle bustle of passengers only lasts for about two to three hours, sources said. “During the slack hours, there is no response from the passengers. As a result of which, our buses are running empty,” a KTC official said. The current load factor as a result, comes to just about a fraction of what it used to be prior to the pandemic. During the initial months, KTC was operating only a few buses to rescue stranded passengers during the pandemic. The service opened exclusively to government officials with 50% seating capacity after departments and offices restarted in the Unlockdown. It was only recently that the KTC buses started operating with 100% seating capacity for all passengers, but the shuttle buses were operating only at peak timings instead of all day. “Now, we have directed all the depots to operate the fleet of buses at all timings and cover all trips. We are still getting only 10% of the commuters that we used to get. Despite that we are operating and bearing the loss on diesel costs,” the official said. The KTC saw its biggest clientele in students besides working professionals, who are currently working from home. Owing to the poor response, KTC is now operating its shuttle buses only on Panaji-Margao route and a few shuttles to Vasco. The shuttle service to Ponda has been temporarily suspended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/poor-response-sees-ktc-drop-shuttle-buses-by-70/articleshow/79345271.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Goa||Goa: Repeaters in Class X, XII can improve marks||PANAJI: The Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education has said that like other students, repeater students in Class X and XII will also now be allowed an opportunity to improve their internal marks in all six subjects. “This board has resolved to permit repeater students to answer the internal examination in whole (six subjects) for improvement of internal marks along with other students. Change of institution will not be allowed for students who desire improvement of internal marks,” Goa Board secretary Geraldina Mendes has said in a circular issued last week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/repeaters-in-class-x-xii-can-improve-marks/articleshow/79345302.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education among best models in NITI Aayog list||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: KITE (Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education) has found itself among the elite list of best models in Human Resource Development category published by NITI AYOG. The report released on November 17 highlights the interventions made by KITE in infrastructure upgradation of schools, use of ICT in education, training, content development, internet connectivity, e-learning, satellite-based education, support systems and e-governance as the model to be emulated by all, a statement from KITES CEO Anvar Sadath said on Saturday. NITI AYOG has documented 23 best practices covering areas like innovation, technology, gender mainstreaming, convergence, involvement of civil society organizations, etc. These practices have been included based on their key impact and contribution to the wider public policy context, by highlighting lessons learnt which may be useful for scale-up or cross-adoption. Earlier, in addition to the southern states, there have been inquires from across the country from states such as Gujarat, Punjab, New Delhi, Odisha and West Bengal on how to replicate the KITE model in education, the statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kite-among-best-models-in-niti-aayog-list/articleshow/79345293.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Aurangabad||Sangamner gets bus link to Mum airport||Nashik: The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) has started buses on two new routes on a trial basis. The buses have been started on the route connecting the Sangamner taluka of Ahmednagar district to the domestic airport in Mumbai via Nashik city, and between Nashik and Dapoli in Ratnagiri. An MSRTC officer from the Sangamner depot said, “This is a Shivshahi bus, which originally ran between Shirdi and Borivali. But as the temple was closed, we decided to start the bus between the Sangamer depot and the domestic airport. The bus is getting very few passengers from Sangamner to the airport as air traffic is yet to normalise. But we are getting many passengers from Nashik,” Similarly, in the return journey, most of the passengers get on the bus between Borivali and Nashik. Now, the MSRTC is running the Shivshahi bus service on this route. The bus starts from Sangamner depot at 3.15 pm. It reaches Nashik Mahamargh bus stand at 5.15 pm and Borivali at 9.30 pm before the journey comes to an end at the airport at 10.45 pm. The return journey starts from the domestic airport at 6 am. The bus reaches Borivali at 7 am and arrives in Nashik at 11.15 am before reaching its final destination in Sangamner at 1.15 pm. The bus fare between Nashik and the domestic airport is Rs 389 for an adult. Similarly, buses from Nashik Mahamarg to Ratnagiri district, Dapoli, has been started during the current period. The bus begins its journey from Nashik Mahamarg at 8 am and travels via Kalyan, Panvel, before reaching the final destination in Ratnagiri district at 6.15 pm. The return journey begins at the same time in the morning. With the fare of Rs 690, the Shivshahi air-conditioned semi-luxury bus is a major relief to the passengers travelling to the Konkan region, especially when tourists come in large numbers. The officer said, “There is no consistent service beyond Mahad at this point in time. This service is being launched for the time and we will have to wait and see if there is enough passenger occupancy on the route.” Both the buses will continue if many passengers opt to travel from point to point, the officers added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/sangamner-gets-bus-link-to-mum-airport/articleshow/79344012.cms||Abhilash Botekar
November 22, 2020||Coimbatore||27 held for gambling, Rs 2.3 lakh seized||Coimbatore: In a joint operation, the rural police arrested 27 people for gambling at a farm house at Masthigoundenpathi in the early hours of Saturday and seized Rs 2.34 lakh from them. The house owner was also arrested for allowing them to use his property for the illegal activity. District superintendent of police Ara Arularasu said based on a tip that a group of people were playing cards by placing bets and money at the farm house he had instructed Madukkarai police inspector Murugesan to form a special team and conduct a surprise raid. The police inspector subsequently formed a team comprising 16 police personnel and two home guards and raided the farm house around 1am on Saturday. The KG Chavadi police were also part of the operation. The team rounded up the 27 people and seized Rs 2,34,470 and two bundles of cards from them. Police also arrested the house owner R Muthuvel, 40, of Masthangoundenpathi. All of them were booked under Sections 8 and 9 of the Tamil Nadu Gambling (TNG) Act and taken to the KG Chavadi police station. They were later let off on station bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/27-held-for-gambling-rs-2-3-lakh-seized/articleshow/79345285.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 22, 2020||Kochi||District health department to screen high-risk groups for HBV||KOCHI: To prevent fatalities due to hepatitis B virus (HBV), the district health department has decided to conduct screening among high-risk groups, including prison inmates, pregnant women and sex workers, in Ernakulam. It is expected that the screening will start in a month. This year, the district had reported 44 hepatitis B cases, including 24 confirmed and 20 suspected ones. Ernakulam has also reported two deaths, one in July and another in September. The disease is infected through body fluids, similar on the lines of HIV. The high-risk groups will be subjected to hepatitis B surface antigen test (HBsAg) by taking their blood samples. “Symptoms of this infection through virus are tiredness, lack of appetite and jaundice. Incubation period of the virus is one month to six months. When one approaches hospitals with jaundice, doctors will test whether the person has presence of hepatitis virus. If there is delay in identifying symptoms and get treatment, it will affect the liver of the person in due course. It might lead to liver cirrhosis or cancer in liver. The Union government has started a national viral hepatitis control programme and the initiative is part of it. A meeting regarding this in the state-level was held recently,” said a district health official. To prevent the infection, the health department is subjecting newborns to vaccination. As per October first week, 320 men and four women are in the five prisons in the district and 50 juveniles in the Borstal School, Kakkanad. A plan of action will also be prepared on how the vulnerable groups are to be screened once the Covid infections come down further. Meanwhile, dengue fever cases remerge in certain areas of Kochi city, including Ponnurunni and Thrikkakara, where one or two infections are reported per week. Since many in the city limit are not keen on observing dry day once in a week, authorities plan to launch a video, where eminent personalities including actors, directors and others urge people to clean their premises by clearing water from abandoned bottles and flower pots inside houses. This programme, ‘Dengue challenge’ will be launched soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/dist-health-dept-to-screen-high-risk-groups-for-hbv/articleshow/79344614.cms||T C Sreemol
November 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Rising steel prices deal blow to MSMEs: Codissia||Coimbatore: Micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) here are struggling due to rising steel prices, from Rs 36,000 a tonne to Rs 47,000 over the last six months, the Coimbatore District Small Scale Industries Association (Codissia) said in a letter to Union minister for petroleum & natural gas and steel Dharmendra Pradhan, MSME minister Nitin Gadkari and finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday. MSMEs are not able to execute orders accepted based on earlier prices, the letter said. “MSME industries will cease to exist if increasing prices of raw materials and other allied materials are not corrected. The additional 20% loan to MSMEs through banks under emergency credit line scheme has been completely absorbed by the price increase,” Codissia president R Ramamurthy said. “Coimbatore is a manufacturing hub producing pumps, motors, compressors, valves and automobile spare parts. Even as businesses are returning to normalcy, prices of allied foundry items like coke, pig iron, cast iron, steel scrap, copper and aluminum have increased by 30% to 35% post lockdown,” said Ramamurthy. “Besides the price increase, there is also a shortage of raw materials, especially of steel, copper, zinc and brass. Zinc prices have risen from Rs 170/kg to Rs 220/kg from August, resulting in hike in prices of engineering goods, which in turn is affecting export of the same,” he said. The association requested allocation of steel and other allied materials to MSMEs at a subsidized rate. The Steel Authority of India Limited (Sail) yard in Coimbatore, which was functioning till 2015, should be reopened, it said. “As the Sail yard remains closed, MSMEs depend on private traders for raw materials, who charge a premium price for steel,” said the letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rising-steel-prices-deal-blow-to-msmes-codissia/articleshow/79345343.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 22, 2020||Nashik||Onion farmer cheated of Rs 58K in Nashik||Nashik: An onion farmer was duped of Rs 58,000 by a trader, who took the onion consignment from him and sold it in the market without paying the farmer for the produce. The farmer, identified as Nanaji Nimla Sabale, a resident of Matane in Deola taluka, filed a complaint with the Panchavati police. As per the complaint, he met the trader at the Sharadchandra market along Peth Road on Wednesday, where the latter took 29 quintal of onion from him at Rs 27 per kg. The trader assured Sable that he would pay him after selling the onions at a higher price and keep the margin himself. However, the trader allegdly sold the onions at Rs 20 per kg and fled the scene, thereby causing the farmer a loss of Rs 58,000. The farmer does not know the trader’s full name or the address. The Panchavati police have registered an offence against the unidentified trader under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code . A large number of farmers in Nashik are cheated by fraudsters. Pratap Dighavkar, the inspector-general (special) of Nashik range, had taken up a big campaign to register complaints against people who have cheated farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/onion-farmer-cheated-of-rs-58k-in-nashik/articleshow/79344017.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Salem||DMK is functioning as ruling party in state, says MK Stalin||DMK president M K Stalin on Saturday said chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami cannot stop his party from winning the upcoming assembly election. He also took a dig at the latter for not implementing the projects that he promised for Salem. While addressing the party functionaries in Salem through video conferencing, Stalin said Palaniswami wouldn’t be in the political scenario after the polls. “When I announced the party’s plans to bear the educational expenses of government school students who secured medical seats in private medical colleges under the 7.5% horizontal reservation, Palaniswami was quick to come forward to bear their expenses. So, I thanked him.” The DMK chief said Palaniswami had earlier accused his party of playing politics by coming forward to bear the educational expenses. “If we hadn’t made such an announcement, he wouldn’t have done anything to help the poor students.” He said while the DMK was an opposition party, it was working as a ruling party in the state. Listing out the party’s contribution to the district, Stalin said Palanisamy had announced to set up a bus port in Salem three years ago to reduce traffic congestion. “But the ruling party failed to acquire land for the project. Likewise, the AIADMK government had announced many projects for Salem. Most of them were not implemented.” Stalin said Palaniswami was removed from the party post when former chief minister the late J Jayalalithaa was ruling the state. “He then became close to the family members of Sasikala, who believed him blindly and gave the post of chief minister. But he betrayed Sasikala.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/dmk-is-functioning-as-ruling-party-in-state-says-m-k-stalin/articleshow/79348194.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Coimbatore||DMK is functioning as ruling party in state, says MK Stalin||DMK president M K Stalin on Saturday said chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami cannot stop his party from winning the upcoming assembly election. He also took a dig at the latter for not implementing the projects that he promised for Salem. While addressing the party functionaries in Salem through video conferencing, Stalin said Palaniswami wouldn’t be in the political scenario after the polls. “When I announced the party’s plans to bear the educational expenses of government school students who secured medical seats in private medical colleges under the 7.5% horizontal reservation, Palaniswami was quick to come forward to bear their expenses. So, I thanked him.” The DMK chief said Palaniswami had earlier accused his party of playing politics by coming forward to bear the educational expenses. “If we hadn’t made such an announcement, he wouldn’t have done anything to help the poor students.” He said while the DMK was an opposition party, it was working as a ruling party in the state. Listing out the party’s contribution to the district, Stalin said Palanisamy had announced to set up a bus port in Salem three years ago to reduce traffic congestion. “But the ruling party failed to acquire land for the project. Likewise, the AIADMK government had announced many projects for Salem. Most of them were not implemented.” Stalin said Palaniswami was removed from the party post when former chief minister the late J Jayalalithaa was ruling the state. “He then became close to the family members of Sasikala, who believed him blindly and gave the post of chief minister. But he betrayed Sasikala.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dmk-is-functioning-as-ruling-party-in-state-says-m-k-stalin/articleshow/79345325.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Goa||Teachers’ training to assist students apply for scholarships||PANAJI: Nearly 300 teachers will be trained from government, aided as well as unaided schools on how to assist OBC, SC and economically backward students in applying for the three central government scholarships for these section of students through the online mode. The process of applying for the scholarships has shifted online due to the pandemic. The training will be held in three batches at the SCERT building in Porvorim from 10am to 3.30pm on November 23. Around 300 schools have been shortlisted for the training. “Directorate of social welfare is organising training regarding filling up applications on online portal for pre-matric and post-matric scholarship scheme for students belonging to SC, OBC and economically backward classes, namely post-matric scholarship for SC/OBC, pre-matric scholarship for SC/OBC and Dr Ambedkar Post Matric scholarship for economically backward classes,” director of education Santosh Amonkar has said. The 300 shortlisted government, government aided and unaided secondary and higher secondary schools have been asked to depute one teacher each for the training programme. The training will be of one hour duration. In the first session, 105, and 124 and 43 teachers will be trained in the later sessions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/teachers-training-to-assist-students-apply-for-scholarships/articleshow/79345336.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Coimbatore||3 killed as bike hits truck from behind||Coimbatore: Three men, all aged 23 years, were killed after their two-wheeler crashed into a truck near Avinashi in Tirupur on Salem-Kochi National Highway on Saturday evening. The Thirumuruganpoondi police identified the deceased as Suresh Kumar, Thangadurai and Murali, all residents of Manukuttai near Umayanchettipalayam. According to a police official, the incident occurred when the three were returning to their houses after work on a motorcycle. None of them had worn a helmet. “When they neared Ammasai Nagar, their vehicle hit the truck that was travelling in front of them. They succumbed to their injuries on the spot.” Other commuters on the stretch alerted the Thirumuruganpoondi police, who sent the dead bodies to the government hospital at Avinashi for postmortem. The truck, the officer said, was carrying paper to Kerala from Andhra Pradesh. Police have registered a case and ffurther investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/3-killed-as-bike-hits-truck-from-behind/articleshow/79345384.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 22, 2020||Goa||Norwegian Escape picks up Goan seafarers for cruise operations||PANAJI: Spelling good news for the thousands of seafarers in Goa, the international cruise industry has restarted operations and has started fresh hiring. On Saturday, Norwegian Cruise Line’s (NCL) Norwegian Escape docked at Mormugao Port Trust to pick up 200 Goan crew members who had completed a rigorous Covid-19 testing process. The cruise vessel will pick 200 more Goans from Mumbai along with 400 other crew members before proceeding to Florida, US to resume cruises between Miami and the Caribbean coast. Officials created a massive bio-bubble involving entire hotels in Goa and Mumbai to ensure that the crew members could board the vessel without any exposure to Covid-19. “This is the first cruise line to start operations and pick up crew from Goa,” said Parixit Pai Fondekar, the director of Kamaxi Overseas Consultants. Kamaxi Overseas is the official recruiter for Oceania Cruises, Regent Seven Seas, NCL and FTI Cruises among others. “800 crew members are getting on board the vessel and 50% of them are Goans,” said Fondekar. Interestingly, Norwegian Escape had docked at the Mormugao Port in June to repatriate 475 crew members who were stranded aboard because of the pandemic. “Employment opportunities on cruise lines are returning and we have started recruiting for security, nurses and culinary positions, which are always in demand. A lot of people who have come home have decided not to go back on the ship. Many people said that they want to retire. So fresh hiring has already started,” said Fondekar. Norwegian Escape is carrying crew members for Regent Seven Seas and Oceania Cruises and the crew members will be dropped off in Europe to their respective cruise vessels. Fondekar expects another cruise liner, Norwegian Joy, which is presently at Manila, to come to Goa and Mumbai to pick up crew members in the coming weeks. In order to ensure that the crew members could embark on the ship, the seafarers had to undergo three rounds of Covid-19 RT-PCR tests. The crew members were confined to their rooms in various hotels and subsequently transported to the vessel on Saturday in different buses. “The seafarers will be kept in isolation for seven days on the vessel,” said Fondekar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/norwegian-escape-picks-up-goan-seafarers-for-cruise-ops/articleshow/79345383.cms||Newton Sequeira
November 22, 2020||Agra||As Covid spurts, UP restricts guests at weddings to 100||AGRA: With rising cases of coronavirus, UP chief minister has directed district magistrates to ensure that number of guests at all social functions, including weddings, be restricted to maximum 100. The auspicious time for weddings begins on November 25. Following the CM’s orders, Agra district magistrate Prabhu N Singh reverted the earlier cap of 200 on the number of guests. Besides, directives were issued to ban the use of musical bands during wedding ceremonies. According to the DM, special teams will be constituted to check compliance with the orders. Legal action will be taken against the violators. Earlier, the central government, under the Unlock-5 guidelines, had permitted gatherings of 200 people at wedding ceremonies. Additional district magistrate, Prabhakant Awasthi said, “The directives will be implemented from Sunday. All the prior permissions for inviting 200 guests stand cancelled. People organizing weddings or any other gathering will have to submit an application at the local police station for holding an event.” Besides, adhering to new restrictions, organizers of the wedding will have to ensure that the number of guests is not be more than 50% capacity of the wedding hall or premises. For example, in case the capacity of a wedding hall is 100, then only 50 guests will be invited. The ADM said, “In case a gathering is found taking place without prior permission or more than 100 people are present at one place or a band is playing, the event will be considered a violation of the orders of the district administration. The organizers will be booked for violation of IPC section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and CrPC 144 (empowers an executive magistrate to issue orders in urgent cases of nuisance or apprehended danger).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/as-covid-spurts-up-restricts-guests-at-weddings-to-100/articleshow/79344032.cms||Deepak Lavania
November 22, 2020||Kochi||Police officer from Alappuzha creates record in no. of punches||ALAPPUZHA: A 34-year-old civil police officer from Alappuzha has received Noble World Records for most number of full-stretch punches in one minute (366 punches). It is CPO N Praveen Kumar of Mannancherry police station here got this new world record in November. According to Kumar, he has been practicing Karate since he was 17 years old, and around 10 years ago, he started to learn ‘Adimurai’ (South India’s oldest martial arts) from Sabu Gurukkal of Arthunkal. “I was in quarantine after my family members tested positive for Covid-19 from September 28. Then I saw a video of 25-year-old Pavel Trusov of Solvakia, who broke the Guinness World Records for the most full-extension punches in one minute (322 punches). After watching it, a strong desire was born in my mind to do something like that and break his records,” said Praveen, who has third-degree black belt. Praveen kicked off his practice in September and his mentor Gurukkal guided him in conditioning his body for the performance. “I started practicing in September and by October I was confident of doing full-stretch punches in one minute (366 punches). So, I recorded the video of my performance and mailed to the authorities of Noble World Records. After seeing my performance, they considered my performance as new world record. I have also applied for Guinness World Records and am eagerly awaiting their approval,” said Praveen. Praveen, a native of Valamangalam in Thuravoor, had joined police force in 2010.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/police-officer-creates-record-in-no-of-punches/articleshow/79345396.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Delhi||‘No threat to witnesses’, MBA graduate gets bail in northeast Delhi riot case||NEW DELHI: An MBA graduate, Gulfisha Fatima, an accused in a case of rioting and who also witnessed a man succumbing to gunshot wounds during the northeast Delhi riots, was on Saturday granted bail by a court. Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat stated that, “There is nothing to suggest that the witnesses are under threat from the concerned applicant. In any case, two public witnesses are protected and their identity concealed. The rest are police personnel.” Besides arguing that she was “maliciously” booked in the case, Fatima’s counsel, Mehmood Pracha, contended that the co-accused Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal had been granted bail. He added that police had attributed no role to his client, except vague and unsubstantiated allegations that had no nexus with the alleged crime. Special public prosecutor Rajeev Krishan Sharma opposed the bail plea stating that, under the garb of staging a peaceful protest, she had conspired and constantly instigated locals from December 2019 against CAA, NRC and NPR. It came on record that a person, Aaman, had died due to the gunshot injury caused by the rioters, leading to filing of the current case. “The applicant and her associates had opened their office near the protest site at Old Bus Stand, Seelampur, for their core group to hold meetings and discuss further steps for protest and riots,” he added. She was also accused of giving provocative speeches. “They used code words with their group members to convey secret messages regarding further lines of their protest/riot,” the prosecutor submitted. Moreover, a co-accused, Tafsil, was declared a proclaimed offender, he submitted. The court, however, opined that only because a co-accused had been declared a proclaimed offender, Fatima couldn’t be refused bail for his act and conduct. It also noted that in the present case, Fatima had been in custody since June 3, 2020. Dealing with another submission of the prosecutor that she was an accused in another FIR of larger conspiracy, the court said, “It is indeed true that applicant is also an accused in the larger conspiracy case bearing FIR No. 59/20. However, the said case is under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and being investigated separately.” It also pointed out that the present stage was of bail and not acquittal or conviction. “Nothing is shown to suggest that the applicant is a flight risk. Considering the period of her custody in the present case, the ground of parity with regard to co-accused Kalita and Narwal….the present bail application….is allowed and applicant Fatima is admitted to bail on furnishing personal bond of Rs 30,000 with one surety in the like amount,” the court held.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-threat-to-witnesses-mba-grad-gets-bail-in-ne-riot-case/articleshow/79346243.cms||Aamir Khan
November 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Good Samaritans lend a hand to govt students||Coimbatore: Good Samaritans in the district have come forward to financially help the government school students, who have secured medical seats in government medical colleges under the 7.5% horizontal reservation. Lending a helping hand, Kavundampalayam MLA V C Arukutty on Saturday handed over Rs 2 lakh each to two students who secured medical seats from his constituency at a small function at the government higher secondary school at Ashokapuram. The beneficiaries were N Gokulam, a student of Ashokapuram school who got admission to the government medical college in Thoothukudi, and M Jeeva, a student of the government higher secondary school at SS Kulam who secured a seat at the government medical college in Tiruvarur. The ruling party MLA also advised the students to utilize the money only for educational purposes and expressed his willingness to help them in future if required. Police inspector B Sastha Somasekaran also came forward to bear the educational expenses of a government school student who secured a medical seat in a government medical college in the state. Pointing out that education would help poor students eradicate their poverty, he said, “I have decided to help at least a poor student fulfil the dream of becoming a doctor.” Meanwhile, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami announced that the state government would take care of the educational expenses, including the hostel fees, of all the government school students who got admission under the 7.5% horizontal reservation. He said the fees would be paid by creating a revolving fund with the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation Limited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/good-samaritans-lend-a-hand-to-govt-students/articleshow/79345425.cms||Nivedha Selvam
November 22, 2020||Aurangabad||Police wireless, motor transport merged for greater efficiency||Aurangabad: The state home department has merged state police’s two technical departments — Police Wireless (PW) and Motor Transport (MT) — to form directorate of communications and transportation. Unlike other head of departments (HODs) for different sections stationed at Mumbai-based DGP office, the state headquarters for MT and wireless communication are located in Pune. With this decision, ADG Ritesh Kumar has become the first director of police communication and transportation. He earlier headed the state police wireless department. “This merger will lead to efficient and more effective working of these two crucial sections of the police department. There will also be better synergy and more efficient use of resources,” Kumar said. The PW was established on September 16, 1946 and is responsible for inter-district, inter-unit, intra-unit and intra-district communication of state police having 12 commissionorates, 34 district police units, three railway units, 13 groups of State Reserve Police Force, three Indian Reserve Battalions, two SDRF, 63 highway police units, and seven other units. This unit also helps and assists irrigation as well as forest department with their communication sets. This unit has a total 3962 technical cadre posts across the state. The MT is responsible for catering to all the vehicular needs of state police. There are around 17, 000 vehicles deployed in the service of state police across the hierarchy. It has 1,100 technical cadre officers and men for maintenance of these vehicles and over 9,000 police drivers across the state. A senior police officer from the DGP office said that following a high-level meeting, proposal in this regard was forwarded to the state and it was pending for almost a year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/police-wireless-motor-transport-merged-for-greater-efficiency/articleshow/79327797.cms||Mohammed Akhef
November 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Electoral rolls purification programme||Coimbatore: Special camps to add, delete and alter names and address of voters were organized at 3,048 polling stations in the district on Saturday. The camps will be conducted on Sunday as well. As many as 22,989 applications were received on Saturday. “If you want to add, delete or alter name and address, submit application forms before December 15. The district administration has made arrangements to distribute the forms at offices of revenue divisional officers and taluk offices on all working days. The camps will also be conducted on Sunday, December 12 and 13,” a district administration official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/electoral-rolls-purification-programme/articleshow/79345406.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 22, 2020||Goa||New special train from Veraval to Trivandrum||MARGAO: The Indian Railways has introduced Trivandrum - Veraval - Trivandrum fully reserved special train along the Konkan Railway route. All Covid-19 norms of state and central government including social distancing, sanitisation, etc, will be followed in all the trains and at the railway stations, a press note by Konkan Railway said. Train no. 06334 Trivandrum - Veraval weekly express special will leave from Trivandrum at 3.40pm every Monday from December 7. It will reach Veraval at 3.45pm on the third day. In the reverse direction, 06333 Veraval - Trivandrum weekly express special will leave from Veraval at 6.40 am every Thursday from December 10. It will reach Trivandrum at 4am on the third day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/new-spl-train-from-veraval-to-trivandrum/articleshow/79345422.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Mangaluru||City flats adopt wet waste compost units||Mangaluru: Mangaluru City Corporation’s (MCC) drive to make Mangaluru a waste-free city has evoked good response with more and more apartments setting up their own waste management units on their premises. After Maurishka Palace on Kadri Kambala Road in the city with 330 flats and many other residential buildings have already set up waste management units, Ashoka Paradise with 278 flats in six blocks started composting the wet waste on site on Sunday. MCC environment engineer Madhu Manohar told TOI that city corporation’s campaign to encourage houses and apartments to process dry and wet waste has been receiving good response. “At present, there are 84 apartments that are processing wet waste and producing manure in their own premises. They are not handing over waste to the city corporation’s waste collection vehicles. Totally more than 8,000 houses in the city have been making compost using the wet waste and thereby supporting the city corporation’s initiatives,” he said. Presently, the city corporation collects an average of 300 tonnes of waste from Mangaluru city every day and it is being shifted to the dump yard at Pachanady, he added. The city corporation had launched the new waste segregation plan on October 2. As per the new plan, door-to-door waste collection vehicles of Antony Waste Handling Cell are not accepting wet waste on Friday. Meanwhile, bulk waste generators have been asked to set up waste management units and the city corporation has plans to penalise buildings if they do not adhere to the norms, Madhu said. G Santhosh Kumar, deputy commissioner of administration, MCC, inaugurated the wet waste process unit set up at the Ashoka Paradise on Sunday. Environmentalist Jeeth Milan Roche said that Ashoka Paradise with 278 flats in six blocks will composte the wet waste on site.  “Close to 200kgs of waste will be converted into high quality organic manure through the project,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/city-flats-adopt-wet-waste-compost-units/articleshow/79344633.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Aurangabad||Crops may feel the heat of warm weather conditions in Aurangabad||Aurangabad: The minimum temperature in the city was 20.3 degrees celsius — nearly 6 degrees above normal — on Saturday, continuing the recent trend of relatively warm weather causing a brief halt in the winter chill.The surge in the mercury level, which is attributed to partly cloudy skies in the city, is likely to pose threats to the agricultural crops. Parmeshwar Thombare, the agricultural assistant at the city-based regional centre of the Vasantrao Naik Marathwada Agricultural University, said both rabi and kharif crops may be adversely affected by the sustained abnormal weather conditions.“Wheat sowed during the rabi season may witness shunted growth. Sorghum is also prone to develop chikta (a pest) due to higher mercury levels. Meanwhile, tur crops, which are in the flowering stage, may face the menace of different insects that thrive in the absence of chill,” he said.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast has ruled out chances of rainfall activity in Aurangabad over at least the 48 hours and has predicated above normal minimum temperatures for the next few days.Weather expert Kirankumar Johare said the winter chill was likely to return by early next month. “The winter is likely to be harsher this year. The temperature in Aurangabad and parts of the region may drop to 5 degrees celsius by mid-December,” he said, adding that weakening of the northerly winds was responsible for the current conditions. The maximum temperature in the city was around 31-32 degrees celsius, which was also slightly above normal.Many citizens too were taken aback by the warm weather. “Right now, it feels like October heat. The change in the weather pattern is mind-boggling,” said Manohar Kullthe, a senior citizen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/crops-may-feel-the-heat-of-warm-weather-conditions-in-aurangabad/articleshow/79344006.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Agra||76 more test Covid +ve in Agra, district tally 8,540||AGRA: At least 76 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Saturday evening, taking the district tally to 8,540. The patients included two junior doctors of SN Medical College. Besides, there were four patients suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome, three of influenza-like illness, three of severe acute respiratory infection, two of coronary artery infection and two kidney patients. Also, 70 Covid patients were discharged on Saturday. Of the 8,540 cases reported in the district, 91.7% have been declared "cured of infection and discharged". The number of active Covid cases increased from 536 on Friday, to 542 on Saturday. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “The current sample positivity rate is 2.6%. So far, 7,838 people have recovered."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/76-more-test-covid-ve-in-agra-district-tally-8540/articleshow/79344047.cms||---
November 22, 2020||India||At G20, PM focuses on green policies||NEW DELHI: The 15th G20 summit on Saturday saw PM Narendra Modi calling for a new Global Index for the post-corona world which would incorporate a strong emphasis on respecting nature with a spirit of trusteeship with "Mother Earth". The three other key elements outlined by the PM are creation of a vast talent pool, ensuring technology reaches all segments of society and transparency in governance. The trusteeship concept is interesting as it indicates a greater focus on green policies and may reflect on India's positions in climate change negotiations with the US expected to re-enter the discussions under Joe Biden. Addressing the summit, which was held virtually under the Saudi presidency and focused on handling economic challenges emerging from the pandemic, Modi described Covid-19 as the biggest challenge the world was facing since World War II and an important turning point in the history of humanity. Modi called for decisive action by G-20, not limited to economic recovery, jobs and trade, but to focus on "preserving Planet Earth". The PM underscored that in the past few decades, while there had been an emphasis on capital and finance, the time had come to focus on "multi-skilling and re-skilling" to create a vast human talent pool. "This would not only enhance the dignity of citizens but would make our citizens more resilient to face crises," said Modi, adding that any assessment of new technology should be based on its impact on ease of living and quality of life. "He called for greater transparency in governance systems which will inspire our citizens to deal with shared challenges and enhance their confidence. He also said that dealing with environment and nature as trustees rather than owners will inspire us towards a holistic and healthy lifestyle, a principle whose benchmark could be a per capita carbon footprint," said the government in a statement. Noting that "Work from Anywhere" is the new normal in the post-Covid world, he also suggested the creation of a G-20 virtual secretariat as a follow-up and documentation repository. The ongoing summit is the second G-20 leaders' meeting in 2020. Following the telephonic conversation between PM and the crown prince of Saudi Arabia, the last G-20 summit was held in March 2020, where the leaders looked to forge a global coordinated response to the pandemic. The focus of the summit now is on ensuring an inclusive, resilient, and sustainable recovery from Covid-19. During the summit, the leaders will discuss pandemic preparedness and ways and means to restore jobs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/at-g20-pm-focuses-on-green-policies/articleshow/79346982.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Kochi||Driven by passion, this nun steers clear of conventions, habits||KOCHI: Sr Phincitta, the headmistress of St Clare Oral School for the Deaf at Manickamangalam in Kalady, has an unusual habit for a nun. The 53-year-old nun is an expert driver who has been in great fond of driving buses and she is the first nun in the Franciscan Clarist Congregation to obtain a heavy vehicle driving license (HDL), that too back in 2000. When the school’s bus driver goes on leave, the sister happily goes as a substitute and over the last two decades, she has driven the school bus across Kerala to take deaf children on outings. Even when they go to north and south Kerala for attending youth fests, Phincitta and the driver take turns to drive. Even as the school remains closed now due to the pandemic, Phincitta daily takes a ride on the bus in the school ground to keep the vehicle in perfect condition. “I got by driving licence in 1994 one year after joining the school as the headmistress. Driving has been a passion, but getting the heavy licence was never a plan. During a vacation camp for children in 1999 we had to take them for an outing and the bus driver was not available. Then the mother superior asked if I could drive the bus. I said I could try but I don’t have the HDL. Then, the superiors suggested me to think of getting one as we don’t have to rely on drivers all the time. By 2000, I passed the driving test in the first attempt. Since then, driving bus has become a part of life. Even now, no other nuns in our congregation have a HDL,” she said. “The congregation, parents and teachers too are supportive. Before getting the HDL, there was a minor accident when my car slightly hit a boy’s cycle. I was so tensed and when I got out of the seat, residents were surprised to see a nun driver. The boy was unhurt and when I asked the driver to take the wheel, residents asked me to continue driving. It was a big confidence-booster to me and by the grace of God no accidents have happened since then,” she said. Phincitta’s HDL has recently expired and she is waiting to get it renewed. “I have to take a retest for the HDL renewal and for that I often practice on the school premises by taking the bus out for spin,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/driven-by-passion-this-nun-steers-clear-of-conventions-habits/articleshow/79344641.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
November 22, 2020||Chennai||68-year-old jailed over sexual assault of UK girl 6 years ago||Chennai: Police have arrested a 68-year-old man on a complaint from a teenager, who now lives in the UK, that he sexually assaulted her five years ago, when she was 11 and on a visit to India.The man was arrested from his apartment at Anna Nagar here on Friday and remanded in judicial custody on Saturday after the girl, who is his grand niece, and her parents lodged a complaint with the local police. He has been charged under the stringent Pocso Act.Police said late last year the girl opened up about the assault to a counsellor, who advised her and her parents to go to the police. The police in the UK told them it would be better to file the complaint in Chennai as the assault had taken place there, rather than try and get the man extradited.The Covid pandemic delayed their trip to India, but they finally landed in the city a few days ago. The family filed a complaint with the Thirumangalam all-women police station, which covers the Anna Nagar area. After investigation, a team from the all-women police station arrested the 68-year-old.Police said the girl was assaulted when she was home alone with the man when she was on a visit to the city from London five years ago. Police said her parents found her behavior changed when she returned to London, but she didn’t confide in them. She would pick fights with men and stayed aloof from friends and family. She had been to several counselling sessions over the years and finally opened up to a counsellor last year.The man has been sent to the Puzhal prison.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/68-year-old-jailed-over-sexual-assault-of-uk-girl-6-years-ago/articleshow/79345428.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Goa||Goa: Will continue stir if ISL organisers fail to give business to locals, says Congress||PANAJI: Adamant in the face of a warning from Goa police, Congress workers on Saturday refused to give a written declaration that they would not disrupt ISL activities. Speaking to the press, Congress workers said that they will continue their agitation if the ISL promoters do not give locals sub contracts. They said that the BJP-led government is using pressure tactics and trying to intimidate the opposition by using police machinery. “We have told them that we will not give any undertaking as this is an issue for the people of Goa. If they want, they can arrest us,” state Congress vice president Sankalp Amonkar said. Congress office bearers including opposition leader Digambar Kamat met with senior ISL officials on Friday where the officials reportedly agreed to hire Goan taxis, buses and give labour contracts to locals. “By Monday they have assured us that all the work orders will be given to locals. We will not disturb any ISL activities till Monday, I am saying this openly but I am not going to give anything in writing to the state government. If by Monday, the assurance to give Goans the business is not met, then we will continue our agitation,” Amonkar said. Around 11.30pm on Friday, police dispatched teams to round up four Congress office bearers— Amonkar, general secretary Amarnath Panjikar, youth Congress president Varad Mardolkar and Janardhan Bhandari. The four presented themselves at the police headquarters onSaturday and attempted to meet DGP Mukesh Kumar Meena. With Meena unavailable, the Congress delegation met other officials. “If Goans keep quiet, this government is ready to take Goans for granted. The police has come under pressure to harass us and we welcome this harassment on behalf of Goans. We are ready to go to jail,” Panjikar said. We will not disturb any ISL activities till Monday, I am saying this openly but I am not going to give anything in writing to the state government. If by Monday, the assurance to give Goans the business is not met, then we will 100% continue our agitation||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/will-continue-stir-if-isl-organisers-fail-to-give-business-to-locals-congress/articleshow/79345442.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Mangaluru||Woman misses int’l flight over ‘Shimoga’ spelling confusion||Kevin.Mendonsa Mangaluru: A 47-year-old resident of Thirthahalli who missed her flight to Dubai at the Mangaluru International Airport (MIA) would not be at a loss to answer the oft-bandied query: ‘What’s in a name?’. Chand Begum, taking a flight for the first time, was refused a boarding pass by SpiceJet officials, who cited errors in the Covid-19 negative report, in which the name of the institute was referred to as ‘Shivamogga Institute of Medical Sciences’, whereas the seal impressed to authenticate the document by the district surveillance officer bore the name ‘Shimoga’. Begum was scheduled to take the Dubai-bound flight from MIA at 1.45am on Saturday, which she was unable to board owing to the inconsistency in the name. Notwithstanding the lateness of the hour, officials from Shivamogga district tried to clarify the mistake to the airline staff. They explained that the institute in question was a government hospital approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), but to no avail. The passenger had been tested for Covid-19 on November 18, and had received a report confirming she had tested negative for the novel coronavirus the next day. On Friday, Begum left Tirthahalli around 4pm and reached MIA around 10pm. “I was shocked when I was informed that I could not fly. I tried my best to explain the problem, and with the help of my relatives, was able to contact officials in the Shivamogga district administration, who, in their turn tried to convince the staff. Finally, I was compelled to undergo another Covid-19 test at a private hospital in Mangaluru, and the airline staff agreed to accommodate me on the 1.45am flight to Dubai on Sunday,” Begum told STOI. Begum, who was accompanied to MIA by her brother Zakir Hussain, had to spend the night in the vehicle she had rented to come to Mangaluru. Shivamogga district surveillance officer Basavaraju CS said that, despite the name of the district having been changed officially, the use of Shimoga was still prevalent. “The copy of Begum’s report is even available on government websites,” Basavaraju said. On the other hand, SpiceJet representatives justified the airline’s action, pointing out that they were merely following the guidelines issued by the Indian government and the authorities in the United Arab Emirates. “The rules stipulate that the Covid-19 test report contain no errors. We have communicated the problem to officials in Dubai, and Chand Begum is being accommodated on our next flight,” a SpiceJet official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/woman-misses-intl-flight-over-shimoga-spelling-confusion/articleshow/79344642.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Delhi||Delhi court seeks reply from investigating officer on Umar Khalid’s plea in riot case||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court on Saturday issued notice to DCP, Crime Branch and sought a detailed reply from the investigating officer (IO) on a plea filed by former JNU student Umar Khalid in a rioting case connected to northeast Delhi violence of February. Khalid, through his counsels, Trideep Pais and Sanya Kumar, had filed an application before the court in a case stemming from FIR number 101/2020 registered by Khajuri Khas police station for “placing on record material facts and seeking directions”. After hearing his counsel, chief metropolitan magistrate Dinesh Kumar observed, “During the course of the arguments, it is noticed that certain serious points have been raised by counsel in the application.” The court, therefore, stated, “It appears necessary that a detailed reply be called from the IO and notice be also issued to DCP, Crime Branch to decide the issue. In these circumstances, notice be issued to IO and the DCP, Crime Branch, to join the proceedings on the next date of hearing.” “Copy of this order be sent to them for necessary compliance,” it added. It is the same case where the court had earlier directed Delhi Police to hand over a copy of FIR, remand application and medical documents to Khalid. Despite police’s objection to supplying the documents to the accused stating it would open a “Pandora’s box”, the court had stated that an accused must be informed of the bare necessary facts leading to his arrest, such as the grounds and the reasons. The court had also pointed out that it was vitally necessary that an accused be granted a copy of the FIR at the earliest in order to enable him the benefit of legal help.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/court-seeks-reply-from-io-on-khalids-plea-in-riot-case/articleshow/79346285.cms||Aamir Khan
November 22, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC now accounts for 43% of T cases||Following the spread of Covid-19 across districts, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation GHMC limits — which had been the epicentre of the pandemic in Telangana — now accounts for 43% of total cases in the state. In the initial months of the pandemic, GHMC accounted over 70% cases. However, with the relaxation of lockdown norms, the virus spread in rural areas with many migrant workers returning home. “So far, 1,12,892 cases have been reported under the GHMC,” said Telangana public health director Dr G Srinivasa Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-now-accounts-for-43-of-t-cases/articleshow/79344884.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Police chief bombarded with questions about traffic, face masks and bribery||BENGALURU: Why are vehicles being stopped unnecessarily on the roads by traffic police? This poser by many Bengalureans to city police commissioner Kamal Pant during the #AskCPBlr interaction on Twitter on Saturday reflects the concerns and apprehensions of motorists who are intercepted on roads even as the city slowly recovers from the pandemic lockdown. As traffic cops are increasingly flagging down motorists, they complained to Pant that harassment is rising by the day. “Is it legal for traffic police to stop any motorist on the road even though no law is being broken?” tweeple asked. Some pointed to instances where cops stopped short of barging into private cars to enforce social distancing. From checking for masks to tinted glasses to proper number plates to old penalties, traffic cops have been accused of coming up with flimsy reasons to make motorists pay up. While some asked why traffic policemen had been given penalty collection targets, Bharat B wanted to know whether there was an order that allows cops to check vehicles only at traffic junctions, and not between two points. Pant replied: “There is no order prescribing checking only at traffic junctions. City police is encouraging contactless traffic enforcement through traffic cameras.” Another Twitter user countered: “When will traffic police start wearing body cameras? It is very much required to curb corruption.” Several Bengalureans pointed to the rule that makes it mandatory for occupants of a car to wear a mask even if they are from the same family. They said: “Cops are stopping cars and forcing occupants to roll down windows to check if masks are being worn. Is fighting Covid a priority or collecting fines?” When it was pointed out that a few cops are rude, Pant replied: “Agreed. Holding inhouse brainstorming sessions on this issue. Initially, we are starting Jana Samparka Divasa from this month so that officers themselves are available to public in police stations. Certainly upgrading soft skills will always be important” (sic). Pant received around 200 tweets posted on #AskCPBlr during the interaction. There were many queries and suggestions about traffic issues. Pant said: “In the near future, we’ll hold a dedicated interaction through Twitter for traffic-related issues. Also, we’ll try for sessions with voice messages. I’m open to questions, concerns, complaints and ideas. Let’s work together to make Bengaluru a better place for us all.” A few other queries * When will traffic police stop taking bribes? What is the visibility of sun films (in cars) allowed in Bengaluru? Why are non-KA vehicles targeted? Pant: Fifty per cent visibility is a must for side glasses. If anyone demands a bribe, please communicate the name of officials, location and time of the incident by WhatsApp or sms to 9480801000 or call 100. * Traffic police are penalising motorists for not having ‘IND’ on vehicle number plates. Is it required? Pant: IND is not mandatory, hence you won’t be fined for that.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/top-cop-bombarded-with-questions-about-traffic-face-masks-bribery/articleshow/79344631.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Bengaluru||Beware of gangs extorting money in our name: Bangalore Development Authority||BENGALURU: Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) on Saturday warned citizens against scams designed to target beneficiaries of civic amenity (CA) sites leased out by it. “Many gangs are misusing the name of BDA and illegally collecting money from organisations/trusts which have been allotted CA sites a across the city. These fraudsters tell representatives of organisations that the land is being used for commercial purpose in contravention of the rules and that allotment would be cancelled if they failed to pay bribe,” a BDA official said. A CA site is an area that has been earmarked for development of facilities for public use (such as running a hospital or home for the disabled or educational institution or for religious and charitable reasons) in a private or BDA layout. According to BDA’s CA Sites Rules of 1989, 10 per cent of land in every layout has to be reserved for civic amenities and these sites are allotted on a lease basis to different organisations and trusts. Nearly 1,500 CA sites are leased to different institutions for a 30-year period. But with the demand for land going up in Bengaluru, many beneficiaries have started using the sites for commercial purposes. “These scamsters are targeting such site owners and extorting money from them,” BDA officials said. A BDA release read: “Some miscreants are sending letters forging signature of officials and using fake seals in the name of BDA to organisations and institutions allotted civic amenity sites on lease basis. They state complaints have been received from the general public that the allotted CA sites are being used for other purposes and that the allotment will be cancelled.” The issue came to the fore when a fake letter, which was not received by a site owner, came to the BDA head office. On verifying, it was found that the authority had not sent any such notice. Preliminary investigation revealed the gangs first send notice and the next day, a person approaches the CA site beneficiary offering help in resolving the matter. Once the gang members collect the money, they send another fake letter stating the lease will continue. In the same way, some miscreants are also extorting money under the Akrama-Sakrama scheme. Posing as BDA officials, they say the building will be demolished as construction norms have been violated. Gullible citizens end up paying huge bribes to save their buildings. In both types of scams, the gang members reportedly collected anywhere between Rs 50,000 to Rs 7 lakh as bribe from site owners, depending on the magnitude of violations. BDA’s vigilance department has registered a case and probe is on. “This can’t happen without an insider’s involvement. As of now, we have found that a few middlemen or brokers are involved and suspect a BDA official provided information about the violations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/beware-of-gangs-extorting-money-in-agencys-name-bda/articleshow/79344638.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Pandemic powers IT boom, hiring resumes in sector||AHMEDABAD: At a time when most industry sectors are grappling with revenue inflows and struggling to cut costs following the Covid-19 pandemic, the Information Technology (IT) and IT-Enabled Services (ITES) sector in Gujarat seems to be less affected. In fact, with the pandemic compelling businesses in manufacturing and services sectors to adopt automation and digitization, hiring in the IT sector has been the least impacted. Industry estimates suggest that Gujarat’s IT sector alone will have a requirement of at least 30,000 persons in the next five months. “The new normal is here to stay and thus companies across sectors are adopting technology and hybrid working models. This underlines the need for better IT interface, technology enabling platforms as well as putting sound data security systems in place. The phenomenon has given a major boost to IT companies across Gujarat, propelling their growth and thus increasing the need for manpower in the sector,” said Maulik Bhansali, chairman, GESIA. Gujarat is home to at least 2,700 small, medium and large enterprises in the IT and ITES sector mainly concentrated in Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Gandhinagar and Rajkot, among others. With all businesses going virtual and remaining bullish on technology adoption, the demand for professionals in the sector has remained steady. Many of these companies had stopped recruitments temporarily in March and April but have resumed thenceforth. Sharing recruitment plans of his company, Jaimin Shah, managing director, DevIT Limited, said, “We have already hired some 200 persons after the lockdown i.e. since June and we are looking to hire at least 150-200 people in the days to come.” Big and small firms have already begun hiring and many are looking to add on to their workforce given the rise in demand for IT enabling platforms besides niche areas such as cloud architects and data scientists. “We have been hiring since May. For us, fresh recruitment was very much on the cards since we are scaling up operations in India and elsewhere. The Covid-19 pandemic has led to a growing demand for cybersecurity requirements from companies, and it has created an opportunity for us to offer our services to more clients,” said Jaydeep Ruparelia, CEO and Co-founder, Infopercept Consulting Pvt Ltd. “Our current workforce strength is around 70. We expect to near or even cross 100 in the next two quarters. We will be recruiting in India, Sri Lanka, and also Kuwait. Most of the recruitment will be in India,” he further went on to say. IT adoption opening new avenues IT adoption and automation has not just been a feature of finance and manufacturing sector but it is widely penetrating into several other sectors including agriculture, healthcare and education, among various others. With digital learning taking a big leap in times of coronavirus, several companies have forayed into offering edu-tech solutions. With demand going up, the need for more human resources is only natural. “A number of companies in Gujarat have smelled opportunities and forayed into the digital learning sector, offering a variety of smart learning solutions. In times of the pandemic, the demand is expected to remain bullish and therefore, companies are hiring more people,” said Samir Parikh, founder, NamanHR, a recruitment consultancy firm. IT industry players also said that even the government is bullish on digitising a slew of processes, further fuelling the need for IT services. Versatile skill-sets sought for; location no bar Remote working environment has come as a boon in disguise for recruiters as talent acquisition no more needs to be locally sourced or needs to relocate. However, while the pool has widened, people are eyeing candidates with a versatile skill-set to address their requirements. Industry players suggest that they are looking to hire candidates with at least three to five years of experience – a bracket in which maximum jobs are likely to open up. “Companies are looking for candidates who are quick learners and have a sound understanding of various domains besides technical skills,” said the director of an Ahmedabad-based IT company. “Hiring will pick up by the end of this quarter and early next year as well amid heavy dependence of many sectors on IT and ITES. Remote working is turning out to be a boon for companies as they can acquire the best of talent, location no bar. This way, candidates from tier-II and smaller markets will also benefit.” Samir Parikh, founder, NamanHR “Appraisal cycle has already resumed in IT and ITES sector and by end of current quarter, recruitments will also resume. The government’s support to the sector with policy changes has also fuelled growth in the sector and the recruitments will begin in full swing.” Maulik Bhansali, chairman, GESIA||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pandemic-powers-it-boom-hiring-resumes-in-sector/articleshow/79345436.cms||Niyati Parikh
November 22, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: 50 killed in man-animal conflicts till October this year||DEHRADUN: The pandemic and the consequent lockdown seem to have had little impact on Uttarakhand’s rampant human-wildlife conflict (HWC) menace. Till October 30 this year, 50 people have already been killed (nearly half of them by leopards) and 214 injured in attacks by wild animals in the state. The figures are close to those of 2019, when 58 people lost their lives to such attacks and 181 were injured. According to data exclusively accessed by TOI from the Uttarakhand forest department, in the first 10 months of the year - from January to October – 24 people have been killed in leopard attacks and 13 by snakebites. Eight people have died due to attacks by elephants, two each by bear and wild pig attacks and one after being attacked by a crocodile. The maximum attacks were by bears, which struck 71 times this year in the state, followed by 58 leopard attacks, 38 wild pig attacks, 35 snake bites and eight elephant attacks. Mounds of garbage and unchecked urbanisation inching closer to forest boundaries contribute to the spiralling HWC in the state, say forest officials. Most lives lost in leopard attacks Out of the 24 people killed in leopard attacks, three lives each were lost in Pithoragarh, Almora and Narendera Nagar forest divisions. The rest of the attacks took place sporadically across the state. Forest officials feel humans’ coexistence with leopards has become increasingly difficult. Talking to TOI, an Indian Forest Service (IFS) officer, who didn’t want to be named, said, “Leopards have been man-eaters since time immemorial. Cattle and dogs have always been part of the animals’ diet, which draws them to human habitats. The best way to control them is by checking the carrying capacity of forest divisions and demarcating areas for leopards. Funds need to be channelled towards scientific population management of leopards rather than awareness campaigns.” Of the 13 deaths caused by snake attacks, Terai East forest division recorded the maximum mortalities at five, followed by four deaths in Nainital forest division. Elephant attacks are a worry for the forest department too, especially with Haridwar Kumbh in the offing. Of the eight people killed in pachyderm attacks, the maximum of three deaths were reported from Terai Central, followed by two in Ramnagar forest division. According to experts, bear attacks are the most gruesome and require the costliest treatment. One person in Bageshwar and another in Rudraprayag were killed by bears this year. The latest attack in Vaduk village of Chamoli occurred on Friday, when a 45-year-old woman, who had gone to bring fodder to her livestock, was brutally mauled to death. Crocodile attacks have killed one person in the state so far – a child in a swampy area in Haridwar. Towards the end of September this year, Haridwar had sounded a “crocodile conflict alert” after crocodile sightings started becoming common in the district’s households. Piles of garbage discarded in water bodies, wildlife experts said, made for perfect nesting sites for the reptiles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-lost-50-lives-to-human-wildlife-conflicts-till-oct-leopards-claimed-most-lives/articleshow/79344065.cms||Shivani Azad
November 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad school parents association stages protest over fee hike||HYDERABAD: Ahead of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) polls, members of the Hyderabad School Parents Association (HSPA) held a silent protest at People’s Plaza at Necklace Road against non-implementation of a government order curbing school fee hike. Holding placards seeking reduction of school fee in Telangana, several parents took part in the protest. The TRS had included the school fee issue in its manifesto for the previous civic elections held in 2016 and parents raised concerns over the ruling party’s efforts to fulfil its poll promise. Government order (GO) 46 issued in April this year restricts schools from enhancing the fee structure and directed them to collect tuition fee on monthly basis but parents alleged many schools were violating it. “We have submitted multiple letters to the government but to no avail. The government has turned a blind eye towards school fee issue and now we have decided to vote only for the party that ensure effective school fee regulation in the state,” said HSPA vice-president, Seema Agarwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hspa-stages-protest-over-fee-hike/articleshow/79344932.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Hubballi||Police Children’s Residential School: Horatti threatens indefinite hunger strike||Dharwad: MLC and former minister for primary and secondary education Basavaraj Horatti has threatened to go on indefinite hunger strike from December 5 in front of the deputy commissioner’s office in Dharwad if the government fails to pay salary arrears of teachers working in the NA Muttanna Police Children’s Residential School in Dharwad. In a letter to the chief minister and the home minister, Horatti mentioned that teaching and non-teaching staff working in the school have not been paid salaries for past nine months and they have been left in lurch. He said one teacher, who was depressed due to financial crisis, died of heart attack while the wife of another teacher passed away unable to bear the difficulties. He urged the authorities to take steps to reopen the school which is meant to provide quality education to the children of police constables, head constables and assistant sub-inspectors from Belagavi and Kalaburgi revenue divisions. Horatti alleged that there has been rampant corruption by the police officials connected with the school management and they had siphoned off the generator, TV sets, table tennis table, furniture, school bus, AC machine, and refrigerators among others. A committee appointed to probe into the corruption charges did not make any headway. “I have written to chief minister BS Yediyurappa and home minister Basavaraj Bommai to arrange for payment of salary arrears to the staff and reopen the school. Both have been indifferent to my pleas. The top brass in police is unresponsive. This is the only school for the children of police personnel in North Karnataka and I am bent on saving this school,” Horatti said. The school had registered 100% passing in SSLC examination for 10 years and 97% for eight years. Its performance has come down as it recorded 77% passing in the SSLC examination conducted in March/April 2019. Dharwad SP was the chairperson of the school managing committee and since the school earlier had jurisdiction over Belagavi and Kalaburgi revenue divisions, IGP (north) was made the chairperson. This is said to have not gone well with the then Dharwad SP G Sangeeta and she had planned to get the school closed citing poor performance of students in SSLC examination. Horatti had taken up the issue with the government. While efforts were on to reopen the school for academic year 2020-2021, Covid pandemic did not permit it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/police-childrens-residential-school-horatti-threatens-indefinite-hunger-strike/articleshow/79344836.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
November 22, 2020||Nagpur||3 boys drown in Wardha river||Chandrapur: Three adolescent boys from Ghugus town drowned in Wardha river on Saturday afternoon. The incident took place near Chincholi ghat where five boys, including four minors aged 15-16, from Amrai ward had gone for a bath, said sources. PI Ghugus Rahul Gangurde said the boys who drowned didn’t knew swimming. The deceased have been identified as Prithviraj Asutkar, Prem Gedam and Prachan Wankhede. Their friends Anil Gogla and Sujal Wankar, who managed to swim out, rushed back to the town and informed their families. Police came to the spot with rescue workers on getting information. Search operation to fish out the bodies was underway till filing this report. The spot where the incident took is in adjoining Wani tehsil of Yavatmal. Sirpur police station in Wani will register a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/3-boys-drown-in-wardha-river/articleshow/79345469.cms||Mazhar Ali
November 22, 2020||Hyderabad||‘Hyderabad will become Asia’s hub for high-tech biz’||HYDERABAD: Eminent missile scientist Arun Tiwari who co-authored five books with former President APJ Abdul Kalam, including the widely-read Wings of Fire, believes India has tremendous potential for growth in the post-Covid period. While he is optimistic, Tiwari cautioned, “If India misses out on this opportunity to shine, it will never get one again.” “To achieve this and surge ahead, we must focus on five areas — making agriculture profitable; repatriating manufacturing (move away from being a trading economy and become a manufacturing one; enhancing infrastructure; enabling efficient supply chains, and promoting energy independence,” the 65-year-old said in a tete-a-tete with STOI at his residence in Gachibowli. These recommendations also find a mention in his latest offering – India Awakes: Post Coronavirus New World Order – that the adjunct professor at University of Hyderabad penned with Bart S Fisher, a renowned American attorney, recognised as among the founders in the field of international trade and investment law in the United States. Drawing on the teachings of his mentor, Abdul Kalam, the city-based scholar also upheld the need to de-link electoral politics from developmental politics for India to chart its success story. Tiwari admits the country is displaying signs of change. “The good part is we can see some resolve and movement in the right direction,” he says, however, underlining how Atmanirbhar Bharat is no longer an option but an “existential necessity”. And while being almost certain of seeing India ‘awakened’ soon enough, the missile scientist is also sure of his home city touching new heights over the next 10 years.“It is positioned to become Asia’s hub for high-technology businesses, replacing Dubai and Singapore...We already have all major technology companies spanning across industries such as defence, pharma, biotech and IT. There is a robust higher education engine. With a host of start-ups coming up, I see Hyderabad as the next global hub,” Tiwari says while also lauding the city administration for its handling of the pandemic. “Why are we shying away from accepting that we did exceedingly well in handling Covid-19? We must, instead, be proud that we avoided the fate of cities like Mumbai, Delhi, Pune and Ahmedabad... The way GHMC used the lockdown to improve roads demonstrates excellent leadership and efficient execution,” he adds reinforcing his faith in the city’s success.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyd-will-become-asias-hub-for-high-tech-biz/articleshow/79344862.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
November 22, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Firm’s assets worth Rs 9 crore to be attached||BENGALURU: The government has ordered for attachment of 180 cars and freezing of 15 bank accounts belonging to Yellow Express Logistics Limited in connection with a nearly Rs 60 crore financial scam where around 2,000 investors were reportedly cheated. Representatives of the company have been charged with collecting deposits from people with promises of good returns and car ownership, which is a violation of provisions of the Banning of Unregulated Deposit Schemes Act, 2019 (Central Act 21 of 2019). The properties that will be attached are worth nearly Rs 9 crore, which amounts to 15 per cent of the total scam. Yellow Express Logistics Limited’s Ponzi scheme came to light in September 2019 and the case was probed by Criminal Investigation Department. According to CID sources, more than 2,000 people had invested about Rs 60 crore through the scheme. As per the company, people were asked to invest Rs 2.5 lakh and were offered a unique business proposition: They could buy cabs with the same money, which would later be attached to taxi aggregators. The investors were told the revenue generated from each cab would range from Rs 10,000 to Rs 25,000 per month and they could pocket it. However, the government suspected the company’s claim was nothing short of tactics employed by fly-by-night operators. The government order stated: “It has come to notice that Yellow Express Logistics Limited is involved in fraudulent transactions by clandestinely and illegally collecting deposits. Despite the assets of the financial establishment or people associated with it being seized, there is no sufficient amount for repayment of the deposits or sum assured to depositors.” Hanumanth, a resident of Jamkhandi in Bagalkot, had invested Rs 2 lakh almost one and a half years ago. Though he got Rs 10,000 for five months, the returns stopped later. “Initially, everything was smooth, but we were eventually cheated. They told me they had bought a car with my money. But when I asked them to give back me the car or return the money, they refused.” CID sources said the accused, Ramit Malhotra, Jojo Thomas and Madi Nair, had opened five companies to launder the money. The accused had registered only 63 cars in the names of investors and 240 in their own names. However, the depositors are unlikely to get their money immediately. GR Mohan, an advocate who had filed a PIL in the I Monetary Advisory (IMA) case, said: “The victims will have to wait for the special court orders. Once that happens, the assets will be liquidated and will be distributed among the victims proportionately.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ponzi-scheme-firms-assets-worth-rs-9cr-to-be-attached/articleshow/79344621.cms||Kiran Parashar
November 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Stop direct sewage flow into Trimulgherry lake, TSPCB tells civic body||SECUNDERABAD: In what will be a major relief to over 300 families residing across five residential colonies — Malani Enclave, Surya Enclave, Padmanabha Colony, Indian Airlines Colony, and Surya Avenue — abutting Trimulgherry lake in Secunderabad Cantonment, the Telangana State Pollution Control Board (TSPCB) has instructed civic authorities to initiate efforts to curb pollution in the lake caused due to direct discharge of untreated sewage. Responding to as many as 85 complaints from residents of the aforementioned colonies, TSPCB’s environmental engineer served show-cause notices to several parties, including one to the GHMC deputy commissioner of Secunderabad. RTI activist and resident of Malani Enclave, Venkata Ramana, had taken up the effort to get residents to file online complaints with the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) in a bid to make the lake pollution-free. In their online complaints, residents made it known to authorities of the alleged apathy of major departments such as the Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB), Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), the irrigation department and state pollution board over the direct discharge of sewage into the lake. “In April 2018, TSPCB had served show-cause notices to the SCB chief executive officer over steps to be taken to curb pollution in the lake but even after two years nothing has been done,” Venkata Ramana said. When asked on the issue, SCB chief executive officer B Ajith Reddy told STOI, “An inspection has been carried out and a plan to divert sewage and remove sludge from the lake is under active consideration.” This comes as a welcome move to residents who have lauded the central and state pollution boards’ efforts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/stop-direct-sewage-flow-into-trimulgherry-lake-tspcb-tells-civic-body/articleshow/79344899.cms||Sunil Mungara
November 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana recovery rate close to 95%, 925 new cases||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Saturday recorded 925 new cases of Covid-19 and three deaths. The total number of cases has now reached 2,62,653 with death toll now at 1,426. Recovery rate in the state continued its upswing with as many as 2,49,157 having recovered thus taking the recovery rate to 94.8% compared to 90% a month back. The case fataltiy rate continues to hover around the 0.5% mark. Saturday saw 42,077 tests conducted with total tests in the state amounting to 51 lakh. The GHMC recorded 161 new cases, the highest in the state, followed by Medchal (91 cases); Rangareddy (75); Karimnagar (52); Warangal Urban and Nalgonda (46 each); Kothagudem (43). Except Narayanpet, all other districts recorded new cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/recovery-rate-close-to-95-925-new-cases/articleshow/79344851.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Delhi||CPWD seeks composite green nod for Central Vista||NEW DELHI: The Central Public Works Department (CPWD) has amended its application for environmental clearance for the Common Central Secretariat by including the proposals for new PMO, an additional PM residence and SPG accommodation, and the Vice President’s Enclave. Sources said this has been done to get the green approval at one go to avoid responding to similar objections when they submit applications for different components of the Central Vista redevelopment project. “All these works are part of one composite project,” said a source. TOI on November 3 last year had first reported the move to shift PM residence close to Rashtrapati Bhawan. These four buildings will be in addition to the 10 building blocks, which will be built to accommodate all ministries, central government departments and a massive conference centre. Due to the addition of these four components, the total built up area will be nearly 18.37 lakh sq metres, an increase of 83,000 sq metres. The revised project cost has been estimated at Rs 11,794 crore, an additional expenditure of Rs 764 crore. Earlier it had estimated expenditure of Rs 11,038 crore for the Common Central Secretariat and Conference Centre projects. Though the government has set the 2024 deadline for the Central Vista redevelopment project, the CPWD, in its application, has indicated that the work could continue for six years. In its revised proposal submitted to the environment and forest ministry early this month, the CPWD said, “During construction phase, a maximum of 1,685 permanent staff and 17,700 temporary labourers will be employed at any one time over a period of six years.” Sources said since the construction of new buildings and relocation of ministries from existing buildings is time taking, a liberal time frame has been proposed for completion of all works. The CPWD has said a consolidated Central Secretariat will improve productivity and efficiency through proximity and connectivity of ministries, which are well connected to public transport .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cpwd-seeks-composite-green-nod-for-central-vista/articleshow/79346351.cms||Dipak K Dash
November 22, 2020||Nagpur||MLC Shrikant Deshpande booked for violating poll code||Amravati: Shrikant Deshpande, the sitting MLC and candidate of Shikshak Aaghadi and Shiv Sena for the December 1 Amravati division teachers’ constituency polls, has been booked under various sections of the IPC and Maharashtra Police Act 134 for violating the model code of conduct on Friday night. This is the first offence registered against any candidate in this election. The offence was registered following a complaint made by Shikshan Sangharsh Sanghatana candidate Sangita Shinde-Bonde. Talking to TOI, Sangita Shinde alleged that Deshpande held a campaign meeting at the HVPM auditorium on Thursday. It was attended and addressed by higher and technical education minister Uday Samant, state school education minister Bachchu Kadu and women and child development minister Yashomati Thakur among others. Shinde alleged that this meeting was held without taking prior permission from the returning officer and police and thus it was a breach of the code of conduct. She said that when she sought permission for an election meeting, it was turned down while Deshpande was given the nod just because he has the backing of the ruling party. “Is this democracy? The rules are the same for all candidates. Then why this discriminatory approach?,” she wondered. Shinde said that when she was refused permission, she squatted before the chamber of the divisional commissioner and returning officer demanding registration of offences against Deshpande and the ministers for violation of the model code and also under provisions of Pandemic Control Act 1897 and Disaster Management Act 2005. Following her agitation, returning officer and divisional commissioner Piyush Singh instructed the election flying squad chief and sub divisional officer Ranjit Bhosale to register a complaint against Deshpande at the Rajapeth police station. Accordingly, Rajapeth PSI Yogesh Ingale booked Deshpande for an offence under sections 188, 269, 270 of IPC and Maharashtra Police Act 134. Shinde is the only female candidate among the 27 in fray.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mlc-shrikant-deshpande-booked-for-violating-poll-code/articleshow/79345481.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Hyderabad||TIMS docs threaten to strike work over quarantine norm||HYDERABAD: Resident doctors at the Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (TIMS) have threatened to withdraw services. This, as the Gandhi Hospital — the nodal centre for Covid-19 in the state — began functioning as a non-Covid hospital from Saturday. TIMS is now one of two nodal Covid-19 hospitals and doctors are upset over the cancellation of the alternate weekly quarantine rule. Meanwhile on the first day of resumption of non-Covid services at Gandhi Hospital, 88 patients reported for outpatient consultations as the hospital recorded 15 admissions. In addition to non-Covid patients, 13 patients with Covid-19 requiring tertiary care were admitted to the hospital on Saturday. With footfalls relatively low, the transition was smooth for electives and non-emergency services. Hospital authorities at Gandhi had been preparing for the transition from a Covid speciality hospital to a non-Covid hospital with Covid tertiary care over the last one month. A special committee was formed to plan and oversee the transition which included processes such as sanitisation, fumigation of all wards and operation theatres, swab testing of OP theatres, segregation of Covid and non-Covid areas. The team will also ensure separation entry and exit points for Covid and non-Covid wards and deployment of staff to ensure all services are maintained. The resumption of non-Covid services at Gandhi Hospital will result in King Koti Hospital and TIMS becoming the two Covid-speciality hospitals. This will lead to an increase in footfall of Covid-19 patients, a notion which has caused doctors to raise concerns over the latest orders to cancel the alternate weekly quarantine rule across government hospitals. Telangana Senior Resident Doctors Association has sent a representation to the TIMS director seeking a continuation of the mandatory alternate weekly quarantine rule citing the threat it carries for family members of doctors, many of whom have threatened to withdraw services. “In case the new roster (without quarantine) is being implemented, we will be left with no other option but to withdraw our services with immediate effect, as we will be at a high risk exposure without quarantine. With the previous roster (with quarantine) itself many senior residents tested positive and it has affected the elderly in the families,” read the representation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tims-docs-threaten-to-strike-work-over-quarantine-norm/articleshow/79344849.cms||Amrita Didyala
November 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Health department sounds H1N1 warning with over 30 cases in Nov so far||HYDERABAD: The city has witnessed a gradual up-tick of H1N1 (swine flu) cases recently after a relatively low viral activity compared to last year. November is typically the month when respiratory diseases see an increase and state health authorities have sounded an alert over such diseases. They have asked people not to ignore any symptoms. A total of 886 cases were recorded last year while this year the state has seen only 55 cases so far. However, of the 55 cases, 34 have been recorded between November 1 and November 20. The incidence of cases after a gap of months may be indicative of viral activity picking up with a dip in mercury levels. In 2019, barring three districts, swine flu cases were reported from all other districts. Hyderabad alone accounted for 419 cases followed by Rangareddy (102) and Medchal (88). This year, 11 cases are from GHMC limits with Rangareddy and Medchal reporting 11 and five cases respectively. In November alone last year, 754 cases were recorded across the state compared to 34 cases so far this month. Authorities have attributed the drop in of cases to precautions taken to prevent the spread of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/health-dept-sounds-h1n1-warning-with-over-30-cases-in-nov-so-far/articleshow/79344952.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Health department urges politicos to use masks while campaigning||HYDERABAD: State health authorities on Saturday advised all political workers to wear masks while campaigning for the upcoming GHMC polls. “Candidates are responsible for ensuring all activists participating in the campaign wear masks. Although our situation is under control compared to other states, the threat has not completely been eliminated. There is (likelihood of) a spread if people were not careful during campaigns,” said Telangana public health director, Dr G Srinivasa Rao. The health director stressed that tests should be done even if anyone was exhibiting mild symptoms and that such persons be kept away from promotional activities. With a second wave of Covid-19 sweeping the likes of Delhi and Kerala, health authorities have held a review of the situation in the state and assessed preparedness to handle any spike in cases. Authorities reiterated that the situation is currently in check but are also sending in special teams to all districts and preparing hospitals for handling increased load if required. The health director advised vigil for the next two months. State director of medical education, Dr Ramesh Reddy said the health machinery is ready to provide necessary services in case of a second wave occur. “Treatment is being provided in 62 government hospitals. Currently, there are 1,600 ventilators and the necessary equipment is ready,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/health-dept-urges-politicos-to-use-masks-while-campaigning/articleshow/79344871.cms||Amrita Didyala
November 22, 2020||Nagpur||GR issued for Nagpur BG Metro: Anil Deshmukh||NAGPUR: The state urban development department has issued a government resolution (GR) granting approval for submission of the detailed project report (DPR) of Nagpur broad gauge Metro to the central government. It has also made available Rs 21.30 crore as an interest free loan assistance for the project, home minister Anil Deshmukh told the media. The state cabinet had cleared the project on October 14. As per the GR issued on November 19, the interest free loan assistance includes two components. One is Rs7.10 crore, which is 50% from central taxes. The second is Rs14.20 crore, which is 100% from state taxes. The GR further states that post facto approval was being granted to the memorandum of understanding (MoU) signed between MahaMetro, the state government and Indian Railways on July 16, 2018, with the condition that there will be no further financial or other responsibility of the state government. The green signal is being given for the submission of the DPR to the central government for further action with a condition that prior approval of the state government would be obtained for the agreement to be signed with the Indian Railways for operationalization of the project. The project is estimated to cost Rs333.60 crore. Of this, an expenditure of Rs305.20 crore would be met from the savings of MahaMetro in execution of the Nagpur Metro Phase I approved by the German government lending agency KfW. MahaMetro is now empowered to carry out necessary correspondence with the central government and KfW.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gr-issued-for-nagpur-bg-metro-anil-deshmukh/articleshow/79346333.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Nagpur||2nd Orange City Lit Fest on your screens next weekend||Nagpur: After a particularly well-received debut last year, the Orange City Literature Festival (OCLF) is back with its second edition — this time in a virtual avatar. The three-day festival organized by SGR Knowledge Foundation will commence on November 27, presenting a delectable array of themes and speakers. The pandemic has forced organizers to go digital, which they are treating as an opportunity rather than an impediment. Speakers from Australia, USA and Nepal, who are “out of reach” otherwise will be participating this time thanks to the Internet, says Mrunal Naik, OCLF project head. “Enthusiasts from any part of the country or the world can join without thinking twice. All they need is a mobile, laptop or tablet,” adds project adviser Shruti Dhadda. The challenges will also be different, not the least of which is getting middle-aged and elderly bibliophiles on board. “The older generation are not as conversant with technology as their younger counterparts, which makes it harder for them to come to terms with an online lit fest,” Dhadda points out. The team is leveraging social media to bridge that gap. “Apart from reaching out to them through Facebook (which they are more attuned to), we have also tried to make the user interface and registration process very simple, so that all their hesitation dissipates with the click of a button,” says Dhadda. With the likes of politician Salman Khurshid, venerated classical dancer Sonal Mansingh and senior journalist Prabhu Chawla among the speaker list, the audience has much to look forward to. The morning sessions have been curated especially for students and parents, and blogging, art competitions have been incorporated to ensure there’s something for everybody. As with any event, says Naik, OCLF 2020’s success hinges on public participation. “Though we have received support from all quarters, eventually it boils down to how the city’s people take to it. We have kept registration free and scheduled it on a weekend, giving them all the more reason to join,” she adds. OCLF founder Sunil Raisoni chimes in, “We hope the organizing team’s ardent efforts are rewarded with promising viewership numbers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2nd-orange-city-lit-fest-on-your-screens-next-weekend/articleshow/79346350.cms||Bhuvan Gupta
November 22, 2020||Chennai||Shah lauds TN govt; EPS, OPS say BJP will be ally in 2021 poll||Chennai: The ruling AIADMK on Saturday made it clear that its alliance with the BJP would continue for the forthcoming assembly elections. In the presence of Union home minister Amit Shah, AIADMK coordinator O Panneerselvam and joint coordinator Edappadi K Palaniswami vowed to continue the “victorious AIADMK-BJP alliance” in the next polls. They were speaking at a government function organised to lay foundation stones and inaugurate projects worth more than Rs 67,000 crore in the city. The two leaders later called on Amit Shah at a hotel in MRC Nagar, where he will be staying for the night. Amit Shah, on his part, lauded the AIADMK government and its initiatives, especially in managing Covid-19, and assured the Central government’s support to the state government and to the people of Tamil Nadu. Both the chief minister and deputy chief minister were providing good governance, said Shah. Extending a grand welcome at the airport and all along the route as Shah travelled into the city, the AIADMK leadership showered encomiums on PM Narendra Modi, and his trusted-aide. Panneerselvam said the state government would be able to ensure peace, progress and prosperity with the support of the Union home minister. Palaniswami said the AIADMK government had provided best governance in the last 10 years and had been receiving several awards for various departments. “I wish to state that our alliance will win majority of the seats in 2021 polls and the AIADMK will form the government,” the CM said. He congratulated the Central government for kick starting the national economic recovery through multiple stimulus packages. Tamil Nadu benefitted immensely from the steps taken by the Centre for post-Covid economic recovery, he said. BJP general secretary C T Ravi, state BJP president L Murugan, L K Sudheesh (DMDK), A K Moorthy (PMK) and A C Shanmugam (ACJ) were special invitees at the function.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/shah-lauds-tn-govt-eps-ops-say-bjp-will-be-ally-in-2021-poll/articleshow/79345437.cms||Julie Mariappan
November 22, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19: 24 more officer trainees at civil services academy in Mussoorie test positive||MUSSOORIE: A day after 33 officer trainees (OTs) contracted Covid-19 at the Mussoorie-based Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration (LBSNAA), 24 more tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Saturday, taking the tally to 57. Dr Sanjeev Chopra, director of LBSNAA, said “all measures are being taken to break the chain of Covid-19.” “All those who tested positive have been quarantined at the Covid Care Centre set up within the campus. The other trainees have been isolated in their rooms. We are following all government protocols. The OTs and staff members are strictly following social distancing, wearing masks and washing hands.” Chopra added that all activities, including training, will be conducted online till December 3. All non-essential departments have been closed and no visitors are allowed at the academy for now. Staff members in protective gear are delivering food and other necessities to hostel rooms, LBSNAA said in a tweet. Notably, the 95th foundation course had commenced at the academy on October 13. The academy had at the time announced special measures for social distancing and to deal with possible Covid-19 cases. These included keeping medical kits, masks and sanitisers in each room. Further, time slots and venues for dining, and separate time slot allotment for use of the library were also put in place. Currently, 428 OTs are undertaking the 15-week-long foundation course at the academy. The OTs include those who have joined the Indian Administrative Service (IAS), Indian Foreign Service (IFS), Indian Police Service (IPS), and Indian Forest Service (IFS), among other central services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/day-after-33-officer-trainees-contract-covid-19-at-mussoories-lbsnaa-24-more-test-positive/articleshow/79344073.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Agra||Basic education officer suspended over charges of malpractices||Agra: The basic education department has suspended the block education officer of Black Akola of Agra district over charges of malpractices and misbehavior. BEO Om Prakash Yadav had additional charge of block Baroli Ahir. The complaint against the BEO was made by Basic Shiksha Adhikari of Agra district to the director basic education on September 19, 2020. Earlier, leaders of teachers’ association had highlighted the alleged malpractices done by the official. Primary investigation conducted by the department found him guilty.On Saturday, additional education secretary of state Sarita Tiwari ordered suspension of BEO Om Prakash Yadav. During his suspension, Yadav will remain attached to the office of principal, district institute for education and training. The assistant director basic education of Agra division will conduct a detailed investigation into charges levied against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/basic-education-officer-suspended-over-charges-of-malpractices/articleshow/79344070.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Gurgaon||Follow the due process: NGT tells Haryana govt in hearing on land for CISF camp||GURUGRAM: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Haryana government to ensure that no “non-forest” activity is carried out in the forest areas of the state without following the due process of law. The direction came on Saturday as the tribunal disposed of a one-year-old case, seeking a stay on non-forest activities on 260 acres of forest land in Sohna’s Mandawar village falling under the Aravalis. The petition was filed by Ram Avtar Yadav, the former sarpanch of the Manesar panchayat, in October 2019, when the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) had just begun pre-construction activities in the area for setting up a paramilitary camp without the mandatory permissions from the state forest department and the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB). During the hearing, the green court examined a report in the matter that it had sought from the Haryana government. The report has pointed out that the land parcel bought by CISF in the revenue estate of Mandawar is a little over 260 acres, of which some 137 acres fall under the Aravali Project Plantation, which is a forest area as per a 2004 order of the Supreme Court. So, a nod from the state forest department is a must. Since the remaining portion of the land is in the ‘gair mumkin pahar’ category, which is covered under the Aravali Notification 1992, a mandatory permission is required from HSPCB. And as the entire area is regulated by Section 4 of Punjab Land Preservation Act (PLPA), 1900, an approval from the divisional forest officer is also needed for the felling of trees. The central force did not apply from any of the permissions. According to Ram Avtar, the area is a wildlife corridor and any construction activity will have an adverse impact. “In the first place, such development projects should not be allowed in the Aravalis. The government should take initiatives to save the Aravalis. This region is facing an air pollution crisis and we are also rapidly losing green cover to such development projects,” he said. A forest department official in Gurugram said, “We have submitted our report to NGT, where we have mentioned that the divisional forest officer of Gurugram had inspected the land in question on July 16 this year with the range forest officer of Sohna. The range forest officer has been asked to regularly inspect the area and ensure that no non-forest activity is carried out on the said land.” A senior HSPCB official told TOI, “We are yet to get a request from CISF in this case regarding environment clearance. We will take a call when only we get the same.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/follow-the-due-process-ngt-tells-haryana-govt-in-hearing-on-land-for-cisf-camp/articleshow/79346451.cms||Ipsita Pati
November 22, 2020||Mangaluru||Kin of Suvarna Tribhuja fishing boat victims get ex gratia||Udupi/Bengaluru: The state government, in a special gesture, provided ex gratia of Rs 10 lakh each to the next of kin of seven fishermen on board the ill-fated fishing vessel Suvarna Tribhuja. Chief minister B S Yediyurappa handed over the cheques during the World Fisheries Day celebration organised by the department of fisheries at the banquet hall of Vidhan Soudha in Bengaluru on Saturday. Suvarna Tribhuja, that left on a fishing expedition with a crew of seven, including its owner, on December 13, 2018, from Malpe fisheries harbour, was reported missing off the Goa coast under inexplicable circumstances. Notwithstanding, a massive search and rescue effort that involved disparate agencies of the state and central government, neither the fishermen nor the fishing boat were found. Various theories abound on this incident. Udupi MLA K Raghupathi Bhat flagged the issue with the chief minister in a letter dated November 4, urging him to provide families of the fishermen compensation of Rs 10 lakh each, deeming it a special case. The fishermen, who went missing, include Chandrashekar Kotyan, boat owner, Damodhar Salian, Laxman Harikanth, Ravi, Satish, Ramesh and Harish. The MLA said the families of these victims were in dire financial straits after the incident. The Indian Navy, in a tweet on May 2, 2019, announced that INS Nireekshak had found the wreck of the fishing boat, 33 km west-south-west of the coast of Malvan in Maharashtra, a day before. “The wreck was found through side scan sonar operations and confirmed today by Naval divers undertaking saturation diving at a depth of 60 metres,” the tweet added. Intensive search by ships and aircrafts since December 2018 had yielded no results in finding the vessel. Then defence minister Nirmala Sitharaman on March 26, 2019, visited houses of the missing fishermen and consoled their families. Suvarna Tribhuja had lost contact with other fishing vessels and fisheries department authorities on December 15. The Navy had strenuously denied that one of its warships in the area had collided with the fishing vessel, as was alleged from some quarters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/kin-of-suvarna-tribhuja-fishing-boat-victims-get-ex-gratia/articleshow/79344659.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Madurai||17-year-old pedals K2K in 8 days, 7 hours||Madurai: It just took eight days, seven hours and 38 minutes for 17-year-old Om Hitendra Mahajan of Nasik, Maharashtra, to pedal his bicycle nearly 3,650km from Kashmir to Kanyakumari. Starting from Srinagar, Lal Chowk at 6.22am on November 13, he reached Kanyakumari at 2pm on November 21 breaking the record held by Colonel Bharat Pannu who covered K2K in eight days, nine hours and 48 minutes, last October. Pedalling 20 to 21 hours a day, Mahajan covered an average distance of 400km and slept for only two hours. “The remaining one hour plus was for getting refreshed. There were instances when I felt low and questioned myself why I should complete it? I was motivated by a very supportive crew,” he told TOI after reaching the southern-most tip of the country. Mahajan was inspired by ultra-endurance cyclist father Hitendra Mahajan, 50, an anaesthesiologist and his uncle Mahendra Mahajan, 44, a dentist –known as Mahajan brothers for their ultra-endurance cycling expeditions. The Mahajan brothers became the first India team to complete the 4,800km Race Across America (RAAM) in 2015 and the 5,950km golden quadrilateral in India in 2016. Mahajn was into racing at the age of 11 before he evolved as an ultra-endurance cyclist. After completing schooling this year, he secured admission for bachelor’s degree in sports management at Kansas in the USA earlier this year, but he could not fly due to the travel restrictions. He prepared for the cycling expedition during lockdown. He was accompanied by an eight-member crew comprising his father, uncle, a mechanic and friends in two support vehicles. Data recorded in Garmin devices, log book, witness forms, photographs and videos enroute are among proof to be sent to enter the two record books - Guinness World Records and the World Ultra Cycling Association. In November 2018, Mahendra Mahajan entered the Guinness World Records for the fastest K2K in 10 days and 10 hours. It was broken the same year by an ultra-cyclist from Delhi. This record was again broken by Colonel Bharat Pannu who set a new record on October 30, 2019. “Om’s will to break my record was amazing. He was very much focussed from day one though there was snowfall there. He kept the pressure on him to break my record by almost two hours,” Pannu told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/17-year-old-pedals-k2k-in-8-days-7-hours/articleshow/79346353.cms||M K Ananth
November 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Work on Rs 1,621cr elevated highway to begin soon||Coimbatore: Union home minister Amit Shah laid the foundation stone for the 10.01-km long elevated highway from Uppilipalayam to Goldwins on Avinashi Road in the city at a function at Kalaivanar Arangam in Chennai on Saturday. The project cost is pegged at Rs 1,621 crore. The state highways department would now carry out the construction work in a phased manner. An official with the department says, “The plan is to implement the project on two stretches - from Codissia to CITRA and Lakshmi Mills Junction to Jail Road Junction - simultaneously in the first phase. These are comparatively wider stretches with less traffic flow. As such, the work won’t cause much of an inconvenience to the public.” The project entails construction of 397 piers, each of which would be buried five to six metres deep underground. The official says the underground telecom cables and pipelines and overhead electricity lines at the locations that are selected for constructing piers would have to be removed. “We have already informed the concerned departments and they have identified the underground utilities, which would be removed shortly. This alone would cost Rs 50 crore,” says the official. According to her, up and down ramps will be constructed at Anna statue, Nava India, Hopes College and airport as part of the project. For this, she says, about 25,000 square metres land has to be acquired from private parties. “The revenue department has been holding talks with the landowners. At least Rs 300 crore would be used for land acquisition.” Pointing out that Avinashi Road sees around 50,000 vehicles a day, the official says it usually takes about 15 to 20 minutes to travel from Uppilipalayam to Goldwins. There are 12 traffic signals between the two locations. “Once the elevated highway is ready, more than 50% of vehicles will start using it, reducing the travel time considerably.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/work-on-rs-1621cr-elevated-highway-to-begin-soon/articleshow/79345454.cms||Nivedha Selvam
November 22, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: DMK, AIADMK fight to pay medical fee, students gain||CHENNAI: A day after allotting 7.5% of MBBS and BDS seats in the state to government school students, the Tamil Nadu government and the opposition DMK vied with each other to pay fees to the government/private medical/dental colleges concerned. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Saturday said the state would create a special revolving fund under Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation (TNMSC) to pay the entire fees. The announcement came hours after DMK president M K Stalin said his party would sponsor the government students’ education. The annual tuition fees for government quota seats in private medical colleges range from Rs 3.8 lakh to Rs 4 lakh. “We had already made an announcement that post-matric scholarships and other financial aid will be appropriately taken care of,” the CM said. Earlier in the day, Stalin pointed out that many of these students hailed from poor families and they were not in a position to pay the fee in self-financing medical colleges. While the chief minister accused Stalin of staging a “political drama”, DMK leaders said the state government was acting on pressure from the Opposition. In 2020-21, for the first time, the state had set aside 7.5% of total MBBS/BDS seats for government students. While all parties unanimously voted for the Bill in the assembly, the legislation was delayed as it was pending government ascent. Only after the DMK staged protests and issued statements condemning the delay, the state government took the executive route and issued a government order. The order became infructuous with the governor’s assent to the Bill next day,” said former higher education minister and DMK leader K Ponmudy. The state selection committee conducted a three-day counselling from Wednesday for allotment on seats. On Friday, the directorate of medical education had asked deans of all government and self-financing colleges to admit government school students who were allotted seats under the 7.5% quota without insisting on fees after verifying their documents including identity cards and certificates. The letter from director of medical education Dr R Narayanababu asked colleges to call students who were turned away for not paying fees. “Why did the government not announce they will pay the fees then?,” asked DMK general secretary Durai Murugan. “It looks like they are waiting to follow the orders of our leader,” he told reporters. However, health minister C Vijayabaskar said no government student had not taken a seat or was denied admission due to lack of funds. When the admissions opened there were 313 MBBS seats and 92 BDS seats 227 seats in 26 government medical colleges and 12 seats in two government dental colleges. Among the 15 self-financing medical colleges and 18 dental self-financing colleges 86 and 80 seats were reserved for students from the government colleges, he said. “At the end of counselling only six BDS seats in self-financing colleges were vacant, that too was not because students did not have money. It was because they wanted to write NEET and attempt MBBS next year,” he said. The government had assured students that it would take care of their fees on the first day of counselling,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/dmk-aiadmk-fight-to-pay-med-fee-students-gain/articleshow/79345457.cms||Pushpa Narayan
November 22, 2020||Kochi||Certified list preparation of Covid voters to begin today||T’puram: The certified list for special postal ballot will be prepared from Sunday onwards for the first phase of local body elections. The special postal ballot will be made available to Covid patients and those in quarantine. The certified list for Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha and Idukki – where polls will be held on Dec 8 – will be prepared by the designated health officer and given to the district election officer on Sunday. The certified lists from Nov 30 to Dec 7, till 3pm will also be handed over each day. The designated health officers of nine other districts – which are not included in phase-I of local body polls – will also prepare the certified list of voters – who are staying in other districts but have votes in phase-I areas, on Sunday. The district election officers will then hand over the list to district election officers in districts where first phase polls will be held. The returning officers shall take steps to send postal ballots to voters staying in other districts. Postal ballot will be allotted after inspecting voters’ list. Once vote is registered, the ballot paper and affidavit containing cover shall be sent via registered post or by a person in such a way that it reaches the officials before the day of counting. Those who are included in certified list will be allowed postal ballot even if they test negative for Covid or complete quarantine period. They cannot turn up directly at polling stations for voting. Relevant sections of Kerala Municipality Act and Kerala Panchayati Raj Act have been amended to entitle two types of electors to vote by postal ballot paper; one who is a Covid patient and one who is in quarantine. They will be called as special voters and the postal ballot issued to them will be called special postal ballot papers. Special voters appearing in certified list after 3pm, prior to the day of poll till the end of poll, will not be issued special poll ballots and they can cast their votes directly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/certified-list-preparation-of-covid-voters-to-begin-today/articleshow/79467389.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Nagpur||Six districts record 25 Covid deaths, cases in Vidarbha spike||NAGPUR: Though five districts in Nagpur and Amravati divisions didn’t report any Covid deaths, the remaining six recorded 25 casualties taking the Vidarbha’s toll to 5,867. Nagpur reported 16 Covid deaths followed by Wardha (4), Chandrapur (2) and one each from Bhandara, Akola and Yavatmal. Nagpur’s fatalities increased in last two days after the per day toll count remained below 10 for a while. Nagpur also reported 363 positive from over 6800 tested samples from RTPCR and RAT at public and private labs. Though the samples have increased, the actual number of infected persons is yet to be ascertained as labs have been overburdened mainly on government’s insistence for RTPCT testing of teachers. On Saturday, a lot of samples were yet to be processed at public labs. Gadchiroli: No Covid death was reported on Saturday. New cases count increased by 119 while 38 recoveries were reported. The district now has 593 active cases, while total cases are 7325. So far, 75 have succumbed to the disease. Washim: For the 11th day in a row, the district now has not reported any Covid death as no fatality was recorded on Saturday as well. The district reported the lowest number of day’s cases in Vidarbha at 7 while 1 patient recovered and got discharged. Buldhana: No death took place while 91 new cases and 66 recoveries were reported on Saturday. The district now has 10,789 cases, 10,214 recoveries, 134 deaths and 441 active cases. Bhandara: The district reported one death, 83 new cases and 25 recoveries on Saturday. The district has 804 active cases. Total caseload is 9,947 cases and 8,904 discharged patients. Gondia: The district reported 159 new cases, 105 recoveries but no deaths. It was the only other district in Nagpur division not to report a Covid death beside Gadchiroli. Akola: The district reported 27 new cases, 15 recoveries and one Covid death on Saturday. The cases tally climbed to 8956. So far, 287 people have died here of Covid. Yavatmal: The district recorded one death, a 77- year-old woman from the city, taking the number to 366. On Saturday, the administration received 1215 test reports of which 30 are positive and the remaining 1185 negative. Amravati: Though the district did not report any death, a spike of 99 cases took the caseload to 17,212 on Saturday. Wardha: Four patients died due to coronavirus and 66 were detected positive for Covid-19 while 70 patients were discharged on Saturday. Two men (aged 86), a 65-year-old woman from Wardha and a 60-year-old man from Karanja died while undergoing treatment. The caseload of the district rose to 7317 and recoveries clocked 6682. The toll rose to 232. Chandrapur: The total figure of active patients dropped below 2000 for the first time after more than two months as 369 patients were discharged on Saturday. There are now 1,976 active patients under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/six-districts-record-25-coviddeaths-cases-in-vid-spike/articleshow/79345452.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
November 22, 2020||Thane||Maharashtra: Trio believed hanging will make them immortal, say cops||THANE: Investigations into the suicides in a forest near Chanda village have revealed that there was a fourth boy who rescued himself from the occult practice. Prima facie the suicides were part of a practice that they would become powerful and as good as immortal and would come down on new moon, on November 14, said a senior officer. The deceased were Nitin Bhere (35), Mahendra Dhubhele (28) and his nephew Mukesh Ghavat (22). There was a fourth pink sari hanging from the tree, for the boy who fled. His claims are being verified. An officer said Behere was a self-proclaimed godman who was suspected to have been practising occult for few months. They stayed away from society and did not participate in social events organised in their village. Police have ruled out homicide for now, based on the boy’s statement. “Behere took four saris from home. Initially, they drank alcohol under the tree. Behere told them that once they wrapped the sari around the neck, their power will be boosted and they could come down easily,” the officer said. “So far we have not found anything incriminating pointing to black magic but Behere was very religious,” said a police officer. Police recovered country liquor and cold drink bottles and edibles from the spot. The three were missing since November 14 and their families registered a missing case with Shahpur police. Their decomposed bodies were found on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/trio-believed-hanging-would-make-them-immortal-cops/articleshow/79344781.cms||Nishikant Karlikar
November 22, 2020||Nagpur||Over 100 farmers detained, released||Yavatmal: Over 100 farmers were detained (73 by city police and 35 by Ghatanji cops) for serving a notice to the district collector M Devendar Singh informing him of their decision to opt for mass suicide by self immolation at his official premises on Saturday. The protest comes in the wake of the Maharashtra government not fulfilling its commitment to farmers. Later, the protesters were released with a stern warning. The previous BJP-Shiv Sena government had introduced the ‘Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Shetkari Samman Yojana-2017’ intending to waive loans of farmers. It also aimed to provide a bonus of Rs.50,000/ to those farmers who paid their instalments regularly. The district administration prepared a list of eligible farmers under the scheme. There was no action on the part of the government despite numerous assurances. Farmers made umpteen representations but to no avail. This year, they suffered huge losses as crops like soybean and cotton were ruined due to excess rains and also due to attacks by red boll worms. The government failed to fulfil its commitment to farmers. Disappointed farmers are committing suicide in the district. The issue of rabbi crops remains unresolved. After getting the notice from farmers, collector Singh alerted the police to take precautionary measures to avert any untoward incident. There was heavy police bundobust in front of the district collector’s office on Saturday. The city police and the police in Ghatanji detained over 100 farmers on their way to Yavatmal. The timely intervention of the police averted the suicide threat given by the farmers. Later, the farmers were released by the police. However, they warned the administration of going ahead with their joint decision. Those detained by the city police include Chandrakant Ingale, Haribhau Jiwane, Ravindra Ahirkar, Tukaram Karwate, Laxman Karwate, Abdul Chavan, Ganesh Hirwar, Ramesh Gawande, Govinda Kale, Pramod Apar, Pandurang Meshram, Rahul Dhawale, Salman Pathan, Gajanan Hepat, Santosh Kothekar, Tulsiram Murghate, Suresh Junghare and others. While talking to the media, Chandrajant Ingale said, “Nobody can stop us from our unanimous decision and we will follow it any time from now. We want the government to implement the welfare scheme for farmers,” said Haribhau Jiwane.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/over-100-farmers-detained-released/articleshow/79345460.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Cops search for 2 missing teens, woman||Coimbatore: The Perur police have launched a search for a 13-year-old girl, a 14-year-old boy and a 20-year-old woman, who went missing from the housing board apartment at Malai Nagar on Thursday. The girl had left a letter stating that she has decided to live somewhere else as her mother kept shouting at her, her parents told police. “She has asked her parents not to search for her. The boy’s parents also approached us after finding their son missing,” a police officer said. Investigation revealed that the kids had left with their neighbour Pavithra, who is married to a milk man. “We found that the girl used to hang out with Pavithra. Her husband had no idea where she was. The children had told their playmates that they were going on a trip for a few days and would call them once they settle down,” the officer said. Cops on Friday traced the 3pm bus, which the trio took to reach Ukkadam. Tracing Pavithra’s phone, which is now switched off, police found that she had called a friend in Ooty to request accommodation. “We have informed and alerted the Ooty police to rescue the children,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cops-search-for-2-missing-teens-woman/articleshow/79345461.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 22, 2020||Coimbatore||CMCH bags award for saving newborns||Coimbatore: The sick newborn care unit (SNCU) of the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) won the first prize for best performance in saving newborn lives at the National Newborn Week 2020 celebrations held in Chennai on Friday. It was followed by the Institute of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, which won the second prize and SNCU in Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, Trichy, which won the third prize. The award was given by health minister C Vijayabaskar. CMCH dean Dr P Kalidas said the hospital enjoyed a high survival rate of newborns. “We have a survival rate of 95% of babies weighing between one and 1.5kg, and a survival rate of 85% among babies who weigh less than 1kg. Our success in handling premature and underweight babies has led to many babies from other districts and even neighbouring Kerala referred to the hospital,” he told TOI. Kalidas attributed the survival rate to factors including successful functioning of the human milk bank, administering pneumococcal vaccine to babies weighing less than 1.5kg and surfactant to premature babies born with respiratory distress. Head of department of pediatrics Dr V Booma said the state government observed the number of child deliveries, number of babies referred from other hospitals, babies born with low weight and number of days taken to discharge mothers and newborns before deciding the award. She said CMCH bagged the first prize under category A—which are the busiest hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cmch-bags-award-for-saving-newborns/articleshow/79345468.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 22, 2020||Goa||One arrested, four rescued in sex racket from Saligao||PANAJI: Crime branch on Saturday busted a prostitution racket. Four survivors were rescued and one person was arrested from Saligao. Crime branch SP Shobhit Saksena told TOI they received a tip-off that some women were brought to a resort in Saligao for prostitution. A team led by PIs Rahul Parab, Mangesh Volvoikar and Anant Gaonkar was formed to verify and act on the information. On Saturday, the team raided the resort and apprehended one Ismail, resident of Caranzalem. Four survivors were placed in protective homes. During interrogation, the accused revealed that he would lure innocent women from other states and push them into prostitution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/1-arrested-4-rescued-in-sex-racket/articleshow/79345470.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Madurai||Ensure child laws are followed promptly in stns: Madurai SP||Madurai: Child welfare police officers in each police station should ensure that laws and rules relating to children are not violated while handling them, said Sujit Kumar, superintendent of police, Madurai district on Saturday.Stating that there was an increase in cases under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act during the lockdown, and a few crime incidents involving juvenile offenders in recent past, Kumar said that existing laws should be followed while handling victim children and juvenile offenders in such cases. “It is the duty of the child welfare police officers to ensure it,” he said.Kumar was speaking in a one-day training programme for child welfare police officers organized by Childline at Madurai Institute of Social Science (MISS) College.“Even if you are busy with some other work, you should keep them aside away and focus on the children in station first. Missing children cases are becoming important issues. You should play an active role in handling them once they are traced,” Kumar told them.He also said that juvenile offenders should be produced only before the juvenile justice board. He asked every child welfare police officer to explain the ways in which children should be handled in the station.Additional superintendent of police S Vanitha said that there is a need to change the mindset among police personnel while handling children. It is also important to know a bit of child psychology apart from rules and laws connected with children.Madurai district child protection officer A Ganesan said that police officials should attend the district-level, block-level and village-level children protection meetings conducted once in three months. “We have been conducting various capacity building exercises for people associated with children protection. Awareness activities too are being held frequently. The increase in the reporting of sexual assault cases against children in recent months could be a result of the awareness,” Ganesan said.Director of Childline, nodal organisation, S Charles, founder and chairman of MISS, D V P Raja, director of Childline, Collab, C Jim Jesudoss and Principal (in-charge) M Nisanth took part.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/ensure-child-laws-are-followed-promptly-in-stns-madurai-sp/articleshow/79346365.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Faridabad||Gurugram breaches 10,000 daily Covid test mark||GURUGRAM: Amid the surge in Covid cases across Haryana, particularly in NCR cities, the state government has significantly scaled up tests in Gurugram this week. On Saturday, Covid tests conducted in the city breached the 10,000 mark for the first time — the highest in a single day so far — sharply up from the previous record of 6,503 on Friday. Of the 10,200 tests conducted on Saturday, 5,700 were RT-PCR while the remaining 4,500 were carried out through rapid antigen kits. On Friday, 5,000 RT-PCR tests were carried out in Gurugram, of the 6,503 samples collected. The remaining 1,503 were rapid antigen tests (RAT). Meanwhile, Thursday’s testing figure in the city was 6,036. Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary (health), said, “At 4.52 lakh till date, Gurugram is currently the highest testing district in Haryana. The city tested 10,200 samples on November 21, a new high in per day testing in the state of Haryana. We also conducted the highest single day tests in Haryana at 35,000.” The state is conducting RT-PCR and antigen tests in the ratio of 70:30, at present. “At present, we are concentrating on increasing testing in Gurugram, Faridabad, Hisar and Rohtak, where the cases are much higher. With these figures in Gurugram, we’ll quickly isolate the Covid cases and bring down the positivity rate,” Arora added. On Saturday, 939 new Covid cases were recorded in the city. The overall Covid tally in the city now stands at 43,557. The health department said that 735 people recovered on Saturday, taking the total number of recoveries to 37,612. “We are conducting mass testing at border areas, markets and malls, which have a potential to generate super-spreaders. Our focus is to ensure isolation of the cases at the earliest,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram. On Friday, tests were conducted at all border areas, including Kapashera and Sirhaul. An official said that three people succumbed to the infection on Saturday. Till date, 259 people have died of Covid-19 in the city, of whom 202 had comorbidities. The city has been witnessing a rise in Covid cases again since October 21. The positivity rate is around 10% as the number has been rising daily. On Saturday, as many as 65 people were sent to institutional quarantine facilities. The city over 5,500 active cases, of whom 5,232 are in home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/daily-tests-breach-10k-for-first-time-939-new-cases/articleshow/79347080.cms||Ipsita Pati
November 22, 2020||Chennai||230 cadets graduate from OTA as parents watch from home||CHENNAI: An IITian who left a well-paying job in Dubai, an army widow out to fulfil her husband’s dreams, a young girl from a poor family in rural Bihar — they were among the 181 gentlemen cadets and 49 women cadets who got their commissions at a passing out parade (POP) held at Officers Training Academy in Chennai on Saturday. Parents, however, couldn’t pin the shining stars onto the cadets’ uniforms during the pipping ceremony as they were not invited due to Covid-19 restrictions. They watched the live-streamed ceremony virtually. Amar Simha, an IIT graduate, said, “Before coming here, I was in Dubai, getting paid well. But I was sitting at a desk, working on a computer the whole day. I was gaining weight and losing my eyesight. The Army is the only organisation where you get paid to stay fit, and you get respected.” OTA has been seeing a trend of techies joining them in the past few years. Meena, from Bhagalpur in Bihar, was happy to fulfill her father’s dream. “Hailing from a humble family in a small village, it was not easy to come up to this level. But my parents, teachers, friends all stood by me.” Fifteen gentlemen cadets and five women cadets from foreign countries were among the graduates. Five gentlemen cadets and three women cadets hailed from Bhutan, two women cadets were from the Maldives while 10 gentlemen cadets were from Afghanistan. Lieutenant General R P Singh, general officer commanding-in-chief of Western Command, reviewed the parade. In his address, he stressed on the relationship between emerging technologies and changing face of soldiering. “There have been sweeping technological advancements in the form of sophisticated weapon systems, electronic warfare devices and force multipliers which have changed the face of conflicts. It is necessary for you to know the changes and reorient your mind,” he said. He presented the sword of honour and gold medal to Varun Ganapathy, silver medal to Mahadev Singh Rathore and bronze medal to Patil Dhiraj Patangrao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/230-cadets-graduate-from-ota-as-parents-watch-from-home/articleshow/79344680.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Dehradun||Nepal border to open for Army pensioners from November 23 to November 28||PITHORAGARH: On the request of the district administration of Baitadi in Nepal, the Pithoragarh district administration has decided to open the suspension bridge at Jhulaghat to facilitate movement of Indian Army pensioners residing in Nepal. Vijay Kumar Jogdande, district magistrate of Pithoragarh, told TOI that the bridge will be opened from November 23 to November 28 between 8 am to 5 pm. He added that instructions have been given to the Sahastra Seema Bal (SSB) which mans the Indi-Nepal border as well as officials of the State Bank of India (where the pensioners have their accounts) to make proper arrangements and follow Covid protocols strictly. As reported by TOI earlier, a number of Gorkha soldiers of Nepalese origin have served in the Indian Army. After retirement, they are settled in their native places in Nepal but they withdraw their pension from the State Bank of India branches situated in the Indian border towns of Dharchula, Jauljibi and Jhulaghat. Although the India-Nepal border is sealed since March 23, it has been opened intermittently to allow movement of people including a couple of times for pensioners. In July, the border was opened for pensioners for three days and in October, too, the border check points at Jauljibi and Dharchula were opened for the Nepalese pensioners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/on-nepals-request-india-to-open-border-entry-points-in-ukhand-from-nov-23-to-nov-28-for-nepalese-indian-army-pensioners-to-withdraw-pension/articleshow/79343450.cms||Prem Punetha
November 22, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram breaches 10,000 daily Covid test mark||GURUGRAM: Amid the surge in Covid cases across Haryana, particularly in NCR cities, the state government has significantly scaled up tests in Gurugram this week. On Saturday, Covid tests conducted in the city breached the 10,000 mark for the first time — the highest in a single day so far — sharply up from the previous record of 6,503 on Friday. Of the 10,200 tests conducted on Saturday, 5,700 were RT-PCR while the remaining 4,500 were carried out through rapid antigen kits. On Friday, 5,000 RT-PCR tests were carried out in Gurugram, of the 6,503 samples collected. The remaining 1,503 were rapid antigen tests (RAT). Meanwhile, Thursday’s testing figure in the city was 6,036. Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary (health), said, “At 4.52 lakh till date, Gurugram is currently the highest testing district in Haryana. The city tested 10,200 samples on November 21, a new high in per day testing in the state of Haryana. We also conducted the highest single day tests in Haryana at 35,000.” The state is conducting RT-PCR and antigen tests in the ratio of 70:30, at present. “At present, we are concentrating on increasing testing in Gurugram, Faridabad, Hisar and Rohtak, where the cases are much higher. With these figures in Gurugram, we’ll quickly isolate the Covid cases and bring down the positivity rate,” Arora added. On Saturday, 939 new Covid cases were recorded in the city. The overall Covid tally in the city now stands at 43,557. The health department said that 735 people recovered on Saturday, taking the total number of recoveries to 37,612. “We are conducting mass testing at border areas, markets and malls, which have a potential to generate super-spreaders. Our focus is to ensure isolation of the cases at the earliest,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram. On Friday, tests were conducted at all border areas, including Kapashera and Sirhaul. An official said that three people succumbed to the infection on Saturday. Till date, 259 people have died of Covid-19 in the city, of whom 202 had comorbidities. The city has been witnessing a rise in Covid cases again since October 21. The positivity rate is around 10% as the number has been rising daily. On Saturday, as many as 65 people were sent to institutional quarantine facilities. The city over 5,500 active cases, of whom 5,232 are in home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/daily-tests-breach-10k-for-first-time-939-new-cases/articleshow/79345475.cms||Ipsita Pati
November 22, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: Elderly likely to be included in priority vaccination list||PUNE: Those above 65 years of age, with underlying conditions, are likely to be included in the priority vaccination list along with frontline workers, central health officials have said. Frontline workers are employees of key civic departments or medical institutions involved in Covid control and care. They include doctors, nurses and staff at jumbo facilities. The National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration is already in the process of drafting a plan to ensure these individuals are inoculated as soon as a vaccine is out. Officials said local administrations that have prepared the list of first recipients will now be asked to ready a similar list of at-risk elderly within their jurisdictions. A health department official said, “The elderly with comorbidities cannot be left out. They have to considered priority. A detailed plan for them is currently awaited.” Data has shown that senior citizens face a greater risk of developing severe Covid-19 because of low immunity and underlying conditions such as diabetes, hypertension and other issues. State health officials said there have been preliminary discussions on the addition of elderly in the priority phase. “The state will finalise the priority database by the end of the month. And if there are new directives, it will be followed,” a state official said. On Wednesday, Odisha said its list of priority groups included pregnant women and elderly. “Other states may take their own decision too as health is a state subject. Of course, these decisions will need the Centre’s nod,” the state official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/elderly-likely-to-be-included-in-priority-vaccination-list/articleshow/79345478.cms||Nisha Nambiar
November 22, 2020||Pune||Patients aged 70 & above show least recovery in PCMC limits||Pune: Covid-19 patients aged 70 and above have shown the least recovery rate in the Pimpri Chinchwad areas as compared to other age groups in the municipal limits, putting focus on the need for better care of the elderly.At 96.9%, more than 86,000 Covid-19 recoveries have been recorded in the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits. Among these, patients aged 70 and above have shown a recovery rate of 87%, while those in the 0-59 age group have shown a recovery rate of 96% and above, a report from the PCMC’s health department has revealed.The report stated that patients in the age group of 60-69 had shown a recovery rate of 92%. According to the November 11 report, there were 11,869 patients in the age group of 60 and above, of whom 10,716 had successfully recovered. This recovery percentage was much lower when compared to the discharges in the age group of 22-59, which accounted for 61,895 recoveries from around 63,000 positive cases.Additional commissioner of PCMC Santosh Patil told TOI that the slightly low recovery rate among the elderly was natural, considering the high-risk factor of the said age group. “The 87% and 92% recovery rate among the elderly is good. It means that we have managed to take good care of the senior citizens,” he said.Patil said, “In all the lockdown and unlock guidelines, senior citizens and children below 5 years have been advised against venturing out unless absolutely necessary.”Abhijit More, health activist, said, “The report once again shows the vulnerability of the senior citizens, who need better protection from the contagion. The working class needs to be more careful about that and should exercise all the necessary safety precautions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/patients-aged-70-above-show-least-recovery-in-pcmc-limits/articleshow/79345482.cms||Piyush Bhusari
November 22, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: Daily infections increase to 914 in PMR on rise in testing||PUNE: The Covid-19 daily tally increased to 914 in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Saturday, its highest in a month, primarily on rise in testing, taking the region’s total caseload above 3.35 lakh. On October 21, the region had added 1,020 cases, following which daily additions continued to remain below 1,000. The cases have gone up after the festive season, primarily on count of rise in testing numbers. According to a report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, the PMC and PCMC limits added 443 and 192 cases, respectively, on Saturday. The rural areas recorded 279 new patients in the last 24 hours. As many as 760 patients were discharged in the region on Saturday, pushing its recovery count above 3.17 lakh. Twelve more patients succumbed to the infection on Saturday, including four each from the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad civic limits and the rural areas. With this, 8,266 people have succumbed to the infection in PMR so far. The tally of active cases in the region rose further to 9,935 on Saturday evening, following a rise in daily cases. Of these, as many as 3,903 patients were admitted in hospitals and 6,032 were in home isolation. The report further stated that region’s daily sample testing surged above 10,000-mark to 10,902. The PMC conducted 4,396 tests on Saturday, while PCMC conducted 3,790 tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/daily-infections-increase-to-914-on-rise-in-testing/articleshow/79345485.cms||Sarang Dastane
November 22, 2020||Goa||Goa: Mining industry jittery over Dharmendra Pradhan’s remark||PANAJI: Mining industry in Goa has raised concerns over Union steel minister Dharmendra Pradhan’s statement that the Centre is not ruling out the possibility of banning iron ore export following the crisis in the domestic market. Presently, the mining industry in Goa is struggling to regain its international market. Mining activities came to a halt in Goa in March 2018 after the apex court quashed the second renewal of 88 leases. However, the state government is leaving no stone unturned to restart mining. Pradhan was interacting with the members of the merchant chamber of commerce and industry (MCCI) via webinar. The stakeholders sought intervention of the ministry to solve the scarcity of ore. “Banning export is solely for the benefit of private players. Today, higher the sale price of ore, the higher will be the royalty and taxes, where the government stands to gain. Ban reduces the earnings of the government and hits the economy, but helps the financials of the private steel sector,” Goa Mineral Ore Exporters Association (GMOEA) president Ambar Timblo said. “Few shipments last season were helpful in re-establishing the market for Goan ore in the international market, though it was a Herculean task. Any ban, even if temporary in nature, will create an uncertainty in the minds of customers. It may become impossible to re-enter that market. Arguably, there is an extremely limited market for such low-grade iron ore,” Vedanta Sesa Goa CMO Nikhil Kulkarni said. He added that ore from Goa was traditionally exported owing to the quality which makes it difficult for the local steel makers to use it. Also, India is a surplus iron ore market and there is abundant availability of medium and high-grade ore across states. Ore extracted in Goa is inherently of lower Fe value. Generally, less than 56% Fe fines are not accepted by the domestic steel manufacturers. Low grade ore used to be primarily exported due to its economic non-usability in the domestic steel industry. As the Goan origin ore is less than 58 grade, Union government had exempted it from export duty in 2015. The step was taken by the then Union finance minister after persistence of former chief minister of Goa and then defence minister Manohar Parrikar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mining-industry-jittery-over-pradhans-remark/articleshow/79345493.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Lucknow||Man accuses cops of harassment in Sitapur, ends life||LUCKNOW: Days after allegedly being thrashed by cops, a 25-year-old man from Sitapur ended his life by consuming a poisonous substance. He died at KGMU trauma centre in Lucknow late on Friday night. The victim, Prayas Tiwari, left behind a suicide note claiming that he was brutally beaten up by Hargaon police in Sitapur on November 18 and decided to end his life as he could not bear the humiliation. According to the note (a copy is in possession of TOI), Prayas and his friend Rohit Jaiswal had gone to market in Hargaon when the incident took place. “I was riding the pillion. I spotted an acquaintance of my friend and asked him if he wanted a lift. However, a lady constable standing nearby thought that I was asking her for the lift and got agitated. She slapped me and also called another policeman who thrashed me and my friend,” the note read. Cops detained the duo at Haragon police station and let them off next morning. “I have never been humiliated so much. I am taking the extreme step for which only the lady constable and her colleague are responsible,” he added. Superintendent of police, Sitapur, RP Singh said a probe had been ordered under an ASP-rank officer and action would be taken on the basis of the findings. “Rohit and his friend passed a comment on the lady constable. They were also challaned on November 18,” he said. Singh said the parents of the victim informed the police after Prayas attempted suicide. “He was sent to district hospital and was later referred to KGMU in Lucknow where he died,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/man-accuses-cops-of-harassment-in-sitapur-ends-life/articleshow/79346378.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Madurai||60% from Madurai ranked under 7.5% quota get seats||Madurai: Thirteen out of the 21 students from Madurai who were eligible and ranked under the new 7.5% quota for medical counselling, have got MBBS/BDS seats in government and private colleges. “This year, with government school students in Madurai scoring only around 200-300 marks, our only hope was the 7.5% quota. It is good to see more students get admission than expected. We are hoping for more government students to get medical seats next year. The government online NEET coaching class has already begun to prepare the students,” said a NEET co-ordinator. He said that they, along with district education officials will continue to provide support to the students who got seats and guide them through the joining process. Of the 13 students, four top rankers have got seats in government medical colleges while the others have got seats in private medical and dental colleges. Except for the three toppers from the district who were repeaters, all other students were current year students. In fact, eight students had scored less than 200 marks and did not harbiur any hopes. “I would have worked much harder if we could have expected for this quota to be introduced. With just 122 marks, I didn’t expect much so I couldn’t believe I had suddenly gotten a chance to go for medical counselling. Though I was aiming to get a medical seat, I was able to at least go for BDS through this. My family is ready to support me,” said Keerthiga M, who got a seat in a private dental college. With the government assuring that the fees will be taken care of, students and parents heaved a sigh of relief.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/60-from-madurai-ranked-under-7-5-quota-get-seats/articleshow/79346374.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 22, 2020||Chennai||Meritorious miss out while some benefit due to quota: Madras HC||CHENNAI: Knowledgeable and deserving students are not able to avail themselves of opportunity in education while students who could not make it on merit but belong to a reserved category enjoy the opportunities, the Madras high court has said. Noting that ‘reservation in higher education has created differences between different sections of the society’, Justice Pushpa Sathyanarayana said: “Due to this (reservation), many students are unable to chase their dreams and succeed. No doubt it is true that the depressed and oppressed people should be given an opportunity for upliftment, without any compromise in quality in higher education.” The judge made the observations while disposing of a plea moved by R S Poorvi, an MBBS graduate who had applied for an EWS certificate to secure a PG medical seat under the 10% EWS quota. Egmore tahsildar rejected the application on grounds that the petitioner’s annual family income was more than Rs 8 lakh, the ceiling to qualify for the quota. The petitioner has moved the present plea challenging the rejection. The judge accepted the petitioner’s explanation that her father did not have any source of income and that the tahsildar erred in assuming her father’s income to be Rs 1.5 lakh. Acceding to the explanation and ordering issuance of EWS certificate to her, the judge said, “Many people are from the forward community but financially backward, their due place should not be denied on account of reservation, which is the object of introducing EWS reservations.” People such as the petitioner, who have scored well in exams through hard work, are given a feeling that they are not given the same treatment and criteria of selection though they belong to the economically weaker section, the court said. Allowing her plea, the court said, “The petitioner, who is otherwise competent, is in a financially disadvantageous position. The policy of the government is to give a push to such people, who hail from the disadvantaged group. That is the reason why it is made clear that the reservation not only includes the backward class, but also the financially backward people.” Though the petitioner belongs to a forward community, as she is economically backward even as per the policy of the government, she has to be given the certificate of economically weaker section to enable her to pursue higher education, the judge added. The court then set aside the rejection order of the tahsildar and directed issuance of the certificate to the petitioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/meritorious-miss-out-while-some-benefit-due-to-quota-hc/articleshow/79344688.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Kolhapur||Covid-19: Two-day curfew in Maharashtra's Pandharpur, annual gathering cancelled||KOLHAPUR: The Solapur district administration has imposed curfew in Pandharpur and 10 surrounding villages from the night of November 24 to 26 and cancelled the annual gathering of Kartiki Ekadashi. The Solapur district administration and police had proposed to the state government to cancel the annual gathering as the Pandharpur taluka has the highest number of Covid-19 cases in Solapur district. The government issued an order to all the district collectors and superintendents of police to ensure that the ‘dindi’ (palanquins) should not leave their respective jurisdictions for Pandharpur. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar is scheduled to perform the traditional puja. Officials said all the vehicles going towards Pandharpur would be stopped at the entry point of Solapur district. As many 1,800 police personnel would be deployed to ensure the successful implementation of the curfew. The administration has also banned taking a holy dip in the Chandrabhaga river from Saturday to December 31. All commercial, religious and other establishments have been issued notices not to offer shelter to anyone coming from outside. The MSRTC’s bus services would remain suspended on November 25 and 26. This is the second time that the procession of the warkaris has been cancelled for this year on account of the Covid-19 outbreak. Ashadhi and Kartiki Ekadashi are the two most important days for warkaris, who come to Pandharpur from across Maharashtra to seek the blessings of Vitthal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/2-day-curfew-in-pandharpurannual-gathering-cancelled/articleshow/79345483.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Madurai||Sparks fly at senate meet over filling vacancies||Madurai: A heated discussion over delay in filling vacancies ensued at the senate meeting held on Saturday, following a resolution that was moved at the Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) academic council meeting on Friday to request the syndicate to take immediate action to fill teaching and non-teaching vacancies at the university. The meeting took place through video conferencing. V Chinniah, head of department of management studies, moved resolutions to request the syndicate to take immediate action to fill all teaching and non-teaching vacancies and fill SC/ST backlog vacancies. There were heated exchanges between Chinnaiah and vice-chancellor M Krishnan after the former questioned delay in filling SC/ST backlog vacancies. The VC assured that all efforts will be taken to fill the vacancies at the earliest following due procedure. Chinnaiah also moved a resolution to request the syndicate to absorb teaching and non-teaching staff with 10 years of experience on consolidated pay basis to fill vacancies. However, the VC and syndicate members stated that only those who had completed 10 years of service as of 2006 could be absorbed and that others had to apply through advertisement or employment agency. The conduct of exams for final semester students and arrear students through a combination of offline and online mode during the pandemic was also discussed at the meeting. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sparks-fly-at-senate-meet-over-filling-vacancies/articleshow/79346381.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 22, 2020||Pune||Confusion over dates tests parents’ patience||Pune: Through most of Saturday, key reversals on school reopening dates by civic bodies kept parents on their toes. Many expressed frustration at what they said was clearly a case of muddled messaging from the state government and the local administrations. “All we were asking for was a date and clear guidelines,” said Sudeep Ray, a Kharadi resident. “My WhatsApp was filled with rumours and queries. Getting a child ready for school during the pandemic was never going to be an easy task. The government should have laid out clear guidelines. And the local administrations should not have allowed so many opinions to circulate.” Others said decision-making around reopening of schools will need more focus. Parag Joshi, a resident of Vimannagar, said, “The government should exercise a lot of caution. There has been so much confusion. Unconfirmed messages on social media have frustrated parents and students.” Some families said there were still a lot of unknowns. Gajanand Daghe, a city-based lawyer, said, “A private school today has at least 2,000 students and nearly 100 staff. Managements have to ensure precautions are kept up. Even with limited batches, this is still a lot of people mingling during a pandemic. We need clearer directions.” Parents also insisted that schools should hold meetings with parents before deciding on reopening. One parent who didn’t wish to be named said school managements could perhaps explore the idea of virtual presentation to explain the precautions that have been taken. “Schools should not be pressured to open. Even if the state sets a date, a school should only open if its management feels ready. We don’t mind delays. I would like to see how my child will be protected in the common areas,” the parent said. But many insisted it was still not the right time to reopen schools, for any batch. Pratiksha Suttar, from Hadapsar, said, “I’m not keen on sending my child back to school just yet. We need to see a bit more improvement on the ground. A second infection wave, experts have said, is likely. Online learning has been working out okay for many. Also, when kids at home step out to play, we can at least ensure they have masks on. But how long do you think those masks are going to stay on at the school playground?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/confusion-over-dates-tests-parents-patience/articleshow/79345490.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
November 22, 2020||Chennai||Cancelled arrears as students were in distress: Goverment to Madras HC||CHENNAI: Justifying its stand in cancelling arrear exams in view of the pandemic, the Tamil Nadu government has informed the Madras high court that the decision was made only to alleviate distress faced by the student community due to Covid-19. It was done to skilfully navigate the course to ensure safety and wellbeing of the students, the state department of higher education said in its affidavit. Denying the argument that such an order would amount to discrimination among students, the department said, “The decision would not demoralise meritorious students as only moderated minimum pass mark is awarded to arrear students.” The submissions were made by M Ilango Henry Dass, joint secretary of the department, in response to a batch of pleas moved by former Anna University vice-chancellor E Balaguruswamy and others challenging the cancellation. “As this situation was unprecedented, students had left their belongings, textbooks, notebooks and laptops in their hostel. Therefore, they had no access to their study material,” the department said. The inaccessibility to college was further compounded when the campuses were used to provide relief material to guest workers and later as Covid quarantine centres, the joint secretary said. He added that as per the guidelines of the UGC, the state constituted a committee to work out the modalities and adopt the UGC guidelines. The decision to cancel the exams were taken only based on the recommendation of the committee. Asserting that the GO was not in violation of UGC guidelines, the department said, “UGC guidelines specifically stated that the guidelines are advisory in nature and each university may chart out its own plan of action taking into consideration the issues pertaining to the pandemic, as its degree of impact varies from region to region.” Therefore, the TN government consulted state universities since conducting exams and evaluation of students is in the exclusive domain of the university concerned and the GO was issued, the department said. “The state government will not lower the education standard of the students and the universities. In the absence of any specific guidelines about arrear papers, the state extended the exemption granted to regular students to arrear students as well to ensure no discrimination,” the department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cancelled-arrears-as-students-were-in-distress-govt-to-hc/articleshow/79344694.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Kolhapur||Pune, other cities not to reopen schools tomorrow||PUNE: Maharashtra’s decision to allow local governing bodies to take a call on reopening schools during Covid-19 triggered widespread confusion across cities, as many municipal corporations took U-Turn on Saturday and resolved to keep the institutes shut beyond November 23 — the date earlier fixed by the state to resume classes in standards IX to XII. Parents, students, school managements and teachers in several cities had to revert to their original plan for online classes after the decision to postpone the reopening was announced. Officials in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad said they were under-prepared for the schools to reopen on Monday. Similar was the situation in cities such as Aurangabad. The Pune zilla parishad, however, decided to go ahead with the school reopening plan on Monday. A day after issuing the standard operating procedures (SOPs) for the schools to reopen for standards IX to XII from Monday, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Saturday decided to postpone the plan till December 13. Education department officials said the teachers were still undergoing Covid-19 tests and inspections on the schools’ preparedness were incomplete. Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “The second Covid-19 wave alert issued by the Centre, coupled with poor response of the parents to send their wards (standards IX to XII) to school, prompted the PMC to postpone the reopening. We decided to keep the schools shut till December 13 based on these factors.” The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) had issued the SOPs related to the schools’ reopening on Monday. But it decided to wait till November 30. PCMC additional commissioner Santosh Patil told TOI, “We decided to defer the schools’ reopening till November 30. The decision on when to resume the schools in December will be communicated later. It will give the schools more time to comply with the SOPs.” The Aurangabad municipal corporation also decided to keep all schools closed till January 3. However, the Aurangabad district authorities said the schools in the rural areas could reopen from Monday. District officials from Latur, Solapur and Kolhapur said the schools could reopen from Monday in accordance with the government guidelines and the standard operating procedures. In Nashik, the decision is expected to be taken during a meeting of district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal with senior officials of the district administration, Nashik Municipal Corporation and the zilla parishad on Sunday. “A large number of parents are not willing to send their children to school. All these issues will be reviewed and a decision will be taken on Sunday,” Bhujbal said. The schools in Kolhapur district will reopen from Monday, but the educational institutions can resume operations only after all teachers and staff have undergone testing. In Solapur city, the schools would reopen on Monday. (With inputs from Piyush Bhusari in Pimpri Chinchwad, Abhijeet Patil in Kolhapur, Prasad Joshi n Aurangabad and Santosh Sonawane in Nashik)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/many-more-civic-bodies-in-state-now-say-wont-reopen-schools-from-tomorrow/articleshow/79347294.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
November 22, 2020||Chennai||Maduravoyal rape, murder: Charges framed against accused||CHENNAI: The Maduravoyal police, who a few weeks ago filed a chargesheet in the case of rape and murder of an 11-year-old girl reported in March, formally framed charges against the accused on Saturday. Suresh, 29, a neighbour who was arrested hours after the girl was found dead, was produced before a Tiruvallur mahila court which posted the next hearing of the case to November 27. V Kannadasan, senior counsel practising in the Madras high court, and lawyer Muthukumaravel represented the deceased girl, whose parents had migrated to Chennai 12 years ago. They were natives of Rajasthan and ran a chaat cart. According to the police chargesheet, the girl had gone missing when she went to use the restroom located in a corridor outside their house on March 21. Her parents woke up in the middle of the night to find her missing and upon searching with police help, found her body dumped in a vacant plot behind their house. The case progress was stalled due to the pandemic. Kanya Babu, co-founder of All India Movement for Service (AIMS), an NGO working with the parents to provide them legal support, said continued support during the pandemic was vital. “The petitioners were shattered over the incident. We continued counselling them even during the Covid-19 pandemic.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/maduravoyal-rape-murder-charges-framed-against-accused/articleshow/79344707.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Nashik||Pune, other cities not to reopen schools tomorrow||PUNE: Maharashtra’s decision to allow local governing bodies to take a call on reopening schools during Covid-19 triggered widespread confusion across cities, as many municipal corporations took U-Turn on Saturday and resolved to keep the institutes shut beyond November 23 — the date earlier fixed by the state to resume classes in standards IX to XII. Parents, students, school managements and teachers in several cities had to revert to their original plan for online classes after the decision to postpone the reopening was announced. Officials in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad said they were under-prepared for the schools to reopen on Monday. Similar was the situation in cities such as Aurangabad. The Pune zilla parishad, however, decided to go ahead with the school reopening plan on Monday. A day after issuing the standard operating procedures (SOPs) for the schools to reopen for standards IX to XII from Monday, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Saturday decided to postpone the plan till December 13. Education department officials said the teachers were still undergoing Covid-19 tests and inspections on the schools’ preparedness were incomplete. Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “The second Covid-19 wave alert issued by the Centre, coupled with poor response of the parents to send their wards (standards IX to XII) to school, prompted the PMC to postpone the reopening. We decided to keep the schools shut till December 13 based on these factors.” The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) had issued the SOPs related to the schools’ reopening on Monday. But it decided to wait till November 30. PCMC additional commissioner Santosh Patil told TOI, “We decided to defer the schools’ reopening till November 30. The decision on when to resume the schools in December will be communicated later. It will give the schools more time to comply with the SOPs.” The Aurangabad municipal corporation also decided to keep all schools closed till January 3. However, the Aurangabad district authorities said the schools in the rural areas could reopen from Monday. District officials from Latur, Solapur and Kolhapur said the schools could reopen from Monday in accordance with the government guidelines and the standard operating procedures. In Nashik, the decision is expected to be taken during a meeting of district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal with senior officials of the district administration, Nashik Municipal Corporation and the zilla parishad on Sunday. “A large number of parents are not willing to send their children to school. All these issues will be reviewed and a decision will be taken on Sunday,” Bhujbal said. The schools in Kolhapur district will reopen from Monday, but the educational institutions can resume operations only after all teachers and staff have undergone testing. In Solapur city, the schools would reopen on Monday. (With inputs from Piyush Bhusari in Pimpri Chinchwad, Abhijeet Patil in Kolhapur, Prasad Joshi n Aurangabad and Santosh Sonawane in Nashik)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/many-more-civic-bodies-in-state-now-say-wont-reopen-schools-from-tomorrow/articleshow/79347295.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
November 22, 2020||Lucknow||PM Modi to launch Rs 5,555-crore water projects for Sonbhadra, Mirzapur||LUCKNOW: Large parts of water deficit areas of Sonbhadra and Mirzapur will finally be connected to piped water networks. On Sunday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually lay the foundation stone for 23 rural piped drinking water schemes for Sonbhadra and Mirzapur. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath will participate in the event from Sonbhadra. Of the schemes which the PM will launch under the Jal Jivan Mission, nine are dedicated to Mirzapur and 14 to Sonbhadra. To ensure water supply to the water starved areas of the Vindhya region, a programme has been started to connect 2,995 villages with a population of over 41 lakh to piped water networks. In Sonbhadra, 14 new schemes will ensure water supply to 1,389 revenue villages with a population of over 19.5 lakh. These schemes will be implemented for Rs 3,212 crore. Similarly, the nine schemes for Mirzapur district will serve 1,606 villages with a population of over 21 lakh. The total cost of these projects is Rs 2,343 crore. The CM has set a deadline of 2022 for the completion of all four phases of the ‘Har Ghar Nal’ scheme under the Jal Jivan Mission. The four phases of the piped water scheme are being implemented first in Bundelkhand, followed by Vindhya, then areas affected by Japanese Encephalitis and Acute Encephalitis Syndrome, and then those along the Ganga which are affected by arsenic and fluoride. Work is already going on under the first phase in the districts of Jhansi, Lalitpur and Mahoba in Bundelkhand. The PM had set a deadline of 2024 for the implementation of the ‘Har Ghar Nal’ scheme across the country but efforts are being made to complete it by 2022. The Centre, through Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, has assured the state that it will not face any shortage of funds for this project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/modi-to-launch-rs-5555-crore-water-projects-for-sonbhadra-mirzapur/articleshow/79346382.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Pune||Pune, other cities not to reopen schools tomorrow||PUNE: Maharashtra’s decision to allow local governing bodies to take a call on reopening schools during Covid-19 triggered widespread confusion across cities, as many municipal corporations took U-Turn on Saturday and resolved to keep the institutes shut beyond November 23 — the date earlier fixed by the state to resume classes in standards IX to XII. Parents, students, school managements and teachers in several cities had to revert to their original plan for online classes after the decision to postpone the reopening was announced. Officials in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad said they were under-prepared for the schools to reopen on Monday. Similar was the situation in cities such as Aurangabad. The Pune zilla parishad, however, decided to go ahead with the school reopening plan on Monday. A day after issuing the standard operating procedures (SOPs) for the schools to reopen for standards IX to XII from Monday, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Saturday decided to postpone the plan till December 13. Education department officials said the teachers were still undergoing Covid-19 tests and inspections on the schools’ preparedness were incomplete. Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “The second Covid-19 wave alert issued by the Centre, coupled with poor response of the parents to send their wards (standards IX to XII) to school, prompted the PMC to postpone the reopening. We decided to keep the schools shut till December 13 based on these factors.” The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) had issued the SOPs related to the schools’ reopening on Monday. But it decided to wait till November 30. PCMC additional commissioner Santosh Patil told TOI, “We decided to defer the schools’ reopening till November 30. The decision on when to resume the schools in December will be communicated later. It will give the schools more time to comply with the SOPs.” The Aurangabad municipal corporation also decided to keep all schools closed till January 3. However, the Aurangabad district authorities said the schools in the rural areas could reopen from Monday. District officials from Latur, Solapur and Kolhapur said the schools could reopen from Monday in accordance with the government guidelines and the standard operating procedures. In Nashik, the decision is expected to be taken during a meeting of district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal with senior officials of the district administration, Nashik Municipal Corporation and the zilla parishad on Sunday. “A large number of parents are not willing to send their children to school. All these issues will be reviewed and a decision will be taken on Sunday,” Bhujbal said. The schools in Kolhapur district will reopen from Monday, but the educational institutions can resume operations only after all teachers and staff have undergone testing. In Solapur city, the schools would reopen on Monday. (With inputs from Piyush Bhusari in Pimpri Chinchwad, Abhijeet Patil in Kolhapur, Prasad Joshi n Aurangabad and Santosh Sonawane in Nashik)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/many-more-civic-bodies-in-state-now-say-wont-reopen-schools-from-tomorrow/articleshow/79345494.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
November 22, 2020||Aurangabad||Pune, other cities not to reopen schools tomorrow||PUNE: Maharashtra’s decision to allow local governing bodies to take a call on reopening schools during Covid-19 triggered widespread confusion across cities, as many municipal corporations took U-Turn on Saturday and resolved to keep the institutes shut beyond November 23 — the date earlier fixed by the state to resume classes in standards IX to XII. Parents, students, school managements and teachers in several cities had to revert to their original plan for online classes after the decision to postpone the reopening was announced. Officials in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad said they were under-prepared for the schools to reopen on Monday. Similar was the situation in cities such as Aurangabad. The Pune zilla parishad, however, decided to go ahead with the school reopening plan on Monday. A day after issuing the standard operating procedures (SOPs) for the schools to reopen for standards IX to XII from Monday, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Saturday decided to postpone the plan till December 13. Education department officials said the teachers were still undergoing Covid-19 tests and inspections on the schools’ preparedness were incomplete. Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “The second Covid-19 wave alert issued by the Centre, coupled with poor response of the parents to send their wards (standards IX to XII) to school, prompted the PMC to postpone the reopening. We decided to keep the schools shut till December 13 based on these factors.” The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) had issued the SOPs related to the schools’ reopening on Monday. But it decided to wait till November 30. PCMC additional commissioner Santosh Patil told TOI, “We decided to defer the schools’ reopening till November 30. The decision on when to resume the schools in December will be communicated later. It will give the schools more time to comply with the SOPs.” The Aurangabad municipal corporation also decided to keep all schools closed till January 3. However, the Aurangabad district authorities said the schools in the rural areas could reopen from Monday. District officials from Latur, Solapur and Kolhapur said the schools could reopen from Monday in accordance with the government guidelines and the standard operating procedures. In Nashik, the decision is expected to be taken during a meeting of district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal with senior officials of the district administration, Nashik Municipal Corporation and the zilla parishad on Sunday. “A large number of parents are not willing to send their children to school. All these issues will be reviewed and a decision will be taken on Sunday,” Bhujbal said. The schools in Kolhapur district will reopen from Monday, but the educational institutions can resume operations only after all teachers and staff have undergone testing. In Solapur city, the schools would reopen on Monday. (With inputs from Piyush Bhusari in Pimpri Chinchwad, Abhijeet Patil in Kolhapur, Prasad Joshi n Aurangabad and Santosh Sonawane in Nashik)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/many-more-civic-bodies-in-state-now-say-wont-reopen-schools-from-tomorrow/articleshow/79347296.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
November 22, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: 10-minute plastic surgery with ‘artificial skin’ now at SGPGI||LUCKNOW: Patients requiring re-constructive surgery to cover a wound, burn or scarring remnants of cancer now have the option of getting ‘artificial skin’ without the hassles of skin transplants such as time taken and prognosis. The department of plastic surgery at SGPGI has successfully used artificial skin for the first time in the state for healing two patients this week. According to experts, there are primarily two methods for covering a wound—grafting and the use of ‘flap’. For both techniques, skin from an inconspicuous part of the body such as thigh is used. “Many times, it so happens that the patient’s own skin cannot be used, such as in case of septicemia, skin disease, etc. Artificial skin known as dermal template is easily available in sheets which can be cut to size by a pair of scissors,” explained the head of SGPGI’s plastic surgery department Prof Rajiv Agarwal. Of the two patients at the institute, one had a tumour of the cheek and another had sustained burn scars. The technique which has been widely used in the US for over 15 years has been made available in the Indian market a few years ago. “Skin grafting uses the epidermis and a small part of the dermis layer. After a period of time, this skin gets shrivelled and shrunken. For a flap, a thicker section of the skin containing both the epidermis, dermis and other layers is used. This takes around two hours to be done,” he added. “But, artificial skin takes only 10 minutes to be transplanted. As it is made of fat naturally present in bovine, it substitutes for the dermis layer and after 21 days, a small grafting is done to provide the missing epidermis,” said Prof Agarwal. Though costlier than the other two methods, an ease of re-constructive surgery comes with artificial skin, especially in the case of serious patients as very little time is taken for the process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/10-minute-plastic-surgery-with-artificial-skin-now-at-sgpgi/articleshow/79346389.cms||Yusra Husain
November 22, 2020||Goa||Luizinho Faleiro writes to Goa governor over infrastructural projects||MARGAO: Navelim Congress MLA Luizinho Faleiro has written to Goa governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari over the people’s growing opposition to the three infrastructural projects passing through Mollem. He has stressed on the need for the government to understand people’s sentiments against the projects and “withdraw them forthwith”. He said that that the three “ill-conceived” projects “have been dumped upon the state much against the wishes of the people of Goa”. “It is essential to understand the people’s sentiments against these projects and withdraw them forthwith as the administration cannot and should not bulldoze projects upon people which are being opposed for genuine reasons,” Faleiro said in the letter. “I stand in complete solidarity with the people of Goa in opposing the three projects which will surely spell doom for Goa and Goans.” Expressing his anguish over deployment of armed police at the sites of the railways double tracking work, Faleiro urged the governor to “prevail upon the government to withdraw the armed politicians from the said sites.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/faleiro-writes-to-guv-over-infra-projects/articleshow/79345574.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Covid hits boy’s intestine, dad’s donation saves him||MUMBAI: Due to a rare post-Covid complication, a 10-year -old boy from Mahad in the state developed a massive gangrene in his small intestine, needing a transplant. Om Ghule received 200cm of small intestine from his father, Santosh, on November 4, and has healed well enough to have his first dal-chawal meal in three months on Saturday. Doctors of Jupiter Hospital (Thane and Pune), where the child is being treated, claimed Om is the world’s first paediatric patient to undergo a living donor small bowel transplant after a Covid infection. The child had to travel to three cities for help, undergo four surgeries and a transplant in a span of three months. Case of intestine transplant shows how stealthily dangerous Covid isA case similar to Om’s was reported in Italy, but with a fatal outcome, said infectious diseases specialist Dr Rajiv Soman, who is a part of the team treating the boy. Om’s experience underlines why the SARS-CoV-2-causing Covid-19 is a dangerous and mischievous virus. He had no symptoms of Covid-19, but a month later developed multisystem inflammatory syndrome that doctors now recognise as a post-Covid marker among children under 15 . When Om developed acute abdominal pain at home in Mahad, no one had a clue that a post-Covid reaction—clotting-—was the cause. On August 8, his parents rushed him to a private hospital in Panvel where doctors found the clot and a massive gangrene in his small intestine. They operated on him a second time to remove the dead intestinal tissues. He was transferred from Panvel to Jupiter Hospital, Thane, on August 28 as it has a transplant team. “Two small portions of his small intestine were left behind, but we had to operate on him a third time to remove them as well due to infection,” said transplant surgeon Gaurav Chaubal. A fourth operation was also done to clear up further infection. For almost two months, Om was ‘fed’ through intravenously (parental nutrition) from special ports fitted in his neck. Om was listed for a cadaveric small intestinal transplant and was on the waiting list for almost three months. “During this time, he would long to eat and also started developing complications related to parental nutrition. His liver function was getting affected,” said Dr Chaubal. Moreover, the Thane hospital couldn’t get a licence to perform small intestinal transplant due to Covid-related delays. On November 4, instead of waiting longer, the child was transferred to Jupiter Hospital, Pune, that has a licence for the transplant. Living donors can safely donate 40% of their intestine as the remaining intestine can fulfil normal digestive and absorptive functions. The child’s father volunteered to donate a part of his intestine and, on November 5, a team of surgeons led by Chaubal performed the surgery. While the retrieval operation took five hours, the transplant took another 10 hours. Doctors said Om would be able to lead a normal life, but has to take immunosuppressant drugs. He is scheduled to get discharged after seven days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-covid-hits-boys-intestine-dads-donation-saves-him/articleshow/79345497.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Covid hits boy’s intestine, dad’s donation saves him||MUMBAI: Due to a rare post-Covid complication, a 10-year -old boy from Mahad in the state developed a massive gangrene in his small intestine, needing a transplant. Om Ghule received 200cm of small intestine from his father, Santosh, on November 4, and has healed well enough to have his first dal-chawal meal in three months on Saturday. Doctors of Jupiter Hospital (Thane and Pune), where the child is being treated, claimed Om is the world’s first paediatric patient to undergo a living donor small bowel transplant after a Covid infection. The child had to travel to three cities for help, undergo four surgeries and a transplant in a span of three months. Case of intestine transplant shows how stealthily dangerous Covid isA case similar to Om’s was reported in Italy, but with a fatal outcome, said infectious diseases specialist Dr Rajiv Soman, who is a part of the team treating the boy. Om’s experience underlines why the SARS-CoV-2-causing Covid-19 is a dangerous and mischievous virus. He had no symptoms of Covid-19, but a month later developed multisystem inflammatory syndrome that doctors now recognise as a post-Covid marker among children under 15 . When Om developed acute abdominal pain at home in Mahad, no one had a clue that a post-Covid reaction—clotting-—was the cause. On August 8, his parents rushed him to a private hospital in Panvel where doctors found the clot and a massive gangrene in his small intestine. They operated on him a second time to remove the dead intestinal tissues. He was transferred from Panvel to Jupiter Hospital, Thane, on August 28 as it has a transplant team. “Two small portions of his small intestine were left behind, but we had to operate on him a third time to remove them as well due to infection,” said transplant surgeon Gaurav Chaubal. A fourth operation was also done to clear up further infection. For almost two months, Om was ‘fed’ through intravenously (parental nutrition) from special ports fitted in his neck. Om was listed for a cadaveric small intestinal transplant and was on the waiting list for almost three months. “During this time, he would long to eat and also started developing complications related to parental nutrition. His liver function was getting affected,” said Dr Chaubal. Moreover, the Thane hospital couldn’t get a licence to perform small intestinal transplant due to Covid-related delays. On November 4, instead of waiting longer, the child was transferred to Jupiter Hospital, Pune, that has a licence for the transplant. Living donors can safely donate 40% of their intestine as the remaining intestine can fulfil normal digestive and absorptive functions. The child’s father volunteered to donate a part of his intestine and, on November 5, a team of surgeons led by Chaubal performed the surgery. While the retrieval operation took five hours, the transplant took another 10 hours. Doctors said Om would be able to lead a normal life, but has to take immunosuppressant drugs. He is scheduled to get discharged after seven days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/maharashtra-covid-hits-boys-intestine-dads-donation-saves-him/articleshow/79347097.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Nashik||One of 4 highway robbers arrested for looting trader in Maharashtra||NASHIK: The Nashik rural police arrested a man from Andheri (West) in Mumbai for allegedly robbing a trader near Ozar on the Mumbai-Agra highway on November 16. The accused has been identified as Aman Hiralal Verma (35), resident of Samata Nagar, Gulmohar Cross Road, Andheri (West), Mumbai. Police said trader Umesh Gade was on his way to Nashik city in his MUV when four people asked for a ride. After sitting in the MUV, one of them held a pistol to the trader’s head, tied covered his eyes and robbed him of his cash, a silver bracelet, silver finger ring, watch and also his MUV— all totalling to Rs 5.05 lakh. Superintendent of Nashik rural police Sachin Patil instructed the officials of the local crime branch to conduct a joint investigation. After checking the CCTV footage, police learned the culprits had escaped to Mumbai. The police then got a tip-off that the MUV was spotted in Vasai. The police rushed to Vasai and after keeping a watch for two days, they laid a trap to arrest the culprits. However, the culprits managed to flee leaving the MUV behind. Later, with the help of the Mumbai police, Verma was arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/one-of-4-highway-robbers-arrested-for-looting-trader/articleshow/79345501.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Nagpur||2nd marriage while divorce case is pending isn’t contempt: HC||Nagpur: The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court has held that a second marriage during pendency of divorce appeal isn’t a contempt of court.“Second marriage performed by the husband in contravention of Section 15 of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955, wouldn’t fall within the purview of clause (b) of Section 2 of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971. Therefore, it can’t be held that he committed a ‘civil contempt’,” justice Anil Kilor ruled.Rejecting a contempt plea by a woman from Akola, the judge clarified that the Hindu Marriage Act allows a person to remarry only after any appeal against a decree of divorce has been dismissed. “From various Supreme Court judgments, it’s clear that having not been provided consequences in respect of marriage performed in contravention of the Hindu Marriage Act, it can’t be said that such marriage would be void. At the same time, no provision for punishment is provided in the same Act for contravention,” he said.“I am of the considered view that performing a second marriage during pendency of appeal would be a contravention or a breach of prohibition stipulated under Hindu Marriage Act. But in any case, it wouldn’t amount to disobedience of any court’s command. Consequently, such act wouldn’t fall within ambit of the expression ‘wilful disobedience of other process of a court’ under the Contempt Act,” Justice Kilor added.The husband had filed a divorce case against the petitioner wife under the Hindu Marriage Act following differences in their marriage solemnized on December 28, 2003. He cited grounds of cruelty and desertion, which was opposed by her. The Akola court dismissed his petition on October 29, 2009, holding that he failed to prove cruelty and desertion.The husband, a teacher, then challenged this verdict in the civil appeal, where he was granted divorce. The wife then filed a second appeal challenging the divorce in high court, which was pending. However, the 40-year-old man entered into wedlock for the second time, which the wife challenged in HC. She contended that it was in contravention of Section 15 of the Hindu Marriage Act, which is a wilful disobedience of ‘other process of a Court’ as provided by Section 2(b) of the Contempt Act.“I am of the considered view that the expression ‘wilful disobedience of process of a court used under Contempt Act, must also be related to disobedience of some command issued by the court that includes various stages between filing of any proceeding and final decision,” justice Kilor said.WHAT HC SAID* Hindu Marriage Act allows person to remarry only after any appeal against divorce is dismissed* No consequences regarding contravention due to remarriage during pendency is provided in Act* No provision for punishment is provided in same Act for contravention* It can’t be said that such marriage would be void* Remarriage during pendency wouldn’t amount to disobedience of any court’s command* It doesn’t fall under ‘wilful disobedience of other process of a court’ under Contempt Act||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2nd-marriage-while-divorce-case-is-pending-isnt-contempt-hc/articleshow/79345506.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
November 22, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur city to face water cuts tomorrow||Kolhapur: Around 70% of Kolhapur city will face water cuts on Monday and the supply will be at low pressure on Tuesday as the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) will carry out electrical repair works at the Shingnapur pumping station. Shingnapur pumping station supplies drinking water to A, B and E wards of the city. Narayan Bhosale, the acting chief hydraulic engineer said, “We have planned the repair works for Monday. However, it takes time to restore water supply at normal pressure when the power supply is stopped completely. But we will ensure water is supplied at normal pressure from Tuesday evening. “Some areas may have to face stringent water cuts. For such areas we are planning to deploy more water tankers. All local officials have been asked to be alert during water cuts,” he said. Bhosale said the citizens can place request for tankers through the toll free helpline-18002331913. They can get the tanker within an hour. Kolhapur city faces water cuts very often. But due to the strict directions of civic chief Kadambari Balkawade, there were no water cuts during Diwali. Earlier, the locals would reach out to the corporators for tankers but now the corporators have no role as their tenure has ended. Now, the citizens have to approach the officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-city-to-face-water-cuts-tomorrow/articleshow/79345534.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata fights viruses with Covid-like symptoms||KOLKATA: With the change in season, there has been a spurt in the number of patients suffering from seasonal flu that has got overlapping symptoms with Covid-19, say doctors. It is not only confusing and scaring patients but also making it difficult for doctors to detect the ailment and prescribe medicines. Fever, cough, runny nose, body aches are symptoms that are common to both Covid and the ordinary flu. Doctors said that if it wasn’t for the pandemic, rest, rehydration and medication for fever and allergy would have sufficed. But with Covid around, they need to find out if the symptoms have been triggered by Covid infection. “In the times of this pandemic, it is difficult to diagnose whether it is just any viral infection or Covid. In Covid, fever is expected to be followed by cough and cold and vice versa. The symptoms are similar in other viral infections, too. But the demarcation line is very thin. At the end of the day, we need to rule out any kind Covid infection,” said internal medicine specialist Arindam Biswas of RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences. TimesViewThe health system must keep in mind the seasonal viral diseases as well. This is the usual dengue-malaria season and the pre-existing virals, too, can be debilitating.In addition to the seasonal flu doctors are also expecting cases viral infections like swine flu, adenovirus and rhinovirus. “The challenge during this seasonal change is to detect that the fever, cough and cold that a patient is having is non-Covid. If it was not for the pandemic, people suffering from such symptoms could have just stayed at home, drunk plenty of water and taken anti-allergy as well as fever medication. But because of the pandemic, the golden rule is to exclude the possibility of Covid infection,” said internal medicine specialist at Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals Syamasis Bandyopadhyay. “So, people should not get annoyed if they are told to go for a Covid test if they have these overlapping symptoms.” Even as Covid has been sparing to kids mostly, they like the elderly and those with co-morbidities, are susceptible to seasonal flu and other viral ailments Currently, paediatrician Prabhas Parsun Giri sees around 20 children in the OPD every day for symptoms of seasonal flu. He tries to take down family history, like if someone elder at home has fever and other symptoms or not before asking to take a Covid test. “It is a tough job to distinguish between symptoms of winter exacerbation of other respiratory illness and that of Covid. Seasonal flu is very common, especially among children, during this time. Besides the seasonal flu and other viral infections, we fear a rise in incidence of various types of non-Covid pneumonia, which will add more challenges to doctors,” said Giri. With winter almost here and pollution level likely to go up, doctors also there would be further escalation in number of other respiratory ailments, like asthma and COPD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-fights-viruses-with-covid-like-symptoms/articleshow/79345554.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
November 22, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Work on 119-km metro phase 2 begins||CHENNAI: With Union home minister Amit Shah presiding virtually over the groundbreaking event of the 118.9km phase-2 metro rail project on Saturday, construction began with an excavator digging the earth for an underground station at Villivakkam. It will be among the few stations to be built in tough soil conditions. A total of 23 tunnel boring machines (TBM) are expected to work in tandem to construct tunnels covering 42.6km for the phase which, with 128 stations along three corridors, is estimated to cost Rs 61,843 crore and is expected to be ready by 2026. At Villivakkam, officials said, work has begun to relocate units of a Chennai Metrowter sewage pumping station, where Villivakkam metro station would be built under a densely populated area. Villivakkam is among the five stations between Retteri and Nathamuni on corridor 5 from Madhavaram to Sholinganallur, which has thick hard rock formations where building tunnels and stations could be an engineering challenge and pose a risk of slowing down work. Other locations identified with rock formations are KMC to Chetpet on corridor-3 and Nandanam to Panagal Park on corridor-4. As stations start to take shape, tunnelling will begin in several locations at the same time as CMRL has split the underground section into small portions for awarding separate contracts to prevent delays. Officials said at least 15 TBMs will be operated at the same time to construct twin tunnels covering 26.7km on corridor 3, four TBMs each in 10.1km underground line of corridor-4 and 5.8km underground line on corridor-5. During the launch of the project, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami requested Shah to intervene for early approval and Centre’s participation in the project with 50:50 equity sharing model. “Centre has suggested to provide only 10% cost as grant instead of providing 15% as share capital. Since Centre’s grant will affect the present share-holding pattern and such grant is also revenue expenditure, we have been requesting it to consider the support as share capital, which is taken as capital expenditure with a sharing pattern of 50:50 between Centre and state,” Palaniswami said. The CM also said the 9km phase-1 extension from Washermenpet to Wimco Nagar is expected to be commissioned in January 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/work-on-119-km-metro-phase-2-begins/articleshow/79344744.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Nagpur||4,483 rebels, 2,958 jawans killed in last 20 yrs: Maoists docu||Nagpur: A recovered ‘message’ of the Central Military Commission of the banned Communist Party of India (Maoist) has revealed that Maoists have lost 4,483 cadres, including 839 women, in the last 20 years in their fight against security forces in affected states. The message recovered by security forces also includes an instruction to Maoist formations across the country to form ‘sniper teams’, smaller squads and similar formations to launch attacks and wipe out police information network. The document — a copy is with TOI — stated that the Maoist’s topmost military body believes 2,958 security personnel were killed by them in two decades in the guerrilla zone. According to an internal report, the Maoists’ guerrilla fighters have also injured 3,507 security personnel and robbed around 3,208 modern weapons along with 1.52 rounds of ammunitions. It also mentioned its successes, from Bihar-Jharkhand to Chhattisgarh, Odisha-Andhra Pradesh border and different other places. The document also threw light on expansion plans in the Western Ghats, Maharashtra-Chhattisgarh border areas and other places where Maoists are currently trying to regain control from security forces. The sensitive document, which appealed the cadres to ‘expand-intensify class struggle-guerrilla war all over the country’ and also celebrate the 20th anniversary of the formation of the Peoples’ Liberation Guerrilla Army (PLGA), revealed a nationwide plan of the rebels to take on the estimated six lakhs security forces deployed in their strongholds. As per the document, the Maoists have so far undertaken 208 major operations, 318 medium-scale warfare and 3,948 smaller actions in the last two decades against the security forces. In 2020, Maoists undertook around 99 operations against the security forces, it stated. The Maoist military commissions have renewed its appeal regarding countering Samadhan (2019-2022) scheme launched by the Central government and Prahar scheme activated by K Vijaykumar, special security adviser to the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) across 30 districts in India to eliminate the rebel movement. Analysing newer tactics adopted by the security forces, the rebels have stated in the document about commandos circling them in multiple layers before launching attacks with firepower and grenade launchers. The document also mentioned the tactical faults and mistakes the Maoist guerrillas committed repeatedly leading to losses. The discovery of the document, it is learnt, has triggered brainstorming sessions among the security think tanks to counter Maoist’s military commission’s move to confront forces deployed in the guerrilla zones and areas liberated as per their claims. “We are devising new strategies and tactics based on the information received regarding the Maoists plan,” said a security official on the condition of anonymity. “They (Maoists) are now appealing their cadre to shift the focus and strategy of using the PLGA, which comprises of trained guerrillas, to form Peoples’ Liberation Army (PLA) which would include masses, supporters and armed rebels too for expanding their dominations and controlled areas,” said the official. The Maoists have also told the cadres that they have been so far fighting the mighty security forces with improvised artilleries, gunpowder, arrow bombs, booby traps, claymore mines and others weaponry made using available local resources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/4483-rebels-2958-jawans-killed-in-last-20-yrs-maoists-docu/articleshow/79345579.cms||Soumitra Bose
November 22, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad police nab man in haj pilgrim cheating case||AURANGABAD: City Chowk police have nabbed a 44-year-old tour operator who was on the wanted list for more than a year in a cheating case involving alleged duping of haj pilgrims. The accused has been identified as Mohammed Shujauddin, a resident of Nagsen Colony. Police said Shujauddin was produced before the court on Friday and was then remanded in four-day police custody. In the same case, the police had arrested Syed Aqil Ali on November 27, 2019, on the charges of cheating haj pilgrims to the tune of several lakhs of rupees. During the probe, it was found that haj aspirants had been duped to the tune of Rs 18.6 lakh by VIP International Hajj Umrah services in 2019. Police said one Mohammed Minhajuddin (57) had paid over Rs 9 lakh for two of his family members going on the pilgrimage through Syed Aqil Ali’s travel firm. They were issued tickets for a flight to Saudi Arabia from Mumbai. However, when the family reached the Mumbai airport on August 4, 2019, they were prevented from boarding the flight, allegedly because their tickets were forged. The tour operator, on the pretext of getting new tickets, kept them waiting for three days in Mumbai. Eventually, the family returned to Aurangabad and sought the money back, but the suspect kept avoiding them. Minhajuddin lodged a police complaint following which a cheating case was registered. During the probe, Shujauddin’s name cropped with multiple complainants coming forward with allegations that they had been cheated of Rs 18.6 lakh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-police-nab-man-in-haj-pilgrim-cheating-case/articleshow/79345589.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Kolkata||Posta flyover inspection||Kolkata: An inspection of the collapsed Posta flyover was carried out by KMDA, PWD and traffic police on Saturday. A temporary strengthening and stabilization work was carried out. “State officials will decide whether the structure would be retained or dismantled,” an official said. The expert panel is reportedly not keen on keeping it due to its faulty design and poor materials. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/posta-flyover-inspection/articleshow/79345608.cms||Suman Chakraborti
November 22, 2020||Lucknow||IAF to inspect airstrip on Purvanchal e-way||LUCKNOW: As the ambitious project of Purvanchal Expressway construction is nearing its completion, a team of the Indian Air Force officials is likely to visit the construction site and inspect the airstrip on the expressway next week. Chief executive officer of the Uttar Pradesh Expressways Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA), Awanish Awasthi told TOI on Saturday that the airstrip for the fighter planes near Kudebhar in Ambedkarnagar district is ready but it has to be inspected IAF authorities who have expressed their willingness to visit it next week. Awasthi further said that 64% of the physical construction work of Purvanchal Expressway is complete and he has directed the UPEIDA authorities for speedy completion of the main bridges and railway over bridges (ROBs). The UPEIDA CEO went on an inspection on Saturday and checked the quality of road construction. Awasthi expressed satisfaction at the progress of work and said that despite the pandemic and lockdown, the speed of the project was praiseworthy and it would be ready by mid-January next year for being dedicated to the public. The UPEIDA CEO has been making regular inspections to check the quality of construction and work speed and has issuing necessary directions to the officials and engineers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/iaf-to-inspect-airstrip-on-purvanchal-e-way/articleshow/79346395.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 22, 2020||Mumbai||Indian co had adverse event during vaccine trial; experts push for transparency||Mumbai: Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech’s potential Covid-19 vaccine reported a serious adverse event during clinical trials in August, even as it has now initiated Phase III. The adverse event occurred in a 35-year old participant with no comorbidities, who was part of Phase 1 trials in August, investigators monitoring the study confirmed to TOI on condition of anonymity. The company also tweaked its trial protocol for Phase II, with the dosing regimen modified from 14 days to 28 days, and the number of participants nearly halved to 380 from the earlier 750, sources added. Bharat Biotech, in collaboration with apex research body Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), has developed Covaxin, an inactivated virus vaccine, for which it commenced Phase III clinical trials on November 16, involving around 26,000 participants. The adverse event did not lead to any life-threatening reaction, and hence, was categorised as “not severe and related to the vaccine”, they added. The participant, undergoing the trial at a western India site, was hospitalised with viral pneumonitis, a couple of days after being administered the vaccine. He was discharged after a week. When contacted, a spokesperson from Bharat Biotech said: “We have reported the adverse event to the DCGI office.” The company did not respond to the questionnaire despite repeated attempts. The findings have been reported to the Ethics committee, and Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO), and were also taken up by the Subject Expert Group, a government panel on Covid-19, sources said. Side-effects or adverse events are routine in large-scale trials, and globally, MNCs AstraZeneca and Johnson & Johnson had paused their vaccine trials due to serious adverse events, only to re-start them after a thorough investigation. Experts say there is lack of transparency when it comes to vaccine clinical trials in India. As against this, globally, pharma biggies including Pfizer and Moderna have announced detailed data. Recently, the US Food and Drug Administration said it is fully committed to transparency regarding emergency approvals around Covid-19 drugs and vaccines, and will publicly disclose the review of scientific data. “Transparency is key to building trust and public confidence in Covid-19 vaccines that may receive approval. Given the extensive and continuing role of the government in developing this vaccine, the agreement between ICMR & Bharat Biotech should be made public. We do not know whether the government is retaining rights or the terms for commercialisation,” said Malini Aisola, co-convenor of All India Drug Action Network, a civil society organisation working for patients’ rights. The ‘indigenous’ Covid-19 vaccine has courted several controversies from the start, with questions raised initially about unduly fast tracking the regulatory process, role of the government and ICMR’s conflict of interest in its development.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/indian-co-had-adverse-event-during-vaccine-trial-experts-push-for-transparency/articleshow/79345624.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
November 22, 2020||Goa||Goa police don’t file FIRs as crime rate would spiral: Top cop||PANAJI: Police officers in the state were reluctant to register FIRs in theft cases as it would increase the crime rate, but they have been told to do so, director general of police (DGP) Mukesh Kumar Meena said on Saturday. He said that Goa police want a drug-free state as narcotics tarnish the state’s image. “We have told the officers that if any person comes to a police station to register a theft case, a house robbery or dacoity, then it has to be done,” Meena told reporters. Asked if there is any specific gang or time for committing thefts in the state, the DGP said that there is no particular gang operating across the state, but there are some gangs in North and South Goa. “When I joined the force and went through the police diary, I found that though cases of house theft, vehicle theft, simple theft and mobile theft were happening, the personnel and the public were hesitant to register them,” he said. Due to registration of theft cases, a record will be maintained and crimes will reduce in the long run, the DGP said. Meena said that Goa police will deploy sufficient personnel to avoid any problem for hosting ISL in the state. He said that around 900 police personnel tested positive for Covid, but fortunately there was no casualty. The DGP said that police have been told to maintain cleanliness at all police stations. Meena said that parents should take care of children and guide them so that they are not attracted to drugs. Goa police is working to bring down drug cases in the state, he said. “We are alert and all agencies are taking action,” Meena said. Those coming to Goa for partying or touring are welcome, but action would be taken against those coming to sell or consume drugs, the DGP said. He said due to police action, drug activities have decreased in the state. Asked why the police force does not reach the source of the drugs, Meena said that instructions have been given to reach to the source of the drug trade and in some cases, they have reached the source. “Our emphasis is on tracing sources,” the DGP said. About the threat to chief minister Pramod Sawant, Meena said that the CM’s security has been strengthened and it is reviewed from time to time. The DGP said that Goa is a peaceful state, where people of the state do not indulge much in organised crime and they don’t harass tourists. “Crime rate is less in Goa as compared to other states,” he said He said that Goa police is investigating the case where a baby was found dead at Siridao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-police-dont-file-firs-as-crime-rate-would-spiral-top-cop/articleshow/79345665.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Lucknow||CBI tracks paedophile JE’s 3 email IDs & 3 mobile phones||LUCKNOW: Three email IDs were used by the accused paedophile Ram Bhawan, 40, a junior engineer with the irrigation department, to circulate sexually explicit videos and photographs of children, said sources in CBI. The accused’s emails and three mobile phones are under scanner. The suspended engineer, who is in judicial custody till November 30, was arrested on November 17 for sexually exploiting 50 children and peddling videos and photographs on the dark web. An officer privy to the probe said, three email IDs used by the suspended JE and three mobile numbers are being scanned to track down more information about transfer of illicit content on darknet. Investigators are zeroing in on details of foreign partners after scrutinising his emails. The probe also revealed that he was in touch with several individuals in India and abroad for sharing child sexual abuse material. Sources in the agency said, efforts are on to trace more child abuse victims. On November 10, a POCSO court in Banda deferred the hearing on CBI’s plea for custody of the accused till November 24. The accused JE would lure underprivileged children to his rented house with video games and electronic gadgets and then exploited them. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect their privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cbi-tracks-paedophile-jes-3-email-ids-3-mobile-phones/articleshow/79346403.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Kolkata||Tollywood cautious about OTT under I&B||Kolkata: The government’s decision to bring online media, including film content, under the ministry of information and broadcasting has created a stir in the entertainment industry. While creators, actors and viewers welcomed the OTT (over-the-top) boom during the pandemic, critics sniggered at the excessive use of violence, slang and eroticism in the content. Hoichoi has not yet made any official comment but Rajiv Mehra, managing director of Addatimes, has apparently “become cautious” about the kind of content he will commission for his OTT platform. In 2016, he had done good business by releasing a detective web series that was controversially titled. “We all know that this kind of content gets a lot of hits. Early this year, I released another crime web series called, ‘Sin’, that investigated the death of a girl. But under the current circumstances, I will not want to make any investment in such content,” Mehra said. Unless there is clarity on what will be allowed and if there will be a separate guideline for OTT, he will only go for “clean content that doesn’t have much of violence or sex”. Many actors are all for some “restrictions on unlimited violence and nudity” in OTT content. “Regulations will help in cases where forced eroticism, violence and slangs aren’t integrated into the content. But it will be bad news if aesthetic content suffers because of excessive regulations, specially at a time, when theatres are shut and the industry is striving on OTT platform,” said Paoli Dam, who has acted in ‘Kali’, ‘Bulbul’ and ‘Raat Baki Hain’ for online. Birsa Dasgupta, who has directed ‘Mafia’ and ‘Black Widows’ for OTT, thinks this was “inevitable”. “While a lot of sleaze might get rightly cut, expressing politics through art will definitely suffer if one is not on the right side,” said Dasgupta. Director Soumik Chattopadhyay, who has directed 10 web series for Hoichoi, is against any attempt to curb freedom of expression in art. “We’ve been getting some great online content in Hindi, like ‘Scam 1992’, ‘Paatal Lok’ and ‘Family Man’. Talks are on about producing such content in Bengali, too. It will become problematic if the new order and the subsequent decision insist on regulating and eclipsing edgy content,” said the director of ‘Hello’ Season 2 and Season 3, ‘Byomkesh’ Season 2 and Season 4 and ‘Tansenser Tanpura’ Season 1 and Season 2. The decision to bring OTT platforms under the ministry came at a time doors had just started opening. “Online content has been addressing women’s rights and issues in different formats and genres. That could be a thriller or a comedy. It will be bad if regulations put a break to this effort,” Dam said. Independent director Ronny Sen, whose film on Kolkata’s brown sugar addicts, ‘Cat Sticks’, which was on MUBI, said regulations did not stop artists. Iran, he said, was a case in point. “It is absurd to even think that a country, like India, can have a separate censor board to regulate the huge volume of online content. The self-regulation by OTT players, which is already existent, will be the long-term solution,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tollywood-cautious-about-ott-under-ib/articleshow/79345687.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
November 22, 2020||Goa||Covid-19: Goa may start screening of passengers from Delhi at its entry points||PANAJI: Even as Delhi sees an unprecedented spike in Covid-19 cases, state health minister Vishwajit Rane on Saturday called for a revision of the state’s standard operating procedure (SOP) to re-introduce testing at its entry points. He also wrote to health secretary Amit Satija on Saturday, asking him to consult his counterparts in Maharashtra and neighbouring states to explore what steps can be taken to screen people arriving from Delhi. However, while Maharashtra is considering suspending flights and trains from Delhi in view of the spike there, Rane said he isn’t in favour of such “harsh” measures. The resumption of Goa’s tourism industry has coincided with a fresh surge of Covid-19 cases in Delhi. Tourists from across the country, including those wishing to escape Delhi’s heavy pollution and Covid, have flocked to Goa. The health minister said the spike in the national capital, as well as the return of migrant workers from North India, could lead to a fresh outbreak in Goa. “It is important to see that Covid cases are under control,” he said. “SOPs have to be in place, or we will be caught on the wrong foot and can’t afford that at this stage.” As tourists continue to stream into Goa and photos of crowded beaches and non-compliance with Covid norms become commonplace, Rane warned the state could see a second wave. Rane is also worried about the migrant workers who are expected to return to the state from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and other northern states. “We need to have SOPs in place for the migrant workers who will arrive,” he said. “We need to check them, otherwise there will be a spike (in Goa) which I have always been predicting.” Rane said that while screening and testing can quickly be introduced at Goa International Airport, the government is still “clueless” as to how to keep check on travellers arriving by trains. Goa stopped testing visitors at its entry points from September 1, but Rane has now suggested that antigen testing should resume. “How do we handle the people coming in by train from Delhi? This has to be thought of and should be workable. It should be something that can be smoothly monitored. This must be done, and the state cannot take it lying down,” Rane said. However, speaking on condition of anonymity, a bureaucrat said that any revision in the SOP would require a policy decision from the chief minister. “It has to be a policy decision, for which a proposal will have to be put up before the government so that the chief minister can take a call. In any case, it is the revenue department which will issue fresh SOPs, if any,” said the bureaucrat. Watch Goa may re-introduce screening of passengers from Delhi at its entry points||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-delhi-cases-spike-rane-for-testing-at-goa-entry-pts/articleshow/79345685.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Lucknow||Sonbhadra to be on tourism map||LUCKNOW: To link Sonbhadra with the state’s tourism network and attract even foreign tourists to it, several facilities like tourist bungalows and bio-toilets are going to be constructed in the district. A government official said the Varanasi and Mirzapur division tourism officer Kirtiman Srivastava has submitted a proposal for developing tourist bungalows on 5 acres to Sonbhadra district magistrate S Rajalingam. Srivastava said that work on the bungalows will start within six months. The DM will be preparing a more detailed plan for which he has invited members of the tourism welfare association for a consultation. “Sonbhadra is marked by forts, waterfalls, forests and hills. You have attractions like the Kaimoor wildlife sanctuary, Salkhan Fossil Park and Mukkha Waterfall. Tourist bungalows, bio-toilets and other tourist facilities to lure not just domestic but also foreign tourists and showcase the districts handicrafts, foods, natural and historical heritage,” said a government spokesperson. The government has also sanctioned Rs 281 lakh for way-finding traffic solutions in Sonbhadra. Under this, signboards are being set up across the area to help guide tourists to important locations. The board will also have information about the tourist sites. An official said that work of about Rs 25 lakh has already been completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sonbhadra-to-be-on-tourism-map/articleshow/79346407.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Lucknow||Cow slaughter, smuggling curbed in UP: CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Saturday that when his party came to power in UP in 2017, cows were being smuggled not only across the state border but also internationally. Protection of cows, he said, was a challenge which he took on successfully. Speaking at the launch of a book ‘Gau-Lok Ki Ore’ on the eve of Gopashtami, the chief minister said that his government had not just succeeded in checking smuggling of cows but also prevented cow slaughter. “Our work at protecting stray cows has borne fruit and currently there are about 5.24 lakh cattle in government-run cow shelters while more than 8 lakh cattle are housed in Kanha Upvans, cow shelters being run by local bodies in the state,” he said. The CM underlined the importance of Gopashtmi, saying that this was a tradition being followed for thousands of years and emphasized on the religious and mythological importance of cows. On Sunday, programmes will be held in all cow shelters to mark the occasion where health check –ups will be carried out for the animals among other programmes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-cow-slaughter-smuggling-curbed-in-up/articleshow/79346435.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Goa||Goa govt overstaffed, conduct audit, says CII||PANAJI: Even as chief minister Pramod Sawant announced that 10,000 employees would be recruited to various government departments, a Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) report has expressed concern over burgeoning employee figures and consequently the salary bill. Pointing out that 23% of the state’s revenue expenditure goes towards salaries, CII’s Young Indians chapter has called for an audit of all Goa government staff. The CII report said that government staff needs to be utilised efficiently, and routine processes should be automated. It also said that if simple, routine processes are automated, many government staffers can be freed from doing unproductive work and shifted to other sections where they can be gainfully utilised. “A human resources audit needs to be undertaken of all government departments and agencies. A consultant should be hired to review the total staffing in each department, the actual need, whether there are any surplus staff, whether they can be shifted to departments where staff is short,” stated the report, titled Accelerating the Goan Economy. As per the 2018-19 Economic Survey, Goa spends more than one-third of its revenues on salaries. After accounting for interest payments, this leaves very little funds for developmental works. The large salary bill in turn leads to a bigger pension bill. “The Goa government has the highest number of employees per million population, yet most state departments complain about being understaffed,” the CII report said. Sawant has a copy of the report. The report recommends that the productivity of each department and employee be measured. It also recommends that five years of industry or agricultural experience should be mandatory for government and teaching jobs. CII has also recommended that the Goa Human Resource Development Corporation should play the role of the HR department within the government. “Once the audit of employees is complete, it should deal with training, development and monitoring of all employees,” said CII.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-govt-overstaffed-conduct-audit-says-cii/articleshow/79345696.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Goa||Mollem projects in national interest, won’t tolerate obstruction: DGP||PANAJI: Director general of police (DGP) Mukesh Meena said that the three contentious projects cutting through the Mollem national park are in “national interest”, and that the police will “not tolerate” people obstructing them. He also said police would provide security for work on the projects. The three projects — double tracking of South Western Railway, the Tanmar transmission line, and the four-laning of the national highway — have drawn widespread opposition from locals, scientists, academics, and others. The BJP itself advised chief minister Pramod Sawant to “go slow” on the projects, owing to the massive opposition. The protests have also garnered considerable national traction. Saying there is “some agitation” going on, Meena said he doesn’t know why people are against the Mollem projects. “In my opinion (as part of the government), these projects are for the nation’s development,” he said, adding, “In my state, people demonstrate for widening of roads and double-tracking.” The DGP, who has previously worked in the forest department, said that the state and central government “must have” conducted a study before taking up the projects. “Double-tracking will benefit the state, tourists and Goans,” he said. “As the government is decided on the four-laning, people should allow it.” “Goa police will ensure any security sought by railway officials or the state or Centre,” he said. “We will make sure that peace is maintained, and nobody should object.” Meanwhile, speaking on tourists crowding on beaches, Meena said that police officers would talk to the people and ask them to follow the norms prescribed by the government. “November and December are coming, and people will visit Goa. We have witnessed large crowds on beaches. We will discuss with officers how to provide better security,” he said. Commenting on the threat to law lecturer Shilpa Singh, Meena said that the police has received her request, and will provide “proper security”. “I have instructed my senior officers to talk to stakeholders, including students,” he said. “Such an atmosphere should not prevail in colleges and universities, and there should be peace in those places. Teachers should not be scared of going to their workplace.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mollem-projects-in-natl-interest-wont-tolerate-obstruction-dgp/articleshow/79345692.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Gurgaon||Daily testing touches twin peaks||Gurgaon: Amid the spike in Covid-19 cases, the city on Friday conducted the highest number of tests in a single day so far — 6,503 — as well as the highest number of RT-PCR tests — 5,000 — in one day. The remaining 1,503 tests were carried out through rapid antigen tests (RAT). This overtakes the city’s previous record of single-day sample collection (6,036) and RT-PCR tests (4,561), observed on Thursday. Haryana, which has conducted 30,74,194 tests so far, has managed to keep the percentage of the gold standard RT-PCR tests significantly higher than that of RATs. Currently, the ratio stands at 70:30, with 2,163,593 RT-PCR tests and 9,10,601 antigen tests. This is in sharp contrast to Delhi, where the ratio is reversed. In Gurgaon, about 4,000 tests are being conducted daily on an average. So far, 4,32,349 samples have been taken. While 3,04,178, or 70%, of the samples were collected in RT-PCR tests, another 1,28,171, or about 30%, were taken through rapid antigen tests. A total of 3,83,228 samples have returned negative while the results of 3,484 are awaited. “Our strategy since the beginning has been to conduct more RT-PCR than antigen tests. We have been conducting targeted testing at crowded areas and entry points, malls, markets and metro stations for the past two months. Our focus is to ensure 100% contact tracing for each patient, which is the need of the hour. For this, we are trying to get more staff,” Gurgaon chief medical officer Virender Yadav said, adding that tests were carried out at Kherki Daula toll plaza, MG Road metro station, Khandsa Mandi and some market areas on Friday. Meanwhile, with 793 more people testing positive for Covid-19, the city’s caseload went up to 42,618. A total of 848 people also recovered on Friday, taking the total number of recoveries to 36,877. Three patients also succumbed to the infection. So far, 256 people in the district have died of Covid, out of whom 199 had comorbidities. Out of 5,485 active cases, 5,033 patients are in home isolation. The district’s daily positivity rate currently stands at about 10%. On Friday, 57 people were sent to institutional quarantine facilities. So far, 4,35,665 people have been put under surveillance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/daily-testing-touches-twin-peaks/articleshow/79330896.cms||Ipsita Pati
November 22, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Proposal to amend CrPC to hasten trials||PUNE: The state prisons department has initiated a proposal to amend the Criminal Procedure Code for producing undertrial prisoners before courts through the video conferencing system to expedite trials in criminal cases, after the Covid-19 pandemic hit the legal proceedings. The state prisons department, Pune, on November 4 submitted a proposal to the home department to amend the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC), as many as 16 years after the video conferencing system (VCS) was launched on a trial basis at the special MCOCA court in the city in the fake stamp paper scam case in 2004, after the CBI took over the probe from the state police. As the project was successful in the fake stamp paper case, popular as Telgi case, it was implemented in all courts in the state according to the guidelines framed by the Bombay high court. But there was no law in force to govern the system. Additional director-general of prisons Sunil Ramanand told TOI, “Trials in criminal cases in the state have stopped or got delayed for an indefinite period because of the Covid-19 outbreak. We don’t know how long will the pandemic last. As large number of undertrial prisoners are languishing in jails, we have submitted a proposal to the home department to insert clause ‘C’ in Section 266 of the CrPC for producing inmates before courts for conducting trial/recording evidence via the video conferencing system.” He said, “All jails are equipped with VCS, but courts are using the facility mostly for attendance of undertrial prisoners and conveying them dates of the next hearing. Trial against undertrials commences if s/he is physically produced before courts, but the pandemic-induced situation has hit the court work. Resuming court work and expediting trials are the need of the time. If the CrPC is amended and trials are conducted via the VCS, crores of rupees spent by the state government on escorting prisoners from jails to courts and vice versa can be saved. The prisoners will be able to see the court proceedings, s/he can hear the judge, prosecution and defence lawyer from the jails.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/proposal-to-amend-crpc-to-hasten-trials/articleshow/79344783.cms||Asseem Shaikh
November 22, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Farm labourer’s daughter reaps success||LUCKNOW: It was a proud moment for Palak Mishra, 20, who brought laurels not only to the university but also to her parents when she won the Chancellor’s Bronze Medal for best BCom student (final year) at the convocation ceremony. Daughter of a farm labourer, Palak dedicated her medal to her family which went through difficult times during Covid-19 lockdown. “Coming from low income background, lockdown period was a tough time for us. My father had no work and my mother is a housewife. There were days when my father couldn’t earn anything. Even in difficulty, my parents encouraged me to study. In the morning, my siblings and I would help my father in the fields in whatever way we could. In the evening, we managed our studies with old books and notes,” she says. After the university started online classes during lockdown, Palak had to miss her classes due to unavailability of smartphone or laptop in her house. “My uncle came to our rescue. Not only did he send us some money, he also bought a laptop for me and my brother who is also pursuing graduation,” says Palak, who aspires to become a banking professional. “I am in dire need of a job and want to pay back my uncle for the help he extended to us in these difficult times. For students like me, my message is that one should remain focused for success,” she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/farm-labourers-daughter-reaps-success/articleshow/79346461.cms||Aditi Singh
November 22, 2020||Goa||On day-1 of reopening, lack of students force schools to shut early in Goa||PANAJI: As schools across the state partially opened on Saturday, attendance, especially in high enrolment institutes was 30% or lower. After the eight-month gap, some institutes said that classes saw as few as two students reporting to schools. Some institutes were forced to wind up early. Students from Classes X and XII were seen returning home around two hours in school. As the reopening was scheduled on a weekend, school managements are hoping for better numbers on Monday. Principal of Vidya Prabodhini Higher Secondary School, Porvorim, Damodar Mardolkar, said that the attendance was slightly better only in the case of science stream Class XII students, as they could finally take up the practical component in the laboratory, which could not be touched upon since June. “Of the 247 students studying in the school in Class XII in the streams of arts, commerce and science, only 61, or 24.7%, were present on Saturday,” said Mardolkar. “Due to low attendance, we had to send students home early. We will know the correct picture on Monday.” He added that many parents are yet to get back with the forms they were asked to submit on whether or not they are willing to send students for physical classes. Dilip Dharwadkar of Mushtifund Higher Secondary School asked to parents to allow Class X and XII students to attend classes. “Of the 250 Class X students, only 80 were present today,” he said. “Out of the 152 Class XII students, only 8 were present. We trust that the attendance will be significantly higher on Monday. The school has taken all precautions like disinfecting surfaces, sanitising school premises at regular intervals and ensuring that social distancing is maintained between students. Parents should send students to attend classes.” Students said the new normal in schools felt odd on day-one of the partial reopening. “It felt odd to attend school without the usual crowd and chatter and noise,” said Harsh Patel, student of Class XII (commerce) at Vasantrao Dempo Higher Secondary School, Cujira. “Physical classes are better in terms of being able to grasp what is being taught. But where safety is concerned, online classes are preferred. We had geography practicals for commerce students and so we were called to school from 9am to 10.30am.” Mahesh Karapurkar, a parent whose son studies in Class XII and attended school on the first day, said he was happy that physical classes have resumed. “We do not know when we will be rid of the pandemic entirely,” he said. “We cannot stop living until then. The students had not been in touch with their friends for such a long period and this was giving rise to stress in them. Now their life will at least partially normalise.” In rural schools, attendance was better than in city schools. Headmaster of Shri Nirakar School, Mashem, Hemant Kamat, said that of the 30 students studying in Class X in the high school, 28 were present on Saturday. “All have been accommodated in a hall that has a capacity of 500,” he said. “The entire hall was sanitised before commencement of the classes. Students brought their tiffins, and they were not permitted to share their tiffin with their friends,” he added. Kavita Gaonkar of Balaram Higher Secondary School, Ardhofond, Canacona, said that students have been split into groups of 10. “We are conducting classes from 8am to 12.30pm,” she said. Even though the partial school reopening was scheduled on the first day after the Diwali break, almost all schools appeared to have been meticulous in implementing the directorate of education (DoE) safety guidelines. Students that reported to school were seen being thermally scanned while entering the school premises, and later being instructed to sanitise their hands. The seating was arranged with only 10 to 12 students in a class, with one or two benches in between left vacant. The entry and exit was being monitored to ensure there was no crowding. “It was difficult for institutes to make arrangements as the guidelines for school reopening from the directorate of education came just four or five days prior,” said a teacher. “Schools were already on Diwali vacation when the reopening circular came, and on the very first day after vacation, the school was reopening. Institutes have worked during the vacation to put all the necessary arrangements in place.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/on-day-1-of-reopening-lack-of-students-force-schools-to-shut-early/articleshow/79345705.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Pune||Duo in car overtake private bus on Pune-Mumbai Expressway, bring it to a halt & damage it||PUNE: Two men travelling by a car damaged the windshields, wipers and rear-view mirrors of a private luxury bus after bringing to a halt at Ozarde village on the Pune-Mumbai Expressway around 3.45am on Friday. The bus driver, Sattar Shaikh (48) of Kandivali in Mumbai, lodged a complaint with the Talegaon Dabhade police later in the morning, following which the duo were booked. Police said the two miscreants were yet to be identified, and the motive behind the attack was pending confirmation. TimesViewThe incident in which two unidentified people blocked a bus by halting their car in the middle of the Pune-Mumbai Expressway and then damaged the windshields of the bus warrants a high priority probe. The sheer brazenness of their behaviour underlines no fear for the law. When it comes to expressway, where even halting own vehicle is prohibited in view of possible accidents due to the fast-moving traffic, such road rage cases should be dealt with an iron hand. A stern action, including cancellation of driving licence of the miscreants, is needed.In his complaint, Shaikh stated that the bus was hired by a group of people from Kandivali and adjoining areas to visit Mahabaleshwar. There were 24 passengers on the bus. “It was heading towards Mahabaleshwar when a speeding car overtook the bus at Ozarde village. The car travelled a few meters ahead of the bus and then gradually slowed down and stopped. The bus driver, too, halted behind the four-wheeler,” an officer from the Talegaon Dabhade police said. The officer said the two men then alighted from the car and reached over the bus driver’s cabin. “They hurled abuses at Shaikh and told him to get down. When Shaikh refused, the enraged duo broke the wipers of the bus and smashed the windshields using it. The duo then targeted the side rear-view mirrors and damaged them too,” the officer said, citing Shaikh’s complaint. The officer said the suspects then broke down the door glass panels of driver’s cabin and attempted to pull Shaikh down. “However, the awake passengers raised an alarm, following which the duo got into their car and fled the scene,” the officer said, adding that the bus driver noted down the four-wheeler’s registration number. “Upon checking, it was found that the car has been registered with the Pimpri Chinchwad RTO. We are trying to locate the suspects. The reason behind the attack could only be ascertained once we nab the duo,” the police officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/duo-in-car-overtake-private-bus-on-eway-bring-it-to-a-halt-damage-it/articleshow/79344787.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Agra||Woman dentist’s killer nabbed by Agra police||AGRA: A day after the brutal murder of a woman dentist, Agra police on Saturday arrested a 26-year-old man, who had allegedly killed Dr Nisha Singhal by slashing her throat and injuring her children, at their house in Kamlanagar area. The suspect, Shubham Pathak, was nabbed after a brief encounter that left him injured. Inspector general of Agra range A Satish Ganesh said that Pathak, who has a small TV, mobile recharge shop was arrested within 12 hours of the crime. The police team got a tip off of his movement and nabbed him. He opened fire at the cops in a bid to escape, but got injured in retaliatory fire. SP (city) Botre Rohan Pramod told TOI that during interrogation, Pathak told police that he had a loan of Rs 1.25 lakh and needed money to pay it back. He had planned to loot the dentist to pay off his debt, but since the doctor put up a strong resistance, he slit her throat with a knife. He also attacked the doctor’s children as they were eyewitnesses. The traumatised children pretended to be dead to escape the assailant, police said. The SP said that jewellery and Rs 24,000 cash looted by the suspect has been recovered. The accused has been sent to a hospital for treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/woman-dentists-killer-nabbed-by-agra-police/articleshow/79344275.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Hubballi||Belagavi Airport sees high traffic at cost of Hubballi||Hubballi: The airport in Belagavi has emerged as the next most high traffic airport in the state, after Bengaluru and Mangaluru airports. Hubballi Airport, which was the third busiest airport in the state in 2018 and 2019, has now witnessed a drastic fall in the number of passengers between April to October 2020, according to statistics released by the Airports Authority of India (AAI) on Friday. Hubballi is pushed to the last place among domestic airports, under AAI in the state. Commenting on the development, Naveen Jha, a serial entrepreneur and frequent air traveller, observed that uncertainty of flights increased at Hubballi Airport, while it’s almost zero at Sambra Airbase in Belagavi. “This uncertainty has disturbed Hubballi air passengers a lot. Many a times we are forced to travel via Belagavi. Another issue is that people in Hubballi are kept in the dark on when airlines will withdraw their flights, and when they will resume. A recent instance is the flight service to Delhi. It was launched with much fanfare, and was withdrawn suddenly, after which it resumed again. Such uncertainty makes people opt for travelling via other airports,” he analysed. Santosh Huralikoppi, a frequent traveller and an IT entrepreneur, noted that the fear caused due to Covid was more in Hubballi. “Another reason for air traffic reducing in Hubballi is that flights were resumed at Belagavi Airport and not Hubballi Airport, after the lockdown period. However, as more flights are now being resumed or launched, things may get streamlined by January,” he said. A Kendriya Vidyalaya teacher recalled that he had booked his ticket from Hindon to Hubballi after Dasara. “As the airliner cancelled its service and informed us two days before the journey date, we travelled to Belagavi and then went to Hubballi to carry out our work the next day. Belagavi Airport has seen higher air traffic, probably due to Hubballi passengers like us,” he said. Pramod Kumar Thakare, director, Hubballi Airport, admitted that some airlines operating from and to Hubballi, had their own issues, and that they have all been streamlined and are operating regularly now. “Now the number of flights has increased gradually. Air India will also resume its services at Hubballi soon. We will see an increase in number of passengers at Hubballi Airport in the coming days” he asserted. Passenger and aircraft movements till Oct 2020 in Karnataka Airports Airport | Number of passengers between April to Oct 2020 | Number of flights between April to Oct 2020 | Number of passengers in Oct 2020| Number of flights in Oct 2020 Bengaluru: 35,47,644 | 42,122 | 11,46,474 | 11,770 Mangaluru: 1,27,725| 1,727 | 53,566 | 593 Belagavi: 92,073 | 2,424 | 26,183 | 634 Kalaburagi: 23,772 | 626 | 5,828 | 124 Mysuru: 20,366 | 1,464 | 6,981 | 328 Hubballi: 17,689 | 484 | 8,615 | 207 *Ballari(Vijaynagar): 9,315 | 9324 | 91,834 | 960 *Bidar: 5,614 | 158 | 1,280 | 30 * Ballari and Bidar Airports are operated by JSW and IAF, respectively Source: AAI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/belagavi-airport-sees-high-traffic-at-cost-of-hubballi/articleshow/79344564.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
November 22, 2020||Pune||Hint of cold spell in parts of Maharashtra after November 27||PUNE: Parts of the state are likely to experience a cold spell after November 27, following a fortnight of above-normal minimum temperatures. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD, Pune, said, “The extended range forecast models are indicating the mercury could fall 1-3°C below normal in parts of Vidarbha, adjacent Madhya Maharashtra, including parts of Pune district, and 2-4°C below normal in Marathwada in the November 27-December 3 period. However, we have ruled out chances of cold wave conditions before mid-December in parts of Maharashtra that are prone to extremely low temperatures.” Kashyapi said after November 27, minimum temperatures in state would be significantly lower than current trend — higher than normal since Diwali. “Till November 26, there could be a gradual fall in minimums to the near-normal level in most parts of the state because moisture in the air is depleting gradually. Dry air and no moisture are associated with clear skies, which aid temperature drop during night time,” he said. He said, “The flow of northerly winds, entering Maharashtra via Arabian Sea and changing to north-westerly /westerly, has almost stopped now. These winds were causing marginal moisture incursion over state. Now, the state has easterly/south-easterly wind flow, which has little moisture because most of it is depleted en route since the winds come from a long distance after their origin from the Bay of Bengal. By Sunday, the moisture will reduce further, normalising the minimums to an extent. Thus, marginal fall in minimums is expected over Vidarbha and adjacent areas of the state.” November had begun on a cold note, but minimum temperatures over the past few days had been significantly above normal. They are likely to remain 1-2°C above normal in Madhya Maharashtra but below normal by about a couple of degrees in the rest of the state till November 26. Met department expects western disturbances to affect western Himalayan region frequently from November end. Minimums usually drop in plains and in Maharashtra after passage of a western disturbance up north. Met department expects wind pattern in parts of the state to become predominantly northerly around November- end start of December. Kashyapi said, “December temperatures are normally on the lower side and if they dip lower than that, it could trigger a cold spell. But minimum temperatures may not fall very significantly to cause cold wave or near-cold wave conditions till mid-December.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hint-of-cold-spell-in-parts-of-state-after-november-27/articleshow/79344790.cms||Neha Madaan
November 22, 2020||Pune||Residents urge MLA to help stop trash burning||Pune: A group of residents from Kharadi have approached Wadgaonsheri MLA Sunil Tingre for a sustained action against rampant garbage burning in the area. TOI had reported on November 21 about largescale garbage burning in many areas across the sprawling residential and tech hub of Kharadi, with many vacant, disputed, or abandoned plots of land being used for garbage dumping and burning. Residents of neighbouring Wagholi, a gram panchayat area, and those living in and around Wadgaonsheri’s Old Mundhwa Road have also complained to the PMC and other local authorities about garbage burning by unknown people. “We approached Mr Tingre because this has been a problem for years now. I, along with other residents, have often drawn the attention of the PMC to the recurrent problem, but to little avail. The MLA spoke to some local ward and health officers of the PMC, who went to the spots and fined those indulging in such practices,” said Satish Joshi, vice-chairman of the Kharadi Residents Association. Tingre told TOI that garbage burning will not be tolerated and urged the local authorities to continue to take steps against it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/residents-urge-mla-to-help-stop-trash-burning/articleshow/79344794.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Lucknow||Surprise wishes from President sweeten Lucknow University celebrations||LUCKNOW: It was a pleasant surprise for the students and faculty members of the Lucknow University when President Ram Nath Kovind’s best wishes on its centenary celebrations were conveyed to them during the 63rd convocation ceremony on Saturday. Governor Anandiben Patel, who is also the chancellor of all state universities, told students and teachers in her convocation address that the President has congratulated LU on completing 100 years and has conveyed his best wishes. “The moment I Ieft Raj Bhawan to come here for the convocation, I received a call from the President. I told him that I am on my way to the university’s convocation coinciding with its centenary celebrations. He said, ‘Extend my wishes to all students and teachers of LU on the momentous occasion of the institute turning 100 years old’,” she said. The governor added, “LU is the ninth university in the country to turn 100 years old. I hope and wish that this successful journey and heritage will continue for another 100 years.” “I am happy that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be joining the celebrations virtually on November 25 and chief Minister Yogi Adityanath will be present in person,” she added. Lucknow University has an illustrious past and holds various firsts to its credit, like it’s the first institution in the country where the political science department was established, said Anandiben. “The university has also given great professors like Prof KC Pandey known for his knowledge of Kashmir Shaivism and Aesthetics, social scientist Prof Radhakamal Mukherjee and many others,” the chancellor added. Governor felicitated 15 meritorious students on the occasion and said, “We are felicitating our students as they are the ones who will take the legacy of the university ahead.” She said the new education policy focuses on imparting education in mother tongue, promotes new thoughts, multidisciplinary approach, scope and teacher’s training. She congratulated the meritorious students on winning medals urged them to use their knowledge and skills in national interest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/surprise-wishes-from-prez-sweeten-lu-celebrations/articleshow/79346472.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Madurai||Govt may join hands with NGOs for palliative care, says health secy||Madurai: The state health department will offer support and may also collaborate with NGOs to provide community-based palliative care through government medical facilities, health secretary J Radhakrishnan said on Saturday. He also stressed on the need for acceptance and awareness of palliative care. “Often the families of patients with terminal diseases tend to be in denial. They should not give up on them and providing palliative care for such patients by the family is important. Patients and families should desist from seeking any unscientific treatment which may only harm them more,” said Radhakrishnan. The health secretary was speaking at the Compassionate Care Con 2020, a state-level conference on pain and palliative care held in Madurai through video conferencing. “Currently, awareness is less about palliative care. There are only around 75 palliative care centres across Tamil Nadu, including six government-run facilities. Palliative care, if the government takes initiative, can be introduced at grassroots level, even in primary healthcare centres (PHCs) by providing training to nurses and medical professionals,” said Dr Republica Sridhar, founder and managing trustee, RMD Pain and Palliative Care Trust, one of the organisers of the event. The organiser added that doctors and healthcare professionals must be sensitised regarding palliative care so that it is integrated rather than bringing in patients at the last stage of terminal illness. “Palliative care is not terminal care and must be made available for patients from a curative stage rather than final stages of the illness. What most patients and their families are not aware is that pain management can be effectively provided through palliative care,” said Republica Sridhar. Various aspects of palliative care and myths to be avoided were discusses by 13 key speakers. Doctors said that in palliative care often cancer care and geriatric care are the most-demanded fields and that the focus of palliative care is on keeping the patient comfortable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/govt-may-join-hands-with-ngos-for-palliative-care-says-health-secy/articleshow/79346467.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 22, 2020||Pune||Former corporator, son held over fire at Ambegaon garbage processing plant||Pune: The Bharati Vidyapeeth police late on Friday arrested a former Pune corporator and his son in connection with the November 1 blaze that caused extensive damage to the garbage segregation plant at Dalvinagar in Ambegaon Pathar. “During the course of our investigation, the names of Shankar Beldare (55), a former Abegaon corporator, and his son Kunal (35) came up and so we arrested them,” senior inspector Jagannath Kalaskar said. The duo have been charged under IPC sections 435 (mischief by fire or explosive substance), 427 (mischief), 143 (unlawful assembly), 147 (rioting) and 149 (common object). Police are on the hunt for 15-20 of their accomplices. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/former-corporator-son-held-over-fire-at-ambegaon-garbage-processing-plant/articleshow/79344807.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Pune||Pune: Poorly lit roads near metro sites increase accident risk||PUNE: Regular road users have complained of poor street lighting at the Metro station construction sites on the Vanaz-Garware College stretch. They said the slabs for the station concourse and segments for the viaduct block the illumination from the street lights. Stating that driving on these patches at night is dangerous, they have demanded adequate lighting to avert mishaps. Maharshtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MahaMetro) is constructing stations at four locations on this stretch — Vanaz (where a car shed too is coming up), Anandnagar, Ideal Colony and Garware College. These stations come under the 5km priority section of the Vanaz-Ramwadi Metro corridor. The work on Vanaz, Anandnagar and Garware College is at an advanced stage, officials said. Shantanu Chaudhari, who often travels on Paud Road said the authorities must install adequate lighting at all the Metro station construction sites. “This is very important because workers, machinery, cranes and trucks continuously move at these sites and adequate lighting will alert road users about the work,” Chaudhari said. He further suggested that reflectors/reflective tape be added to barricades so that it becomes easier for drivers to give the work sites a wide berth. Arun Bankar, an autorickshaw driver, said the vehicle’s headlights were not enough to prevent accidents and that it would be safer to have adequate lights at these sites. “These road patches go completely dark as the lights from street lamps is blocked by the Metro facilities,” Bankar said. MahaMetro officials said they had moved street lights from the median to the road margins at some locations and promised to carry out a joint inspection and install better lighting at these stretches. “MahaMetro will also see to it that reflective barricades are installed at the work sites. We will also urge the civic administration to ensure uninterrupted functioning of the street lights during the night hours,” a MahaMetro official said. This is one of two priority stretches being developed by MahaMetro. The other one, between Pimpri and Dapodi, is on the PCMC-Swargate Metro corridor. MahaMetro said the viaduct is ready on large parts of the Vanaz-Garware College corridor. “We are installing the overhead traction cables and tracks in the completed portions of this stretch. We have also expedited work on four stations on this stretch — Vanaz, Anandnagar, Ideal Colony and Garware College. We have removed barriers where work has been completed,” a MahaMetro official had said. This stretch was to have been completed by April this year, following by Metro trials, before the coronavirus pandemic upended all plans. Two days ago, MahaMetro said it has sped up work on a challenging part of the viaduct between the Ideal Colony and Nal Stop Metro stations — near the Paud Phata flyover, which sharply curves to the right from Nal Stop towards Paud Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/poorly-lit-roads-near-metro-sites-increase-accident-risk/articleshow/79344811.cms||Sarang Dastane
November 22, 2020||Pune||State govt shuts first dedicated pension cell||Pune: The state government has closed down a dedicated pension cell established to resolve ex-servicemen’s pension cases at the Sainik Welfare Department headquarters in Pune. The general administration department, under which the cell was formed, issued a government resolution to the effect on November 19. The cell was a first-of-its-kind dedicated facility in the country, where all issues pertaining to ex-servicemen’s pension would be addressed. Group Captain Suhas Phatak (retd), in-charge of the cell, told TOI on Saturday, “It is an unfortunate and arbitrary decision of the state government. It has taken the decision without verifying our work. Since it’s inception in 2013, we have resolved over 1 lakh complicated pension cases. Ex-serviceman from across the state have got their arrears totally worth over Rs9.50 crore in this period. If the government wants to cross check they can get in touch with each veteran and their family to verify our claim.” However, acting director of the department Colonel RR Jadhav claimed that the cell was ‘irrelevant’ in the current scenario. “After the implementation of the 6th Pay Commission, there were several issues pertaining to pension. Under the 7th Pay Commission there are no issues as such. We had reviewed pension-related cases district-wise and come to know that there were very few cases related to it. In this view, we feel the cell is no more relevant now. Henceforth, pension matters will be addressed by the Zilla Sainik Welfare Officer (ZSWO) at the district-level itself,” said Jadhav. A section of ex-servicemen, particularly in rural areas, claimed they would face issues in the absence of ZSWOs in each district. Colonel Vinay Dalvi (retd) said, “We don’t have ZSWOs in every district even now. Only 12 districts have dedicated such officers, while other districts are being handled by deputy collectors, who are not aware about our issues. Many retired soldiers are getting wrong pension due to flawed service records. The Sainik Welfare Officers need to undertake a drive on a regular basis to address such cases. Often the ex-serviceman run from the pillar-to-post to resolve their issues. The pension cell was necessary to look into such issues.” Pandit Yadav, from Solapur district, whose elderly mother had got Rs24 lakh arrears because of the pension cell in 2017, said, “The cell had pursued the matter with the Ministry of Defence and thereafter my mother got arrears and due pension after four decades.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-govt-shuts-first-dedicated-pension-cell/articleshow/79344825.cms||Sandip Dighe
November 22, 2020||Pune||Marijuana & car worth Rs 9.5L seized||Pune: The crime branch officers of the city police seized 37kg marijuana and a car, collectively worth Rs 9.50 lakh, from the possession of two men hailing from Ahmednagar at Vimannagar on Saturday morning. A team comprising police inspector Sunil Takawale and sub-inspector Sanjay Gaikwad arrested the duo, identified as Ravindra Adhav (23) and Gorakshanath Dahatonde (43), both residents of Newasa in Ahmednagar district. Police said that the duo brought the marijuana from Ahmednagar to Pune. They were looking for customers when police received a tip-off about their presence in the area. The police team laid a trap and nabbed the duo. They also seized the marijuana and the car they were travelling in. Police said that the duo had packed the marijuana in two polythene bags. Police said that the two were earlier arrested by Ahmednagar police in an illicit liquor case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/marijuana-car-worth-rs-9-5l-seized/articleshow/79344830.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Lucknow||Vibrant hues of Indian art on display at Lucknow University||LUCKNOW: A priceless collection of paintings by renowned artists, including three close associates of Rabindranath Tagore’s family – Nandlal Bose, Asit Kumar Haldar and Sudhir Ranjan Khastgir – are now a part of the Radha Kamal Mukherjee Art gallery and Museum at Tagore Library of the Lucknow University. The gallery, inaugurated by Governor Anandiben Patel during LU’s centenary celebrations on Saturday, has 451 rare paintings and sculptures. These artefacts were lying packed in the second floor of Tagore Library since long. Recently, the university got them restored through INTACH. According to deputy librarian of Tagore Library, Jyoti Mishra, the idea to have an art museum in the library was conceptualised in 1935 when a collection of paintings of various artists was donated by DN Bonerjee, a Gorakhpur based barrister. Since then, the collection of artefacts increased and was put on display on several occasions, but the original idea of having a museum has now materialised after about 85 years. The museum has been named after Radha Kamal Mukherjee, a professor of economics and sociology, who also later served as the vice-chancellor of Lucknow University. He was also the head of the library for some time. The museum houses art works of eminent artists like Nandlal Bose – who designed the Emblem of India and beautified the original manuscript of the Indian Constitution – besides Asit Kumar Haldar and Sudhir Ranjan Khastgir. Mishra said the collection includes masterpieces created nearly a century ago, including Haldar’s painting of emperor Akbar discussing the plan of Fatehpur Sikri, and Khastgir’s painting of a young lady with her shadow. Haldar and Khastigir also served as principal of LU’s College of Art and Craft. One of the major artists of the Bengal renaissance, Haldar (1890-1964) was an assistant of Rabindranath Tagore at Shantiniketan. He served as a principal of Arts College for 25 years from 1925 to 1945. Khastgir (1907-1974) was a master of Bengal School of Art. A pupil of Abanindranath Tagore and Nandlal Bose, Khastgir graduated from Visva Bharati University, Shantiniketan, in 1929. He served as the principal of Arts College from 1956 to 1962.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/vibrant-hues-of-indian-art-on-display-at-lu/articleshow/79346481.cms||Mohita Tewari
November 22, 2020||Meerut||Uttar Pradesh: Bike bot scam accused who laundered Rs 150 crore arrested||MEERUT: The man believed to be the main launderer in one of the largest network marketing scams to have been unearthed in recent times landed at Delhi airport from Dubai on Friday evening and was immediately arrested by UP Police's Economic Offences Wing (EOW). As of now, the EOW’s Meerut wing is probing 68 FIRs registered in the case and has arrested 19 accused, including the mastermind, while lookout notices have been issued against several other suspects. In July, the Enforcement Directorate had also registered a case and attached moveable assets worth over Rs 103 crore of the company. According to senior EOW officials, Noida resident Dinesh Pandey, an accused wanted in the multi-crore bike bot scam, had allegedly laundered Rs 150 crore received by Garvit Innovative Private Limited (GIPT) — the company behind the bike-bot scam — routing it to various construction projects, land deals and trusts. GIPT, a Noida-registered company, had in 2018 come out with a multi-level marketing scheme "Bike Bot" and lured investors with a promise of double returns in a year. They sought Rs 62,100 in investment for a motorcycle taxi and assured monthly returns besides doubling the investment amount in just one year but failed to deliver on the promise. The firm has duped around 2.25 lakh investors to the tune of Rs 3,500 crore across UP, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh, the probe agency claimed. Pandey's arrest comes a day after another accused in the scam, Vinay Sharma, chief executive officer of Noida’s Noble Cooperative Bank, was arrested from his Greater Noida residence. Nineteen people, including Bike Bot boss Sanjay Bhati, have been arrested so far. Superintendent of police, EOW (Meerut), Ram Suresh Yadav, told TOI, “Pandey is claimed to have invested Rs 150 crore received by GIPT – the company behind the bike-bot scam – and routed it into different construction projects, land investments and trusts. He eventually returned Rs 60 crore, but the remaining Rs 90 crore is still unaccounted for.” According to EOW, Pandey came in touch with Vijendra Hooda, one of the promoters of GIPT, in 2012 and was later approached by them in 2017. Over time, Pandey received Rs 150 crore from the main accused, Sanjay Bhati, and Vijender Hooda, of which there is no written record or agreement, an EOW official said. To keep all the transactions under wraps and avoid any scrutiny, several fake accounts were opened at Noida’s Noble Cooperative Bank run by Vinay Sharma, who was arrested by EOW on Thursday. According to EOW, in 2018, Sharma had come in contact with Bhati and Hooda and opened bank accounts of their companies without any KYC or other formalities. Sharma had also sanctioned a loan of Rs 2.1 crore to GIPT “bending all the rules of the banking sector established by the government”. Funds received into these accounts from GIPT and its sister concerns were later laundered by investment through other firms owned by Pandey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bike-bot-scam-accused-claimed-to-have-laundered-rs-150-cr-of-scam-money-lands-in-delhi-from-dubai-held-at-airport/articleshow/79344305.cms||Piyush Rai
November 22, 2020||Meerut||Budhana: Man gets three-year jail term for brutalising goat||MUZAFFARNAGAR: After 16 years, a local court held a 50-year-old man guilty of stealing, brutalising and killing a domestic goat, and sentenced him to three years of imprisonment. A fine of Rs 1,500 has also been slapped on the man for the crime. The court of judicial magistrate of Budhana, Parvinder Singh, sentenced the man on Saturday. The incident had occurred in Sultanpur village on November 25, 2004. Assistant prosecutor officer, Puneet Kumar, said, "The incident took place in a village under Budhan police station about 16 years ago. The man was caught red-handed by locals then, while brutalising a goat. The judgement was pronounced by a court in Budhana on Saturday." Notably, the man was booked at Budhana police station under various sections of the IPC. He was arrested and sent to jail. Later, he was given bail, but arrested again after two years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-gets-three-year-jailterm-for-brutalising-goat/articleshow/79344317.cms||Mohd Dilshad
November 22, 2020||Pune||Constable drowns in Mula river||Pune: A police constable of Pune rural police, Amit Subhas Khandekar (37), drowned in the waters of Mula river at Sangvi on Friday. His body was fished out on Saturday afternoon. Senior police inspector Rangnath Unde of Sangvi police station said, “Khandekar came to the spot in plain clothes and waded into the water around 11.30 am on Friday. ” After he failed to return to the riverbank, some men present there raised an alarm. Fire brigade officials from Pimpri Chinchwad and private divers started their search in the river waters immediately. “However, the teams failed to locate him on Friday. On Saturday, the operation resumed, and the body was recovered around afternoon,” Unde said. “Primarily, we think, he may have been tired or have suffered a cramp in the muscles. Thus, he failed to return to the riverbank,” Unde said, adding “We have registered an accidental death case.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/constable-drowns-in-mula-river/articleshow/79344832.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Lucknow||Medals bagged, toppers ready for bigger pursuits||LUCKNOW: “It has been eight months since I saw my family. Now, I will go home with a medal in my hand,” said Kolkata resident Bidisha Bhukta with tears in her eyes after being awarded the Chancellor’s Bronze Medal for being the best Bachelor of Fine Arts (BFA) student at Lucknow University’s convocation on Saturday. Bidisha has not been able to visit her hometown in Kolkata due to the pandemic, but her parents were virtually present during the convocation ceremony when she received the medal. She aspires to become the country’s top textile designer. The 21-year-old dedicated the medal to her mother. Malviya Hall thundered with applause as the honours were bestowed on to the medal winners. Only 15 medals were distributed on Saturday due to Covid-19 restrictions. The rest will be given later in a separate ceremony. Dressed in a red kurta, Harshita Dubey was elated as she bagged two Chancellor’s Silver Medals—one for being the best post-graduate student in all faculities and seocnd for best woman student of LU. A student of mathematics, Harshita wants to be a professor. She said, “Numbers are my friends and I am honoured and privileged to receive the recognition during the centenary celebration.” Aditya Singh, who won the Chancellor’s Bronze Medal for being the best BSc final student, said, “Last year, when I saw rocket woman Ritu Karidhal at the convocation ceremony, I was inspired and determined that next year I will stand on the stage like her and work hard so that one day I can join Isro. One goal has been achieved, the next is a space mission.” The winner of the Chancellor’s Bronze Medal for being the best student in BSc final year Shikhar Srivastava wants to become a geologist. Soniya Gupta, winner of the same for BCom, was on cloud nine. “Working on oneself at the present moment can lead to a great change in the future,” she said. Walking in the footsteps of his father and brother, Abhay Dwivedi is an aspiring litigation officer who won the medal in LLB Hons (part III). For Mariya Khatoon and Mohd Amir, their teachers are their source of inspiration. Both won the Chancellor’s Bronze Medal for best BA (final year) students and wish to teach poor students. Sanatan Sankalp, who won the medal in LLB Hons (part V), said, “I want to use my knowledge for the betterment of our country.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/medals-bagged-toppers-ready-for-bigger-pursuits/articleshow/79346490.cms||Aditi Singh
November 22, 2020||Meerut||Uttar Pradesh: 30 critically endangered gharials released into Ganga||MEERUT: A total of 30 gharials reared in captivity were released into river Ganga near Bijnor on Saturday by Uttar Pradesh forest department officials, representatives of WWF-India and Ganga mitras (farmer volunteers trained by WWF to actively participate in gharial and turtle conservation). The stretch of the river is part of Hastinapur Wildlife Sanctuary. Since the first release into the area in 2009, now 818 gharials have made their way back to the river, giving a fresh lease of life to the shy snouted reptile identified as the most critically endangered crocodilian species in the world in the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List. Saturday's event was supervised by UP's principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF), Rajeev Kumar Garg. While this is an ongoing effort of releasing the species in the protected area of the sanctuary, its high mortality rate continues to be a concern. NK Janoo chief conservator forests, Meerut zone, said, "The gharials released in the sanctuary have thrived over a period of time and we have found their presence 300 km upstream and up to 900 km downstream, which is quite a significant development. Otherwise 90% of this endangered species thrives in Chambal region only. Nevertheless, their high mortality rate continues to be a concern and we are working in that direction. For that we are looking forward to deep research on the behavioural patterns of these reptiles which has not been done so far because of the lack of numbers. Now, several research institutes, NGOs like World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), Turtle Survival Alliance (TSA), etc. will be roped in for detailed study. But at the same time the regular releases have contributed to revival of gharials in Upper Ganga reaches of UP." Notably, the contribution of riparian communities has been quite crucial to the survival of gharials and turtles here. Suresh Babu, director, rivers, wetlands & water policy, WWF India, said, “Riparian communities along the Ganga in Hastinapur have adopted gharials as an integral part of their lives and this is a great example of community-based conservation of endangered species and its habitats. (Photo credit: Munish Kumar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/30-critically-endangered-gharials-released-into-ganga/articleshow/79344324.cms||Sandeep Rai
November 22, 2020||Mangaluru||Fluctuating results leave Mangalore University students fuming||Mangaluru: Students and representatives of various colleges affiliated to Mangalore University (MU) have accused the varsity of having bungled up with the results of the final year examinations, which were announced on Saturday. The results were uploaded on MU’s website on Saturday morning. Students told TOI that they were left nursing bitter disappointment when, after rejoicing on learning that they had cleared the examination, their results were reversed later in the afternoon. On the other hand, many toppers who had expecting to ace the examination expressed disappointment at having been awarded the marks they had been expecting. “The result has come as a shock. We do not understand why Mangalore University is playing with the future of hundreds of students. The students were anxiously waiting for the results, which were announced after an unprecedented delay to begin with, only to leave the students very disappointed at the end of it,” a lecturer said on condition of anonymity. Multiple phone calls made by TOI to PL Dharma, registrar (evaluation), Mangalore University seeking clarification on the issue went unanswered. P S Yadapadithaya, vice-chancellor refused to comment to STOI on the issue, stating that he was not the right authority to weigh in on the issue. Earlier Mangalore University officials had stated that they were facing technical issues that caused a delay in the announcement of the recently concluded final year examination results.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/fluctuating-results-leave-mangalore-university-students-fuming/articleshow/79344624.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Free entry to Magic Academy for school kids||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: As part of children’s day celebrations, students up to Plus Two classes can have free entry to Magic Planet till December 15. They can also have motivational class at free of cost, a statement from Magic Academy executive director Gopinath Muthukad said at the closing ceremony of weeklong children’s day celebrations at Magic Academy here on Friday. Industries department principal secretary K Elangovan inaugurated the valedictory celebrations. Free entry would be only on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, from 4pm to 9pm. Motivational class of Muthukad would be made available to students and their parents who accompany them to Magic Planet. The functioning of Magic Planet was arranged adhering to Covid-19 protocol and the motivational class is aimed at helping people to overcome the Covid- induced stress, said the statement. Those who wish to make use of the free entry may contact over the following numbers for pre-registration —9446540395 and 9447014800. Students would be asked to show their school ID card before letting them in.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/free-entry-to-magic-academy-for-school-kids/articleshow/79344839.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Lucknow||UP intensifies surveillance, revives walk-in Covid testing||LUCKNOW: The state government intensified Covid surveillance across all districts in wake of the second Covid surge in neighbouring Delhi. The health department ordered revival of static walk-in testing booths, directed district officials to map locations of Covid patients and zero in on hotspots after a swift survey. “Surveillance and prevention are the only tools against the pandemic. In wake of the pandemic surge in Delhi, the government decided to set up static booths at key locations in all districts so that people can walk in and get themselves tested,” said additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad. To intensify surveillance, districts have been directed to map positive cases reported since November 1. “After zeroing in on their residences, patterns would be drawn to list out hot spots,” said Prasad. Also, sample testing picked up pace on Saturday and returned to the pre-Diwali level. In last 24 hours, 1.73 lakh tests were done. Total tests conducted by the state so far has crossed 1.78 crore, said Prasad. Meanwhile, 2,326 fresh cases in past 24 hours took the state’s tally to 5.24 lakh. As many as 2,097 recoveries were recorded in the same period. The cumulative number of persons recovered touched 4.93 lakh, which is 94.09% of total cases. Active infections in the state as on Saturday was 23,471, of which 10,934 were under home isolation. The state also recorded deaths of 26 persons, taking the toll to 7,524.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-intensifies-surveillance-revives-walk-in-covid-testing/articleshow/79346501.cms||Shailvee Sharda
November 22, 2020||India||Night curfew comes into effect in 5 MP districts||INDORE/GWALIOR: Following Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan's announcement of night curfew in five districts due to rising COVID-19 cases, night curfews came into effect in Indore and Gwalior from Saturday. The night curfew will be from 10 pm to 6 am the next day. In Indore city, police were hardly seen enforcing the night curfew. People were seen roaming on roads at midnight. While most shops were shut even before the commencement of the night curfew, few of them were open in absence of police personnel. Petrol pumps remained open even after 11 pm. A total of 546 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Indore district on Saturday. There are 2,825 active cases. Meanwhile, Gwalior district administration ensured the closure of markets during the curfew from 10.00 pm, asking people to follow the rules. While most shopkeepers in Gwalior city cooperated, some blamed the recent Madhya Pradesh bypolls for the surge in the COVID-19 cases. "Some time ago when elections and public meetings were held, why such rules were not followed," asked a shopkeeper. The police, meanwhile, checked all the vehicles. According to the state government, people engaged in essential services, and factory workers have been exempted from the night curfew. On the decision of containment zones, the chief minister said that he has left it to the government's crisis management group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/night-curfew-comes-into-effect-in-5-mp-districts/articleshow/79347007.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Taste it, a juicy number from a DJ’s kitchen||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: After making people groove to the beats of his music for over a decade, Arun S, better known as DJ Arun, is now on a mission to tickle your taste buds with his culinary skills. The transition from a disc jockey to home-chef post lockdown was smooth and happened naturally rather than being an act of desperation for the 40-year-old. The shutting down of restaurants and bars brought the faders down for Arun’s DJ console. Though he managed to get some online shows for the first two months of the lockdown, nothing came his way later. Refusing to sit idle, he decided to hone his cooking skills which he feels he is gifted with. “My mother had undergone a knee surgery in 2017 and during that time I used to help her in the kitchen. That was the time when I found a new interest in cooking. Soon I was famous among the children from my neighbourhood for my noodles and among my friends for meat dishes. Those days I never took cooking seriously. During lockdown, I started cooking for my friends and some elders living alone in the city. Later through word of mouth, customer base increased and Sathya Foodz took shape,” says Arun, who along with being a self-taught DJ also runs an event-management company. Sathya Foodz, which works on the concept of cloud kitchen, has obtained FSSAI licence and offers an array of dishes like puttu, kallapam, idiappam, pulav, fried rice, all meat and fish dishes and sadhyas. Rather than focusing on food for individuals, they cater to family orders starting from a pack for four. “I looked up on the internet for some recipes and then I had many friends working as chefs who taught me the intricacies of cooking,” says Arun. What started off from the four walls of the house kitchen, today has transformed into an extended elaborate kitchen on the rooftop. Backing Arun in this endeavour is his family, which consists of his retired parents and wife who works as a teacher at a government school. A normal day for Arun starts at 5am when he goes to Chalai market or Punchakari to source vegetables. Once the meat supply arrives, by around 8:30am, the kitchen gets active and runs till about 4:30 in the evening. The roles have been clearly marked based on personal skills. “My father is exceptionally great with cleaning meat, and can make great idiappams. My mother helps with the preparations of sweet dishes, puttu and vegetables. Cleaning vegetables and chopping is handled by my wife while I prepare the food,” says Arun. While Arun’s parents believe that keeping themselves busy has helped them fight the age-related ailments, Arun’s wife, who walked into his life just two months before the lockdown, is all praise for her husband’s efforts. “Being a DJ and chef lets you connect with the crowd and I love doing that. Once life gets back to normal I would love to carry forward both my passions hand in hand,” says Arun as he signs off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/taste-it-a-juicy-number-from-a-djs-kitchen/articleshow/79344847.cms||Rakesh Nair
November 22, 2020||Lucknow||Ensure timely probe in Pocso cases: UP DGP||LUCKNOW: UP DGP on Saturday directed all district police chiefs to ensure timely and scientific investigation in Pocso Act cases and make certain that all legal procedures are duly followed. DGP Hitesh Chandra Awasthy said all cases registered under Pocso Act must be resolved under the stipulated time period. “Senior officers must ensure the cases are probed scientifically and all legal procedures are followed. All efforts must be made to ensure the perpetrators get maximum punishment and continuous perusal of cases must be done in courts,” he added. “UP Police disposed of 249 cases since January 1 this year. In two cases, court gave death penalty to convicts, while 52 others were awarded life sentence,” the DGP added. One Bablu was sentenced to death for raping and killing a six-year-old girl in Saadatganj area of Lucknow last year. In another case from Bareilly, Murari and Umakant were sentenced to death for rape and murder of a girl child in Nawabganj area in 2016. Senior officials said the government’s decision of opening a forensic lab in each police range will help in collecting scientific evidence and timely probe in Pocso cases. IG Lucknow range Laxmi Singh said there has been an increase in disposal of cases of sexual assault on minor girls and boys and specific training is being imparted to police staff under ‘Mission Shakti’ by experts to make them more sensitive towards crime against women and children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dgp-ensure-timely-probe-in-pocso-cases/articleshow/79346508.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 22, 2020||Meerut||Pirated NCERT textbook haul: Partial charge-sheet against four accused filed, main suspect still at large||MEERUT: Local police has filed a partial charge-sheet against four accused in connection with the pirated NCERT textbook haul worth over Rs 50 crore, said kotwali circle officer Arvind chaurasia. All the four accused were arrested during a raid at the warehouse and printing press in Meerut owned by BJP functionary Sanjeev Gupta. Gupta and his nephew Sachin are, however, still at large. Though police had secured a non-bailable warrant against them, the duo continued to evade police ever since the consignment of pirated textbooks was unearthed by the Special Task Force’s (STF) Meerut unit on August 21. Later, a similar consignment was seized in Amroha, too. Preliminary investigation had pointed to a nationwide network of the pirated textbooks printed in Meerut. Besides, an order register accessed by TOI, too, suggested a massive nationwide network of the pirated NCERT books printed in Meerut. The record maintained in the register has a handwritten list of 926 vendors, their locations, size of the consignments of books and brief details about logistics for the transportation. Also, there were names of vendors who would complete the “last mile”. There were also addresses of shops that would stockpile the pirated books. A four-member NCERT committee formed to look into the matter had in its report suggested that the loss suffered by the autonomous government organisation due to the publishing of the pirated books should be recovered from the accused involved in the racket.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/pirated-ncert-textbook-haul-partial-charge-sheet-against-four-accused-filed-main-suspect-still-at-large/articleshow/79344335.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Dehradun||Two female elephants die in Uttarakhand within 72 hours||DEHRADUN: In two separate accidents, Uttarakhand lost two female elephants within 72 hours. On Saturday, the carcass of a female jumbo, around 40-year-old, was found by the patrolling team of railways near Lachhiwala-Harrawala area in Dehradun forest division. The body was found in a wounded state as the elephant was hit badly by a fast moving train on Saturday morning. The body was found during noon. A forest department team also inspected the spot and a probe has been set up to identify the train that hit the elephant. Action would be taken against the accused loco-pilot. In another accident on November 19 (Thursday), the body of another female jumbo was found in an electrocuted state in Lachhiwala range. According to forest staff, a high-tension wire fell on the jumbo as she tried to pull down a branch of trees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-female-elephants-die-in-ukhand-within-72-hours/articleshow/79344344.cms||Shivani Azad
November 22, 2020||Meerut||Uttar Pradesh police to seek Red Corner Notice against don Badan Singh Baddo||MEERUT: Meerut Police is now seeking a Red Corner Notice (RCN) against fugitive don Badan Singh Baddo, who is believed to have fled the country. This comes after the Allahabad high court pulled up the state government while hearing a petition filed by a city-based lawyer recently. Police have already filed a chargesheet into his dramatic escape from police custody on March 28 last year even as Baddo and his teenage son Sikandar continue to evade arrest. In all, 21 persons were named in the chargesheet. Local police and a special task force have been on his trail ever since his escape, but with no success. Baddo had sprung a surprise with a social media post pinning his location to Rotterdam, a port city in Netherlands, in February this year, almost 10 months after his escape. According to Amit Rai, circle officer, Brahmpuri, “The process (of securing a Red Corner Notice) has been initiated. So far, an application has been sent to the local administration which writes to the state administration after reviewing it. After that it is taken up at the higher level.” Baddo, 48, has more than 30 cases of murder, loot, robbery and extortion lodged against him at various police stations in Meerut and adjoining districts. He was sentenced to life imprisonment on October 31, 2017, for the murder of lawyer Ravinder Singh in 1996. Baddo is said to own businesses in Australia where his estranged wife and daughter are settled, although police deny their link to Baddo. Meerut SSP Ajay Sahani told TOI, "Though Baddo's passport was revoked in 2013 but the possibility of his presence outside the country cannot be ruled out. His wife is currently living in Australia, but they have not been in contact for years due to their estranged relationship." In a Bollywood-style escape, Baddo had escaped last year after allegedly entertaining a police team accompanying him in a hotel where alcohol was served. Nine accused, including six policemen, were initially arrested, but all were granted bail later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-police-to-seek-red-corner-notice-against-don-baddo/articleshow/79344354.cms||Sandeep Rai
November 22, 2020||Dehradun||Traders to protest possible order to shut down Paltan Bazaar for Smart City works||DEHRADUN: The representatives of various market associations across the city held an online meeting on Saturday against the district administration’s plan to close down Paltan Bazaar for a short duration for completing the Smart City works. It is to be noted that no formal orders from the district administration in this regard have been released so far. Pankaj Mason, president of Doon Valley Mahanagar Udyog Vyapar Mandal, said, “The shopkeepers have already suffered a lot during the coronavirus-induced nationwide lockdown. Subsequently, the abrupt demolition drive on the orders of the high court before Diwali damaged us further. If the markets are forced to close down now, the shopkeepers will be hurt very bad economically.” The market association has also demanded that the cost to re-build the demolished constructions and that of replacing sign boards must be covered under Smart City projects. During the virtual meeting, the traders who run businesses in markets like Tehsil Bazaar, Sarnimal Bazaar, Dhamawala Bazaar, Moti Bazaar, and Guru Ram Rai Bazaar have also extended their support to the shop owners of Paltan Bazaar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/traders-to-protest-possible-order-to-shut-down-paltan-bazaar-for-smart-city-works/articleshow/79344352.cms||Abhijeet Singh
November 22, 2020||Meerut||Missing eight-year-old girl’s body found near home, cops suspect she was strangled at Noorpur Chhipri||BIJNOR: The body of an eight-year-old girl, who was missing since Friday evening was found on Saturday amid a clump of shrubs, about a 150 metres from her home at Noorpur Chhipri village under Sherkot police station area. She went missing while playing outside her house. Police said evidence indicates that she was strangled. Her scarf was lying nearby. Giving details, Bijnor superintendent of police Dharamveer Singh said, "Deceased's grandfather had informed police that his granddaughter was missing. She was last seen playing outside her house. Police searched the neighbouring cane fields but to no avail. On Saturday, when the search was resumed, her body was found lying amid the shrubs. Prima facie it seems that she was strangled.” The body had been sent for a post-mortem. Police are awaiting the report. Meanwhile, all angles in the case are being probed, the SP added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/missing-8-yr-old-girls-body-found-near-home-cops-suspect-she-was-strangled/articleshow/79344343.cms||Harveer Dabas
November 22, 2020||Dehradun||Four, including transport official, booked for forgery in Roorkee||Roorkee: A senior official of a local road transport office and three others were booked by local police in connection with cheating and forgery. The action comes after a complaint by the villager who has alleged that the official registered an expensive private car, bought from Delhi, using fake documents in his name with the local transport office. According to police, one Balram Chauhan from Rohalki-Kishanpur village received a notice from Delhi police on March 16 at his village address for paying a fine worth Rs 1,000 in connection with over-speeding driving of his SUV car in their jurisdiction. As he never purchased the vehicle, he asked for the information of the vehicle from the transport office of Roorkee through an RTI application. The RTI response revealed that the vehicle was first registered in the name of a Delhi-based firm and later its registration had been transferred to Uttarakhand from Delhi in Chauhan's name. Police have registered a case on Chauhan's complaint against Sanjeev Gupta, Asha Gupta, Rohit Gupta (an owner of Delhi-based firm and residents of the posh Sainik Farm in Delhi) and Sayeed Ahmed, a senior administrative officer at Regional Transport Office in Roorkee. "We have registered the case under sections 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating and dishonesty dealing with a property), 467 (forge documents), 471 (fraudulently use of any document as genuine) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and have started probe in the matter," said inspector Rajesh Sah, Roorkee Civil Lines police station. Meanwhile, the transport official has said that he has wrongly been made the accused in the matter. "According to the case, I am just accused of not verifying the address of the person under whose name the vehicle has been registered. However, the provision of address verification in the transport office doesn't prevail," said accused Sayeed Ahmed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/four-including-transport-official-booked-for-forgery-in-roorkee/articleshow/79344356.cms||Tapan Susheel
November 22, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: ‘Congress sinking ship, it's AAP vs BJP’||DEHRADUN: The Uttarakhand unit of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Saturday said that the Congress party is a sinking ship and that it has lost its relevance in the state politics while adding that the state assembly polls, scheduled in 2022, will be a direct contest between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and AAP. Launching an attack on the congress party, AAP spokesperson Ravindra Anand said, “Congress party is a sinking ship and the party will become completely irrelevant before the forthcoming 2022 assembly polls.” He added that the popularity of AAP is increasing day-by-day in the Himalayan state and the party will emerge as an alternative to Congress in the state politics. AAP leaders also claimed that the Congress is grappling with infighting and factionism and this will ruin the party’s prospects in the next assembly polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/congress-a-sinking-ship-assembly-polls-will-be-a-direct-contest-between-aap-bjp/articleshow/79344370.cms||Gaurav Talwar
November 22, 2020||Dehradun||‘Bajrang Bridge’ to be constructed next to Lakshman Jhula: Trivendra Singh Rawat||DEHRADUN: The Uttarakhand government has announced the construction of a state-of-art glass-floored ‘Bajrang Bridge’ next to the iconic Lakshman Jhula bridge. The announcement was made by chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat while inaugurating the 346-metre-long Janki Setu in Rishikesh connecting Swargashram to Muni-ki-Reti on Friday. The CM said that the new Bajrang Bridge will be another iconic structure of the state and soon the budget for commencing the construction work will be released. The new bridge will be one of the major tourist destinations of Uttrakhand like the Lakshman Jhula bridge, added the CM. He further said that latest technology will be used for construction of the bridge. City locals have welcomed the announcement and have requested the government to build the bridge as soon as possible. “We are facing acute economic losses due to the closing of the Lakshman Jhula bridge for traffic. The government should build the bridge as soon as possible. It should not get stalled like Janki Setu, the construction of which took around 14 years,” Mahaveer Negi, a local resident, told TOI. To recall, the Lakshman Jhula bridge was closed for commuters by the local administration in July, 2019. The decision was taken after a technical team pointed out that the deteriorating condition of the bridge, which was built over the Ganga in 1929, can be a threat to commuters. The bridge connected Tapovan and Lakhsman Jhula regions of Tehri and Pauri Garhwal districts. Meanwhile, the public works department (PWD) has prepared a proposal for a new bridge near the Lakshman Jhula towards downstream and a detailed project report has also been sent to the state government in this regard. The new bridge is estimated to be built at a cost of Rs 66 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bajrang-bridge-to-be-constructed-next-to-lakshman-jhula-cm/articleshow/79344350.cms||MS Nawaz
November 22, 2020||Bhopal||Covid-19 in Madhya Pradesh: 4000+ cases in six days led to night curfew in five districts||BHOPAL: In the wake of increasing number of Covid-19 cases, the state government on Friday imposed night curfew in five districts — Indore, Bhopal, Gwalior, Ratlam and Vidisha. There has been a spurt in cases in these places along some a few other districts over the past few days. A total 20,027 positive cases were reported in these five districts in the month of October. Statistically, this means an average 646 new cases being reported every day from these five districts in the month of October. The cases had decreased in the first 15 days of November. Between November 1 and November 15, a total of 6,010 new cases were reported from these five districts. This averaged to around 400 new cases every day. But in the past one week post-Diwali, there has been an spurt in number of new cases reported. A whopping 4,013 new cases were reported in the past six days between November 16 and November 21 in the five districts where curfew was imposed. This averages around to 668 cases reported per day from these districts, and this is a far above the number of cases reported in the month of October where only 640 new cases were reported daily from these districts. Among these five districts, it is state capital Bhopal, where the maximum number of cases have been reported in November. A total 4,425 people have tested positive for Covid-19 in the state capital between November 1 and November 21. Bhopal is followed by Indore where 3,073 people have tested positive. But when it comes to increase in terms of percentage compared to previous months, it is Gwalior where maximum increase has been reported. 81% of the number of cases reported in the entire month of October have been reported in Gwalior till now. Sources said that while in the entire state, it is the Diwali festivities and shopping which had added to the spurt, in districts like Gwalior, there has been a double whammy — first the bye-election and its campaigning and then the Diwali festival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/after-spurt-in-covid-cases-night-curfew-on-five-dists/articleshow/79344854.cms||Amarjeet Singh
November 22, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Bales of cotton pile up as procurement norms tighten||GUNTUR: Despite the preparedness of the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) to pick up stocks, farmers are struggling to sell the output due to the impractical rules fixed by the marketing department. While untimely rains have already hit the quality of the crop, procurement rules are further crippling the farmers. Sources said the marketing department has fixed a cap for procurement by the CCI keeping in view the irregularities that took place during previous seasons. In fact, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) had booked cases against several officials from the marketing department and in the CCI, along with cotton buyers, for misusing the minimum support price (MSP) two years ago. Taking these instances into consideration, the marketing department came out with stringent rules for procurement of cotton. However, these rules pose a hurdle for farmers looking to sell their stocks. As per the rules, a farmer whose name is registered in the e-crop register of the agriculture department has to visit the CCI procurement centre in person to sell the stock. “None of the family members are being allowed to transact on behalf of the farmer as the farmer has to register his thumb impression at the procurement centre,” rued R Satyanarayana, a cotton farmer. Satyanarayana said it was a practical difficulty for all farmers to visit procurement centres. Surprisingly, the marketing department is not allowing farmers to sell more than five quintals in each spell even if the yield is around 10 quintals per acre. “This is forcing us to sell half the stock to middlemen and half to the CCI,” said another farmer S Subhani from Medikonduru village. Sources said the rule has been formulated based on the agriculture department’s assessment of total yield during the season. The agriculture department has fixed a different average output for each district based on its soil and climatic conditions. “We have a cap on the stock to be sold by the farmers to avoid middlemen taking advantage of the MSP,” said Venkateswara Reddy, a senior official with the marketing department. The CCI could so far pick up just 4,000 bales of cotton against the target of four lakh quintals. The state has produced nearly 30 lakh bales during the season. CCI AP region branch manager G Sai Aditya said they are ready to pick up the maximum stock from farmers if the state marketing department relaxes its rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/bales-of-cotton-pile-up-as-procurement-norms-tighten/articleshow/79344362.cms||Samdani MN
November 22, 2020||Lucknow||Hooch deaths: Accused to be booked under Gangster Act, says Uttar Pradesh CM||LUCKNOW: Taking congnisance of the hooch deaths in Prayagraj on Friday, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has said those involved in selling and manufacture of spurious liquor will be booked under the stringent Gangster Act. Their property will also be auctioned and the proceeds will go towards providing aid to the aggrieved families, he said. At least six persons died, while another 15 were hospitalised after they consumed illicit liquor in Prayagraj. The incident came days after a special drive was launched in the state to crack down on manufacture of spurious liquor. The CM has directed ACS excise to fix the responsibility for this incident and take strict action against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/hooch-deaths-accused-to-be-booked-under-gangster-act-says-cm/articleshow/79346511.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||14 candidates on fray for TVM in local body polls||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Thiruvananthapuram Vikasana Munnettam (TVM), a people’s movement that was floated by pro-development organisations and individuals in the city, will have their candidates contesting from 14 wards in city corporation. The 14 candidates had filed their nominations and all were passed in the final scrutiny. Initially, high-power committee of TVM, which came to existence on November 1, had plans to field their candidates in all 100 wards in the corporation. But later, the decision was changed since they were not yet a registered political party and lacked resources to focus on campaigns in all the wards. According to the committee members, they shortlisted 20 candidates after conducting interviews. From this, two were omitted citing poor integrity following background checks. Four were omitted as they refused to sign an affidavit stating that they would not cross floors and align with any major political front in case they win. “The main reason why we floated this movement and fielded our candidates in the election was because the regular political fronts have failed to give priority to city’s development needs. Hence, if our candidates align with them later after win, it would defeat the purpose of their movement,’’ said Raghuchandran Nair, the founder of TVM, adding that winning in election was, however, a long shot. For this exact reason, they have declined an offer from the district Congress leadership to align with them. The concern of the Congress leadership was that the TVM candidates were contesting from wards where Congress had a winning chance. Since, CPM voters are mostly party loyalists, TVM’s presence may adversely affect the Congress candidates more. Meanwhile, the committee has also decided to register their movement as a political party after the election. “We could not find time for it before as we formed this movement only three weeks ago. The decision to register as a political party was taken after we noticed that our mere presence in the election has made the major fronts rethinking about their agenda. Now, they too are raising development as their top priority,’’ Nair said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/14-candidates-on-fray-for-tvm-in-local-body-polls/articleshow/79344856.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Bareilly||Tourists can now enjoy Tharu cuisine in Dudhwa||BAREILLY: Leaving the busy city life behind, you can now enjoy a sumptuous ‘Tharu Thali’ while visiting Dudhwa in UP's Lakhimpur Kheri with local music by your side and a fascinating interaction with the tribe's culture and history. Days after the launch of Tharu Arts and Crafts Complex, Dudhwa forest officials have introduced traditional Tharu meals as part of the menu for tourists from Saturday. “The menu has multiple delicacies. Visitors can avail organic food on banana leaves with two types of rice meals, lentils, vegetables, two kinds of chapatis with a spicy ‘chutney’, sweet dish and milk in a kulhar. We are serving lunch on weekends, for now. Around 20 people enjoyed the meal on Saturday," Manoj Sonkar, the deputy director at Dudhwa, said. The Tharu Arts and Crafts Complex at Chandan Chowki village has a museum to help visitors understand their history and culture. Tourists can also stay with a Tharu family and get acquainted with their local music and lifestyle. Uttar Pradesh has a total of five Scheduled Tribes. Out of five STs, Tharu is the most populous tribe, having a population of 83,544. They constitute 77.4% of the total tribal population of the state, according to the 2011 census. The latest move is aimed at economically strengthening the Tharu tribe by increasing their participation in eco-tourism and reducing their dependency on forest land. "Once tourists start getting familiar with Tharu food, which is healthy and delicious, they would take interest in knowing their culture. When tourists stay in their village to learn about their culture, folk music and medicines, locals will get jobs and be part of tourism activities,” Sonkar explained. The complex has been set up at a cost of Rs 1.70 crore. It has 10 shops along with four guest rooms, a music room, a restaurant and a museum. Forest corporation will also try to support the tribe members by improving their huts to make them suitable for tourists. A decision on finalising the agency to ensure the maintenance of the complex will be taken up by a panel led by Kheri's chief development officer on November 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/tourists-can-now-enjoy-tharu-cuisine-in-dudhwa/articleshow/79343710.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 22, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: ‘Incentive for inter-caste and inter-faith marriages not new’||DEHRADUN: In the wake of a controversy over the Uttarakhand government’s policy to offer cash incentive of Rs 50,000 to those entering in inter-caste and inter-faith marital alliances, an official of the social welfare department has said that the policy is not new and has been ongoing since 1976. “Any eligible couple can avail the benefit within one year of their marriage. The policy of offering a cash incentive to promote inter-caste and inter-faith marriages is not a new one and has been in place since 1976,” said an official of the social welfare department who did not wish to be named. The statement comes after a section of people criticised the state government’s policy on social media platforms saying that it is an “attempt to encourage the practice of love jihad”. The development comes at a time when several BJP-ruled states — including Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, and Karnataka — are mulling to enforce laws to prevent the alleged practice of “love jihad”. To recall, the cash incentive being given jointly to inter-caste and inter-faith couples was increased from Rs 10,000 to Rs 50,000 in Uttarakhand in 2014 through an amendment in the Uttar Pradesh Antarjatiya/Antardharmik Vivah Protsahan Niyamawali, 1976.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/policy-to-give-rs-50k-cash-incentive-to-promote-inter-caste-inter-faith-marriages-not-new/articleshow/79344363.cms||Gaurav Talwar
November 22, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Five more districts may face curbs as corona cases continue to spiral||BHOPAL: Apart from the five districts where the state government has imposed night curfew in a bid to contain the spread of Covid-19—there are several other districts which are on the verge of facing similar measures if the situation is not checked. As per the official figures, apart from Bhopal, Indore, Gwalior, Vidisha and Ratlam where night curfew was imposed, there are five other districts which have shown significant increase in number of cases in the month of November. Jabalpur, Rewa, Sagar, Satna and Balaghat are also among the top 10 districts where maximum number of cases were reported in the state in this month till November 21. In fact, more cases were reported from Jabalpur than Ratlam and Vidisha where night curfew was imposed. And Rewa and Sagar districts reported more cases than Vidisha which was among the five districts where curfew was imposed. And it’s not only in the entire month of November, but even if the post-Diwali scenario is observed, Jabalpur had reported 313 new cases between November 16 and November 21 while Ratlam had reported 284 and Vidisha had reported 195 cases in the same period. And both Rewa and Sagar have reported 199 and 196 cases respectively compared to 195 cases reported from Vidisha during the same period. However, when the rate of increase of cases compared to previous months is considered, in Vidisha district where 465 cases were reported in 31 days of October and now, in just 21 days, 440 cases have been reported. The rate of increase in number of cases compared to previous month is higher in Vidisha compared to Rewa and Sagar districts. Similarly, though more cases have been reported from Jabalpur in November than Ratlam, when compared to cases reported in October, only 30% of those reported in October have been reported in November so far in Jabalpur, while Ratlam has reported 80% of the number of cases reported in entire October in just 21 days of November.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/five-more-dists-may-face-curbs-as-corona-cases-continue-to-spiral/articleshow/79344859.cms||Amarjeet Singh
November 22, 2020||Dehradun||PWD starts repairing road on Jakhan-Johri stretch||DEHRADUN: Two days after TOI reported the poor condition of the Johri-Jakhan stretch, the teams of Public Works Department on Saturday started repairing the 1.5-kilometre-long road. The officials have said that the road will be repaired in two phases. In the first phase, the basic repairs of the damaged road will be completed and in the second phase, the interlocking tiles will be replaced. Talking to TOI, SP Sharma, a city resident, said, “The dilapidated condition had led to several minor accidents on the stretch. Finally, the road repairing work has started after repeated complaints to various officials. The repair work will bring major relief to the residents and the commuters who use this stretch.” In recent times, the road has also become an alternative route for commuters going towards CM’s residence and Raj Bhawan. The area residents say that after the work of installing a cautionary board on the road is complete, the authorities must also put thermoplastic paint on the side guard on road corners to alert commuters of the repairing work. TOI had earlier reported that the road — constructed four years ago at a cost of Rs 58 lakh — lacks streetlights and the interlocking tiles on the stretch are broken. The road has more than six accident-prone points. The stretch needs immediate repair as it becomes particularly dangerous for commuters during night time, say residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/after-toi-report-pwd-starts-repairing-road-on-jakhan-johri-stretch/articleshow/79344378.cms||Abhijeet Singh
November 22, 2020||Vijayawada||In meticulous heist, bank robbed of Rs 85 lakh||VIJAYAWADA: Unidentified persons meticulously broke into a State Bank of India branch at Nadikudi town in Guntur district and stole over Rs 85 lakh on Friday night. Dacepalli police said they were informed about the heist only on Saturday morning when bank officials noticed that a grill window had been cut open with chilli powder laced across the area. The miscreants had turned off the CCTV cameras inside the premises and the chilli powder was used to ensure the sniffer dog squad didn’t get a whiff on them. Cops suspect a gas-cutter was used to remove the grill window. “The bank did not have any security personnel nor a burglar alarm,” a police official said. Guntur rural SP Vishal Gunni said preliminary investigation suggests that around Rs 85 lakh had been taken from the safe. He also noted that the robbers had taken all necessary measures to make it a clean job and left no clues. Police are checking other local CCTV footage to try and identify the suspects. Special teams have been formed to solve the case. “The clues team and the sniffer dog could not get any evidence from the spot. The accused have been quite meticulous in their theft. We are also seeking public help on the matter and any information pertaining to the accused can be shared via 8866268899,” Gunni said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/in-meticulous-heist-bank-robbed-of-rs-85l/articleshow/79344373.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
November 22, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Daily count of 1,700 highest in six weeks, positivity rate rises to 5.2%||BHOPAL: It is after 44 days that 1,700 new Covid-19 patients were found in a single day in the state on Saturday. It was on October 8 that 1,715 new cases were reported in the state. Now, on November 21, 1,700 new cases were reported in the state. With these new cases, the tally of positive cases in the state reached 1,91,246 on Saturday. Apart from the fresh cases, 11 deaths were also reported as per the state health bulletin, released by the Directorate of Health Services. Districts where these deaths were reported include Indore where 3 deaths were reported, 2 deaths were reported from Ratlam and one death each was reported from Bhopal, Sagar, Morena, Seoni, Guna and Khandwa. A total 31,691 samples were tested on Saturday, out of which 1,700 people were found positive. Thus, the positivity rate—number of people testing positive out of every 100 samples tested—for Saturday stood at 5.2%. The cumulative positivity rate in the state on November 21 was 5.51%. It is noteworthy that positivity rate above five per cent is considered high and more and more tests are recommended if the positivity rate is above 5%. On Saturday, fresh cases were reported from 51 of the 52 districts of the state. It was only Alirajpur district where no fresh case was reported. On the brighter side, 899 people who were admitted at hospitals recovered and were discharged. With these new patients recovering from the disease, the count of people who have recovered so far from the disease reached 1,76,905. Cumulative recovery rate of Covid-19 in the state as on November 21, was 92.5%. As on November 21, there were 11,192 active cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/1700-fresh-cases-take-state-covid-count-to-191246/articleshow/79344866.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Hyderabad||40,000 Rohingya registered as voters, alleges Bandi Sanjay||HYDERABAD: Continuing with his sharp Hindutva line in the run-up to the GHMC polls, Telangana BJP president Bandi Sanjay on Saturday alleged that about 40,000 Rohingya in Hyderabad were enrolled as voters with the support of AIMIM. He claimed they would all vote for AIMIM and TRS candidates. He, refused to say where he got this number from and what was its source. Sanjay added that the opposition was faulting him for standing up for Hindus. “What is wrong in talking about 80% of the population in the country,” he asked. TRS senior leader and former MP B Vinod Kumar condemned Sanjay’s comments and said, “Rohingya subject is dealt by Centre and belongs to ministry of external affairs, while citizenship is related to ministry of home affairs again dealt by the Centre. Preparation of electoral rolls and enrolment is subject matter of ECI. What is the role of TRS?” Vinod, who is the vice-chairman of state planning board, asked. Sanjay has maintained a Hindutva line for past few days, even alleging that CM KCR had links with terrorists. This prompted TRS to ask SEC to take action against him. Sanjay announced that party would come up with a charge sheet on misrule of ruling TRS government. “All surveys are indicting massive majority to BJP,” he said. While asserting that he had not written any letter to state election commission to stop flood assistance he alleged TRS leaders had created a fake letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/40000-rohingya-registered-as-voters-alleges-sanjay/articleshow/79344865.cms||Koride Mahesh
November 22, 2020||Bareilly||Uttar Pradesh: Rampur Nawab’s assets valued at Rs 2,600 crore||RAMPUR: In its 48th year, a value has finally been assigned to what is at stake in the court battle among members of the Rampur royal family — Rs 2,664 crore. On Saturday, in their submissions to the district and sessions judge of Rampur, court-appointed commissioners filed their estimates of assets that belonged to the last Nawab of Rampur. The court will now hold daily hearings to meet the December deadline the Supreme Court had set for the division of property among claimants. The Nawab of Rampur, Raza Ali Khan, was the first to accede to India after Independence in 1949 on the condition that two things would not change — ownership of property and the right of primogeniture. Upon his death in 1966, both spurred a dispute that led to one of the longest running civil suits in the country. He was survived by six daughters and three sons, and a dispute arose over inheritance. In contention since then have been five properties with 18 claimants, including former MP Begum Noor Bano and former MLA Kazam Ali Khan. “The Khasbagh Palace is spread across a 350-acre property, Benazir Kothi and orchard occupy 100 acres, Shahbad Castle 250 acres, Kunda orchard is 12,000 sq m and Nawab’s private railway station is 19,000 sq m,” court-appointed commissioner for immovable assets, advocate Arun Prakash Saxena, told TOI. “These immovable assets have been valued at approximately Rs 2,600 crore.” More than half of this estimate, Rs 1,435 crore, has been attributed to the Khasbagh Palace, the sprawling royal residence built in phases till 1930, host to Ghalib, Begum Akhtar and Fida Hussein Khan. Moveable assets that were evaluated in the five properties range from art (paintings by Baroque portrait artist Sir Peter Lely and 19th century British portrait artist John Hanson Walker), vintage cars (a 1939 Buick, a 1954 Dodge convertible, 1956 Austin convertible, 1956 Jeep Willys, 1956 Fiat, 1957 Plymouth and Fargo trucks), the throne, swords and daggers to gold cigarette cases, chandeliers, crockery, statues, mirrors, carpets, and so on. “The valuation of moveable assets was conducted by a private interior and commercial designing firm, which arrived at Rs 64 crore,” said advocate Harsh Gupta, who has been representing one of the claimants, the family of the Nawab’s second son Zulfiquar Ali Khan. Last year, the Supreme Court had asked the Rampur district judge to evaluate the property and come up with a plan for division of assets. It had, before that, said that the Muslim personal law would prevail over the traditional gaddi system, which made way for the women in the family to stake claim to the property as well. Right before the lockdown, the court-appointed commissioner for moveable assets, Saurabh Saxena, had submitted the valuation report of the Nawab’s armoury — with vintage guns, gem-studded swords and knives with tangs made of precious stones — at Rs 76 lakh. The Nawab’s heirs had contested the conservative assessment and planned on challenging it in court. But perhaps more disappointing still had been the much-awaited opening of the Khasbagh Palace strongroom, the build-up to which had conjured images of troves of century-old riches locked away from sight. When it was opened in August last year, the lockers turned out to be empty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/rampur-nawabs-assets-valued-at-rs-2600-crore-palace-alone-is-worth-more-than-half-that/articleshow/79343725.cms||Nazar Abbas
November 22, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Will challenge SC order to demolish temples, challenge ABAP||HARIDWAR: The Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad (ABAP) has decided to challenge the Supreme Court's order to demolish four religious structures 'illegally' constructed on government land in Haridwar. Mahant Narendra Giri, ABAP president, told TOI, “No temple will be removed. The ABAP will challenge the decision of the single bench of the Supreme Court in the double bench very soon.” The statement came after a meeting between the representatives of all the akhadas under the ABAP and Uttarakhand's urban development minister Madan Kaushik. The meeting was held in Maya Devi temple premises in Haridwar on Saturday and was also attended by senior Kumbh Mela officers. “During the meeting, the issue related to the demolition of four temples built on government land was discussed and the seers asked Kaushik Ji to resolve the issue at the earliest possible,” said Giri. Meanwhile, the ABAP also turned down the state’s government proposal of installing camps for Naga Sanaysis in the premises of the offices of different akhadas during the Kumbh Mela 2021. The body has instead asked the government to start the process of allotting Kumbh Mela land where seers can install their camps. Giri told TOI, “The government had proposed to postpone the camping of seers in the Kumbh sectors in the wake of the Covid-19 threat but the ABAP has rejected the proposal and has asked the government to start the process of land allotment for camping as soon as possible.” He added, “Kumbh Mela will be celebrated as per rituals and all the camps of Naga Sanyasis and other noted seers will be installed. As far as the Covid-19 pandemic is concerned, the government has the responsibility to contain the spread of the virus. The seers will take part in royal baths.” It has also been learnt that another meeting between seers and the government will take place in February, 2021. “During the meeting next year, we will assess the prevailing Covid-19 scenario and the Kumbh Mela, which is to commence from March 11, will be held accordingly. If things don’t go bad, the Kumbh Mela will be celebrated at a large scale,” said Giri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/will-challenge-sc-order-to-demolish-temples-abap/articleshow/79344387.cms||MS Nawaz
November 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Affiliations become an abstract thought during local body polls||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Local body polls often make a mockery of sworn political affiliations and the poll fray for corporation election has been no different. While a few candidates made last-minute switch to the other end, some of the fronts made calculated moves to sense evident rancour in the opposite camp and pouch candidates with winning potential. For others, a contest against a party for which they had once worked so hard would be slightly emotional. P Syamkumar, who is the UDF candidate at Kuravankonam, had an uneasy time in the council when he was part of LDF ruling council and headed the tax appeal standing committee in 2010. When RSP allied with Congress in 2014, RSP councillors in Kollam corporation and Paravur municipality shifted their seats to the UDF camp, clearly declaring their inclination. Syamkumar however continued as the head of tax appeal committee and although he distanced himself from LDF meetings, he continued to sit among LDF councillors till the end of council tenure. LDF candidates at Vettucaud, Manikyavilakom and Nalanchira were once active UDF workers. At Vettucaud, LDF cashed in on the dissent over seat sharing and placed Sabu Thomas as the candidate. While Congress was busy deciding group equations, LDF acted quickly to bring Thomas to their hold. Manikyavilakom, where LDF ally INL twice declared candidate and cancelled eventually, settled for former UDF man P M Basheer. The choice was the byproduct of an open rift over the choice of Congress candidate at Manikyavilakom. Johnson Joseph, who is contesting for the sixth term as a councillor in the corporation, faces LDF candidate Thomas who had once sided with him as a Congress worker. Nedumom Mohan, who had long been a Congress man and won as UDF candidate from Thiruvallom, now emerges as the BJP candidate at Vellar. Mohan’s switch was a consequence of a fall out with the party that was brewing for some time. LDF candidate at Palkulangara S Vijayakumari had won as BJP candidate from Palakulangara ward in 2015. She was suspended from BJP party membership in August after she switched to CPM and took part in an anti-Union government protest taken out by CPM. There are a few candidates who had long made the switch and now face the election. Sheela Ramani, who is the UDF candidate at Nanthencode, had once been an LDF worker and it is this reason that has resulted in a strong rebel candidate at Nanthencode. Muttathara Soman, who is the UDF candidate at Muttathara, had once been an LDF councillor. Those associated with local body polls say that often last minute switches would not fetch the benefits they hope for. In 2015 when UDF denied a seat for Mujeeb Rahman at Kamaleswaram, he moved over to LDF. The result was that UDF lost a sitting seat as its councillor M B Resmi was pushed to third spot while Rahman emerged second. While Resmi and Rahman together polled nearly 2,800 votes, BJP candidate V Giri who emerged victorious polled 1,974 votes. “Sometimes parties genuinely leave people disgruntled. You work so hard for the party and when it comes to elections, you get ignored. Some take it in their stride while some take extreme step which is moving over to party which will accept you,” says a former councillor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/affiliations-become-an-abstract-thought-during-local-body-polls/articleshow/79344870.cms||Aswin J Kumar
November 22, 2020||Ranchi||‘Zoom dysmorphia’ boosts plastic surgery||Ranchi: Ankita Kumari (22) (name changed) recently visited one of the leading plastic surgeons in the state for a nose reshaping surgery. When Ankita was asked why she wanted to undergo a nose job, she revealed that she feels embarrassed during Zoom video conferences due to the shape of her nose. She is not the only person in the city to have undergone such surgery in recent times. Nearly half a dozen people, particularly men and boys, have opted for “corrective” surgeries at a time when many fellow citizens are putting off important operations in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Plastic surgeon and dermatologist Dr Anant Sinha said after a lull of almost three months since the outbreak of the pandemic in the state, a large number of queries started coming in by August. “Initially, we were not aware why so many people wanted to opt for facial surgeries — from the removal of acne and scar marks to reshaping of nose and lips. Later, during counselling sessions, we realised that people were getting conscious about their facial appearance while attending online video sessions,” he said. Dr Sinha referred to an article recently published in a journal, Facial Plastic Surgery & Aesthetic Medicine, and said the authors of that article had termed this phenomenon as ‘Zoom Dysmorphia’. A leading plastic surgeon in Bokaro, Dr Anindo Mondal, also agreed to the observation made by Dr Sinha. The former said, “Wrinkle removal and scar removal surgeries have suddenly increased and while going through the feedback forms, it has become clear to us that they are becoming overtly conscious about their appearance during video calls.” “People generally look at the mirrors for a short span of time, but Google Meet or Zoom call sessions usually last for a longer duration. So they tend to notice even the minutest aberrations on their face,” Mondal added. The craze for corrective surgery is more among young executives and teenagers who frequent virtual platforms. Himadri Chatterjee, a school student, said he became conscious of his acne marks and hairstyle after he started attending online classes. “Girls put up heavy make-up but we cannot, so corrective and aesthetic surgery is a good option for the boys,” he said. Another leading plastic surgeon and the former national vice-president of the Indian Medical Association, Dr Ajay Kumar Singh, however, said his patients were mostly in their middle ages. “Wrinkles make even those in senior managerial positions concerned about their looks. During the pandemic, when most people are confined to their homes, virtual platforms have become the only option for ‘face-to-face’ interactions for many. So they prefer to look attractive while attending the video calls,” he said. Dr Singh added that the number of cosmetic surgeries has increased in the past few months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/zoom-dysmorphia-boosts-plastic-surgery/articleshow/79344690.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
November 22, 2020||Ranchi||1st direct flight to Chennai takes off from Ranchi||Ranchi: As many as 150-odd passengers boarded Ranchi’s first ever direct flight to Chennai on Saturday. Ranchi airport director Vinod Kumar Sharma said the Indigo flight took off from Birsa Munda international airport at 8:50am, soon after the plane landed in the city around 8:05am with 166 passengers from the southern state. It landed in the Tamil Nadu capital at 11.15am. The demand for direct flights to Chennai was also fueled by the high frequency of Ranchi residents travelling to Vellore for medical treatments and tests. Several students, especially the ones doing engineering and medical courses in Tamil Nadu colleges, will also benefit from the new direct flights. “The inaugural day’s passenger load was encouraging,” Sharma said, adding, “Indigo has put its 180-seater Airbus 320 aircraft for this route. The new flight will go a long way in addressing the travel needs of those who visit Vellore, Chennai and other southern cities frequently for medical treatment.” Meanwhile, the airport authorities are gradually trying to resume the flights which were operational in the pre-Covid period. Prior to the nationwide lockdown, around 32 flights were operational from Birsa Munda. Currently, around 12 flights, excluding the new addition, operate from Ranchi to destinations like Bangalore, Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata and Hyderabad, among others. Recently, the state government gave its approval for five more flights. Sharma said that they are in the process of finalizing the destinations. Asked about the passenger turnout, Sharma said that almost all the flights are running at full capacity daily. “It is because trains are too few in number and people do not wish to undertake long hours of journey,” he added. Meanwhile, Ranchi airport has rescheduled its operations from this week in view of the reconstruction work on the runaway. As per the tweaked timings, all flight operations are suspended between 10.15am and 5.30pm till January 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/1st-direct-flight-to-chennai-takes-off-from-ranchi/articleshow/79344675.cms||ASRP Mukesh
November 22, 2020||Ranchi||Irfan backs Furqan over comments on Rahul||Ranchi: Jamtara MLA Irfan Ansari, who is also of the five working presidents of the state Congress, on Saturday backed his father Furqan Ansari, who has been issued a show-cause notice for his comments on former AICC president Rahul Gandhi and other central leaders. Earlier this week, Furqan had blamed them for the party’s poor performance in the recently concluded Bihar assembly polls. At a press conference in Bokaro earlier this week, the 71-year-old former MLA from Godda had said that the Gandhi scion needed “political advisors and not MBA graduates” in his office. He had also expressed disgruntlement on having to address these advisors as “sir”. On Thursday, the state Congress unit slapped Furkan with a show-cause notice, asking him to respond to it within a week. On Saturday, Irfan said, “Furqan Ansari is a senior party worker and has served as an MP, MLA and a cabinet minister for many terms. He is a veteran Muslim leader among the Ansari community across the country. Like a true Congress worker, he only aired his concerns in the interest of the party and such suggestions should be taken in the right spirit and not be misinterpreted.” Reiterating what his father said at the press conference, Irfan said, “Since party workers and advisors don’t give him a real picture of the political situation on ground, Rahul Gandhiji does not get right feedback of grassroot workers, like Furqanji does.” Congress contested 70 seats as part of the grand alliance, led by RJD, but won only 19 seats, causing a setback to the mahagathbandhan’s hopes of coming to power in the neighbouring state. Following the poll results, dissenting voices started emerging within the party with former Union minister Kapil Sibal raising questions over the party’s leadership. AICC in-charge for Bihar, Shaktisinh Gohil, and Bihar party chief Madan Mohan Jha offered to step down. In Jharkhand, the father-son duo first aired their frustration at the state Congress leadership after Furqan was denied a ticket from Godda during last year’s Lok Sabha polls. The seat was given to the now defunct JVM-P, which was part of the grand alliance along with Congress and JMM. The mahagathbandhan, however, lost 12 out of 14 seats, including Godda, to NDA. The Ansaris, along with other veteran Congress leaders, campaigned against former state Congress president Ajoy Kumar leading to his exit after the poll debacle. The party later pacified Ansaris by promising to field a Muslim candidate on one of the two seats for this year’s Rajya Sabha election and made Irfan a co-working president. However, Furqan was ignored again after another Muslim candidate, Shahzada Anwar, was given a ticket to contest the Rajya Sabha polls but he lost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/irfan-backs-furqan-over-comments-on-rahul/articleshow/79344719.cms||ASRP Mukesh
November 22, 2020||Surat||Surat: Man kills teen for raping his five-year-old daughter||SURAT/BHARUCH: A 19-year-old man, who allegedly raped a five-year-old girl living near his house, was bludgeoned to death by the minor’s father, in a village near Ankleshwar town of Bharuch district. The victim, Lalu Raju, had allegedly lured the girl with chocolates when she was playing outside her house in Borbhata village on Friday evening and taken her to a common toilet block a few metres away. He then allegedly raped her. When the girl rushed out of the toilet block crying, she was stopped by Raju's mother, who saw him coming out of the toilet block. The woman checked the little girl and found scratch marks on her body and heavy bleeding from her private parts. The woman caught her son and took him to the girl’s father, who lives in the house adjacent to theirs. Police said that when the girl’s father, a daily wager, learnt about the crime, he was overcome with rage and thrashed Raju with a wooden stick and kicked him multiple times on his private parts. The boy collapsed on the spot and was taken to the Bharuch Civil Hospital. Chirag Desai, deputy superintendent of police, Bharuch told TOI, “Raju died on Saturday morning. We have registered separate complaints of rape and murder. However, we are yet to arrest the girl’s father.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/man-kills-teen-for-raping-his-five-year-old-daughter/articleshow/79343894.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Ranchi||State Cong must explain its position on ‘Gupkar gang’: BJP||Ranchi: Opposition BJP on Saturday raked up the issue of “Gupkar alliance” and questioned Congress, a part of the ruling alliance in Jharkhand, over its stand on the conglomerate fighting for the restoration of Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir. Congress has denied that it is part of the alliance and claimed that it is only going for a seat-sharing agreement for the District Development Council election in Jammu and Kashmir. Addressing media persons at their party office here, state BJP president Deepak Prakash, however, accused Congress of being part of the People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) also known as Gupkar alliance. He said, “By being part of Gupkar alliance, Congress has exposed itself. The party must explain whether it is with the nation or against it. Congress leaders, including Rahul Gandhi, had been speaking against the scrapping of Article 370 ad 35A from Jammu and Kashmir, which was a historic decision taken by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government to enforce constitutional provisions in Jammu and Kashmir.” Prakash added, “Congress is showing its true colour by being part of the alliance.” PAGD is a coalition of about half a dozen political parties, particularly from Jammu and Kashmir, that is batting for restoration of special status to J&K. BJP has been running a campaign against the alliance and dubbed it as “Gupkar Gang”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/state-cong-must-explain-its-position-on-gupkar-gang-bjp/articleshow/79344745.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 22, 2020||Ranchi||6 Cov deaths, state toll nears 950-mark||Ranchi: Jharkhand recorded six Covid death on the last day of Chhath Puja on Saturday, the highest single-day casualty figure since November 9 and the second-highest this month. With just 175 cases being detected through the day, the casualty rate rose marginally and touched 0.88%. Till date 1,07,332 persons have been infected with the coronavirus, of which 945 have died, 1,03,957 have recovered, including 333 on Saturday. A total of 2,430 patients are still battling the infection across the state. Of the six deaths on Saturday, Ranchi reported two while East Singhbhum, Godda, Hazaribag and Jamtara reported one each. Among the 175 new cases, 59 were from Ranchi while East Singhbhum reported 33 and Bokaro 30. With 171 recoveries in Ranchi, the number of active cases in the capital fell below the 1,000-mark again – the district had 902 active cases on Saturday, the lowest since July 22. While the statewide recovery rate stood at 96.85%, the seven-day growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.17% against the national average of 0.38%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/6-cov-deaths-state-toll-nears-950-mark/articleshow/79344703.cms||Gaurav Pandey
November 22, 2020||Vadodara||Seven charred to death as van catches fire after collision in Gujarat||RAJKOT: Seven persons including three children got charred to death when the van in which they were travelling went up in flames after colliding with dumper truck near Patdi town of Surendranagar early on Saturday. The victims belonged to two families from Patan district who were returning home after offering prayers at the temple in Chotila. Police said the accident happened near Kherva village on Surendranagar-Malvan road at around 3am. After the collision, the van veered off the road, overturned in a field and got engulfed in fire. Since the Surendranagar-Malvan stretch does not witness traffic during night, the police got information about the accident two hours later after a passerby informed them. By the time the police patrolling car reached the spot, all the passengers were burnt to death. V N Jadeja, police sub-inspector of Bajana police station, who was first to reach the accident spot told TOI, “We could not identify the victims as all bodies were charred beyond recognition. We got the vehicle and its owner’s details from the local regional transport office (RTO). On investigation, it was known that two families were travelling in the van.” The deceased included Ramesh Nai, his wife Kailash and their two children Shital and Shani, all residents of Korda village of Santalpur taluka. The other victims were Kailash’s brother Haresh Nai, his wife Sejal and son Harshil. They were residents of Nanapura village in Radhanpur taluka of Patan. Jadeja said that they have called in a team of forensic experts for DNA testing of the bodies which will confirm the identity of the deceased. Primarily it is believed that two couples were aged 35-27 years and the three children were aged between 8 years and 12 years. Police said that the driver of the dumper truck had abandoned the vehicle and fled soon after the accident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/7-charred-to-death-as-van-catches-fire-after-collision/articleshow/79343777.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Covid tally crosses 17,000 with 101 new cases||VADODARA: The steady rise in Covid-19 cases in the city and district ensured that the number of cases on a single day reached three figures for the first time since October 19. The total number of Covid-19 cases reported in the city and district also crossed 17,000 on Saturday. The city and district saw 101 persons testing positive in the 24 hours ending on Saturday evening. With the new cases, the total number of cases reported in the city and district went up to 17,041. The new cases included 39 from parts of the district outside the city limits and 62 within the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) limits. Before this, the city had district had witnessed 101 cases in 24 hours on October 19. Since then the official number of cases in the city and district has remained in the 90s, but never went below that. Since Monday the number of persons testing positive for Covid-19 has been largely on a rise. VMC officials, however, said that the situation in the city was well under control and the hospitalization figures had not increased drastically. The discharge rate had also remained healthy ensuring that the number of active cases remained low. On Saturday, 98 patients were discharged from home isolation or hospitals. This left 1,138 persons hospitalized including 61 on ventilators or BIPAP machines. As many as 166 others were breathing with the help of oxygen. No fresh deaths were confirmed by the VMC keeping the total number of Covid-19 victims in the city and district at 217. These deaths do not include Covid-19 patients who may have died due to comorbidities or other ailments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/covid-tally-crosses-17k-with-101-new-cases/articleshow/79344376.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh to promote district-based food processing units||VIJAYAWADA: The state government has prepared a blueprint to promote food processing units across the state. The promotion would mostly be based on popular food varieties in each district. The state government plans to take advantage of Prime Minister Formalization of Micro Food Processing Enterprise (PMFME), a scheme promoted by the Union government, and set up food processing units in every district. The AP Food Processing Society (APFPS) has identified the food varieties available in each district and the scope of starting food processing units. The launch of the scheme awaits the clearance of chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy, who is keen to promote small and medium scale industries under MSME sector in the state. The government is also planning to promote farmer producer organizations (FPOs) and involve self-help group (SHG) women in the food processing activity. Besides encouraging new units to come up, the government plans to lend a helping hand to the existing units in all the 13 districts, said APFPS chief executive officer L Sridhar Reddy. “The government aims to provide increased access to common services like processing, laboratories, storage, packaging, marketing and incubation services. We are also looking at giving increased access to the enterprises for professional and technical support,” Reddy told TOI. He said the government is moving forward with an outlay of Rs 450 crore for the next five years. “The central government will provide 60% of the total cost, while the state is ready to spend the balance 40 per cent. We are aiming to reach out to over 10,035 micro food processing units to provide credit-linked subsidy. The government would first create common infrastructure and institutional architecture for the accelerated growth of the sector,” he added. He further informed that they have already identified popular and available products in every district. “The chief minister wants our support limited to these products under ‘One District, One Product’ programme. However, we would also support the existing units in every district. The CM has directed the APFPS to plan for state-level technical institutions and marketing expertise to support these micro food processing units,” Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-to-promote-dist-based-food-processing-units/articleshow/79344406.cms||Gopi Dara
November 22, 2020||Vijayawada||Patient watches TV while doctors perform brain surgery||GUNTUR: Doctors at a private hospital in Guntur performed a rare brain surgery while keeping the patient awake and showing him a television show during the procedure. The surgery was performed by Dr Bhavanam Hanuma Srinivas Reddy, Dr Sheshadri Shekar (both neurosurgeons) and Dr Trinadh (anaesthetist) about 10 days ago. Details of the procedure were shared after the patient recovered and was discharged on Saturday. The patient, 35-year-old Varaprasad of Patibandla village in Pedakurapadu mandal, had undergone a brain tumour surgery in Hyderabad in 2016. However, he could not fully recover from the ailment and had been suffering from fits for the past several months. After checking his condition, Dr Srinivasa Reddy decided to go for micro-level brain surgery to remove the recurrent glioma in his left premotor area abutting the motor cortex. “We decided to do the surgery by keeping the patient awake. We used advanced navigation technology to pinpoint the tumour. The patient enjoyed watching Bigg Boss and a Hollywood film during the surgical procedure,” said Reddy. Interestingly, all the three doctors who performed the surgery are working at government general hospital in Guntur. However, the surgery was performed at a private hospital as it had latest and modern equipment to handle such critical and sensitive cases. Srinivasa Reddy is known to perform surgeries by keeping the patients awake.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/patient-watches-tv-while-docs-perform-brain-surgery/articleshow/79344419.cms||---
November 22, 2020||India||DDC candidates not being allowed to campaign, alleges PAGD||SRINAGAR: Peoples Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) chairman Farooq Abdullah on Saturday filed a complaint with Jammu & Kashmir state election commissioner that the candidates fielded by the seven-party conglomerate for the district development council (DDC) polls are not being allowed to campaign. Abdullah’s move came as major political parties blamed lack of a level-playing field for the elections, accusing the administration of locking up their candidates at several places and not allowing them to campaign. PDP president Mehbooba Mufti too accused the Centre of “sabotaging” the participation of political parties other than the BJP in the DDC polls by not allowing them to campaign freely. “GOI sabotaging participation of non-BJP parties in DDC polls. PDP’s Bashir Ahmed despite having adequate security has been detained at Pahalgam on the pretext of security. Today is the last day for filing nominations & have spoken to DC Anantnag for his release @manojsinha,” the PDP chief tweeted. M Yousuf Tarigami of the CPM, one of the constituents of PAGD, wrote to LG Manoj Sinha on Friday, alleging that candidates were being kept away from their constituencies and bundled in “cluster accommodations.” “The issue is already in my notice and necessary instructions stand conveyed to the concerned. I am sure that the coming elections will go a long way in strengthening the panchayati raj institutions,” Sinha said in his reply. In his letter to SEC KK Sharma, Abdullah said PAGD candidates are “whisked away to secure locations in the name of security and confined there.” “They are not allowed to canvas, they are completely out of touch with those from whom they are supposed to seek votes,” the letter said. “These challenges are not new but have been painfully persisting for the last three decades. But the government had structures in place which ensured security for all contestants irrespective of the ideology they espoused or the parties they represented. Our parties have been in power in the past and have had the opportunity to head and run the government. We are aware of the challenges posed in the realm of security in a place beset by violence,” it added. Police said the candidates were being provided collective security and put up in secure areas as providing security to every candidate was difficult. Inspector general of police, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said the candidates are provided a double escort and the security forces guard an area where they want to visit and campaign after leaving their secure accommodations. Meanwhile, lashing out at NC and PDP, Union minister of state for finance and election in charge Anurag Thakur on Saturday said it is unfortunate that political parties are delivering statements in support of Pakistan and China. He was addressing a series of meetings attended by senior BJP leaders at the party headquarter in Jammu. The BJP has refuted the PAGD charges. In a statement, it said the allegations are a blatant lie and deliberate misrepresentation of facts. It accused the alliance of preparing grounds to justify their impending defeat in the polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ddc-candidates-not-being-allowed-to-campaign-alleges-pagd/articleshow/79347013.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Meeting on harbour modernisation plan for Visakhapatnam||VISAKHAPATNAM: A high-level committee will meet to discuss the proposed modernisation of the Visakhapatnam fishing harbour on November 23, state fisheries officials said. With Visakhapatnam proposed to become the executive capital of Andhra Pradesh, the government is looking to rework the project, according to well-placed sources. Discussions regarding the potential re-working of the harbour project is said to have taken place in the presence agriculture minister Kurasala Kannababu, who is also the Visakhapatnam district in-charge, and tourism minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao during World Fisheries Day celebrations on Saturday. A few weeks ago, the state fisheries department sent a proposal on modernising the Visakhapatnam fishing harbour at an estimated cost of Rs100crore. The proposal was sent to the fisheries commissioner. Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy is believed to have suggested to the fisheries department and a local minister to rework the project by adding a few more features. Joint director of the state fisheries department, Dr Phani Prakash, said, “Some features may be added to the modernisation plan. We will be able to share the official report on the proposal after the meeting.” Fisheries minister Seediri Appala Raju said, “The project is being taken up under the Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY) and comes under Vizag south assembly segment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/meeting-on-harbour-modernisation-plan/articleshow/79344437.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
November 22, 2020||Vijayawada||55 ganja-addicted students identified, sent to rehab in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: Commissioner’s task force (CTF) sleuths conducted a special drive across the city over the last two days and identified 55 students addicted to ganja. CTF sources said they found students pursuing intermediate, degree and B Tech from four prominent colleges in the city addicted to the drug. In fact, the principals of these colleges wrote to the police commissioner, seeking surveillance on some of their students. Out of the 55 students, 12 are studying B Tech, 20 are intermediate students, while the rest are doing degree courses in colleges such as SRR, KBN, Loyola, NRI and MIC colleges. Some of the students were caught red-handed while smoking ganja using paper cigarettes. Further investigation revealed the involvement of three peddlers who have been supplying the produce to the students. All three of them have been arrested and two and half kilograms of ganja seized from their possession. Police have registered cases under relevant sections of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 against the peddlers. Meanwhile, the students who were caught while smoking or in possession of ganja have been sent to de-addiction centres for counselling and rehabilitation. CTF officials said they will continue the special drive for some time to curb consumption of ganja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/55-ganja-addicted-students-identified-sent-to-rehab/articleshow/79344480.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Vijayawada||PIL moved in AP high court against Visakha guest house||VIJAYAWADA: A PIL petition has been moved in the AP high court challenging the GO issued by the state government to take over 30 acres of land from the greyhounds training centre in Visakhapatnam for the construction of state guest house. The PIL was filed by Gadde Tirupati Rao, general secretary of Amaravati Parirakshana Joint Action Committee, who alleged that the government’s action would result in a loss of nearly Rs 1,000 crore of public money besides jeopardising the safety of greyhounds commandos. Construction of the state guest house at Kapuluppada in Visakhapatnam has already been challenged, to which the high court gave an interim order to the government not to proceed with any construction work. The earlier petition was moved on the grounds that the guest house was being constructed to shift the chief minister’s office as part of making Visakhapatnam the executive capital. Rao has moved the petition on a different ground, saying that taking over land from the greyhounds training centre will compromise the safety of the commandos. He said greyhounds is an elite police force created to fight Maoists. As the two training centres in united Andhra Pradesh went to Telangana, the state government, with the help of the Union government, created a training centre keeping in view the vulnerable Andhra-Odisha Border (AOB) area known for Maoist activity. Rao further argued in his petition that the location of the greyhounds training centre is strategically placed at Kapuluppada and around Rs 1,000 crore of public money has been spent to develop state-of-the-art facilities. The construction of the guest house is a camouflaged action of the government to take over the entire 300 acres of land where the greyhounds training centre is located, he alleged. As the ground clearing works have already started and the helipad inside the premises is being removed, Rao sought immediate relief from the high court. He said a state guest house at the greyhounds training centre will expose the identity of the commandos which will put their lives in danger. The action of the state government is irrational, arbitrary, illegal and will result in wastage of Rs 1,000 crore of public money, he added, and sought interim orders to set aside the GOs issued to take over the land. The high court is yet to take up the petition for hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/pil-moved-in-ap-high-court-against-visakha-guest-house/articleshow/79344512.cms||Srikanth Aluri
November 22, 2020||Delhi||4,000 more Covid beds in Delhi by month-end||NEW DELHI: Delhi is to get more than 4,000 additional beds, including ICU beds, in hospitals exclusively for Covid patients by the month end. Preparations are on to add more ICU beds in government-run Guru Teg Bahadur and Deen Dayal Upadhyay hospitals, while several private hospitals are also reserving beds to deal with the spike in Covid cases. Delhi government's order to private hospitals to reserve 60% beds for Covid patients will add 2,644 beds to the facilities to treat the infection. Together the state government and the central government will also add 1,413 ICU beds in state-run medical facilities. Currently, Delhi has 17,300 Covid beds, 1,396 ICU ones with ventilators and 2,623 ICU beds without ventilators. According to the latest report, only 122 of the 1,396 ICU beds with ventilator are vacant now, similarly 418 of 2,623 ICU beds without ventilators. Due to a sustained surge in Covid cases - Delhi has been reporting around 7,500 fresh cases every day - hospital bed occupancy has gone up. In the past few weeks, the occupancy of ICU beds with ventilators and ICU beds without ventilators has increased, more in private hospitals than in government institutions. The occupancy of the non-ICU Covid-19 beds is also growing. The surge in new cases has prompted the government to take a number of measures to increase the number of Covid beds, including ICU beds with ventilators and without ventilators. Delhi government has ordered 90 private hospitals to reserve 60% of their total bed capacity for treatment of Covid patients. An official said that many private hospitals have increased the percentage of Covid beds to 60% of the total beds capacity and other hospitals are preparing do the same. Across 90 private hospitals, 2,644 beds will soon be for Covid treatment. "In some hospitals, since non-Covid patients are using around 40% of the total beds, they will keep aside the beds for Covid treatment once these admitted patients are discharged," said an official. An increase of 260 ICU beds in private hospitals is expected soon as the hospitals comply with the order of the Delhi government's director general of health services to 42 private hospitals to reserve 80% of their total ICU/HDU bed capacity for Covid-19 patients. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said the government had taken every possible step to handle the Covid situation with proper home isolation measures and enough Covid beds in hospitals. By the end of November, the state government-run hospitals will have 663 additional ICU beds, while the central government has assured Delhi government of 750 more beds in the medical facilities run by the Centre. This means that Delhi will have 1,413 extra ICU beds. In the follow up to the Covid review meeting chaired by Union home minister Amit Shah last week, which was attended by CM Arvind Kejriwal, over 200 ICU beds have been added in Delhi hospitals. Watch Delhi to get 4,000 more Covid beds by month-end||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/4000-more-covid-beds-in-delhi-by-month-end/articleshow/79347026.cms||AlokKNMishra
November 22, 2020||Delhi||Delhi deputy CM and MLAs push corona fight, distribute masks||NEW DELHI: Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, Timarpur MLA Dilip Pandey, Kalkaji MLA Atishi and several other Aam Aadmi Party functionaries have joined the Covid awareness campaign for which chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has given a call in the wake of spike in Covid cases. They are visiting different areas and distributing free masks besides making people aware that wearing of masks is an effective protection against the coronavirus. Sisodia led an awareness campaign on social distancing and distributed free masks in Patparganj. The campaign was organised at Shanti Marg, West Vinod Nagar and Narwana Road where the focus was on reaching out to the locals, fruit sellers and shopkeepers. "We are respectfully appealing to people to wear masks and follow the social distancing norms. But there are some folks who are not following the rules and hence, it is important to take strict action against them," Sisodia said, adding that "wearing masks is the safest way to prevent oneself as well as others from getting infected." Atishi distributed face masks in Govindpuri. She encouraged the residents and shopowners to keep a set of masks and further distribute to those not wearing them. The Kalkaji MLA began her awareness drive in Ward 91 of Kalkaji and walked all the way up to Nehru camp, urging people along the way to wear a mask and follow social distancing. The fight against Covid-19 is still on and it is our collective responsibility to protect each other, she said. "After the CM's appeal, many traders' associations have come forward to ensure compliance with Covid norms in market areas. They are distributing masks and ensuring that everyone follows social distancing and wears masks. Many social organisations have also come forward to distribute masks," said AAP MLA from Timarpur Dilip Pandey. Pandey distributed masks among people at different locations in his constituency. "People are following social distancing norms and wearing masks, but some people are careless about following the norms. They do not realise that by violating the norms, they are exposing themselves to the risk of coronavirus infection as well as others," Pandey said. Mahesh Verma, member of Delhi government Covid expert panel, said that by properly wearing masks, people could reduce the risk of Covid infection to a great extent. "The benefits of masks are available only when people properly wear it," Verma added. Sisodia said unless Covid vaccine was available, it was important to follow the social distancing norms. AAP councillor Geeta Rawat along with volunteers and locals also joined the awareness drive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-deputy-cm-and-mlas-push-corona-fight-distribute-masks/articleshow/79347033.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Surat||BJP MLA, leader flout nCov rules for function||Surat: When the state government has imposed night curfew to control spread of Covid-19, senior BJP leader Aatmaram Parmar attended his felicitation function along with minister Ganpat Vasava, at his native village Karanj in Mandvi taluka on Saturday. Parmar had won the recent byelection from Gadhada assembly seat. Hundreds of BJP workers attended the programme sending Covid-19 guidelines including social distancing for a toss. A rally was taken out in the village in an open vehicle with Parmar and Vasava. According to health authorities, Mandvi taluka has reported about 500 positive cases till Saturday. A total of 10,984 people have tested positive in all the nine talukas of Surat till now. Despite repeated attempts, both Ganpat and Parmar were not available for comments. Meanwhile, Surat city reported 211 fresh cases taking the total to 30,156 on Saturday. Officials of the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) said that the posh Athwa zone continue to witness spike in cases. On Saturday, about 52 people tested positive . Meanwhile, the SMC has set up three more testing centres at the entry points in the city from state and National Highway. Sources said that the Community Care Isolation Centres (CCICs) that were closed about two months ago may be started with the sharp rise. Deputy municipal commissioner, health and hospital, Dr Ashish Naik told TOI, “CCICs were put on hold as there were no patients. A meeting was held on Friday for starting the CCICs. At present, the overall occupancy in government and private hospitals is very less.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bjp-mla-leader-flout-ncov-rules-for-function/articleshow/79343921.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka reaches one crore Covid-19 tests landmark||BENGALURU: Karnataka reached a milestone of 1 crore Covid-19 tests on Saturday, having come a long away from zero testing in January when samples had to be sent to National Institute of Virology in Pune. The state currently has 164 labs equipped for testing SARS-CoV2 infection. All 60 medical colleges in the state too have Covid testing facilities. The state government is yet to specify the number of people who have been tested so far. This figure, say public health experts, is crucial to understanding the spread of the pandemic and streamlining its management. Karnataka, which was testing close to 500 samples in the initial phase in early February, gradually enhanced its capacity. The target escalated from 20,000 tests a day in early July to 1 lakh testing a day by mid-September. Dr CN Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in Covid-19 taskforce, said the state is equipped to handle any viral pandemic that might strike in the future. The credit, he said, goes to the data entry operators, swab collectors and microbiologists who have been working tirelessly for over seven months. ‘1 lakh tests a day must be the target till March 2021’One crore tests is a major milestone that the state has reached. Initially, we had faced a shortage of RT-PCR machines required for testing. We mobilised the machines from universities, agricultural and veterinary colleges. There was a shortage of data-entry operators, and we now have more than 500 of them working in updating reports,” Dr Manjunath said. Dr Ambika R, head of the department of microbiology at Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute, who has spearheaded Covid testing since February, says there was only one RT-PCR machine in her lab when testing began. “Initially, we used to conduct close to 300 Covid tests a day. Majority of the samples were from Bengaluru and several districts of North Karnataka. As working in three shifts was not possible, all five staffers in the lab, including me, used to work from 8am to 10pm. We would go home only after submitting the Covid reports,” she said. The entire team, she adds, was under acute stress in the initial phases. “For 2-3 positive cases, we have gone through sleepless nights,” she said. The lab’s capacity gradually increased and now, 14 staffers can conduct a total of 4,500 tests a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-reaches-one-crore-covid-19-tests-landmark/articleshow/79347036.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: IMA calls for phased increase in health budget, stricter laws to protect doctors||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Andhra Pradesh chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA) brought up issues such as enhancing the medical and health budget by up to 5 per cent in a phased manner and bringing stringent laws to prevent assaults on doctors to the notice of the state government at its sixth annual conference on Saturday. The conference also saw the election of Dr N Subrahmanyam, former professor of neurosurgery at KGH-AMC, to the post of the new president of IMA-AP. The conference was hosted on a virtual platform. Health minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas attended the conference as the chief guest. The newly-elected president of IMA-AP requested attending ministers and MPs to empanel smaller hospitals under Aarogyasri. He further requested issuance of fire safety clearances for hospitals of less than 15 metres and a single-window facility for all licenses required by hospitals. With regard to assaults on doctors, it was stated that IMA is ‘fighting for stringent Act to punish people indulging in violence on doctors and hospitals’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ima-calls-for-phased-increase-in-health-budget-stricter-laws-to-protect-doctors/articleshow/79344590.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Delhi||Delhi's Nigambodh Ghat to use 13 more pyres||NEW DELHI: In the wake of reports of increasing pressure on crematoriums and difficulties being faced by visitors who go there, North Delhi Municipal Corporation on Saturday beefed up arrangements at Nigambodh Ghat for conducting the last rites of those succumbing to Covid-19. In a press statement, the civic agency stated that 13 more wooden pyres and three extra CNG furnaces would be used for cremation of Covid-19 bodies from Monday. At present, 52 wooden pyres are earmarked for Covid-19 bodies at the ghat. "The 13 wooden pyres are constructed outside the ghat and used occasionally," said a north DMC official. Another official said the total number of bodies of Covid patients received in a day never exceeded 22 in last ten days. "Till 5.30pm on Saturday also, only 20 bodies came for the last rites. There is no overcrowding," he added. North corporation municipal health officer Ashok Rawat said they had asked the east and south corporations to ensure to route bodies to the attached cremation ground from hospitals. "We have also written to the medical superintendents of the hospitals, which are treating corona patients, to release bodies at intervals to avoid rush at a point of time," Rawat added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhis-nigambodh-ghat-to-use-13-more-pyres/articleshow/79347043.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Delhi||Daily Covid cases just under 6,000 in Delhi, but death toll above 100||NEW DELHI: Delhi recorded more than 100 Covid deaths for the second consecutive day on Saturday with 111 people succumbing to the disease in the last 24 hours. The total number of deaths due to Covid has now gone up to 8,270. Of this, 1,759 deaths have taken place in November alone. On Friday, the capital recorded 118 Covid-19 deaths. The single-day toll was, however, recorded on November 18 when 131 people were confirmed dead due to the infection. On the positive side, the number of new cases have reduced slightly. On Saturday, Delhi recorded 5,879 fresh cases of Covid-19, which is the lowest since November 16 when 3,797 new cases were recorded in a day. According to Delhi health bulletin, 45,562 tests were conducted in the capital in the last 24 hours. Of these, 1,845 tests were done using RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat and 23,717 tests were done using Rapid Antigen Test kits. The positivity rate - number of positive cases from those tested - was recorded at 12.9%. The biggest crisis caused due to increase in cases is the unavailability of ICU beds. Delhi Corona App, which provides real-time updates on availability of hospital beds, shows 91% ICU beds with ventilator support and 85% of ICU beds without ventilator support are occupied. Top hospitals like Apollo, Max, Fortis and BLK among others do not have ICU beds. "We are getting many requests for ICU beds. But there are none available," said a senior at Manipal hospital, Dwarka. Delhi government and the Centre both are working actively to add more ICU beds. To meet the increased demand for manpower, the Delhi government has also allowed hospitals to rope in MBBS students, interns and dentists to assist. Critical-care experts say death rate due to Covid-19 has gone up in the current peak, also referred to as the third wave, as compared with the peaks witnessed in June and September. This time, there are more seriously ill patients, doctors say. "We are seeing a lot of cases of Covid-associated pneumonia. Patients often visit hospitals late when the oxygen saturation has already reduced to dangerous levels, leading to higher risks of complications and even death," said a doctor at AIIMS Trauma Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/daily-covid-cases-just-under-6000-in-delhi-but-death-toll-above-100/articleshow/79347046.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Vijayawada||Flower showers, special rituals on Pushpa Yagam||Tirupati: Priests on Saturday showered tonnes of exotic flowers on Lord Malayappa Swamy and his two divine consorts Goddess Sridevi and Bhudevi during the annual Pushpa Yagam festival at Tirumala temple. A series of special rituals were held in connection with the colourful festival. Priests and Jeeyar Swamis ceremoniously performed ‘Snapana Tirumanjanam’ rendering a celestial bath to processional deities of Lord Malayappa Swamy and his two divine consorts with milk, curd, honey, sandalwood paste, turmeric and scented perfume waters. The Pushpa Yagam festival was observed at the Hill Temple between 1pm and 5pm. Nearly 7 tonnes of flowers of 14 varieties were showered on Lord Malayappa Swamy. Speaking to the media on the significance of the Pushpa Yagam festival, additional EO AV Dharma Reddy said that this festival is being celebrated at the Hill Temple since the 15th century, but was discontinued later. TTD resumed the Pushpa Yagam festival in 1980.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/flower-showers-special-rituals-on-pushpa-yagam/articleshow/79344607.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
November 22, 2020||Vijayawada||40-year-old man from Hyderabad kills self in Tirumala||TIRUPATI: A 40-year-old man from Hyderabad committed suicide by hanging himself from the ceiling of his room at a TTD rest house in Tirumala on Saturday. The deceased was identified as Sridhar, a resident of Malkajgiri locality in Hyderabad. Tirumala police said Sridhar had booked online darshan tickets along with one of his relatives, but arrived alone at the hill town and took accommodation at Valukamatha rest house on Friday. After offering prayers at Tirumala temple and obtaining the laddu prasadams, Sridhar returned back to his room at night. When TTD staff tried to reach out to Sridhar after his 24-hour booking ended on Saturday, there was no response from the room which was found to be locked from inside. TTD staffers immediately informed Tirumala police who reached the rest house and broke open room number 511 in which Sridhar was staying. He was found hanging from the ceiling. Tirumala police registered a case and shifted the body to the SVRR government hospital for post-mortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/40-yr-old-man-from-hyd-kills-self-in-tirumala/articleshow/79344599.cms||---
November 22, 2020||India||Congress not an effective opposition now: Kapil Sibal||NEW DELHI: Congress MP and member of the G23 group of dissenters Kapil Sibal said the party had ceased to be an effective opposition party, with no efforts made to strengthen the organisation. In a TV interview, he said Congress was without a party president for over one and half year since Rahul Gandhi announced that he was not interested in being the party chief. "How can a party function without a leader for one and half years ... Congress workers don't know where to go," he said. Read Also'Those unhappy free to leave': Cong vs Cong out in the open, againThe Bihar assembly poll results have triggered another round of infighting in the Congress, bringing to the fore the deep divide within the grand old party. After the party's dismal performance in Bihar elections and the bypolls across the country, some senior leaders have once again questioned theSibal said the recent polls had shown that besides states like UP where Congress was not a factor, even in Gujarat and MP where it was in a direct battle with BJP, the results were shockingly bad. Read AlsoNo leadership crisis in Congress; support for Sonia, Rahul apparent to 'anyone not blind': KhurshidKhurshid, who is among the leaders considered close to the Gandhi family, also said there are enough forums in the Congress for airing views and doing so outside the party "hurts" it, remarks that come days after senior leader Kapil Sibal and some others went public with their criticism of the party"We lost all eight seats in Gujarat. 65% votes have gone to BJP though these were seats vacated by Congress defectors. In MP, all 28 seats fell vacant because of Congress defectors but Congress won only eight seats," he said, adding, "Where there is a one to one battle with BJP, we aren't an effective alternative. There must be something wrong. We must do something about it," he said. The senior lawyer lamented that he raised the issue in a parliamentary group meeting in July and then 23 party leaders wrote a letter to the Congress president in August, but "there was no discussion, no one reaches out to us".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-not-an-effective-opposition-now-sibal/articleshow/79347041.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Highest number of tests in a day in Mumbai, but positivity rate stays unchanged||MUMBAI: The civic claim that there is no post-Diwali surge in Covid cases in the city received a boost when, despite 17,801 Covid-19 tests, the highest conducted in a day in Mumbai so far, only 6% of those tested were positive. However, BMC officials admitted “pockets” of concern were emerging; shopkeepers from the Dadar market, for instance, had been testing positive in the last few days. The number of daily cases went up marginally (1,093) on Saturday as compared to below-1,000 last week, but BMC officials said this is merely a reflection of the increased number of tests performed daily. The positivity rate in Mumbai has been hovering around 7% for over a week now. “Despite increased testing, the percentage of positive patients has remained unchanged. There is clearly no surge yet,” said a senior official. Of the 17,801 tests done on Friday, 9,051 were conducted through the RT-PCR method, the gold standard for Covid testing. Of these, 878 (10%) were positive. The remaining 8,750 tests were conducted using the rapid antigen test that provides results in 30 minutes; 215 (2%) of those tested using this method were positive. Among the 105 stall owners tested at Dadar’s flower market, which witnessed a huge rush during Diwali, three tested positive despite being asymptomatic. The BMC convinced them to shift to a civic-run quarantine facility. A BMC health official said it’s challenging to convince these people to get admitted at quarantine facilities. She said, “In other places (markets) in the area also, among those tested, very few were found positive earlier and they were asymptomatic. We are trying to test a maximum number of people and trace such asymptomatic patients at an early stage to control spread.” BMC officials said they will continue testing more than usual to detect cases at the earliest. BMC has also started visiting homes of migrants who returned to the city in the last few days. Experts, however, said the relatively high temperatures for November along with lower levels of pollution (in comparison to, say, Delhi) may ensure Mumbai doesn’t see a huge post-Diwali surge. The period to worry about would be December-January, when pollution levels increase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-19-highest-number-of-tests-in-a-day-in-mumbai-but-positivity-rate-stays-unchanged/articleshow/79347048.cms||Vijay V Singh
November 22, 2020||Rajkot||Blackmail probe reveals rape horror of Rajkot college girl||RAJKOT: Gory details of a college student being allegedly raped and forced into unnatural and oral sex were revealed during the investigation into a three-month-old complaint of blackmailing that was lodged by her perpetrator himself. The accused, Bhargav Dave, who run private computer coaching classes in Gandhigram area, was detained on Saturday after the girl narrated her ordeal to her parents and police on Friday night. According to the FIR registered with Mahila police station on Friday, the girl had joined Dave's institute three months ago. The rape survivor alleged that she was sodomized in the class when she was alone. She alleged that Dave had threatened to kill her father and brother if she disclosed his crime to anyone. Later, Dave allegedly raped her several times, In the meantime, Dave had approached Gandhigram police station about two months ago, alleging that he was being blackmailed by a person who identified himself as a journalist. PK Diyora, assistant commissioner of police (west) said, “Dave alleged that someone was blackmailing him saying that he had some video clips showing him in a compromising position.” Dave had even paid the blackmailer Rs 2 lakh and the rape survivor was also present at that time. Police had called the girl to record her statement in the blackmailing case, but initially she did not reveal her ordeal. On Friday night, she narrated Dave’s deeds to her mother. The blackmailer is yet to be arrested. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/blackmail-probe-reveals-rape-horror-of-rajkot-college-girl/articleshow/79343823.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Doctors link obesity with higher risk of death in Covid-19 cases||BENGALURU: Doctors attending to Covid-19 cases have identified obesity as a major risk factor, saying such patients suffer from complications in the intensive care unit (ICU) and don’t respond to treatment well. Currently, there is no specific data or a comprehensive study on the link between obesity and Covid-19 deaths in Karnataka. The state government’s list of comorbidities does not include obesity, and deceased patients’ obesity status is not formally checked. But doctors tracking patterns in severe Covid-19 cases and fatalities say that being overweight complicates treatment. According to Dr Ambanna Gowda, an internal medicine specialist at Fortis Hospital, Cunningham Road, many studies have flagged obesity as a risk aspect for Covid-19 patients. “In most countries today, more than 20 per cent of the general population is overweight and obese. Obesity increases the odds of death as multiple conditions are associated with it, such as insulin resistance, diabetes, hypertension, kidney problems, chronic liver disease, metabolic dysfunction and immune system impairment. All this leads to increased ICU admissions, long hospital stays and poor outcomes,” he said. Though many Covid-19 patients who died were senior citizens with comorbidity, there have been cases of youngsters succumbing to the disease. According to Dr Srinivasa Kakkilaya, a physician in Mangaluru, obesity is one of the main contributing factors in such cases. “Comorbidity possibly went undetected in young patients who died of Covid-19. Unless one is tested for diabetes, hypertension or coronary artery disease, it won’t be known. Many severe patients who passed away were obese. But obesity is not considered a disease at all,” Dr Kakkilaya said. “In the initial days of the pandemic, two Mangaluru men in their thirties died. They weighed more than 120kg each. The problem will continue to exist as long as we don’t consider obesity as an illness.” Dr Gowda recalled the case of a 29-year-old man from Raichur who weighed 85kg and had diabetes. “He was brought to Bengaluru after his condition worsened in August. He died. His lymphocyte count was just 1 per cent as against the normal count of 20 to 30 per cent. Lymphocytes are white blood cells that constitute one of the main types of immune cells,” Dr Gowda said. Experts say people who are overweight also suffer from endothelial dysfunction or impaired functioning of the lining of blood vessels. Obesity is also associated with oxygen deprivation or hypoxia. Dr Rajesh Mohan Shetty, a consultant for critical care medicine at Manipal Hospitals, Whitefield, believes obesity should be considered a comorbidity. “It is associated with impaired immune response. It is part of the metabolic syndrome, and obese people are more likely to have conditions such as diabetes and hypertension. Mechanical ventilation and prone ventilation are associated with higher complications in obese patients. All these factors may contribute to increased mortality among Covid-19 cases,” he said. Dr Manoj Kumar R, a gastrointestinal and bariatric surgeon at Sakra World Hospital, said overweight patients faced risk of thrombosis. “A young and lean Covid-19 patient would generally have better chances of recovering than a young obese patient in the ICU,” he added. Health commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey also said that obesity posed risks in the case of coronavirus infection. “We will look into the matter and see if it can be included in the list of comorbidities,” he added. Why the obese are vulnerable A protein called the Angiotensin-converting enzyme 2, or ACE2 ‘receptor’, provides an entry point to coronavirus to hook into and infect a wide range of human cells. “Researches have confirmed that among obese persons, there is an increased expression of ACE2 receptors in adipose tissues that have high affinity for SARS-CoV2,” said Dr Shetty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/doctors-link-obesity-with-higher-risk-of-death-in-covid-19-cases/articleshow/79347008.cms||Sunitha Rao R
November 22, 2020||Vadodara||Shops violating Covid norms land in trouble||Vadodara: After a long gap, Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) once again cracked down on establishments violating Covid-19 guidelines. As many as 31 such establishments were sealed by the civic body on Saturday. VMC teams conducted extensive checking throughout the city to ensure that norms like social distancing and wearing masks were being adhered to. Public address systems were also used to create awareness. During rounds, VMC officials found 31 business places including shops, cabin and street vendors conducting business without following the guidelines. These included some prominent and old establishments too. Sources said that all these establishments were sealed by officials. VMC added that the seals would be opened only after written undertakings from their owners that they would follow the norms. If the shops are found violating norms again, their licences would be cancelled ensuring that they do not remain in business. The civic body also collected Rs 54,500 as fines from mask rule violators. The drive on shops and masks would continue in the coming days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/shops-violating-covid-norms-land-in-trouble/articleshow/79344389.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Surat||Theft accused flees Covid ward of Bharuch civil hospital||Surat: A man accused of vehicle theft, undergoing Covid-19 treatment, escaped from isolation ward of the Bharuch civil hospital early Saturday morning. Santosh Rupram Chaudhary (25), a resident of Bharuch was arrested in connection with a vehicle theft case and was sent to the Bharuch sub-jail on Thursday. As per the Covid guidelines, the accused was taken to the Bharuch civil hospital for coronavirus test, where he tested positive.Police sources said early on Saturday morning, the accused managed to escape from the ward. The police was immediately alerted about the incident. A police officer of Bharuch’s A-division police station said, “We have started a manhunt for the accused. All the entry and exit point in the city are being checked.”He added, “We have gathered CCTV footage installed at the civil hospital as well as of the road from where he escaped.”According to the police, about seven inmates who had met the accused were taken to the civil hospital for Covid-19 testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/theft-accused-flees-covid-ward-of-bharuch-civil-hospital/articleshow/79343942.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka govt lifts 50 per cent bed-sharing rule for private hospitals||BENGALURU: The state government on Saturday removed the mandatory requirement for private hospitals to reserve 50 per cent of their beds in general wards and high dependency units for government-referred Covid-19 patients. The drop in the number of infections in recent weeks prompted the decision. The health and family welfare department said in a circular that private hospitals could now use all their beds for needy patients. It added that a five-day advance notice would be given to private medical facilities if the Covid-19 situation worsened and if the government required more beds. The government had introduced the bed-sharing rule on June 23 as Covid-19 cases started to climb and public hospitals reached capacity. It also fixed charges for Covid-19 treatment and said the bills of government-referred patients would be reimbursed. Hospitals were allowed to use other beds for privately admitted Covid-19 patients and people with other conditions. Officials formed committees to inspect the facilities and ensure that the rule for 50-per cent bed allocation was followed. According to Saturday’s circular, only 22 per cent of beds at government hospitals are being used. The rest are empty. “If bed occupancy at government hospitals reaches 90 per cent, cases will be referred to private hospitals. Severe cases requiring further effective treatment can be referred to private hospitals. In case of emergencies, depending on the requirement, very sick patients can also be sent,” the circular said. After Covid-19 cases started to decline, the Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes’ Association (PHANA) made multiple requests to the government to cover 25 per cent of the vacant bed cost or withdraw the bed-sharing order. “It’s a good move. The government has responded to the concerns we had raised,” said PHANA president Dr R Ravindra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-govt-lifts-50-bed-sharing-rule-for-private-hospitals/articleshow/79347012.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Delhi||Minimum temperature to remain below normal this week in Delhi: IMD||NEW DELHI: The mercury in Delhi is likely to remain below normal mark for the next week with the IMD forecasting the minimum temperature to remain below 10 degrees Celsius till November 27. Delhi recorded a minimum of 8.5 degrees Celsius on Saturday. This could further fall below 8 degrees Celsius by Sunday, met officials warned. The city had recorded its coldest November day in the past 14 years on Friday when the mercury fell to 7.5 degrees Celsius. With icy winds blowing towards NCR from the snow-clad mountains, the day-time temperature is expected to remain below the normal mark for the next few days. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head the Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said a change in wind-direction from easterly to north-westerly soon after the departure of western disturbances has led to icy-cold winds blowing towards the region from snow-clad mountains. While the capital had recorded light showers the day after Diwali on Sunday, snowfall was recorded in the Himalayan-belt. "A combination of clear skies and ice-cold winds are now leading to a drop in the temperature. While the minimum is hovering around four degrees below normal, the day-time temperature has also begun to fall," Srivastava added. Delhi's maximum temperature was 24.6 degrees Celsius on Saturday, two notches below the normal. IMD forecasts the maximum to remain around 24 degrees Celsius on Sunday. The Lodhi Road station, meanwhile, recorded the lowest minimum temperature across all stations, with a reading of 7.8 degrees Celsius. The last time the capital had a lower minimum in November was November 29, 2006, when the mercury fell to 7.3 degrees Celsius. IMD on Friday stated that 'cold wave' conditions could be declared in the region on Saturday, if the minimum temperature continued to remain below the 8 degrees mark. A cold wave is declared when the temperature is 5 degrees or lower than normal temperature, for a period of 48 hours. Delhi's air quality, despite the low temperatures, is still in the 'poor' category, largely owing to better ventilation and wind speed during the day. The Air Quality Index on Saturday was recorded at 251, according to Central Pollution Control Board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/minimum-temperature-to-remain-below-normal-this-week-in-delhi-imd/articleshow/79347071.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Bengaluru||Data recharge for online classes pinches guest lecturers in Belagavi||BELAGAVI: Hard-up guest lecturers associated with the Rani Channamma University (RCU) in Belagavi are finding it difficult to buy mobile data packs for conducting regular online classes. They had lost paying gigs after the university and colleges affiliated with it shut down in March, and they started working again only in October, when online classes for varsity students were launched. Wi-Fi problems at RCU have forced the guest lecturers to frequently recharge their mobile data, which they cannot afford in their current financial state. Though on-campus teaching resumed on November 17, many students have opted for virtual lessons because of Covid-19 concerns. A lecturer takes two to three classes every day, with each session lasting for 45 to 60 minutes. About 800MB of data is used up per session and about 2GB in a day. “We run out of data almost every day and spend Rs 150 to Rs 200 extra on recharge each week. This may seem like a small amount, but it’s a lot for someone who didn’t have any income for nearly eight months,” said a guest lecturer, who teaches chemistry. “The university should have provided us with an internet connection for the online classes.” About 130 guest lectures work in 20 departments at RCU, which is located on the outskirts of Belagavi city. Most of them are facing financial hardship because of loss of income and work. “The internet problem began more than a month ago. It’s embarrassing to run out of data while teaching,” said another guest lecturer. Vice-chancellor Ramachandra Gowda issued a directive in October, asking staff to start online lessons to help students make up for lost time. A non-teaching employee at the university claimed Wi-Fi on the campus became spotty after officials failed to pay the internet bill of Rs 13 lakh on time. Gowda told STOI that the bill was cleared a week ago. “Some wiring work is underway and the issue (internet connection) will be resolved in two to three days,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/data-recharge-for-online-classes-pinches-guest-lecturers-in-belagavi/articleshow/79347010.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Business||Harley owners plan protest ride today against pullout||NEW DELHI: The biggest brand ambassadors of Harley-Davidson in India will on Sunday ride out in protest against the company's decision to pull out from the country. The multi-city rally has been named 'Dark Ride' and will have 1,000 members of HOG, or Harley Owners Group, and many of the 30-odd dealers of the iconic American brand in India. HOG is easily one of the most recognisable motorcycling marketing initiatives globally that gives owners a common platform to ride, bond and explore as one large Harley family. But as the company is shutting down its factories in India and transitioning into a partnership with Hero MotoCorp, both riders and dealers are worried. While bike owners are concerned about the availability of spares and servicing, dealers are unsure about their future as their investments worth crores of rupees are at risk of going waste if Hero doesn't support them, or Harley refuses a "credible severance package". Organisers say Sunday's protest rally will be held in Delhi, Gurgaon, Indore, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Bhopal, Bhubaneswar, Kolkata, Guwahati, Ludhiana, Chandigarh, Raipur, and Jaipur. Ajay Tiwari, a businessman from Bhopal who has spent over Rs 30 lakh on his Harley Heritage Softail model, says there has been a shortage of parts over the past six months. "I suspect this is because the winding-up process might have started earlier. I am really unsure of whether to keep my bike or sell it now - which I suspect will fetch me peanuts." The company has sent an assurance email to all the customers, but many of them are unsatisfied and say they "feel cheated" by Harley's decision to quit solo operations. "Harley is passing the brand to Hero which has a different biking culture. It's ...a huge disappointment," said Delhi-based businessman and rider Harveen Bali. Surbhi Manocha, a Bhopal-based professional who has a Harley Street 750 (entry model in India), said she will miss the camaraderie that Harley riders share with each other if the dealership shuts down. "On Sunday, we will ride and also talk about our protest across social media platforms." Dealers are angry too. Many are calling it a "serious breach of trust and betrayal". Harley is understood to be paying the dealers a compensation of Rs 1,500 per square feet of their showroom and service area (minus depreciation), apart from three months of margin money to those who are joining Hero, or six months to those who are not. Harley hasn't answered a list of questions put to them by TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/harley-owners-plan-protest-ride-today-against-pullout/articleshow/79347081.cms||Pankaj Doval
November 22, 2020||Bengaluru||Domestic flyers at Kempegowda International Airport top one million for first time after lockdown||BENGALURU: The monthly passenger numbers at Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) have crossed 1 million for the first time after domestic flights were restarted on May 25. The milestone was achieved in October. But the figures are nowhere near the levels recorded during the same festive period last year. In October 2019, when flight operations were normal, Bengaluru airport saw over 23 lakh domestic passengers. Commercial air travel was suspended across the country on March 25 this year as the coronavirus pandemic unfolded. After resumption of domestic operations with new health-safety rules in May-end, the passenger traffic took a couple of months to pick up. In September, it crossed 8 lakh and last month, it hit 11.1 lakh, according to data from the Airports Authority of India (AAI). Aircraft movement in October was 10,775. The October figure for international passengers was 31,446 as against 3.9 lakh seen during the same period last year. Industry experts say the signs are encouraging as more people are feeling confident about taking a flight. The month-wise statistics of domestic passenger travel at KIA show a steady rise in numbers from July.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/domestic-flyers-at-kia-top-1-million-for-first-time-after-lockdown/articleshow/79347011.cms||Petlee Peter
November 22, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka HC upholds life term, refuses to buy man’s provocation claim||BENGALURU: Convicted of murdering a woman after she rejected his marriage proposal, a Kalaburagi man had appealed against the trial court verdict, claiming his act was the result of sudden provocation. However, the high court has refused to accept his contention, noting he can’t take refuge under the defence as the victim was only asserting her individual autonomy by turning him down. Such defence can’t be allowed in instances wherein the accused dehumanises the victim, the HC observed while upholding the life sentence imposed on Vijay alias Vijendra, a resident of Javalaga in Aland taluk, Kalaburagi district. On January 23, 2016, the 4th additional district and sessions judge Kalaburagi convicted Vijay of Pushpa’s murder in 2009. She was repeatedly stabbed to death. He challenged the verdict. But an HC division bench comprising justices Sunil Dutt Yadav and P Krishna Bhat didn’t accept his contention. Visited woman’s house armed with knifeThe judges noted that the evidence on record clearly shows the accused had gone to the house of the deceased, armed with a knife and determined not to take no for an answer. He tried to impose on her by asking her to marry him and on refusal, stabbed her repeatedly using the said knife. “The circumstance in which he committed the offence clearly shows he could not stand the fact that a woman could refuse his proposal. In such a situation, it is completely absurd to contend there was grave and sudden provocation from the deceased...,” the judges pointed out. The bench added that extending the protective umbrella of ‘grave and sudden provocation’ to the accused, in the facts and circumstances of this case, apart from being ‘obnoxious’ will have the effect of robbing the victim of her fundamental right to choose a husband. Stabbed her in abdomen, chest in front of sisterThe prosecution’s case was that Vijay, who was pursuing and pressuring Pushpa to marry him, started resorting to abusive tactics when she rejected the proposal. Around 12.45pm on April 27, 2009, when Pushpa was watching TV along with her younger sister, Vijay entered her house and told her she should marry him and if she didn’t agree, he wouldn’t allow her to wed anybody else. When the victim said no, Vijay whipped out a knife and stabbed her in the chest, abdomen and shoulder etc., causing her seven to eight serious injuries. When Pushpa’s sister tried to intervene and raised an alarm and neighbours and others began to gather, Vijay ran away leaving the bloody weapon behind. Some time thereafter, the victim’s parents returned only to see their daughter lying in a pool of blood, but still alive. She narrated what had transpired to them. She was shifted to a local hospital, then to Ashwini Hospital, Solapur and finally to YMC Hospital, Pune, where she breathed her last on June 7, 2009 while undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-hc-upholds-life-term-refuses-to-buy-mans-provocation-claim/articleshow/79347084.cms||P Vasanth Kumar
November 22, 2020||Vadodara||Employee of automobile parts maker attacked||Vadodara: An executive of a company manufacturing automobile parts, and his driver, were attacked allegedly by 19 persons over sacking of 11 contractual workers. According to the executive Pratik Deskhmukh, their car was attacked near Asoj village on Savli-Vadodara road on November 19 midnight. The accused pelted stones at his car and tried to hit the driver with an iron rod on his head. The rod, however, hit his hand due to which the driver lost control and the car it overturned. The driver sustained minor injuries and the car too was damaged. Deshmukh lodged a complaint of rioting, assault, attempt to culpable homicide and criminal conspiracy at Vadodara Taluka police station on Friday. Deshmukh told police that the attack was planned as the company Amvian Automotive Pvt Ltd had removed 11 workers who were demanding more wages. They were instigated by the Chemical Mazdoor Panchayat Union to demand more wages, Deshmukh alleged. After the company hired new workers, the union members and the laid-off employees planned the attack on Deshmukh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/employee-of-automobile-parts-maker-attacked/articleshow/79344398.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Surat||Harassed sexagenarian attempts suicide, rescued||Surat: Unable to allegedly bear her daughter-in-law’s harassment over petty issues any longer, a 60-year-old woman took a drastic decision to end her life on Friday. However, even though she jumped into Purna river in Navsari, local people at the spot rescued her from drowning and alerted women’s helpline service (Abhayam team) about the incident. “We got a call from Veraval area of Navsari town about the the rescue of a desperate elderly woman and reached the spot immediately. We found that the woman who was unconscious needed medical help and so we called 108 ambulance service for medical assistance. A few minutes later, she regained senses and once in a stable condition, the widow narrated us her ordeal,” said an official from the Abhayam team in Navsari. The sexagenarian told the team that her husband, who retired from a government job, died two years ago and she lives with her son, a diamond worker in Surat, in a village located 15 km away from Navsari. However, she was constantly harassed by her daughter-in-law till she could no longer bear the torture and decided to end her life by suicide. “The daughter-in-law allegedly was very possessive of her husband and their 2-year-old daughter and didn’t let the elderly woman talk to them. She felt lonely and neglected and finally decided to end the agony and took an auto rickshaw to reach Purna river in Navsari,” an official said. “A patient of hypertension, the woman also neglected taking her medicines and was under medical stress. We took her home and counselled her son and daughter-in-law to take care of their elderly mother who is in her autumn years and needed extreme care. The daughter-in-law apologized for her actions and assured of taking good care of the woman. But as the mother-in-law did not want to lodge any police complaint and simply live a peaceful life with her son, we ended the matter there,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/harassed-sexagenarian-attempts-suicide-rescued/articleshow/79343978.cms||---
November 22, 2020||World||Covid crisis dominates G20 'virtual' summit||DUBAI: Dubai: The Group of 20 summit began on Saturday with appeals by the world's most powerful leaders to collectively chart a way forward as the coronavirus pandemic overshadows this year's gathering, transforming it from in-person meetings to a virtual gathering of speeches and declarations. The G20's member-countries represent around 85% of the world's economic output and three-quarters of international trade. "We have a duty to rise to the challenge together during this summit and give a strong message of hope and reassurance," host Saudi King Salman said. A final joint statement is expected to be released by leaders from the US, China and other G20 nations after the virtual meeting ends on Saturday. In a draft, the leaders noted the coronavirus crisis had hit the most vulnerable in society hardest, and said some countries may need debt relief beyond a temporary moratorium on official debt payments now slated to end in June 2021. "We are determined to continue to use all available policy tools as long as required to safeguard people's lives,"it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/middle-east/covid-crisis-dominates-g20-virtual-summit/articleshow/79347102.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Mumbai||From IIT to US university, BMC school students go places||MUMBAI: From basketball to liberal arts, a dozen students from civic schools this year have taken a step closer to realising their dreams. With financial help, and a little nudge and support from NGOs that BMC partnered with, these students have bagged admissions to prestigious universities for the ongoing academic year. From civic schools supported by Aakanksha Foundation, one student has made it to IITKharagpur, another to Wheaton College in Massachusetts and four have entered Ashoka University. Six others have secured financial aid from the NGO Hi5 Foundation to study and train at Karjat-based Corvuss American Academy, a first-of-its-kind boarding school for student athletes. “I had a teacher who studied in IIT-Bombay and a few years ago, he took me to see the campus. He told me about the wonderful jobs one gets after graduating from IIT,” said Suraj Gupta, who has joined IIT-Kharagpur, about his inspiration. Civic students get exposure and help in exploring career optionsSuraj said, “With that inspiration and passion for mathematics, I set my eyes on IIT. While my JEE (Main) rank wasn’t impressive, I worked really hard to improve my score in the JEE (Advanced) exam.” Suraj, a former student of Abhyudaya Nagar Mumbai Public School, Parel, is pursuing his bachelor’s degree in metallurgy at the Kharagpur institution. The foundation’s Alumni Support and Engagement team helps students explore career opportunities and handholds them through the application process. “It was the vast exposure that our school and teachers provided us that introduced me to the outside world and the opportunities I have,” said Aliya Mulla, who attends online classes at Wheaton College from home as Covid-19 has put her campus plans on hold. Aliya, daughter of a BEST driver, lives in the city with her parents and two siblings. Sabiha Khan, Mariya Chowdhary, Ganesh Naidu and Mitali Sakaria have bagged admission for undergraduate courses at Ashoka University. Sneha Yadav, Anjali Pandey, Kajal Kotekar, Laxmi Yadav, Suraj Gupta (another student) and Prabhat Mishra will be at Corvuss American Academy. These students were selected through the ‘Hopes Thru Hoops’ programme run by NGO Hi5 Foundation. “At Corvuss, equal importance is given to academics and sports,” said Anjali, who has been selected for Under-14 girls junior NBA Mumbai team. She wants to be a professional basketball player. Students graduating with an American high school diploma could get to study abroad. The BMC runs a ‘Career Aware’ programme with Antarang Foundation to help students of classes IX and X become more self-aware about their interests, aptitudes and realities. They can take psychometric tests and have one-on-one sessions with experts for parents, many of whom are in low-paying jobs and have no idea of how to break the cycle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/from-iit-to-us-university-bmc-school-students-go-places/articleshow/79347105.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
November 22, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Ex-CVC to probe charges against Akshaya Patra management||BENGALURU: Akshaya Patra Foundation’s newly constituted board of trustees formed a two-member committee headed by former Central Vigilance Commissioner KV Chowdary to look into issues raised by the erstwhile trustees and audit committee. Chowdary is one of the new non-executive trustees on the APF board. The move comes days after several high-profile APF trustees resigned alleging lack of transparency in the relations between the foundation and some temple trusts, including Iskcon, Bengaluru. Among those who resigned are former Infosys CFOs Mohandas Pai and V Balakrishnan, Raj Kondur, who cofounded Chrys Capital, and Abhay Jain, adviser to Manipal Education & Medical Group. Some of those who quit alleged that all their efforts to improve governance at APF had been rebuffed by the management. MS Unni Krishnan, former MD of Thermax and a non-executive trustee, will be the other member of Chowdary’s committee. APF said the committee will review the erstwhile audit committee’s observations and those in the communications received from the former trustees and submit a report within four weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-ex-cvc-to-probe-charges-against-akshaya-patra-management/articleshow/79347099.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Woman found with skeleton of mom under cot||MUMBAI: In a bizarre case, a 47-year-old mentally-ill woman was found living with the skeletal remains of her 83-year-old mother under a bed in their 1,500 sqft cottage in Khar’s Chuim village. There is no clarity on when and how the senior citizen died Police discovered the corpse on Friday following complaints from a neighbour that the mentally-ill woman was seen throwing garbage and filth on the road outside. The neighbour also claimed to have heard “strange sounds” emanating from the cottage. Body under cot: Deceased has 2 children abroad, kin tell cops to perform last ritesPolice discovered the skeletal remains of an 83-year-old woman in a cottage at Chuim village, Khar, after a neighbour complained about a mentally ill woman seen throwing garbage outside. “Following complaints from local residents, we sent a police officer to investigate the matter. When the officer rang the doorbell, there was no response, but he heard some sounds emanating from the palatial house. The officer then found the door was ajar and the house was in a mess,” said Gajanand Kabdule, senior inspector of Khar police station. When the officer entered a bedroom, he found a woman sitting on a cot and underneath it saw what looked like a person covered with a bed sheet. When he asked the woman about it, she murmured something which the officer was unable to comprehend. When he tried to lift the sheet, he found it was stuck to a body, which turned out to be mostly skeletal remains. “He was hit by a strong stench and alerted the police control room and called for an ambulance. The body was sent for post-mortem,” an officer said. While examining the documents found in the house and after making inquiries with neighbours, the deceased was identified as Evon Fernandes and the woman as her daughter Mariot Fernandes. Locals said Evon’s husband had died in the first decade of 2000. Police said Evon has three children — her other daughter is in Canada and son is in Dubai. Mariot first told the cops that her mother had passed on in March but later said her death occurred in August. “We spoke to their relatives who said Mariot was mentally disturbed and asked the police to perform the last rites, saying they would not be able to attend the funeral. We have sent Mariot to J J Hospital where she is being examined for her health issues,” said a senior police officer. Khar police have registered an accidental death report and are awaiting the post-mortem findings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-woman-found-with-skeleton-of-mom-under-cot/articleshow/79347121.cms||Ahmed Ali
November 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Chemical goon in spoon of chyawanprash: Study||AHMEDABAD: Chyawanprash and shatavari powder have become the go-to products in the pandemic for those seeking overall well-being — but unwanted ingredients like caffeine or corn starch can lie hidden amid all the natural goodness. Multiple studies carried out by the researchers of the National Forensic Sciences University (NFSU) indicate the presence of chemicals and food ingredients — not all of which are harmful — in chyawanprash and shatavari. These undesirable elements are not mentioned on the labels. The NFSU team had taken samples from six brands of chyawanprash and had subjected them to several tests. The results revealed the presence of caffeine along with alkaloids, amino acids, carbohydrates, proteins, phenols, and Vitamin C. The researchers were led by Astha Pandey, associate professor and the head of the Centre of Excellence, International Centre for Forensic Narcotics, at the NFSU. The researchers advocate the standardization of manufacturing process and regulations to ensure the display of the ingredients on the labels. The students in the project included Darshini Jethva, Shalvi Agrawal, Anirudh Dixit, and Chaitanya. Use of corn or wheat flour likelySome of the chemicals occur naturally due to the ingredients, but they could have side effects on a segment of the population,” said Prof Pandey. “Caffeine doesn’t occur naturally and is not mentioned on the labels. It could be considered an adulterant.” Prof Pandey said that the results will require bolstering from a wider study. For shatavari, the team had taken multiple samples of several branded and unbranded powders. “As shatavari tubers are rich in starch, there is a high probability of adulteration with common starch like corn or wheat flour, which make the products cheaper,” said Prof Pandey. “I have not seen the NFSU research, but one has to determine whether alkaloids or phenols present in ayurvedic products are a result of plantbased preparations, as herbs too have alkaloids,” said Gujarat Food and Drugs Control Administration commissioner H G Koshia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/chemical-goon-in-spoon-of-chyawanprash-study/articleshow/79347126.cms||Parth Shastri
November 22, 2020||Ranchi||JMM ups ante after spotting BJP MLAs at home on Chhath||Ranchi: Even after the festival culminated, there seems to be no end to the politicking around Chhath. On Saturday, JMM’s central general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya released photographs of BJP’s Ranchi and Hatia MLAs — C P Singh and Ajay Nath Shahdeo — offering arghya from set ups at their homes. This comes in the backdrop of the two politicians demanding permission for devotees to throng the various Chhath ghats despite the government announcing restrictions. Cashing in on, Bhattacharya accused the saffron party of deliberately inciting communal sentiments in the state. Addressing the media Bhattacharya released the photographs and said, “They (Singh and Shahdeo) were vocal about their demand to allow devotees at the Chhath ghats while they preferred to remain indoors. Why was such a hue and cry made to provoke people to come out and throng public waterbodies for offering arghya?” The state government had initially announced restrictions, but later on, under pressure from opposition parties, the directives were revoked and devotees were allowed at the ghats. JMM also ridiculed the saffron party for not being able to choose a leader of opposition unanimously. Bhattacharya said that on Sunday when the Jharkhand assembly will celebrate its 20th foundation day, there will be no leader of opposition in attendance despite a strong presence of 25 MLAs. “Is it not a matter of shame for the BJP that it is unable to find any suitable candidate out of its own MLAs to represent the opposition and had to borrow it from the JVM-P (Babulal Marandi),” he said asking the BJP to focus on its politics instead of focusing on spreading communal tension.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jmm-ups-ante-after-spotting-bjp-mlas-at-home-on-chhath/articleshow/79344502.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 22, 2020||Ranchi||HEC bags Rs 527-cr coal handling plant order for CCL||Ranchi: Heavy Engineering Corporation Ltd (HEC) on Saturday bagged a Rs 527-crore-project for constructing a coal handling plant (CHP) on a turnkey basis at Magadh open cast project of Central Coalfields Limited (CCL) in Chatra. The project involves planning, designing, construction, fabrication, erection, installation, testing and commissioning of a coal handling plant of 20 million tonne per annum capacity. The period of completion of the project is two years and HEC will be responsible for undertaking operation and maintenance of the plant for a period of five years. “We have a very capable team of engineers and we have decided to take up the challenge of completing all work related to the CHP project as per schedule,” HEC director (marketing and production) Rana S Chakravarty told TOI. He said, “Even in this pandemic, HEC has been bagging orders. Barring the Magadh CHP, our current work order book now stands at Rs 1,800 crore.” HEC sources revealed that in this current financial year, HEC has already bagged two prestigious orders for constructing coal handling plants at Block B in Singrauli, (Madhya Pradesh) of Northern Coalfields Limited with a total order value of Rs 167 crore and at Gevra project of South Eastern Coalfields Limited in Chhattisgarh with a total order value of Rs 615 crore. The Magadh CHP is the third order for HEC in a row. HEC is presently executing another coal handling plant project of four million tonne per annum capacity for Northern Coalfields Ltd at Krishnashila in Uttar Pradesh which is on the verge of completion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hec-bags-rs-527-cr-coal-handling-plant-order-for-ccl/articleshow/79344543.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 22, 2020||Ranchi||Padma Shri Hansda cremated with state honours||Jamshedpur: Padma Shri Digambar Hansda, who died on Thursday, was cremated with full state honours on Friday at Parvati crematorium in Jugsalai. While state transport minister Champai Soren represented the government at the funeral of the 81-year-old tribal academician, the district authorities accorded a guard of honour amid a tearful adieu by his family members, relatives, friends and well-wishers. Four JMM MLAs from the district — Ramdas Soren, Sanjeev Sardar, Samir Mohanty and Mangal Kalindi — were among political leaders cutting across parties, social, community and religious heads, who attended the last rites of the professor. Speaking on the occasion, Champai said, “Translation of the Constitution in Ol Chiki script of Santhali was one of the significant contributions of the noted litterateur.” Deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar, SSP M Tamil Vanan, DDC Parmeshwar Bhagat, ADM (law and order) Nand Kishore Lal and Dalbhum SDM Nitish Kumar also paid their respects. Digambar Hansda died at his house in Karandih following a prolonged illness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/padma-shri-hansda-cremated-with-state-honours/articleshow/79344537.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 22, 2020||Vadodara||Truck with electronic goods stolen||Vadodara: Electronic goods worth Rs 13.9 lakh meant for sale through a popular e-commerce company along with the truck in which it was being ferried were robbed near Dumad crossroads. Police said that the goods including refrigerator, television, washing machine, microwave, air-conditioners among others were to be delivered at the e-commerce company’s godown at Undera-Koyali road on November 19 night. But the robbers rendered the driver of the truck unconscious and stole the goods along with the truck. Driver Rajkumar told the police that he had stopped near Dumad crossroads on national highway-48 on November 19 evening as entry in to the city was prohibited at that time. He informed the owner of the transport company that he will proceed further only after the allotted time at night. While he was sitting in the cabin of the truck, two persons in a car approached him asking him directions to Aslali. Rajkumar got down from his truck to give them directions and after they shared tobacco with him, he returned to his vehicle and started using his mobile phone. However, a little later somebody came from behind and rubbed a handkerchief on his face through the window after which he fell unconscious. All he remembers was waking up the next morning on Friday somewhere near the Gujarat-Maharashtra border in Narmada district, Rajkumar told the police, adding that he soon managed to reach Dumad crossroads somehow by afternoon, and met the truck’s owner and told him the ordeal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/truck-with-electronic-goods-stolen/articleshow/79344625.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Kolkata||BJP hits Ramnagar to cash in on Suvendu rebellion||Ramnagar: The BJP is stepping up its outreach in East Midnapore to cash in on Suvendu Adhikari’s rebellion that has arguably put Trinamool Congress on a sticky wicket in the district. The party’s national general secretary and Bengal in-charge Kailash Vijayvargiya, along with Hooghly MP Locket Chatterjee and BJP leader Sabyasachi Dutta, held a public meeting at Trinamool MLA Akhil Giri’s home turf in Ramnagar on Saturday, two days after Suvendu’s “mega show” here. “The twin flowers of Trinamool represent pishi and bhaipo (aunt and nephew). It has now engaged an external agency to trim the grass. But, people here will reject them,” Chatterjee said, without naming anyone. Other BJP leaders like Sayantan Basu, Soumitra Khan and Shankudeb Ponda held an indoor meeting of the Yuva Morcha at Panskura to make hay out of “discontent” before Trinamool chief Mamata Banerjee hits the East Midnapore turf. Two Left organizers from Haldia — Arjun Mandal of CPM and Aswini Jana from RSP — and Haldia businessman Sheikh Muzaffar, a Lakshman Seth-turned-Suvendu loyalist joined the BJP on Saturday, sending out more signals about changing equations at the grassroots. The saffron party has already made its presence felt in Nandigram, where the Opposition didn’t have a footing till yesterday. Pradhan of Bayal-I gram panchayat in Nandigram Block II Pabitra Kar has been writing poll graffiti in favour of BJP for the first time in nine years since the Trinamool came to power in 2011. Kar, who won the rural polls as an independent candidate in 2013, is confident of his support base in the gram panchayat. “I fought alone and we won six panchayat seats out of 10. But, the Trinamool didn’t allow us to form the board then. Later, we switched to Trinamool and took control of the panchayat by moving a no-confidence vote. Many of our members were framed in false cases. Things seem to be looking up now. I have joined the BJP to lend voice to mass discontent in the area,” he said. While Suvendu loyalists across districts — such as former Midnapore Municipality chairman Pranab Basu and Murshidabad zilla parishad sabhadhipati Musharaf Hossain Mandal — are under pressure, anonymous billboards hailing the rebel leader surfaced at Shyambazar five-point crossing in Kolkata and Bongaon in North 24 Parganas on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bjp-hits-ramnagar-to-cash-in-on-suvendu-rebellion/articleshow/79346592.cms||Suman Mandal
November 22, 2020||Kolkata||Monday meet to resume south Bengal trains||KOLKATA: There is good news for those in the smaller towns of south Bengal who used to commute for work or business by train before the pandemic. Eastern Railway (ER) is likely to meet state government officials on Monday to discuss resumption of passenger train services after a hiatus of eight months. A demand for resumption of these services was raised when a decision was taken to restart suburban services in the Howrah, Sealdah and Kharagpur Divisions. “Such services are very important for the local economy of smaller towns. Not only do private and public sector employees as well as traders use them, the trains also carry daily produce such as vegetables, milk products and other essentials. The prices of such commodities will also come down when their transportation becomes easier. It has still not been decided how many services will be run. The formalities will be worked out during the meeting,” a railway official said. The three sections where passenger train services are likely to resume are Burdwan-Rampurhat, Burdwan-Asansol and Katwa-Azimgunj. Before the pandemic, ER used to run about 11 pairs of trains in each of these sections. The distance between Burdwan and Rampurhat is nearly 125 km and it takes nearly 3.5 hours to travel by road. The same distance can be covered in 2 hours by rail. Burdwan is an important trading hub in south Bengal while Asansol is an industrial centre. Rampurhat and Azimgunj are important towns in Birbhum and Murshidabad, respectively. The distance between Katwa, in Burdwan, and Azimgunj is nearly 107km. Both are important trading hubs and travelling by road is tedious. “When linking these important locations, even smaller places midway will be connected. Train travel is cheaper and faster and common people will be benefited immensely. These include daily wage earners and those working in unorganised sectors. For some smaller places, passenger trains used to be the lifeline before the pandemic,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/monday-meet-to-resume-s-bengal-trains/articleshow/79346581.cms||Jayanta Gupta
November 22, 2020||Ranchi||Pandemic pangs after Chhath violations?||Ranchi/Jamshedpur/Bokaro: With devotees across Jharkhand offering the morning arghya (prayers and offerings) to the rising sun on Saturday, chhath celebrations came to an end in the tribal state with no major incident related to the festivities being reported. Although low-key keeping in mind the ongoing pandemic, a large number of people gave the Covid norms a miss. In Ranchi, a significant number of people avoided the traditional chhath ghats and performed the rituals at the temporary waterbodies created in their areas and on their terraces. Binod Sinha, a resident of Kokar, said, “We formed a water pool on our roof where the rituals were performed, but the cloudy weather posed a challenge in having a sight of the sun.” However, at the ghats, blatant violation of chief minister Hemant Soren and the district administration’s appeals to adhere to the pandemic norms were noticed. Most of the people were seen not wearing masks and crowding in large numbers. A group of teenage girls who were spotted without masks said, “We realise safety norms are important, but getting a selfie and being recognised in a group photo is also necessary.” Kotwali ASP Mukesh Kumar said, “We were distributing masks among the devotees at the entrance gates and the chhath committees were issuing frequent appeals to the people to ensure compliance of the safety norms.” SP (rural) Naushad Alam said, “We tried to persuade the visitors to wear masks. However, a section of them chose to ignore our advice.” Meanwhile, the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) team saved Aditya Lohra (8) from drowning in Kanke dam. Aditya had gone to the dam with his friends to take a bath. Fortunately, the NDRF team was present at the spot when Aditya lost control and was drowning. He regained consciousness at a local hospital. The district administration was on the vigil at the ponds and rivers to ensure law and order and drones were used to keep vigil at important ghats of city, including Dhurwa Dam, Kanke Dam, Bada Talab, Chadri Talab and Button Talab. In Jamshedpur, devotees thronged dedicated ghats on the banks of Subernarekha, Kharkhai and Domuhani rivers and at other waterbodies marked as chhath ghats. A cloudy weather and intermittent drizzling for a short period in the early hours of Saturday did not dampen the festive spirit as devotees stood ground until the rituals were over. “This year, a large number of families performed the rituals at the temporary artificial ponds in their colonies to stay safe amid the pandemic. This led to less crowding at the ghats along the rivers,” said the convenor of Kendriya chhathh Puja Aayojan Samiti (KCPAS), Anand Bihari Dubey. Earlier on Friday, people offered prayers to the setting sun amid safety and security arrangements made by the district administration at all the ghats. Constant announcements were also made to ensure compliance of the pandemic norms. However, unlike other years, cultural programmes were missing near the ghats. “The usual prolonged cultural programmes were missing leading us to feel something is amiss at the ghats,” said 64-year-old Sakchi resident K P Singh, who visited Sidhghora’s Surya Mandir. In Bokaro, the crowd was divided among those who performed the rituals at makeshift waterbodies and their roofs and at those who visited the ghats. Violations of the pandemic rules were rampant here too despite repeated appeals from the administration. Dilip Singh, a resident of Sector 2/B said, “We chose to stay at home and offered our prayers to the Sun god from a small water tub. Amid the pandemic, it is only wise to avoid large gatherings.” Bokaro MLA Biranchi Narayan offered his prayers at his home while his wife Neena Narayan offered arghaya at a temporary water tank. The five prominent ponds of the BSL township saw huge gatherings on Friday evening and Saturday morning. The ghats at Garga River in Chas also witnessed a huge turnout. There were nine points where makeshift bridges were installed by the Chas Municipal Corporation (CMC). In Bermo, the ghats brimmed with devotees, giving out a vibe that all is well at a time when the pandemic is yet to be brought under control.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/pandemic-pangs-after-chhath-violations/articleshow/79344516.cms||Sanjay Sahay
November 22, 2020||Kolkata||How Kol airport facilitated Sabre Slayers in 1971||Kolkata: Exactly 49 years ago, soon after 3pm on November 22, four tiny Gnats were ‘beating up’ Kolkata (then Calcutta), even keeping other aircraft from landing at the city airport. The IAF pilots were ecstatic and engaged in low-level flying across the city, prompting residents to look up in wonder. And not without reason. They had turned into the ‘Sabre Slayers’ overnight. This is particularly significant as the IAF, on Friday, concluded its two-day familiarisation exercise at Kolkata airport. The aircraft they flew were British-origin Hawk trainers, barely 4m longer than the 8.7m Folland Gnats that made history in 1971. Like the Hawks, the Gnats were British-origin jets. They were not trainer aircraft but fighters, but didn’t enjoy the transonic capabilities of Hawks during a dive. The Gnats were never considered a match for the transonic US-origin F86F Sabres of the Pakistan air force (PAF). “That is the whole point of familiarisation. Just as the Hawks that concluded their exercise on Friday, the Gnats of 22 Squadron were based at Kalaikunda till they started operating from Kolkata airport after familiarisation. Had they been in Kalaikunda, they may have been too late in reacting to the Sabres operating over the Boyra Salient. This was a landmark achievement even before the 1971 Indo-Pakistan War began officially,” an IAF official said. The action on the ground was to be later immortalised as the Battle of Garibpur. Bangladeshi Mukti Joddhas, assisted by Indian troops, had destroyed Pakistani Chafee tanks when PAF was called in. The Pakistani Sabres started operating over Indian territory on November 22 morning. While the radar at Dum Dum did pick up incursions by the Sabres twice, they had turned back by the time the IAF Gnats reached Boyra. “They weren’t as lucky during the third sortie. Around 2.48 pm, the Dum Dum radar picked up four Sabres approaching Boyra and a similar number of Gnats took off from Kolkata, flown by Flt Lt R A Massey, Flt Lt M A Ganapathy, Fg Off Donald Lazarus and Fg Off S F Soarez. In eight minutes, the Gnats were over the Boyra Salient and shot down two of the Sabres. The third fled towards home, trailing smoke. The entire operation was coordinated by Fighter Controller Fg Off K M Bagchi who operated from the Air Traffic Control in Kolkata. While Massey, Ganapathy and Lazarus received Vir Chakras, Bagchi was awarded the Vayusena Medal. The pilots of the Sabres shot down were captured. This air battle was a game changer and the Gnat pilots ‘beat up’ Kolkata and the airport on returning,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/how-kol-airport-facilitated-sabre-slayers-in-1971/articleshow/79346589.cms||Jayanta Gupta
November 22, 2020||Kolkata||BJP seniors pay visit to Sovan with Bijoya invite||Kolkata: BJP national secretary co-in-charge of Bengal, Arvind Menon, reached out to former Kolkata mayor Sovan Chatterjee’s south Kolkata apartment to invite him and his friend Baisakhi Bandyopadhyay to the Bijoya Sammilani to be held at the Eastern Zonal Cultural Centre on Sunday. Menon, along with Bengal BJP’s new organization secretary Amitava Chakrabarty, paid the “courtesy visit” on Friday night, a fortnight after Sovan and Baisakhi met Amit Shah at a New Town hotel during the Union home minister’s two-day Bengal visit on November 6. BJP leaders hope that the former mayor, who stayed away from party programmes since he joined BJP in 2019, would make it to the EZCC Bijoya Sammilani after both Sovan and Baisakhi discussed some “long pending issues” with Shah. But things do not seem to have been “sorted out” at the state level as the BJP member was not seen in any of the party organization meetings held in presence of central leaders in Kolkata from November 18 to 20. The BJP national secretary, who had been to Sovan’s place for quite some time earlier after the former mayor fell out with the state BJP leadership, went to his place once again on Friday on the occasion of bhai phonta because he was busy with party programmes on that day. The visit by Menon and Chakrabarty is yet another effort by the BJP brass to “activate” the two BJP members ahead of the 2021 Bengal assembly polls. But there is no confirmation from Sovan’s side as yet whether he would make it to the Bijoya Sammilani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bjp-seniors-pay-visit-to-sovan-with-bijoya-invite/articleshow/79346598.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Kolkata||Offer standalone health policy for dengue/malaria: IRDA to insurers||KOLKATA: A spike in dengue cases along with the Covid-19 pandemic in cities, including Kolkata, has prompted the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority to ask insurance companies to come out with a standalone health policy for vector-borne diseases. This will be the second standalone policy after Corona Kavach that was introduced in late-July. Industry experts believe such a standalone cover would benefit those on the wrong side of 40, for whom general health policies come at a steep premium. The premium for the new policy could be a fourth of that for a comprehensive health cover, experts said. “All general and health insurers will be encouraged to offer this product,” an IRDA source said. The exposure draft proposes the product be offered for a fixed term of one year with a waiting period of 15 days. The regulator has asked insurance companies to send in their observations by November 27. Since vector-borne diseases are seasonal, the policy could be offered for a shorter term (less than a year). Suggestions have also been sought on the 15-day waiting period. According to J Kundu of Heritage TPA and C Bera of Raksha TPA, there have been “numerous claims for dengue-Covid twin attacks in recent weeks”. Hospitals across the city also confirmed the trend. Stakeholders have been requested to suggest a suitable name for the product as well. Sanjay Dutta of ICICI Lombard said the insurers are yet to finalise the details of the proposed policy. “We will forward some suggestions, including whether it should be a dedicated vector-borne diseases policy or cover other diseases as well,” he said. Sophia Singh, GM, National Insurance and head of the health vertical told TOI they are working on the IRDA proposal and will “send our observations soon”. She pointed out that though standard health policies cover dengue and malaria, such a standalone policy could be useful during the pandemic. R R Mohanty of Oriental Insurance said his company, too, could introduce such a policy. Group CEO of AMRI Hospitals and president of Association of Hospitals in Eastern India, Rupak Barua, welcomed the IRDA initiative and said such a policy would help those without a health cover. “A disease-specific policy during the pandemic would be handy at a time when general policies are turning expensive,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/offer-standalone-health-policy-for-dengue/malaria-irda-to-insurers/articleshow/79346510.cms||Udit Mukherji
November 22, 2020||Kolkata||Old maids return as train ops resume, bring new dilemma for Kolkata families||KOLKATA: The resumption of suburban train services has triggered a dilemma across middle-class homes in Kolkata, which till this March depended on domestic help from neighbouring districts. The initial lockdown months had seen families struggle with household chores as maids were told to stay away. Later, many homes were forced to employ new maids as the old ones couldn’t return because of suspension of local trains. Now, with suburban services back on track, the old domestics are returning to the city hoping to pick up from where they had left off but their employers are either unable to take them back or are unwilling to do so. Gayatri Ghosh, 53, a trusted help at five Jadavpur households for over a decade, had been grounded at her Mograhat home for over seven months. When suburban rail services resumed earlier this month, Gayatri eagerly returned to her workplaces but all but one turned her away. While some had already employed new maids, the others were wary of taking her back as she would be travelling by train. “I feel bad to refuse her. She has been like family for a decade. I will continue to pay her but can’t risk letting her into my small 2BHK flat where we live with our 75-year-old mother,” said Surita Sinha, a homemaker and resident of Jadavpur. Another south Kolkata resident, Subhasree Basu, was in a similar dilemma when her help of 15 years, who lives in Lakhsmikantapur, returned. “I am diabetic. I am not sure how safe it would be to allow someone who will be jostling with hundreds in packed local trains. I have asked our maid to wait for a month before we take a call,” said Basu, who has already employed a new maid and will continue to pay salaries to both. While a large section of employers, who have already engaged new help are refusing their old maids, some are suggesting that they stay in the neighbourhood and not travel by train if they want to get back their old job. “My father is 85 and a cancer patient and although our trusted maid used to take care of her, we have refused to take her back as she would be travelling by local train. However, I have another flat nearby and I have asked her to work and stay there for the next month and after that she can return to our place. But she won’t be able to travel back home; that’s the precondition,” said Gourab Banerjee, an IT professional and a resident of Nagerbazar. Those with small kids at home are also taking a similar call. “My grandson is only a year old and I myself had a surgery just before Durga Puja. Both our maid and the ayah who looks after the child are staying in the neighbourhood while working at our place. They wanted to travel daily from home on local trains but we have asked them to continue with the current arrangement and avoid risky travel,” said Jhuma Guha Thakurta, a resident of Baghajatin. It could indeed be risky to employ domestic helps who use public transport, feel doctors. “The pandemic is still on and transmission is happening. It could be particularly risky for households with elderly members who are prone to Covid due to their comorbidities and reduced immunity,” said Belle Vue Clinic internal medicine consultant Rahul Jain. Another private hospital medic pointed out that several domestic help were infected at the beginning of the pandemic. “There have been cases where a family member was infected by a help and needed hospitalization while the latter remained relatively healthy. There is the possibility of the reverse happening. So, it’s still too early to welcome them back,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/old-maids-return-as-train-ops-resume-bring-new-dilemma-for-city-families/articleshow/79346577.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
November 22, 2020||Kolkata||TMC hits out, calls BJP-led Centre a ‘fake news factory’||KOLKATA: Trinamool Congress on Saturday accused the Centre of being a “fake news factory” and attacked the NDA government in Delhi for its “failure” to control Covid-19 in time. Stepping up the “outsider” heat, TMC also questioned BJP’s track record in handling crimes against Dalits and women, quipping they “have lunch before elections” and “torture them after elections”. TMC Lok Sabha MP Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar, addressing reporters at Trinamool Bhawan, said: “This is a dangerous situation. Put simply, this central government is a fake news government. They churn out fake news like assembly lines in car manufacturing factories. This fake news is then spread through different WhatsApp groups. These are not white lies that do not do any harm. These lies are destroying the basic fabric of society, destroying constitutional values, our secularism and culture. These are also divisive.” Citing the “long list” of torture against Dalits, Dastidar said, “The latest is the brutal murder of a 22-year-old Dalit autorickshaw driver in Gujarat’s Bhavnagar for simply refusing to ply. It started with Rohit Vemula and the cycle continues with the rape and forcible burning of the Hathras victim. ‘Beti Parao’ is now ‘Beti Porao’ (teach daughters has turned into burn daughters). Before elections, they will have lunch with Dalit families and after elections, torture them.” “Back in January, we said in Parliament we need to control incoming international flights to India to limit spread of the disease. We were told not to behave like schoolchildren. Much later, a lockdown was announced. And now, one lakh people have died,” she said. Dastidar alleged that the central government also did not have data on migrants. “It was only through RTI we learnt that 80 people have died travelling in migrant trains. They even charged home-bound fare from these poor and helpless people” The Trinamool MP also attacked the state BJP leadership, saying: “They are definitely short of leaders. Else, why would leaders from other states be sent here to manage the party? These outsiders are alien to Bengal’s history and culture. This is a place which has given the country the most Nobel laureates. It has given the country heroes like Subhas Chandra Bose. Bengal does not need outsiders,” she said. Speaking on BJP’s claim that some senior leaders were on the verge of defecting, Dastidar said, “Trinamool means grassroots. It never gets crushed or trampled upon even if you walk over them. It grows afresh. Mamata Banerjee’s strength is in the people.” Reacting to the ‘outsider’ barb, BJP state president Dilip Ghosh hsaid: “Do we require visas to enter this region like what was required to go to Kashmir?” In a bid to de-escalate the tension amid ongoing rapprochement talks with Suvendu Adhikari and a senior Trinamool Congress MP, Dastidar said: “Suvendu is a soldier of Trinamool Congress. He is a senior cabinet minister and high party functionary. And most importantly, he is a person who has been working with TMC since he was young. He is a veteran and dependable party worker.” On the Kalyan Banerjee-Suvendu sparring, she said, “I also heard Kalyan saying that Suvendu is a party veteran.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tmc-hits-out-calls-bjp-led-centre-a-fake-news-factory/articleshow/79346572.cms||Saibal Gupta
November 22, 2020||Surat||Surat diamond firm gets top green building certification from USGBC||SURAT: Shree Ramkrishna Export (SRK), a leading diamond company in Surat, has added sheen to its glitter by receiving green building standards certification from the US Green Building Council (USGBC). With this, SRK House has become the first in the industry to be awarded with Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) certification with Platinum rating for its state-of-the-art facility in Katargam. The building, which houses nearly 3,000 employees, is constructed on a sprawling 2.25 lakh sq ft land and had became operational in 2017. This is the foremost certification for commercial buildings, homes and communities that are designed, constructed and operated for improved environmental and human health performance by USGBC. SRK House has been awarded total 86 points out of 100 considering the energy, water, waste management, recyclability and transportation categories through the Arc Skoru rating system used for calculating LEED certification eligibility. For the certification, SRK House had also undertaken many unique initiatives including addressing increasing demand of energy with ISO 50002 Energy Audit – a new systematic method for performing energy audit – carried out for the first time in India. Other features include regular CIO2 disinfection of indoors (occupancy areas) with EPA approved disinfectants, UV lights installed in Air Handling Units (AHUs) for additional precautions from microbial contamination, natural cooling across the entire project for cooling requirements. Chairman of SRK, Govind Dholakiya told TOI, “In 2018, SRK Empire became the first manufacturing unit in Asia to get recognised with Platinum certification. Now, SRK House has also been awarded with the prestigious LEED certification — both our facilities have thus become green!” According to Dholakiya, sustainability practices like improving energy and water performances on continual basis, promoting healthier workplace for occupants, improving waste management performance and using renewable sources of energy as much as possible were the important considerations for the certification. The promoters therefore took special consideration for aspects like material reuse, daylight harvesting, facilitation of natural ventilation of spaces while constructing the building.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/top-green-bldg-tag-for-surat-diamond-firm/articleshow/79343909.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Ranchi||Maoists kill ‘cop informer’ at Chhath ghat||Chatra: A coal trader in his 40s was shot dead by Maoists early on Saturday when he was offering arghya along with other devotees at Sinpur Chhath Ghat under Pathalgadda police station in the district on charges of being a police informer. The trader succumbed to his injuries while he was being taken to a hospital. The rebels left a pamphlet near the body, claiming responsibility for the murder and warned other “informers” of the same fate. The deceased was identified as Mukesh Giri who was once associated with extremist activities, police said. Simaria SDPO Vachandev Kujur said Simaria police station in-charge Niranjan Kumar Mishra rushed to the spot after the incident. “Our investigation is underway and we have launched raids in the area to nab the culprits,” Kujur said. Later in the day, DGP M V Rao visited Chatra along with deputy inspector general (North Chotanagpur) Amol Venukant Homkar and chaired a high-level meeting with district police officials, including SP Rishav Kumar Jha, to review the situation. He directed the officials concerned to launch an operation in order to stop Maoist violence in the district. Speaking to reporters after the meeting, Rao said, “Those who are involved in anti-establishment activities will be dealt with an iron hand and we will make sure that Maoists have no place here.” He refused to confirm when asked if Mukesh was a police informer and only said that he was once involved in activities related to extremists. According to eye-witnesses, around 7am on Saturday, some Maoists turned up at the ghat wearing black uniforms and started beating up the devotees with lathis, triggering panic. The rebels then caught hold of Mukesh, roughed him up and fired two bullets at him, one hitting his chest and another his neck, before escaping to a forest nearby. A profusely bleeding Mukesh was taken to Simaria referral hospital where the doctors referred him to Hazaribag Medical College and Hospital in the neighbouring district. Mukesh was, however, declared brought dead. Simaria MLA Kishun Kumar Das termed the incident unfortunate and said it was a failure of the state government. “Ever since the JMM-led government came to power, crimes like murder and rape have increased,” he said and demanded a government job and compensation for the victim’s kin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/maoists-kill-cop-informer-at-chhath-ghat/articleshow/79344526.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 22, 2020||Kolkata||CPM show of strength at Keshpur rally||Midnapore: Hundreds of CPM workers took out a rally in Keshpur on Saturday in support of an all-India strike on November 26 to protest against “anti-people” farm and labour laws of the BJP-led Union government. The erstwhile Left bastion in West Midnapore witnessed a sea of red almost after a decade since the CPM was decimated in the 2011 Bengal assembly elections. Keshpur villagers too participated in the “mahamichhil” against the Narendra Modi government’s policies. The rally culminated in a public meeting at Keshpur bus stand. “People overcame their fears and participated in today’s rally,” said CPM leader Tapas Sinha. Referring to Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee’s past remark describing Keshpur as “CPM’s seshpur”, Sinha said: “Trinamool should revisit its slogan and find out what Keshpur is headed for this time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cpm-show-of-strength-at-keshpur-rally/articleshow/79346601.cms||Sujoy Khanra
November 22, 2020||Rajkot||Voluntary lockdown in Dhansura town||PALANPUR: Traders in Dhansura town of Aravalli district have decided to down their shutters up to November 13 in wake of the spiralling Covid-19 cases. Dhansura taluka development officer, Pratik Patel, said that it was voluntary decision taken by the traders and shopkeepers to avoid crowding that makes social distancing difficult. “ Trade association has decided to all shops, hotels, restaurants and other commercial establishments to contain the spread of Covid,” said Yashvant Patel, sarpanch of Dhansura. As many as 32 new cases were reported in the town during the rapid antigen testing since Friday, sources in the health department said. Aravalli has so far registered 750 positive. “Our town largely depends on the influx of customers from near-by villages. Therefore we decided to impose a voluntary lockdown to avoid crowds,” said Piyush Shah, president of shopkeepers’ body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/voluntary-lockdown-in-dhansura-town/articleshow/79343850.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Property registration fee three per cent for flats of Rs 20 lakh-35 lakh||BENGALURU: In an attempt to boost the economy and bring back buoyancy to the real estate sector, the state government has reduced property registration tax to 3% for purchase of residential flats costing up to Rs 35 lakh. The government on Friday promulgated an ordinance to amend the Karnataka Stamp Act to effect the cut. Flats costing less than Rs 20 lakh will have 2% registration fee and for flats valued between Rs 20 lakh and Rs 35 lakh, it will be 3%. Earlier, the registration fee was 5% on apartments, irrespective of the price. With tax reduction, govt hopes to meet Rs 12,665 crore annual targetThe cabinet in its meeting on November 12 had decided to slash property tax to 3% only for affordable flats costing Rs 20 lakh and less. It was felt that the earlier cap of Rs 20 lakh would not really help a large section of people as it is hard to get properties in that price range in urban areas like Bengaluru. The government extended the benefit for property purchase of up to Rs 35 lakh. The revenue earnings through stamp duty and registration fees have seen a slump owing to the Covid-induced lockdown and slowdown in the economy. Till October-end, the stamps and registration department earned Rs 4,610 crore against the target of Rs 6,151 crore. The total target for the current year is Rs 12,665 crore. The silver lining is that revenue collection is seeing a rise since June. With these orders, the government expects more registrations to happen over the next four months to get closer to its target.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-property-registration-fee-three-per-cent-for-flats-of-rs-20-lakh-35-lakh/articleshow/79347131.cms||---
November 22, 2020||India||Probe against Kerala LoP, 2 ex-ministers okayed by CM||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Close on the heels of the arrest of two Muslim League MLAs in separate cases, the LDF government in Kerala has initiated a fresh vigilance probe against opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala and former ministers K Babu and V S Sivakumar over the recent disclosures in the bar bribery case. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has given his consent to the probe against the Congress members on the basis of hotelier Biju Ramesh's latest claims that bar hotel owners had pooled Rs 10 crore to be given as bribe to UDF leaders. He had claimed that of this amount, Rs 1 crore was given to former KPCC president Ramesh Chennithala, Rs 50 lakh to former excise minister K Babu and Rs 25 lakh to former health minister V S Sivakumar. The government has sought permission from governor Arif Mohammed Khan and speaker Sreeramakrishnan to initiate the probe, as mandated by the latest amendments to the Prevention of Corruption Act. It was claimed that the UDF leaders had collected a large amount of money from bar hotel owners by promising them a favourable decision on the bar licence fee. Reacting to the development, Chennithala said the government's decision was politically motivated. "I am clean. The vigilance had twice found the bribery allegations to be baseless. In fact, what the CM did is contempt of court. He doesn't have the right to order preliminary inquiry into a case pending in the court. Biju Ramesh has only repeated what he had claimed earlier and was proved wrong. I welcome any investigation,"he said. KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran said the CM has lost his balance. "He knows he will be sent to jail soon. This realisation is prompting him to frame opposition leaders in cases. The CM should clarify why he did not order a probe into Biju Ramesh's allegations against Jose K Mani?" he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/probe-against-kerala-lop-2-ex-ministers-okayed-by-cm/articleshow/79347139.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Mumbai||80-year-old, son die after bike rams tempo in Mumbai||MUMBAI: A 31-year-old man and his 80-year-old father were killed after their bike rammed into a stationary tempo on the middle of the road at Vakola junction at Kherwadi. Police arrested tempo driver Mangeni Vitthal Mallale (23) and cleaner Mahadev Kolekar for causing death due to negligence, and under the Motor Vehicle Act. The deceased were Ravi Srimani Mali and his father Srimani Kashi Mali, residents of Malad. Early on Saturday the father-son duo were heading to the Dadar flower market. Ravi was riding, and his father was riding pillion. At the Vakola junction, Ravi suddenly saw a tempo in the middle of the road, but could not break in time. Ravi suffered serious head injuries. His father fell off the bike and a car ran over him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/80-year-old-son-die-after-bike-rams-tempo-in-mumbai/articleshow/79347206.cms||S Ahmed Ali
November 22, 2020||India||Now, BJP eyes Telangana, TN; decides to go all out||NEW DELHI: After consolidating its presence in the northeastern and eastern regions where it was considered a fringe outfit until a couple of years ago, BJP is now pulling out all stops to make electoral gains in south Indian states like Telangana and Tamil Nadu. Having won the Dubakka assembly bypoll in Telangana recently, the party's poll managers see better prospects in the 2023 assembly polls for which it is poised to use the upcoming Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation polls for which general secretary Bhupendra Yadav has been appointed in charge. Karnataka health minister K Sudhakar, Maharashtra MLA Ashish Shelar and Gujarat secretary Pradipsinh Vaghela will assist Yadav as co-in charges for the GHMC polls. Home minister Amit Shah was in Chennai on Saturday to galvanise party cadres before the state assembly polls. Alarmed over BJP's full throttle effort to challenge his hegemony, TRS president and CM K Chandrasekhar Rao has announced to mobilise a pan-India front against BJP. He has already announced a grand meeting of parties opposed to BJP in Hyderabad after which a nation-wide campaign will be launched against the saffron party. Till now, TRS had adopted a soft approach towards BJP, particularly on legislative business in Parliament. Barring a few occasions, TRS, which has five MPs in Rajya Sabha in nine in Lok Sabha, has been supportive of the government. However, BJP seems ready to forego TRS's support and sees the GHMC polls as an opportunity to prepare the ground for the 2023 assembly polls. The Dubbaka win has bolstered BJP's confidence as the constituency was considered a stronghold of the KCR family. The GHMC polls are politically significant as its jurisdiction spreads across four districts - Hyderabad, Rangareddy, Medchal-Malkajgiri and Sangareddy - which have 24 assembly and five Lok Sabha constituencies. After winning four LS seats in 2019 polls, BJP's expectations have soared in Telangana. However, it is yet to make its presence felt in Tamil Nadu and it has started preparing for next year's polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/now-bjp-eyes-telangana-tn-decides-to-go-all-out/articleshow/79347208.cms||Akhilesh Singh
November 22, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Eight long weekends coming up next year||BENGALURU: Amid signs of a Covid-19 vaccine coming into the market in early 2021, people of Karnataka can hope to resume travelling next year in greater comfort. And helping that along, eight long weekends are in sight, starting with April 2. Besides, the government has released a list of 19 restricted holidays, 10 of which fall on a Friday or Monday. This includes New Year, Christmas and Guru Nanak Jayanthi. The list of 20 general holidays includes Good Friday (April 2), Basava Jayanthi/Akshya Tritiya (May 14), Muharram (August 20), Ganesh Chathurthi (September 10), Vijayadashmi (October 15) and Balipadyami or Deepavali (November 5) — all of which fall on a Friday. Two holidays fall on a Monday — Kannada Rajyotsava (November 1) and Kanakadasa Jayanthi (November 22). This apart, three Thursdays have been declared general holidays — Sankranti (January 14), Maha Shivaratri (March 11) and Mahanavami (October 14) — opening up the possibility of early weekends.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-eight-long-weekends-coming-up-next-year/articleshow/79347203.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Painter’s son abducted, murdered for Rs 7,000||SURAT: A painter living in Bhatar had to repay with his nine-year-old son’s life for not returning Rs 7,000 borrowed from his friend during the lockdown. The boy, Aakash Sahani, was kidnapped from Khodiyarnagar locality in Bhatar on Friday night, and his body was found in a sugarcane field on Olpad-Sayan Road on Saturday. Police detained the assailants, Karan alias Aaditya and Barkat Ali alias Sonu, who also work as painters. The duo allegedly kidnapped the boy on a bike and later thrashed and strangulated him to death, police said. Aakash’s father Kishan had lodged a complaint of kidnapping in Khatodara police station after the the family and friends failed to trace him. Police examined the CCTV footage in Bhatar and saw a man taking a boy on a motorcycle. Police showed the footage to Kishan who identified Karan, who lives in his neighbouring house. After Aakash had gone missing, Kishan had called up Karan on his mobile phone several times and asked him to help trace the boy, but the latter returned late at night. Police nabbed Karan early on Saturday and he confessed to the crime during detailed interrogation. Later he took police to the farm where the body was dumped. After kidnapping Aakash on his bike, Karan took him to Sayan Road to hand over groceries to Barkat. Later, Karan and Barkat took the boy to a farm and killed him. Aakash may have agreed to go with Karan as the latter used to take him out to buy chocolates many times. “So far, we have found that Kishan was not returning Rs 7,000 to Karan. Recently, Karan had again asked Kishan to return the money as he needed cash for Chhath Puja celebration. Kishan promised to return in the few days and even offered to mortgage the jewellery to repay the money” said a police officer at Khatodara police station. Karan and Kishan were both facing financial crises due to limited work. Both did painting jobs and since the lockdown, they were not getting enough work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/painters-son-abducted-murdered-for-rs-7000/articleshow/79344130.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Chennai||Up to Tamil Nadu governor to take call on Perarivalan release, says CBI||CHENNAI: CBI has informed the Supreme Court that the decision on release of Perarivalan, life convict in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, rests squarely with the Tamil Nadu government but refuted the convict's claim that he was unaware of the purpose for which the conspirators made him buy batteries used for detonating explosives by the human bomb to kill the former PM in 1991. "The claim of the petitioner that he is innocent and did not have the knowledge about the conspiracy to assassinate Rajiv Gandhi is neither acceptable nor maintainable," CBI said in its affidavit before the Supreme Court. Perarivalan's mother had annexed a statement of a former IPS officer, who had recorded the convict's confession and later stated that the accused was unaware of the conspiracy to use the batteries for detonation of the explosives to kill Rajiv Gandhi at an election rally in May, 1991. CBI said the former IPS officer's statement had been considered and rejected by the SC earlier. The designated TADA court had awarded death penalty to all 26 accused after convicting them in 1998. The SC in 1999 had confirmed the death sentence of Nalini, Sriharan aka Murugan, Santhan aka Suthenthiraja and Arivu aka Perarivalan. However, taking into account the long pendency of their mercy pleas by the President, the SC had commuted their death sentences to life imprisonment in 2014. In September 2018, the TN government recommended to the Governor to release the life convicts, including Perarivalan, which is still pending consideration. "Relief prayed for by the petitioner Perarivalan is an issue between him and the office of the Governor of TN," CBI told the SC. "It is for the Governor of TN to take a call on the issue whether remission is to be granted," the agency said. On the work of Multi Disciplinary Monitoring Agency (MDMA), set up on the recommendations of the Jain Commission of Inquiry to probe the larger conspiracy behind the assassination of the former PM and trace and track the absconding accused, CBI said, "The MDMA is conducting further investigations and progress report is submitted to the designated court at Chennai. Further investigations spread over different countries and the status of the same have already been submitted to the designated court." "Perarivalan is not the subject matter of further investigation conducted by MDMA," CBI admitted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/up-to-tamil-nadu-governor-to-take-call-on-perarivalan-release-says-cbi/articleshow/79347237.cms||---
November 22, 2020||India||It's for TN guv to take call on setting free Rajiv case convict, CBI tells SC||NEW DELHI: The CBI has informed the Supreme Court that the decision on release of Perarivalan, a life convict in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, rests squarely with the Tamil Nadu government but refuted the convict's claim that he was unaware of the purpose for which the conspirators made him buy batteries used for detonating explosives by the human bomb in 1991. "The claim of the petitioner that he is innocent and did not have the knowledge about the conspiracy to assassinate Rajiv Gandhi is neither acceptable nor maintainable," the CBI said in an affidavit before the Supreme Court. Perarivalan's mother had annexed a statement of a former IPS officer who had recorded the convict's confession and later stated that the accused was unaware of the conspiracy to use the batteries for detonation of the explosives to kill Rajiv Gandhi at an election rally in May, 1991. The CBI said the former IPS officer's statement had been considered and rejected by the SC earlier. The designated TADA court had awarded death penalty to all 26 accused after convicting them in 1998. The SC in 1999 had confirmed the death sentence of Nalini, Sriharan aka Murugan, Santhan aka Suthenthiraja and Arivu aka Perarivalan. However, taking into account the long pendency of their mercy pleas by the President, the SC had commuted their death sentences to life imprisonment in 2014. In September 2018, the TN government recommended to the governor to release the life convicts, including Perarivalan, which is still pending consideration. "Relief prayed for by the petitioner Perarivalan is an issue between him and the office of the governor of TN," CBI told the SC. "It is for the governor to take a call on the issue whether remission is to be granted," the CBI said. On the work of Multi Disciplinary Monitoring Agency (MDMA), set up on the recommendations of the Jain Commission of Inquiry to probe the larger conspiracy behind the assassination of the former PM and trace and track the absconding accused, CBI said, "The MDMA is conducting further investigations and progress report is submitted to the designated court at Chennai. Further investigations spread over different countries and the status of the same have already been submitted to the designated court." "Perarivalan is not the subject matter of further investigation conducted by MDMA," CBI admitted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/its-for-tn-guv-to-take-call-on-setting-free-rajiv-case-convict-cbi-tells-sc/articleshow/79347245.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Selection process for Group C, D staff to be revamped||LUCKNOW: The selection process for Group C and D employees through UP Subordinate Services Selection Commission is being revamped and will now be a two phase process. In an order issued by the department of personnel, it has been said that instead of holding a main examination each time vacant posts are advertised, UPSSSC will now hold a preliminary eligibility test. Depending on their performance, candidates will be given percentiles. This will be a general exam with a common syllabus. Based on the percentiles, candidates will be selected to appear for main exams as and when posts are advertised. Now, PET will be held just once a yearCurrently a main exam is held after which, if required, eligible candidates take a skill test. Lakhs of candidates were applying for any number of posts, from 10 to 500. This made the entire selection process extremely lengthy. Now, the PET will be held once a year and candidates equalling 15 times the vacant seats will be allowed to take the main exam. This will limit the number of candidates, simplyfying the selection. process,” said an official. The syllabus for the main exam will be determined in consultation with the department where the posts are vacant. If needed, a skill exam will also be conducted. The new system will remain in place till the time the Centre implements common tests through the National Recruitment Agency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-selection-process-for-group-c-d-staff-to-be-revamped/articleshow/79347247.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: Slight surge in Maharashtra & Mumbai’s cases for fourth day in a row||MUMBAI: A gentle surge in the daily number of Covid-19 cases was apparent across the state as well as in its capital Mumbai for the fourth day in a row. A total of 5,760 cases and 62 deaths were reported on Saturday, taking the state’s caseload to 17,74,455 and toll to 46,573. The fatalities dropped by 60% from 155 on Friday to 62. The drop in fatalities was due to delay in uploading data by many districts, senior officials said. While the average number of cases in Mumbai was between 500 and 800 last week, cases have shot past 1,000 in the last two days. On Saturday, the BMC added 1,093 cases to take the city’s Covid tally so far to 2.74 lakh. While 12 deaths were recorded on Friday, the toll on Saturday was 17. The toll in Mumbai since March now stands at 10,656. BMC officials, however, said there is no surge of Covid cases in Mumbai; the extra numbers are the results of increased testing, they said. The scene at BMC-run hospitals also suggests that the number of cases needing hospitalisation haven’t increased. Admissions at the four medical school-and-superspecialty hubs are at an all-time low since the pandemic peaked in May. “At the moment, we have 44 critical patients in KEM Hospital,” said dean Dr Hemant Deshmukh. During the first Covid peak in May, KEM had to commission 500-plus beds for Covid patients. The weekly number of admissions and deaths at the four hospitals are as follows: 59 admissions and 23 deaths in Nair Hospital, 53 admissions and three deaths in Sion Hospital, 37 admissions and two deaths in KEM in Parel and 64 admissions and six deaths in Cooper Hospital, Juhu. A senior doctor said if there is indeed a post-Diwali surge in numbers of cases, the only explanation would be that people have mild attacks that don’t need hospitalisation. Mumbai city guardian minister Aslam Shaikh said the government was keeping a close watch on cases in the state and the city and as far as restricting travel to and from the city was concerned, a decision will be taken at the appropriate time. “We could also start screening passengers at railway stations and airports once again. Many countries have made Covid-negative certificates compulsory for travellers, we could also go for such a thing. No decision has been taken yet, but we are monitoring the situation,” he said. Meanwhile, the Mumbai region added 1,977 cases and 17 fatalities. Thane city recorded 196 cases and 3 deaths on Saturday. The Kalyan-Dombivli belt reported 149 cases, taking its tally to 52,533. The toll there is 1,040. In Navi Mumbai, there were 169 cases on Saturday and four deaths. (Inputs by Shrutika Sukhi, Vijay Singh & Umesh K Parida)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/slight-surge-in-maharashtra-mumbais-cases-for-fourth-day-in-a-row/articleshow/79347257.cms||Bhavika Jain
November 22, 2020||Thane||Covid-19: Slight surge in Maharashtra & Mumbai’s cases for fourth day in a row||MUMBAI: A gentle surge in the daily number of Covid-19 cases was apparent across the state as well as in its capital Mumbai for the fourth day in a row. A total of 5,760 cases and 62 deaths were reported on Saturday, taking the state’s caseload to 17,74,455 and toll to 46,573. The fatalities dropped by 60% from 155 on Friday to 62. The drop in fatalities was due to delay in uploading data by many districts, senior officials said. While the average number of cases in Mumbai was between 500 and 800 last week, cases have shot past 1,000 in the last two days. On Saturday, the BMC added 1,093 cases to take the city’s Covid tally so far to 2.74 lakh. While 12 deaths were recorded on Friday, the toll on Saturday was 17. The toll in Mumbai since March now stands at 10,656. BMC officials, however, said there is no surge of Covid cases in Mumbai; the extra numbers are the results of increased testing, they said. The scene at BMC-run hospitals also suggests that the number of cases needing hospitalisation haven’t increased. Admissions at the four medical school-and-superspecialty hubs are at an all-time low since the pandemic peaked in May. “At the moment, we have 44 critical patients in KEM Hospital,” said dean Dr Hemant Deshmukh. During the first Covid peak in May, KEM had to commission 500-plus beds for Covid patients. The weekly number of admissions and deaths at the four hospitals are as follows: 59 admissions and 23 deaths in Nair Hospital, 53 admissions and three deaths in Sion Hospital, 37 admissions and two deaths in KEM in Parel and 64 admissions and six deaths in Cooper Hospital, Juhu. A senior doctor said if there is indeed a post-Diwali surge in numbers of cases, the only explanation would be that people have mild attacks that don’t need hospitalisation. Mumbai city guardian minister Aslam Shaikh said the government was keeping a close watch on cases in the state and the city and as far as restricting travel to and from the city was concerned, a decision will be taken at the appropriate time. “We could also start screening passengers at railway stations and airports once again. Many countries have made Covid-negative certificates compulsory for travellers, we could also go for such a thing. No decision has been taken yet, but we are monitoring the situation,” he said. Meanwhile, the Mumbai region added 1,977 cases and 17 fatalities. Thane city recorded 196 cases and 3 deaths on Saturday. The Kalyan-Dombivli belt reported 149 cases, taking its tally to 52,533. The toll there is 1,040. In Navi Mumbai, there were 169 cases on Saturday and four deaths. (Inputs by Shrutika Sukhi, Vijay Singh & Umesh K Parida)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/slight-surge-in-maharashtra-mumbais-cases-for-fourth-day-in-a-row/articleshow/79347258.cms||Bhavika Jain
November 22, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Covid-19: Slight surge in Maharashtra & Mumbai’s cases for fourth day in a row||MUMBAI: A gentle surge in the daily number of Covid-19 cases was apparent across the state as well as in its capital Mumbai for the fourth day in a row. A total of 5,760 cases and 62 deaths were reported on Saturday, taking the state’s caseload to 17,74,455 and toll to 46,573. The fatalities dropped by 60% from 155 on Friday to 62. The drop in fatalities was due to delay in uploading data by many districts, senior officials said. While the average number of cases in Mumbai was between 500 and 800 last week, cases have shot past 1,000 in the last two days. On Saturday, the BMC added 1,093 cases to take the city’s Covid tally so far to 2.74 lakh. While 12 deaths were recorded on Friday, the toll on Saturday was 17. The toll in Mumbai since March now stands at 10,656. BMC officials, however, said there is no surge of Covid cases in Mumbai; the extra numbers are the results of increased testing, they said. The scene at BMC-run hospitals also suggests that the number of cases needing hospitalisation haven’t increased. Admissions at the four medical school-and-superspecialty hubs are at an all-time low since the pandemic peaked in May. “At the moment, we have 44 critical patients in KEM Hospital,” said dean Dr Hemant Deshmukh. During the first Covid peak in May, KEM had to commission 500-plus beds for Covid patients. The weekly number of admissions and deaths at the four hospitals are as follows: 59 admissions and 23 deaths in Nair Hospital, 53 admissions and three deaths in Sion Hospital, 37 admissions and two deaths in KEM in Parel and 64 admissions and six deaths in Cooper Hospital, Juhu. A senior doctor said if there is indeed a post-Diwali surge in numbers of cases, the only explanation would be that people have mild attacks that don’t need hospitalisation. Mumbai city guardian minister Aslam Shaikh said the government was keeping a close watch on cases in the state and the city and as far as restricting travel to and from the city was concerned, a decision will be taken at the appropriate time. “We could also start screening passengers at railway stations and airports once again. Many countries have made Covid-negative certificates compulsory for travellers, we could also go for such a thing. No decision has been taken yet, but we are monitoring the situation,” he said. Meanwhile, the Mumbai region added 1,977 cases and 17 fatalities. Thane city recorded 196 cases and 3 deaths on Saturday. The Kalyan-Dombivli belt reported 149 cases, taking its tally to 52,533. The toll there is 1,040. In Navi Mumbai, there were 169 cases on Saturday and four deaths. (Inputs by Shrutika Sukhi, Vijay Singh & Umesh K Parida)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/slight-surge-in-maharashtra-mumbais-cases-for-fourth-day-in-a-row/articleshow/79347259.cms||Bhavika Jain
November 22, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Slight surge in Maharashtra & Mumbai’s cases for fourth day in a row||MUMBAI: A gentle surge in the daily number of Covid-19 cases was apparent across the state as well as in its capital Mumbai for the fourth day in a row. A total of 5,760 cases and 62 deaths were reported on Saturday, taking the state’s caseload to 17,74,455 and toll to 46,573. The fatalities dropped by 60% from 155 on Friday to 62. The drop in fatalities was due to delay in uploading data by many districts, senior officials said. While the average number of cases in Mumbai was between 500 and 800 last week, cases have shot past 1,000 in the last two days. On Saturday, the BMC added 1,093 cases to take the city’s Covid tally so far to 2.74 lakh. While 12 deaths were recorded on Friday, the toll on Saturday was 17. The toll in Mumbai since March now stands at 10,656. BMC officials, however, said there is no surge of Covid cases in Mumbai; the extra numbers are the results of increased testing, they said. The scene at BMC-run hospitals also suggests that the number of cases needing hospitalisation haven’t increased. Admissions at the four medical school-and-superspecialty hubs are at an all-time low since the pandemic peaked in May. “At the moment, we have 44 critical patients in KEM Hospital,” said dean Dr Hemant Deshmukh. During the first Covid peak in May, KEM had to commission 500-plus beds for Covid patients. The weekly number of admissions and deaths at the four hospitals are as follows: 59 admissions and 23 deaths in Nair Hospital, 53 admissions and three deaths in Sion Hospital, 37 admissions and two deaths in KEM in Parel and 64 admissions and six deaths in Cooper Hospital, Juhu. A senior doctor said if there is indeed a post-Diwali surge in numbers of cases, the only explanation would be that people have mild attacks that don’t need hospitalisation. Mumbai city guardian minister Aslam Shaikh said the government was keeping a close watch on cases in the state and the city and as far as restricting travel to and from the city was concerned, a decision will be taken at the appropriate time. “We could also start screening passengers at railway stations and airports once again. Many countries have made Covid-negative certificates compulsory for travellers, we could also go for such a thing. No decision has been taken yet, but we are monitoring the situation,” he said. Meanwhile, the Mumbai region added 1,977 cases and 17 fatalities. Thane city recorded 196 cases and 3 deaths on Saturday. The Kalyan-Dombivli belt reported 149 cases, taking its tally to 52,533. The toll there is 1,040. In Navi Mumbai, there were 169 cases on Saturday and four deaths. (Inputs by Shrutika Sukhi, Vijay Singh & Umesh K Parida)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/slight-surge-in-maharashtra-mumbais-cases-for-fourth-day-in-a-row/articleshow/79347254.cms||Bhavika Jain
November 22, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Seven arrested; CM for auctioning assets of hooch peddlers||PRAYAGRAJ/LUCKNOW: A day after six people died due to consumption of illicit liquor in Prayagraj, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said that those involved in selling and manufacture of spurious liquor would be booked under the Gangster Act and their property seized. This will be auctioned, he said, and the proceeds will go towards providing aid to the aggrieved families. Seven people, including the liquor shop owner and supplier, were arrested and five policemen and an exercise officer suspended as hooch wreaked havoc on residents of four Phulpur villages of Amilia, Arwasi, Khansar and Mailhan. At least 16 people are still battling for life in Prayagraj district hospital. Additional chief secretary (excise) Sanjay Bhoosreddy said that as per directions of the CM, strict criminal action has been initiated against all the culprits, including government officers concerned. SSP, Prayagraj, Sarvashresth Tripathi told TOI that NSA would be slapped on the prime accused, Shyam Babu Jaiswal, as he was a repeat offender and booked under Gangster Act in 2016. “Very strict action under criminal laws and excise laws is being taken against all the concerned persons who have been found responsible for Friday’s incident, including the licensee, Shyam Babu Jaiswal, resident of village Amaliya, Prayagraj. Sandeep Bihari Modwel, Vijai Pratap Yadav, inspector and Suresh Kumar, head constable in Prayagraj have been suspended and departmental action has been initiated against them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-seven-arrested-cm-for-auctioning-assets-of-hooch-peddlers/articleshow/79347249.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Surat||Surat BJP leader PVS Sarma arrested in forgery case||SURAT: Local BJP leader and former income tax officer, PVS Sarma, who had created a flutter with his sensational money laundering allegations post-demonetisation, was arrested for forgery and other offences lodged against him, on Saturday. Umra police detained Sarma on Friday night soon after he was discharged from a private hospital where he was under treatment since November 15 when he had tried to commit suicide. Sarma had tried to hang himself at his friend’s house in Satem village of Navsari, a day after he was booked for forgery. He was remanded to police custody for a day. Two other accused in the case, Sitaram Adukiya (69), Sarma’s partner and Mukhtar Saeed Baig (56), an employee in his firm, were arrested on Wednesday. They have been booked for allegedly forging circulation figures of the Gujarati and English newspapers that they ran to get government and private advertisements. They were booked under Indian Penal Code 465 (forgery), 468 (forgery for cheating), 471 (use of forged documents), 420 (cheating), and others. The complaint was lodged by income tax department’s deputy director, Pammayya KD. Sarma was vice-president of the city BJP unit that was dissolved recently after the appointment of new chief. He was also the municipal councillor of Surat Municipal Corporation from 2010 to 2015. Earlier, Sarma’s house, office and premises of his associates were raided on October 21 by 12 teams of income tax following information about his disproportionate assets. During the raid, IT sleuths had gathered various documents related to the newspapers that Sarma and Adukiya ran as directors. IT officials found that they claimed a much higher number of published copies of the newspapers to get advertisements from the Directorate of Advertisement and Visual Publicity, a government department and private parties as well. During inquiry, IT officials found that they had shown purchase of raw material to print newspapers from a firm located in Mahidharpura, but found there was no such firm operating at the address. Sarma’s residence and offices were raided soon after he alleged a scam on social media related to Kalamandir Jeweller during demonetization. Sources informed that Sarma was already served notices by the IT department related to his assets after which he alleged the scam on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-bjp-leader-pvs-sarma-arrested-in-forgery-case/articleshow/79344154.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Vadodara||UP man held with country-made gun||Vadodara: A man from Uttar Pradesh living temporarily at Manjalpur was detained on Friday night for possessing a country-made gun and live cartridges. The detection of crime branch (DCB) had received information that the accused Mohammed Hashim Sheikh had hidden a weapon inside his house. On Friday night, when cops raided Sheikh’s house, they initially did not find a gun. But when he was questioned, he directed the cops to his kitchen where he showed a large aluminium canister. The canister was filled with raw rice, but when it was emptied, police found the gun and three live cartridges. Cops are yet to find the source of the gun. “We have registered an offence under Arms Act at Manjalpur police station and detained the accused. Once his Covid-19 test report turns out to be negative, we will interrogate him,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/up-man-held-with-country-made-gun/articleshow/79344646.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Lucknow||Youth shot during party at SP MLC Amit Yadav’s flat in Lucknow||LUCKMOW: A 33-year-old accountant in a private company, Rakesh Rawat died after his friend Pankaj Singh allegedly fired a shot during a friend’s birthday celebration at a flat allotted to SP MLC Amit Yadav in Laplace colony in Hazratganj in the wee hours of Saturday. Police have registered a murder case and arrested the four present on the spot. Those arrested were identified as Vinay Yadav, who works as a clerk in the irrigation department, Aftab Alam who works as an assistant manager in a government bank, Pankaj Singh who lives in the flat as caretaker and Gyanendra Singh who is preparing for banking services. All are in their early 30s and living separately. It was Yadav’s birthday on Friday and Singh had invited his friends to celebrate it at the flat where he was staying for the last five years, said the police. Deputy commissioner of police, Central Zone, Somen Barma said that based on the complaint of Rakesh Rawat’s father Maniram, a murder case was lodged at the Hazratganj police station. “The father has alleged that his son was killed by the four after they took him to the apartment. We have arrested all four accused and have invoked the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act as Rakesh Rawat belonged to the dalit community,” said Barma. Barma added that the victim was shot in the face and by the time he reached the hospital, he had died. “He was shot around 10.30-11 pm on Friday. They took him to the KGMU Trauma Centre soon after he was shot, but informed the police later. We are investigating the matter,” he added. He also said that in initial questioning, the four accused said that the pistol was brought by victim and was given to Vinay Yadav. “They said when Vinay was examining the pistol, he accidentally shot at Rakesh. But when we questioned them again they said that the pistol belonged to Pankaj Singh (the caretaker) and was at the apartment. He had the pistol and two magazines,” the officer said. When they got tipsy, Pankaj brought the pistol from another room. When Rakesh asked to see it, Vinay too asked for it. Meanwhile, the pistol went off and the bullet hit Rakesh,” said the DCP. Thereafter, Rakesh was taken to the KGMU Trauma Centre in Aftab’s car. He died on the way and they decided to tell police that the pistol belonged to Rakesh and he had brought it. Barma added that the pistol (.32 bore) was illegal and was not registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/youth-shot-during-party-at-sp-mlc-amit-yadavs-flat-in-lucknow/articleshow/79347311.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Delhi||Delhi University to start special cutoff admissions from Tuesday||NEW DELHI: The admissions for Delhi University in the special cutoff category will begin from Tuesday. The university postponed the admission dates from November 18 after several Covid-19 cases were reported from the DU administration office. In a notice, the varisty said that applicants can apply for the special cutoff from 9am of Tuesday till 1 pm on Wednesday. Colleges are required to approve the applicants selected for the special cutoff by Thursday 5 pm. The last day of payment for admission through the special cutoff would be by midnight Friday. For the sixth cutoff, the admission process will begin on November 30, and will go on till December 2, and the applicants must pay the fee by December 4. DU added that in case there is a 7th cutoff list, the admission would begin from December 7 and will go on till December 9 with the applicant getting time till December 11 to pay the fee for admissions. "Only those applicants will be considered who could not and did not take admission in the initial five cutoffs for whatever reasons. Applicants who had cancelled their admission in the fifth cut off will not be eligible to participate in the special cutoff and those who are already admitted in any course or college in the university will not be eligible. Applicants can apply to a single course and college and they must ensure that they have carefully checked the number of seats vacant in the course and the college they are applying for," the notice clarified. The cutoff for courses under each category for a college will be available on their websites on Monday. In case the number of applicants applied for a particular course in the college is more than the number of seats available, colleges will make a merit list as per the best of four or best of three required for the course and approve those names as per the merit and as per the number of seats available. "In case of a tie, the applicant with the higher percentage in the qualifying exam will be considered or if an applicant has an earlier date of birth as mentioned in the class X certificate, then they will be considered," the university said. Till November 10, DU had announced that 67,781 seats were filled in the university.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-university-to-start-special-cutoff-admissions-from-tuesday/articleshow/79347329.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Lucknow||New corona cases remain above 300 in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: With 343 new cases in the past 24 hours, the city’s Covid-19 count zoomed past 300 for the third straight day on Saturday. Death toll also stood at four for the second day in a row. Both the new cases and fatalities were highest in the state and accounted for 15% of UP’s Saturday count. Times ViewThe surge in Covid-19 cases in the past three days could transform into a second wave if people fail to take adequate precautions. As drop in temperatures and mist have created an atmosphere conducive to the virus, experts have warned people against any laxity, which, they said, could prove fatal. Authorities also need to step up screening of people coming from Delhi, which is witnessing a third wave.The cases tally mounted to 68,890 and the number of deaths to 957 (1.4% of the caseload). The number of cases in Gomtinagar mounted to 37 on Saturday, followed by Indiranagar (29). The two areas have been recording the highest cases in the city since August. Mahanagar recorded 26 new infections, Rae Bareli Road and Alambagh 17 each, Chowk 14, Vikasnagar 13, Aliganj 12, Aashiana and Chinhat 11 each, and Hazratganj, Hasanganj and Madiaon 10 each. The number of recoveries (313) was less than new cases for the third day. This took the total number of recoveries so far to 64,564 (94% of the caseload). At the same time, active cases climbed to 3,369, up from 3,191 on Thursday. At present, 2,143 patients are in home isolation. The remaining, including several critical ones, are in hospitals. Authorities said change in weather conditions is responsible for the rise in cases. They said more cases are being detected now as the sampling for tests has increased. On Saturday, about 11,306 samples were taken for tests in comparison to below 10,000 during Diwali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/new-corona-cases-remain-above-300-in-lucknow/articleshow/79347315.cms||---
November 22, 2020||World||Judge throws out Trump bid to stop Pennsylvania vote certification||PENNSYLVANIA: Pennsylvania officials can certify election results that currently show Democrat Joe Biden winning the state by more than 80,000 votes, a federal judge ruled, dealing President Donald Trump's campaign another blow in its effort to invalidate the election. US Middle District Judge Matthew Brann in Williamsport, Pennsylvania, on Saturday turned down the request for an injunction by President Donald Trump's campaign, dealing a sharp blow to the incumbent's hopes of somehow overturning the results of the presidential contest. Trump had argued that the US Constitution's guarantee of equal protection under the law was violated when Pennsylvania counties took different approaches to notifying voters before the election about technical problems with their submitted mail-in ballots. Pennsylvania secretary of state Kathy Boockvar and the seven Biden-majority counties that the campaign sued had argued Trump had previously raised similar claims and lost. They told Brann the remedy the Trump campaign sought, to throw out millions of votes over alleged isolated issues, was far too extreme, particularly after most of them have been tallied. “There is no justification on any level for the radical disenfranchisement they seek,” Boockvar's lawyers wrote in a brief filed Thursday. The state's 20 electoral votes would not have been enough on their own to hand Trump a second term. Counties must certify their results to Boockvar by Monday, after which she will make her own certification. Democratic Governor Tom Wolf will notify the winning candidate's electors they should appear to vote in the Capitol on December 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/judge-throws-out-trump-bid-to-stop-pennsylvania-vote-certification/articleshow/79347346.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Ghaziabad||Now, Noida & Ghaziabad cap wedding guests at 100||NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: The administrations of Noida and Ghaziabad have decided to restrict the number of guests at weddings to 100, days after Delhi put the cap on 50 visitors at each venue. “Not just Delhi, Covid cases are rising in Noida and Ghaziabad too. Given this spurt, we have decided to take a slew of measures to ensure things don’t spiral out of control in Ghaziabad. So, we have decided to restrict the number of guests to 100 at each wedding venue,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, the district magistrate of Ghaziabad. Many people who had already booked marriage halls across Delhi-NCR have been left in a fix. Soon after Delhi had announced the cap on the number of guests, residents had started looking for venues in Noida and Ghaziabad to escape the restriction. “A few days ago, when the Delhi government passed an order that only 50 guests could attend a wedding, I had shifted the venue to Ghaziabad. I booked a farmhouse in Indirapuram because there were no such restrictions till then. But now that Noida and Ghaziabad have also passed similar orders, I don’t know what to do,” said Roshan Mehra a resident of Dilshad Garden whose daughter is scheduled to get married on November 25. “Even if I put aside the fact that the booking amount is wasted, what will I tell the 200 guests I have already invited? How will I choose 50 guests from a list of 200? This is so embarrassing,” he added. On November 25, at least 500 weddings are scheduled to take place in Noida and Ghaziabad. “Almost all banquet halls in the two cities are booked. The bookings were done days in advance, when there were no such restrictions here,” said Roshan Tyagi, who owns a marriage hall in Indirapuram. “Over the last two days, after the Delhi government announced its decision, we received numerous queries for bookings, especially from residents in the capital. Now that Noida and Ghaziabad have issued similar orders, most people are asking us if they will get discounts if the number of guests is brought down,” Tyagi added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/now-noida-gzb-cap-wedding-guests-at-100/articleshow/79347472.cms||Abhijay Jha
November 22, 2020||Ghaziabad||Air quality improves in Noida, Ghaziabad, but still ‘poor’||GHAZIABAD/NOIDA: The overall air quality in Ghaziabad and Noida on Saturday improved from ‘very poor’ to ‘poor’ compared to Friday. While the AQI in Ghaziabad was recorded at 238, in Greater Noida it was 228 and Noida 231. Track the pollution level in your cityOf Ghaziabad’s four monitoring stations, only Sanjay Nagar recorded an AQI of 196 (moderate category) and the rest were in poor category. While Vasundhara recorded an AQI of 242, Indirapuram and Loni air was 228 and 272, respectively. In Greater Noida, the AQI at the two monitoring stations was in the ‘poor’ category with Knowledge Park-1 recording 236 AQI and Knowledge Park-5 was 218. The AQI in Noida’s all four monitoring stations were ‘poor.’ While Sector 62 recorded an AQI of 206, Sector-125, 239, 1, 234 and 116 recorded 222 Air quality. Meanwhile, high surface winds are forecasted for Saturday and it is likely to contribute in improving air quality further. According to SAFAR, stubble burning counts have increased to 1,264 and it contributed a 13% share in the PM2.5 level in the region on Saturday. The AQI is likely to improve and may hover around poor and moderate categories on Sunday. AQI may further deteriorate on November 24 and is likely to stay in the ‘very poor’ category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/air-quality-improves-in-noida-gzb-but-still-poor/articleshow/79347477.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Vadodara||Groups clash in Nagarwada over past rift||VADODARA: Two groups from the same communities clashed with each other over a past rift in Nagarwada area after the night curfew came into effect on Saturday. Police said that anger had been brewing between two groups for sometime over the wedding of a woman. The anger erupted into clashes on Saturday night as the two groups pelted stones at each other and damaged vehicles in the area. Police control room was informed about the clashed following which cops from Karelibaug police station reached the locality and controlled the situation. “Two groups had clashed over an ongoing rift, but we have contained the situation. We have not received any complaint yet, but we are trying to identify all those who were involved in stone-pelting on the basis of the footages of CCTV cameras,” said inspector R A Jadeja of Karelibaug police station. Cops from different branches and neighbouring police stations were also deployed in Nagarwada following the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/groups-clash-in-nagarwada-over-past-rift/articleshow/79344653.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Noida||Now, Noida & Ghaziabad cap wedding guests at 100||NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: The administrations of Noida and Ghaziabad have decided to restrict the number of guests at weddings to 100, days after Delhi put the cap on 50 visitors at each venue. “Not just Delhi, Covid cases are rising in Noida and Ghaziabad too. Given this spurt, we have decided to take a slew of measures to ensure things don’t spiral out of control in Ghaziabad. So, we have decided to restrict the number of guests to 100 at each wedding venue,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, the district magistrate of Ghaziabad. Many people who had already booked marriage halls across Delhi-NCR have been left in a fix. Soon after Delhi had announced the cap on the number of guests, residents had started looking for venues in Noida and Ghaziabad to escape the restriction. “A few days ago, when the Delhi government passed an order that only 50 guests could attend a wedding, I had shifted the venue to Ghaziabad. I booked a farmhouse in Indirapuram because there were no such restrictions till then. But now that Noida and Ghaziabad have also passed similar orders, I don’t know what to do,” said Roshan Mehra a resident of Dilshad Garden whose daughter is scheduled to get married on November 25. “Even if I put aside the fact that the booking amount is wasted, what will I tell the 200 guests I have already invited? How will I choose 50 guests from a list of 200? This is so embarrassing,” he added. On November 25, at least 500 weddings are scheduled to take place in Noida and Ghaziabad. “Almost all banquet halls in the two cities are booked. The bookings were done days in advance, when there were no such restrictions here,” said Roshan Tyagi, who owns a marriage hall in Indirapuram. “Over the last two days, after the Delhi government announced its decision, we received numerous queries for bookings, especially from residents in the capital. Now that Noida and Ghaziabad have issued similar orders, most people are asking us if they will get discounts if the number of guests is brought down,” Tyagi added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/now-noida-gzb-cap-wedding-guests-at-100/articleshow/79345449.cms||Abhijay Jha
November 22, 2020||Noida||Two on bike snatch gold chain from businessman in Greater Noida market||GREATER NOIDA: Two bike-borne assailants snatched a gold chain from a jeweller at gunpoint in Acher market of Beta II in broad daylight. The snatching was captured in CCTV cameras installed in nearby shops. On Friday morning, jeweller Manoj Verma had gone to Acher market to get his car repaired. Verma, who owns a jewellery showroom in Rampur market, was seated next to the mechanic when the two youths on a bike arrived and pointed a gun at him. They then snatched the gold chain Verma was wearing and fled. Verma said the chain cost him Rs 2.5 lakh. According to his complaint, when Verma chased the two attackers, one of them allegedly whipped out a pistol and threatened to shoot him dead. The businessman still continued to chase them, but gave up after a while. Verma said the attackers may have been following him for a few days and feared they could even attack his jewellery showroom. Verma is a resident of Omicron 2 in Greater Noida. Additional DCP (Greater Noida) Vishal Pandey told TOI they had lodged an FIR for loot in the case at Beta II police station. “An investigation is underway,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/2-on-bike-snatch-gold-chain-from-bizman-in-city-market/articleshow/79345480.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Noida||Air quality improves in Noida, Ghaziabad, but still ‘poor’||GHAZIABAD/NOIDA: The overall air quality in Ghaziabad and Noida on Saturday improved from ‘very poor’ to ‘poor’ compared to Friday. While the AQI in Ghaziabad was recorded at 238, in Greater Noida it was 228 and Noida 231. Track the pollution level in your cityOf Ghaziabad’s four monitoring stations, only Sanjay Nagar recorded an AQI of 196 (moderate category) and the rest were in poor category. While Vasundhara recorded an AQI of 242, Indirapuram and Loni air was 228 and 272, respectively. In Greater Noida, the AQI at the two monitoring stations was in the ‘poor’ category with Knowledge Park-1 recording 236 AQI and Knowledge Park-5 was 218. The AQI in Noida’s all four monitoring stations were ‘poor.’ While Sector 62 recorded an AQI of 206, Sector-125, 239, 1, 234 and 116 recorded 222 Air quality. Meanwhile, high surface winds are forecasted for Saturday and it is likely to contribute in improving air quality further. According to SAFAR, stubble burning counts have increased to 1,264 and it contributed a 13% share in the PM2.5 level in the region on Saturday. The AQI is likely to improve and may hover around poor and moderate categories on Sunday. AQI may further deteriorate on November 24 and is likely to stay in the ‘very poor’ category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/air-quality-improves-in-noida-gzb-but-still-poor/articleshow/79345716.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Carry documents, proof to avoid travel hassles in restricted hours||SURAT/VADODARA/RAJKOT: Surat city police commissioner Ajay Tomar issued notification with regard to the night curfew that will be imposed in the Diamond City from Saturday. The curfew will be in force from 9pm to 6am till further orders. Those involved in emergency, medical and pharmaceutical services have been permitted to go out during curfew hours. Individuals issued permission by police are also permitted to commute. Employees of essential services and security agencies have been exempted from the curfew, the notification stated. City police have made elaborate deployment across the city for strict implementation of night curfew. At all entry points and strategic locations, police teams will keep a check on the movement of individuals. “Pan shop owners should ensure that people do not crowd around the shop or they don’t spit in public places. Shop owners should ensure social distancing or else actions will be taken against them,” said Tomar. “In textile industries and markets, employees sit together for lunch and this practice should be discouraged,” he added. In Vadodara, senior police officials held meetings with associations of different businesses seeking their cooperation in implementing curfew at night. Police have identified different spots in the city where people gather in large numbers during nocturnal hours and bandobast will be deployed at such places. “We have received a positive response from business establishments and we are expecting that citizens too, support the night curfew and do not venture out. Our teams will be patrolling extensively throughout the city and we have been making announcements using public announcement systems for people’s awareness,” said additional commissioner of police Chirag Koradiya. In Rajkot, to the police commissioner issued similar notification where security personnel and government employees will be allowed to commute during night curfew. The notification stated that radio and cab services will be allowed to operate for the passengers coming and going to railway station and airports.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/carry-documents-proof-to-avoid-travel-hassles-in-restricted-hours/articleshow/79344174.cms||---
November 22, 2020||India||10-yr-old has world’s first paediatric living donor small bowel transplant||MUMBAI: Due to a rare post-Covid complication, a 10-year-old boy from Mahad developed a massive gangrene in his small intestine and ultimately needed a transplant. Om Ghule received a donation of 200-cm of small intestine from his father, Santosh, on November 4, and healed well enough to have his first dal-chawal meal in three months on Saturday. Doctors of Jupiter Hospital (Thane and Pune) where the child was treated, claimed Om is the world's first paediatric patient to undergo a living donor small bowel transplant after a Covid-19 infection. One case was reported in Italy, but with fatal outcome, said infectious diseases specialist Dr Rajiv Soman, who is a part of the team treating Om. Om's experience underlines why the SARS-CoV-2-causing Covid-19 is a dangerous and mischievous virus. He had no symptoms of Covid-19, but a month later developed multisystem inflammatory syndrome that doctors now recognise as a post-Covid marker among children under 15 years of age. "Thrombosis and bowel perforation is well known in severe Covid-19, but massive bowel gangrene is very rare," said Dr Soman. The child had to travel to three cities for help, undergo four surgeries and a transplant in a span of three months. When he developed acute abdominal pain at home in Mahad, no one had a clue that a post-Covid reaction -- clotting --was the cause. On August 8, his parents rushed him to a private hospital in Panvel where doctors found the clot and a massive gangrene (localized death and decomposition of tissues) in his small intestine. They operated on him a second time to remove the dead intestinal tissues. He was transferred from Panvel to Jupiter Hospital, Thane, on August 28 as it has a transplant team. "Two small portions of his small intestine were left behind, but we had to operate on him a third time to remove them as well due to infection," said transplant surgeon Gaurav Chaubal. A fourth operation was also done to clear up further infection. For almost two months, Om was 'fed' through intravenously (parental nutrition) from special ports fitted in his neck. Om was listed for a cadaveric small intestinal transplant and was on the waiting list for almost three months. "During this time, Om would long to eat and also started developing complications related to parental nutrition. His liver function was getting affected," added Dr Chaubal. Moreover, the Thane hospital couldn't get a licence to perform small intestinal transplant due to Covid-related delays. On November 4, instead of waiting longer, the child was transferred to Jupiter Hospital, Pune, that has a licence for the transplant. Living donors can safely donate 40% of their intestine as the remaining intestine can fulfil normal digestive and absorptive functions. The child's father, Santosh, volunteered to donate a part of his intestine and, on November 5, a team of surgeons led by Chaubal performed the surgery. While the retrieval operation took five hours, the transplant took another 10 hours. Doctors said Om would be able to lead a normal life but has to take immunosuppressant drugs. He is scheduled to get discharged after seven days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/10-yr-old-has-worlds-first-paediatric-living-donor-small-bowel-transplant/articleshow/79347383.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Gurgaon||No relief from bad air, season’s coldest night recorded at 9.5°C||GURUGRAM: The city saw yet another ‘poor’ air day on Saturday as the minimum temperature dipped to 9.5°C on the previous night. So far, it was the coldest night this season. The air quality index (AQI) is likely to remain in the ‘poor’ category for a few more days, according to experts. The maximum temperature on Saturday was recorded at 23.9°C. The overall AQI of Gurugram on Saturday was 256, which was recorded at 275 a day earlier. The AQI was in the ‘poor’ category in all four air monitoring stations in the city on Saturday. While the AQI was recorded at 276 in Vikas Sadan and 269 in Gwalpahari, Teri Gram clocked 265. The Sector 51 station reported an AQI of 220. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the minimum temperature will remain below 10°C till November 27. Gurugram recorded a minimum temperature of 10°C on Friday. According to IMD, due to winds from snow-clad mountains, the temperature during the day is expected to fall in the next two days. The mercury level will be three notches below normal. According to experts, garbage burning and dumping of construction and demolition waste across the city are the two vital elements that are contributing to air pollution. Meanwhile, the mercury in Delhi is likely to remain below normal mark for the next week with the IMD forecasting the minimum temperature to remain below 10 degrees Celsius till November 27. The national capital recorded a minimum of 8.5 degrees Celsius on Saturday. This could further fall below 8 degrees Celsius by Sunday, met officials warned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/no-relief-from-bad-air-seasons-coldest-night-recorded-at-9-5c/articleshow/79345445.cms||Ipsita Pati
November 22, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad-Aligarh tracks: With no fencing, this stretch saw 20 deaths since January||GREATER NOIDA: With at least 20 suicides or accidents since January this year, the Ghaziabad-Aligarh stretch of the railway track has become the new death stretch in the region. While suicides and accidents have always been reported from this portion of the track that covers Ghaziabad, Chapraula, Maripat, Bodaki, Dadri and stretches till Kanpur, the lockdown has resulted in more number of such deaths, data indicates. While at least 13 cases of suicides and accidents have taken place on the stretch of the railway track passing through the Badalpur police station in Gautam Budh Nagar, at least seven were reported from the Dadri and Dankaur police station areas. Railway employees point out that in multiple cases, persons facing mental stress and drunkards simply lay down on railway tracks deliberately or fall prey to the speeding trains at the time of crossing without heeding to the warnings from local staff. On July 7 this year, Ramcharan Jatav (62), who was a habitual drinker was found dead after he was hit by a train at the Chapraula crossing around 6 pm. His son Kiranpal told TOI that Ramcharan was in an inebriated state and had a fight with his wife, who worked at a private company. He himself was unemployed. In July again, two young brothers and their friend died when they were sitting on the railway tracks with their earphones on, failing to hear the sounds of an incoming train in Dadri area. In September this year, 65-year-old Harbansh Rai died when he fell on the railway track while crossing the Chapraula crossing. His son Krishna Rai said that Harbansh was walking along the track when the Rajshani Express passed, resulting in high wind pressure throwing him on the tracks. In the latest case on November 16, 26-year-old Shahrukh Khan, who belonged to Chipyana Buzurg village, died after being hit by Mahabodhi Express. The youth was used to drinking. Krishna said that since the railway track passes along their colony, people tend to cross the same in the absence of fencing. The PRO for the Prayagraj division of the Indian Railways told TOI, “Fencing is also covered in the proposal. While suicides are personal issues, crossing of tracks is illegal.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/ghaziabad-aligarh-tracks-with-no-fencing-this-stretch-saw-20-deaths-since-january/articleshow/79347449.cms||Shikha Salaria
November 22, 2020||Noida||Ghaziabad-Aligarh tracks: With no fencing, this stretch saw 20 deaths since January||GREATER NOIDA: With at least 20 suicides or accidents since January this year, the Ghaziabad-Aligarh stretch of the railway track has become the new death stretch in the region. While suicides and accidents have always been reported from this portion of the track that covers Ghaziabad, Chapraula, Maripat, Bodaki, Dadri and stretches till Kanpur, the lockdown has resulted in more number of such deaths, data indicates. While at least 13 cases of suicides and accidents have taken place on the stretch of the railway track passing through the Badalpur police station in Gautam Budh Nagar, at least seven were reported from the Dadri and Dankaur police station areas. Railway employees point out that in multiple cases, persons facing mental stress and drunkards simply lay down on railway tracks deliberately or fall prey to the speeding trains at the time of crossing without heeding to the warnings from local staff. On July 7 this year, Ramcharan Jatav (62), who was a habitual drinker was found dead after he was hit by a train at the Chapraula crossing around 6 pm. His son Kiranpal told TOI that Ramcharan was in an inebriated state and had a fight with his wife, who worked at a private company. He himself was unemployed. In July again, two young brothers and their friend died when they were sitting on the railway tracks with their earphones on, failing to hear the sounds of an incoming train in Dadri area. In September this year, 65-year-old Harbansh Rai died when he fell on the railway track while crossing the Chapraula crossing. His son Krishna Rai said that Harbansh was walking along the track when the Rajshani Express passed, resulting in high wind pressure throwing him on the tracks. In the latest case on November 16, 26-year-old Shahrukh Khan, who belonged to Chipyana Buzurg village, died after being hit by Mahabodhi Express. The youth was used to drinking. Krishna said that since the railway track passes along their colony, people tend to cross the same in the absence of fencing. The PRO for the Prayagraj division of the Indian Railways told TOI, “Fencing is also covered in the proposal. While suicides are personal issues, crossing of tracks is illegal.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/ghaziabad-aligarh-tracks-with-no-fencing-this-stretch-saw-20-deaths-since-january/articleshow/79345637.cms||Shikha Salaria
November 22, 2020||Noida||Greater Noida: Three snatch car, leave it after fuel gets over||GREATER NOIDA: A former block head in Dadri has alleged that he was attacked and held hostage in his car by three assailants on Thursday evening. However, police are yet to a lodge an FIR. Narendra Bhati, currently associated with BJP, said he was walking towards his car near Vrindavan Garden farms, where he went to attend an engagement function, at 6.15pm on Thursday when the three men approached him. “As soon as I opened the car door, one of them got in from the back door while the two others attacked me after throwing a cloth on my face. They hit me on the head with an object after which I fell unconscious,” he said. Bhati, in his 50s, was driven around Dadri and dumped near the Roopwas area when the trio realised that the car was running short of fuel. He claimed to have recovered the car from near Katehra road with the help of GPS device fitted inside. While the police had initially claimed that the alleged crime was suspicious, officials later said they were investigating. Additional DCP Vishal Pandey said the man who spotted Bhati lying on the roadside claimed that he was drunk. However, Bhati said he had handed over a recording of the GPS system of over four minutes in which the accused could be heard saying that the car was running out of fuel and discussing whether it had a GPS system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/three-snatch-car-leave-it-after-fuel-gets-over/articleshow/79345677.cms||Shikha Salaria
November 22, 2020||Kolkata||National Library to reopen on Monday after 8 months||KOLKATA: After staying shut for eight months, National Library is reopening on Monday. But you can’t walk in like the way you used to during the pre-pandemic times. You must book your seat online, 24 hours in advance, to ensure only a limited number of people are visiting at a time, maintaining physical distancing. The library was closed on March 25. It reopened on April 20, with a section of its employees so that the back offices could start functioning in a phased manner, while restrictions were being eased during lockdown. But this is the first time readers are being allowed in the library. They can use the library from Monday to Friday, the reading rooms between 10am and 5pm and the lending section only till 3pm. Members aged above 60 years and those below 14 years won’t be allowed. The advance booking — that can be availed of by going to the link, https://nationallibrary.gov.in./library/booking_reading_room — applies for both reading and lending sections. “One must remember that books, once used by an individual, touched or skipped through, must be kept segregated for 72 hours before it is back on the shelf. We can’t spray sanitizers on the books because they will inflict damage. So we are going to be extremely cautious and meticulous while reopening the library’s doors,” said K K Kochukoshy, officer-on-special duty (OSD), National Library. Depending on the space, various head-counts have been fixed for accessing the different sections on the sprawling Belvedere campus in Alipore. Only five people will be allowed in the lending section. The Bhasha Bhavan reading room can accommodate the most number of people – 30 — at a time. The rare books division can’t have more than two persons visiting at a time. The slightly spacious English periodical room may have 10 people reading at a time. Only one person is allowed in the Arabic and Persian divisions. The resources centre and personal readings rooms will continue to be out of bounds during the pandemic. To walk in, you must go to the library website to pre-register. Bookings must be made a day ahead of the scheduled visit. Members will be allowed on first-come-first-serve basis. The link opens to a page seeking the membership number. There’s day’s registration option for those who are not card-holders. The page must be filled in with name, booking date, mobile number and other specifications before the digitized registration is clinched. The OSD said, “The library staff will be working in a staggered schedule to avoid crowding and ensuring adherence to physical distancing and other Covid-19 norms.” The premises, he said, is being rigorously sanitized since April 20 when the ministry of home affairs (MHA) had ordered graded reopening for staffers. A roster has been prepared ever since so that all employees needn’t attend at the same time. They will be reporting to work, according to various time-slots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/national-library-to-reopen-on-monday-after-8-months/articleshow/79344976.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
November 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Om Prakash Chautala’s Sirsa house to be temporarily de-sealed||CHANDIGARH: In a respite to former Haryana chief minister Om Prakash Chautala, the Appellate Tribunal under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) has allowed temporary de-sealing of his house in Teja Khera village of Sirsa district of Haryana. The Directorate of Enforcement (ED) has been told to hand over the possession of the house to Chautala on Monday. In its November 18 orders, the New Delhi-based Tribunal has allowed the de-sealing of the house on Chautala’s plea in which he wanted the house to solemnise the marriage ceremony of his grandsons Karan and Arjun Chautala, who are sons of his younger son Abhay Singh Chautala. As per the available information, the appellate authority has ordered to temporarily de-seal the property attached. The possession of the property is to be handed over on November 23 to senior Chautala by the ED. In April 2019, the ED had attached some of the properties of senior Chautala. It included his residential properties in Sirsa, Panchkula and Delhi. In December 2019, Chautala had approached the appellate tribunal constituted under the PMLA against attachment orders. On October 22, 2020, the appellate tribunal had ordered to de-seal the Chautala’s residential areas in his Teja Khera farm house in Sirsa district of Haryana. The properties were ordered to be de-sealed by November 6. Aggrieved from these orders, ED had approached the HC. In its plea against the appellate tribunal, the ED had submitted that the order has been passed in violation of the statutory provisions contained in the PMLA as there was no provision to de-seal the attached property during the pendency of the appeal. Hearing ED’s plea, the HC on November 17 had set-aside the tribunal’s orders and directed the tribunal to take a fresh decision. ED to challenge the ordersMeanwhile, sources in the ED confirmed that the agency would challenge these orders before the Punjab and Haryana high court. A letter authorising to challenge the Tribunal’s November 18 order has been sent by ED deputy director Neha Yadav to the concerned counsel Arvind Maudgil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chautalas-sirsa-house-to-be-temporarily-de-sealed/articleshow/79345990.cms||Ajay Sura
November 22, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: Trader leaves clinic after call, found dead in his car||GHAZIABAD: A Hapur-based trader identified as Rashid Ali, who had gone missing on Friday, was found dead in his car in Masuri area on Saturday morning. Police said he was strangulated. “Rashid Ali was in the sand business and had come to Masuri from Hapur on Friday to see a doctor as his wife was unwell. When he was in the hospital, he received a call and shortly after he left the clinic saying that he would return in half-an-hour, but did not,” said Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, SP (rural). On Saturday morning, police received information that Ali was found dead in his WagonR car in Nayphal area. Police then tracked the number from which Ali had received a call. “One Ayush had issued the SIM card on forged documents who revealed that Ashish Choudhary and Vikas Rathi had bought it. While Ashish has been arrested, Vikas is on the run. Ashish has told us that one Jagveer Singh had planned the murder,” he said. Police informed TOI that Singh is a history sheeter and was Ali’s business rival. In another incident, a woman who ran a tailor shop, was stabbed to death in her flat in Madhuban Bapudham on Friday. “Investigation revealed that the deceased had an argument with one Manoj who worked for her and in a fit of rage he stabbed her,” said Abhishek Verma, SP (city).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/trader-leaves-clinic-after-call-found-dead-in-his-car/articleshow/79345701.cms||Abhijay Jha
November 22, 2020||Ghaziabad||Metro to road, key projects stuck over funds, red tape||GHAZIABAD: From road to cricket stadium and metro routes, several key projects that were conceived years ago in Ghaziabad have hit hurdle over issues ranging from funds to red tape. Even though the pandemic-induced restrictions have been eased, there has been no official word on when these projects would be revived. The projects that have remained stuck for months now are the Hindon Elevated Road-DND connector, an international cricket stadium in the city and two metro extension routes — Noida Electronic City to Vaishali and Vaishali to Mohan Nagar line. The road connector project hasn’t made any headway since it was conceived in 2018. “When the Hindon Elevated Road was launched two years ago, it cut the travel time between Raj Nagar Extension and UP Gate from 45 to a mere 10 minutes,” said a GDA official. “It was then decided that the flyover would be extended up to DND in Noida, which would have brought Faridabad, Noida and Delhi much closer,” he added. A consultant had even proposed three routes and the officials had chosen one that ran parallel to a canal. The project cost was pegged at Rs 586 crore. However, implementing it on the ground was easier said than done. Since the road project involved the authorities of Ghaziabad, Delhi and Noida, the three were supposed to share the funds. Noida, officials said, was reluctant in paying its share and the project had to be stalled. “It could be revived in the future, but I don’t see any hope anytime soon,” the official said. The two metro extension lines were conceived almost three years ago. Since then, the DPR has been changed at least three times. “The projects would have provided metro connectivity to Noida and the interiors of trans-Hindon areas. The estimated cost of the project is over Rs 3,000 crore. It is yet to take off because of funds crunch,” the official said. GDA was milked of a substantial amount in its coffers after it contributed for a major portion of the Dilshad-Garden-New Bus Add metro extension line. This time, too, the GDA was expected to take the lead in funding the projects. But the cash-strapped development body insisted that the state government bear the cost. Conceived during the erstwhile SP regime, the international cricket stadium is another project that has progressed little. “In 2018, the project received a push when Yogi Adityanath announced that it would go on to become the country’s biggest stadium. It evoked a lot of interest, but after some time, it fizzed out,” the official said. The UP Cricket Association readied a plan and acquired 35 acres in Raj Nagar Extension at a cost of Rs 80 crore. But the project had over issues of FAR. “The board has been seeking an FAR of 2.7 on 25 acres, but the GDA wants the land use changed first. This has resulted in a stalemate. We can only keep our fingers crossed,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/metro-to-road-key-projects-stuck-over-funds-red-tape/articleshow/79345466.cms||Abhijay Jha
November 22, 2020||Gurgaon||How a brand needs to thrive on conflict with changing times||By Shivanand Mohanty Copywriters are out, “storytellers” in. The fashionable designation might seem “wannabe” to old school professionals. But the truth is, we have always been storytellers. Brands are stories. Like the best stories, they inform us, inspire us and sometimes even incite us. And there’s no story without a conflict. For a brand to become a hero, it needs a villain. That villain could be a category convention. Take the America of the 60s, for instance. Big boat like cars ruled the road. Cars were expected to go overboard with sheet metal and chrome to create huge symbols of success. Suddenly, up popped the Volkswagen Beetle, defying the norms with its size and shape. And the “storytellers” nailed it with their legendary “Think Small” ad. In the early 2000s, Mini made its entry into the US market with the same strategy, highlighting its small size as a complete contrast to the burly SUVs that were the standard then. “XXL XL L M S MINI” — its advertising proudly announced that this was a car unlike any other. Even advertising convention can be a target. Fashion advertising was happy focusing on clothes, till Benetton shook up things (for a while) by putting out a series of controversial social comments masquerading as ads. The opponent could be a perception as well. Apple transformed the idea of computers from industrial machinery to something more “personal”. Their “1984” commercial launched the Macintosh by presenting it as a tool for personal empowerment and freedom. Then, there’s brand rivalry. Two brands using advertising to battle each other. The prize? The consumer’s attention. Avis versus Hertz. Pepsi versus Coke. Burger King versus McDonald’s. Just like Borg versus McEnroe, these jousts drew in the audience, and left them eager to see what the other guy would come up with next. Conflict seemed simpler in a less complicated world. Choose a convention, perception, or an opponent. Stand for something. Stand against something. Create a story. Simple. But in today’s anxious times, even conflict has become complex. It’s clear that the world’s divides are not only increasing, but are getting deeper and wider. Recent photo-finish election results, and the responses after, show that positions are getting harder and more inflexible. On every side, offence is taken more easily. Reactions are getting sharper and more strident, amplified by social media. Race, religion, politics, complexion, climate change — anything, it seems, can spark off a tsunami of outrage that can drown the advertising message. And yet, in a world with feature parity, a brand is more than a product, isn’t it? It’s a set of values, emotions and associations that have to stand for something. And here’s the problem. If you stand for something, you run the risk of attracting negative attention. Like Newton’s third law, any strong stand today will attract an opposite force. And any cue can trigger the backlash. Inter-religious couples in an ad, an anti-fireworks message, etc. Even the presence of a brand’s ad on a particular channel is now irritating for some. On the other hand, if you don’t stand for something, you will be ignored. What’s the way out? Perhaps, we are witnessing a basic human conflict — the most universal story of all. Hope versus anxiety. Light versus dark. Strong brands will hold fast to their core values and serve the needs of their core customers. Authenticity is the only way out of the chaos. The truth of a brand will always prevail. Hopefully. But first, it must struggle. As one of Pixar’s rules for storytelling goes: “You admire a character more for trying than for their successes.” (The author is Creative Partner, Daiko FHO Communications)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/how-a-brand-needs-to-thrive-on-conflict-with-changing-times/articleshow/79346416.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Gurgaon||MCG inquiry on illegal street vendors in Gurugram||GURUGRAM: The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has constituted one committee for each of its four zones to conduct an inquiry on illegal street vendors operating in areas under its jurisdiction. A review meeting to check the progress of the fieldwork carried out by the committees constituted will be convened on November 25. They will have to submit reports within 15 days. These three-member committees, comprising assistant and junior engineers, will carry out a survey of vending zones and vendors/carts operating in these areas, as well as verify whether the vendors are operating at the sites allotted to them. “Every committee shall submit a detailed report on vending zones and all categories of carts operating at different locations in MCG areas duly marked on layout/plans of the respective sector/area, before December 1, 2020,” read the order issued by the additional commissioner on Saturday. The move comes after councillors raised the issue of illegal street vendors operating freely within MCG limits. After receiving several complaints in the House meeting on Wednesday, the MCG commissioner had ordered an inquiry to check illegal street vendors. “Street vendors were allotted spaces for their carts. But now, designated vending zones where 10 carts were allowed to operate have 100 carts. Moreover, some of these illegal street vendors sell food and snacks and dump their waste on the roadside,” said city mayor Madhu Azad. While a majority of councillors said the street vendors should not be allowed to operate at all, a few councillors said those who were originally designated space in the vending zones should be allowed to operate. “There are poor people who earn their bread and butter through this. So, the needy and genuine street vendors should be allowed to operate,” said councillor of ward number 2, Ravinder Yadav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/mcg-inquiry-on-illegal-street-vendors-in-city/articleshow/79346455.cms||Vishakha Chaman
November 22, 2020||Chandigarh||CBI is being exploited for politics: Punjab CM Amarinder Singh||CHANDIGARH: Alleging that the central probe agency had a “poor track record” in the Bargari case, which it had closed without any investigation, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday said his government would not allow the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into his state without permission. Pointing out that eight states, including Punjab, had withdrawn permission to the agency to enter without prior permission, he said the agency was being increasingly used to play politics, and a fair probe could not be ensured through the CBI. Dismissing BJP as a non-entity in Punjab’s political arena, Capt Amarinder told a TV channel that BJP was welcome to contest all 117 assembly seats in the state though the party would not be able to win a single seat without an alliance partner. The Congress had, in fact, no challenge in Punjab, with even the Akalis and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) posing no threat, he said, adding that neither of these parties had ever talked about anything positive in the interest of the state. With elections in the state still around 18 months away, it was not possible to say which issue would dominate the polls, said Amarinder, while expressing the hope that BJP will resolve the farmers’ grievances soon. He reiterated that the corporate houses were welcome to buy food grain in Punjab as long as they follow the existing marketing system, built on close ties between farmers and arhtiyas. He rejected the BJP charge of the Congress and other opposition parties were misguiding the farmers, pointing out that the entire Vidhan Sabha in Punjab had unanimously rejected the farm laws, though some parties had subsequently made a U-turn due to political compulsions. When the bills were brought in Parliament, the Centre should have consulted all stakeholders, including Punjab government, instead of passing them without discussion, said Capt Amarinder. Welcoming the ongoing joint Indian naval exercises with other countries, the CM said China and Pakistan would not succeed in their nefarious designs against India. Punjab wanted peace and development and would not allow Pakistan to foment trouble at any cost, he added. BOX: Dissent in Congress Terming the dissent in the Congress a sign of internal democracy in the party, the chief minister pointed out that those who had written a letter to the party high command had been included in key committees constituted by party chief Sonia Gandhi. SGPC polls On the issue of SGPC elections, the chief minister said he had been demanding those for long but the Akalis did not want polls to the body, which they had been using for their own political gains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cbi-being-exploited-for-politics-wont-allow-it-to-entry-without-permission-capt/articleshow/79346056.cms||---
November 22, 2020||Gurgaon||50 gangs busted in Gurgaon this year||Gurgaon: Cracking down on organised crime, police have this year busted as many as 50 gangs specialised in vehicle lifting, snatching, robbery, murder and theft, and recovered around Rs 1.27 crore from their possession. So far, 125 members of the gangs have been arrested in connection with around 212 cases. Out of the 50 gangs, 18 gangs were engaged in vehicle lifting and police have recovered around Rs 46 lakh from them. At the beginning of this year, dedicated teams were formed to crack down on these gangs. “The busting of so many gangs has helped in bringing down crime in Gurgaon,” said ACP (crime) Preet Pal Sangwan, adding that this is a continuous process and teams of crime branch keep on tracking criminals. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/50-gangs-busted-in-gurgaon-this-year/articleshow/79346082.cms||Bagish Jha
