November 23, 2020||Guwahati||Assam yet to get a word on Covid-19 vaccine from Centre||GUWAHATI: Assam is yet to get any written commitment from the Centre on procurement of Covid-19 vaccine, top official sources in the health department said. Considering the recent spike in the number of positive cases in other parts of the country, especially in the northwest and central India, the Assam health department has asked district health authorities to conduct a minimum of 30,000 tests a day from Monday. The number of Covid tests even went below 10,000 of late in the state following decline in positivity rate. “The hope is that Assam will get a vaccine either in December or January, but the state health department has not received any written commitment from any agency. There is no other option than escalating the number of tests amid concerns of spike in cases,” said a top official of the Assam health department. Though at 5,938, Assam is among 15 states and Union Territories reporting less than the national average of cases (6,591) per million population, health officials said a minimum 30,000 tests is necessary to sustain the current positivity rate. Executive director of National Health Mission (NHM), Assam Dr Manoj Choudhury told TOI that the fresh move to intensify testing has been initiated in wake of a sudden upsurge in Covid cases in other parts of the country. But an analysis by NHM, Assam, on the doubling time of Covid-19 cases stated that according to the last seven days’ trend of new cases, the total cases in Assam will take 756.6 days to double. A total of 223 cases were detected out of 19,844 tests conducted on Saturday, with a positivity rate of 1.12%. Kamrup (Metro) district recorded the highest 70 cases. Altogether, 2,07,219 patients have been discharged till Saturday night. Though cumulative figures of total positive cases in the state stood at 2,11,427 as on Saturday night, 98.01% percent of them have recovered, state minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said. There are only 3,232 active cases in the state. MHFW stated that India’s present active caseload (4,40,962) has declined to 4.85% of the total positive cases, and has been sustained below the 5% mark. The recovery rate has improved to 93.69% on Sunday, as the country registered 43,493 new recoveries in the last 24 hours, taking the total recovered cases to 85,21,617. At 27, Assam is among the 21 states and UTs that are reporting lower than the national average of deaths per million (96).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/guwahati/assam-yet-to-get-a-word-on-covid-19-vaccine-from-centre/articleshow/79356967.cms||Kangkan Kalita
November 23, 2020||Goa||Down by two goals, FC Goa snatch a point from Bengaluru||Igor Angulo proved he can live up to his billing on his FC Goa debut in the Indian Super League. Juan Ferrando’s side were trailing by two goals against Bengaluru FC when the Spaniard netted a fine brace in the span of four minutes for a 2-2 draw in their opening match at the Nehru Stadium in on Sunday. Brazilian Cleiton Silva, who has scored over 100 goals in Thailand’s top division, gave Bengaluru the lead in the first half. FC Goa had managed only a win over Bengaluru in their previous seven meetings and it looked like their poor run will continue after Juanan made it 2-0 after the restart. However, Goa’s substitutions of Alexander Romario, Brandon Fernandes and Alberto Nougera sparked a comeback as Angulo struck a brace. All eyes were on FC Goa’s starting 11. Just like former coach Sergio Lobera, Ferrando continued with Mohammad Nawaz in goal. Sanson Pereira was handed his debut in defence with new centre-back pairing of Ivan Gonzalez and James Donachie. There was no surprise with Seriton Fernandes’ inclusion in the right-back position. FC Goa tried to keep the ball longer with Princeton Rebello and Lenny Rodrigues, starting his 42nd consecutive game, controlling the pace in midfield. But they initially found it hard to create anything for lone striker Angulo, trying to fill the void left by league’s all-time top scorer Ferran Corominas. Former champions Bengaluru had retained most of their squad with Sunil Chhetri leading the attack alongside new recruit, Norwegian striker Kristian Opseth and Cleiton. The teams started cautiously with a combination of short and long passes but FC Goa saw more of the ball. Bengaluru, though, were more organised and went ahead before the half an hour mark through a set piece. A long throw in from Harmanjot Khabra inside the box was not dealt well by Donachie as the Australian’s header fell in the path of Cleiton. The Brazilian was quick to react as he muscled past Sanson and headed from close. Ferrando made a double change in the second half as he brought in Romario and Brandon but in no time conceded their second in the 57th minute. Deshorn Brown headed the ball towards Erik Paartalu who in turn headed in the way of Juanan, whose powerful volley was too hot to handle for Nawaz. FC Goa regrouped quickly and pulled one back in the 66th minute as Brandon found Nougera, who slid the ball for Angulo for a neat finish. Three minutes later, Brandon was involved yet again as he found Romario. The winger crossed dangerously and Angulo did well with his chest to slide the ball past keeper Gurpreet Singh Sandhu. FC Goa’s confidence grew and in the end they were happy to settle for a point.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/down-by-two-goals-fc-goa-snatch-a-point-from-bengaluru/articleshow/79358174.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
November 23, 2020||Goa||Target is always to win, point is not enough, says FC Goa coach Juan||FC Goa scripted a remarkable turnaround with a 2-2 draw against Bengaluru FC in their opening match of the Indian Super League (ISL) at Nehru Stadium, Fatorda, on Sunday. FC Goa found themselves two goals down inside the first hour but Spanish striker Igor Angulo ensured the hosts walked away with at least a point with two goals in quick succession. The draw, for the home fans, would have tasted like a win, particularly against Bengaluru FC who Goa have always feared. For coach Juan Ferrando though, even given the circumstances, this was clearly two points dropped. “I am not so happy because in the end it’s only one point and we wanted three. Our mentality is to win, always. In the second half, we were better,” said Ferrando. FC Goa’s second-half comeback was largely made possible due to tactical tweaks, thanks to the arrival of players like Brandon Fernandes, Alberto Noguera, Romario and Aibanbha Dohling. The tactical change saw Goa create more openings and push Bengaluru on the backfoot. “This was a strange game. There are some areas where we have problems, but I prefer to think this is our first game. It’s important to learn from the mistakes. We have an important game on Wednesday,” said the FC Goa coach, reflecting on the high-stake clash against Mumbai City FC, now coached by Sergio Lobera. Asked why Brandon, Goa’s most influential domestic player for some time now, was left on the bench, Ferrando said he had started pre-season two weeks late due to knee injury. This is only the second time that Bengaluru FC have failed to win after taking a two-goal lead. “We were working for three points, but we have to understand that Goa is a great team. They have wonderful players. They can drag teams with internal passes. We got tired (in the second half). The situation is not good for all teams due to short pre-season,” said Bengaluru coach Carles Cuadrat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/target-is-always-to-win-point-is-not-enough-says-fc-goa-coach-juan/articleshow/79358219.cms||---
November 23, 2020||India||India will not only meet, but exceed Paris pact targets: PM at G20 meet||NEW DELHI: India has set itself an ambitious target of generating 450 gigawatts of renewable energy by 2030. Addressing G-20 leaders on a 'circular carbon economy approach' Prime Minister Narendra Modi said, "We will meet our goal of 175 gigawatts of renewable energy well before the target of 2022. Now, we are taking a big step ahead by seeking to achieve 450 gigawatts by 2030." India, he said, would not only meet its Paris Accord targets but exceed them. Climate change, Modi said, "must be fought not in silos but in an integrated, comprehensive and holistic way." India he said, was adopting low carbon and climate-resilient development practices. Highlighting two big initiatives spearheaded by India, the International Solar Alliance (ISA) and Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure (CDRI), Modi said, "we are encouraging a circular economy. India is making next-generation infrastructure such as metro networks, waterways and more. In addition to convenience and efficiency, they will also contribute to a cleaner environment." The ISA is the fastest-growing international alliance with 88 countries having signed up so far. "With plans to mobilise billions of dollars to train thousands of stake-holders, and promote research and development in renewable energy, the ISA will contribute to reducing carbon footprint," the Prime Minster said. The Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure has 18 countries and four international organisations as members. "Infrastructure damage during natural disasters is a subject that has not got the attention it deserves. The poorer nations are especially impacted by this. Therefore, this coalition is important," Modi said, adding, India has "made LED lights popular. This saves 38 million tons of carbon dioxide emissions per year." Smoke-free kitchens have been provided to over 80 million households through our Ujjwala scheme. This is among the largest clean energy drives globally.” India, he said, was attempting to eliminate the use of single-use plastics, expanding forest cover and encouraging a circular economy. Watch G-20 Riyadh Summit: PM Modi pitches for greater technology access to developing countries||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-will-not-only-meet-but-exceed-paris-pact-targets-pm-at-g20-meet/articleshow/79358447.cms||---
November 23, 2020||India||Kerala law makes police judge & jury on speech||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A controversial amendment to the Kerala Police Act came into force on Sunday, granting police the authority to slap criminal charges through "subjective interpretation" of communication through any medium as being defamatory even as CM Pinarayi Vijayan sought to allay fears of the new law being a threat to "free speech" or "impartial journalism". Amendment 118A cites even "injury to the mind" as a valid reason to slap charges that stipulate a maximum jail term of three years, a fine of up to Rs 10,000, or both. Depending on their interpretation of what constitutes an offence under this provision, the police can act without a complaint from the alleged victim. The amendment to the 2011 legislation has triggered widespread outrage - on social media, among the opposition UDF and BJP, the media fraternity and even within the Left coalition. Experts said the amendment had stretched the law to such an extent that every communication or publication could be open to subjective interpretation by the police. "This is grossly unconstitutional and against several verdicts of the Supreme Court. In the director of public prosecutions versus Collins case in the UK, the Queen's bench and House of Lords differed over the definition of the phrase 'grossly offensive'. When even the eminent jurists took diametrically opposite positions in such matters, the new insertion in the Kerala Police Act has left it to the wisdom of a police officer or anyone to gauge whether a communication or publication has caused injury to the mind of a person," former law secretary B G Hareendranath said. The amendment follows alleged attempts by the state government to wrest control of the political narrative, especially on social media, amid investigations by central agencies into the Life Mission welfare housing and gold smuggling scam cases. The CPM has boycotted news channels and refused to participate in debates that include panellists critical of the government. Many see the move as an attempt to control free speech ahead of municipal and assembly elections. Even in the absence of such a law, the LDF government had been slapping cases on those criticising chief minister Vijayan. The police had registered cases against 119 individuals, including 12 government employees, till June 2019 for allegedly abusing the CM on social media. They were booked for offences ranging from criminal intimidation to use of obscene language. The very Kerala high court judgment cited by the government while framing the amendment was, ironically, one that criticised the police for not acting promptly on cyber crime complaints filed by women. "It is the duty of the state to maintain public order. Moreover, as per the existing penal law itself, such culprits can be booked, for which the state police should be vigilant," the high court had observed in the Sreeja Prasad vs state of Kerala case this year. Besides the content of the ordinance that governor Arif Mohammed Khan gave his assent to on Saturday, the government is being criticised for hurriedly drafting an amendment on a sensitive subject without a proper debate in the assembly or in the public sphere.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kerala-law-makes-police-judge-jury-on-speech/articleshow/79358611.cms||KP Saikiran
November 23, 2020||India||Parliament may skip winter session, reopen Jan-end, before Budget||NEW DELHI: With virus cases on the rise in the national capital, Parliament is unlikely to be convened before the last week of January, raising the possibility that there may be no winter session. However, the Centre, sources told TOI, has decided to defer the winter session to next year, and club it with the budget session at the end of January. The budget is presented on February 1. In September, the monsoon session was curtailed after several MPs as well as staff tested positive for the virus. The current thinking in government is that Parliament could be called closer to the regular budget session. A considerably delayed winter session, though, will not be a first. Parliamentary records show that out of 65 winter sessions of Rajya Sabha between 1952 and 2019, eight commenced in December and at least two, in 1962 and 1963, stretched from December to January. In 1962-63, for instance, while the first part of the winter session met between November 18 and December 12, 1962, the second half met between January 21 and 25, 1963. This was repeated in 2003, when Parliament met for the first half of the winter session between December 2 and 23, 2003, and then, between January 30 and February 5, 2004. Records also show that at least four winter sessions started in the first week of December — in 1993, 2003, 2004 and 2013 — while the winter session in 2016 started in the third week and in 1990, the session only began in the fourth week of December. However, with the unprecedented health crises posed by Covid-19, the Centre, sources told TOI, has decided to defer the winter session to next year, and club it with the budget session at the end of January.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/parliament-may-skip-winter-session-reopen-jan-end-before-budget/articleshow/79358897.cms||Swati Mathur
November 23, 2020||India||New Kerala law may not pass muster as SC struck down a similar one in 2015||NEW DELHI: Kerala’s new ordinance promulgated purportedly to protect women and children from cyber attacks is similar to Section 118(d) of the Kerala Police Act which the Supreme Court had struck down in 2015 in the Shreya Singhal case, terming it to be in breach of right to free speech. The introduction of Section 118A in the Kerala Police Act and its inclusion in the existing Section 125 of the Act makes offences under the new provision cognisable, though bailable. However, it gives the police unlimited power to arrest anyone whom it suspects would continue to make statements in all kinds of media “threatening, abusing, humiliating or defaming” any person or a class of people. Anyone found guilty under Section 118A will be punished with imprisonment up to three years or a fine up to Rs 10,000, or both. Section 118A does not make any specific reference to rising crimes against women or children, a ruse given by the LDF government for bringing the new law through an ordinance. It also does not talk of inadequacy in existing provisions under IPC or Information and Technology Act to deal with such crimes. The overarching ambit of Section 118A, when it says "whoever makes, expresses, publishes or disseminates through any kind of mode of communication" will bring under its purview speeches made on the roadside or public platforms, a telephone call or a social media post, an article in a newspaper or a web portal, and programmes on TV channels. Compared to Section 118A, its earlier avatar, Section 118(d), appears milder. The latter provided that police could arrest any person "who causes annoyance to any person in an indecent manner by statements or verbal comments or telephone calls or calls of any type or by chasing or sending messages or mails by any means". The milder Section 118(d) had evoked strong critique from the SC in the Singhal case. Striking it down, it had said, "Information that may be grossly offensive or which causes annoyance or inconvenience are undefined terms which take into the net a very large amount of protected and innocent speech. A person may discuss or even advocate, by means of writing disseminated over the internet, information that may be a view or point of view pertaining to governmental, literary, scientific or other matters which may be unpalatable to certain sections of society. "It is obvious that an expression of a view on any matter may cause annoyance, inconvenience or may be grossly offensive to some. A certain section of a particular community may be grossly offended or annoyed by communications over the internet by 'liberal views'," the SC had said.. Providing an additional reason for quashing Section 118(d), it had said, "We, therefore, hold that the section is unconstitutional also on the ground that it takes within its sweep protected speech and speech that is innocent in nature."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/new-kerala-law-may-not-pass-muster-as-sc-struck-down-a-similar-one-in-2015/articleshow/79359253.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
November 23, 2020||India||Covid: Positivity rates show Himachal, Delhi as hotspots||NEW DELHI: Himachal Pradesh, Delhi, Rajasthan, Haryana, Kerala and Goa, in that order, are the current coronavirus hotspots with high positivity rates (confirmed cases per 100 tests) - between 10% to over 15% - measured over two 14-day periods between October 26-November 8 and November 8-21. These states have shown an increase in positivity rate that indicates more people are infected and fewer tests are taking place. The exceptions are Kerala, Goa and West Bengal where the disease has somewhat slowed compared to last month, but they still remain in the danger zone. Maharashtra, with a positivity rate of 8% over the last fortnight, has shown major improvement as it consistently hovered around 18% during the past few months. The number of confirmed cases in West Bengal and Chhattisgarh has been slowing down but, nonetheless, the two states have positivity rate above 7-8%. Relaxation in lockdown measures in these states remains risky as a WHO advisory says a positivity rate of 5% and above over a 14-day period puts a state in the red zone. High positivity rates are also indicative that a state is only testing the sickest and not screening enough population for Covid-19 symptoms, resulting in more critical cases and deaths. Tracing and testing are key to containment of the pandemic. Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and Karnataka have made good progress, bringing down their positivity rate from 3-4% to below 3%. Gujarat is among the states with positivity rate of 2% and below, but it has shown a rising trend of cases over last fortnight. In Madhya Pradesh, the rate has gone up from 2.7% (during October 26-November 8) to 4.3% over the last fortnight (November 8-21). Similarly, in Gujarat, it has gone up from 1.8% to 2.1% during this period. It is increasing in UP and Jharkhand, too, but within manageable limits. Bihar and Assam have one of the lowest positivity rates, below 1%, raising doubts on the accuracy of testing with a large migrant population travelling in and out of these states. A month ago, states with highest positivity rate (between October 5-18) were Maharashtra (15%), Kerala (14%), Chhattisgarh (10%), Rajasthan (10%), Karnataka and West Bengal at 9% each. Andhra Pradesh, MP, Odisha, Delhi and Tamil Nadu had positivity rate higher than 5%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-positivity-rates-show-hp-delhi-as-hotspots/articleshow/79359684.cms||Pradeep Thakur
November 23, 2020||India||Covid: Favipiravir shows hope in Mumbai trial||MUMBAI: While the WHO last week recommended that antiviral remdesivir not be used for severely ill Covid-19 patients, Mumbai doctors published the first scientific study showing another antiviral, favipiravir, reduced the "cure time" in mild cases. "We found favipiravir improved the time to clinical cure by around three days," said the study's main author Dr Zarir F Udwadia. Patients who took the drug cleared the virus 30% (two days) faster than those on standard treatment. The study has been published in the peer-reviewed International Journal of Infectious Diseases. "This may not sound like a very big difference, but is significant. There are so few treatment options that when a drug gives even a promising signal, it's exciting news," said Dr Udwadia. Since the pandemic began almost a year back in Wuhan, China, various drugs have been tried out to control it. However, apart from steroids, none of the other drugs ranging from plasma to remdesivir to HCQS have been scientifically shown to help Covid-19 patients. The current favipiravir trial was conducted from May 3 to July 3 among 150 patients admitted at Breach Candy Hospital; as it was a randomised trial, 75 patients were given favipiravir and another 'control group' received some other drugs. "The median time to cessation of viral shedding was five days versus seven days in the control group," said the study. The median time to clinical cure was three days in the 75 patients treated with favipiravir versus five days in the control group. The study concluded that favipiravir may be beneficial in mild-to-moderate Covid-19 cases. "If the results from our study are validated by other larger studies currently underway in Boston and Stanford, favipiravir could have a role akin to Oseltamivir (another antiviral used to treat influenza such H1N1)," said Dr Udwadia. Dr Shashank Joshi, who is a member of the state government's task force on Covid-19, concurred that favipiravir is a "good" drug. "It is a good drug if used in the first 72 hours. One needs to hit hard and hit early," said Dr Joshi, who was not a part of the current study but had previously published a study on favipiravir. The drug has been widely used in Japan, Russia and Thailand before Indian authorities approved its use for Covid-19 patients. It is widely prescribed in India for patients who prefer home isolation as it is an oral medicine (remdesivir, which is prescribed for severe Covid-19 patients is given in IV form and in hospitals only). "The DCGI approved the use of this drug rather prematurely I thought, in the early days when the pandemic was raging in June. It was important for us to put this drug to the test by rapidly designing a good randomised, multicenter Phase 3 study which we implemented aided by the main manufacturer of this drug, Glenmark," said Dr Udwadia. His study noted it caused a mild and transient rise in uric acid levels that was reversible. "It is a safe drug, except in pregnant or lactating women for whom it must never be used."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-favipiravir-shows-hope-in-mumbai-trial/articleshow/79359719.cms||Malathy Iyer
November 23, 2020||India||Kerala church to set rules for inter-faith marriages||IDUKKI: The Syro Malabar Church will soon issue a set of guidelines instructing bishops to ensure that priests solemnizing the marriage between people of different faiths, called "disparity of cult" marriages, adhere strictly to the canon laws. The church took the decision after an interfaith marriage solemnized by a bishop a few days ago in Ernakulam kicked up a controversy. The marriage between a Catholic woman and a Muslim man based in Kochi was held at Kadavanthra St Joseph Church on November 9. Mar Mathew Vaniyakizhakkel, former bishop of Satna, attended the ceremony. The photograph of the couple with the bishop was published in a newspaper which drew criticism from a section of the faithful. Cardinal Mar George Alencherry has ordered an inquiry and sought a report from the archbishop of Ernakulam-Angamali diocese Mar Antony Kariyil. In his letter to Mar Antony Kariyil, Fr Benny Maramparambil, the vicar of the church where the marriage was held, explained that the function was solemnized adhering to the norms of 'disparity of cult' marriages. He said he had received a letter from Fr James Athiyunthan, the priest of Kuzhikkattussery church, the bride's parish, stating there were no 'impediments' for the marriage. Senior priests belonging to Kerala Catholic Bishops Council (KCBC), however, accused both the priests of flouting canon laws. "The Catholic church has written rules to be followed during such situations. The bishop of the diocese concerned has to give his approval," a priest said. "Besides the probe ordered by Cardinal Alencherry, the Kerala Catholic Bishops' Council will also look into the matter. After getting the report from the Ernakulam-Angamali archbishop, we will direct the bishops to issue strict guidelines to the priests on conducting 'disparity of cult' marriages, said the priest. Watch Kerala: Syro Malabar church to set rules for inter-faith marriages||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kerala-church-to-set-rules-for-inter-faith-marriages/articleshow/79359734.cms||Sandeep Thomas
November 23, 2020||Patna||Mercury in Patna plunges to 10.8 degrees Celsius, Gaya coldest||PATNA: The cold northwesterly wind from the snow-clad mountains of Himalayas is reaching up to Bihar, resulting in plunge in the minimum departed temperature of several cities in the state, including Patna. The minimum temperature in Patna was 10.8 degrees Celsius on Sunday, the lowest this season so far. However, Gaya was the coldest with the minimum temperature at 8.8 degrees Celsius, which were five notches lower than the respective normal for the day. The maximum temperature in Patna was recorded at 23.4 degree Celsius, which was also five notches lower than normal. Patna Meteorological Centre said the minimum temperature in South Bihar districts has rapidly declined in the past 24 hours due to the western disturbances which now lies in Jammu and Kashmir. The western disturbances are seen as a trough between 3.1 and 3.6km above the mean sea level. Zeeshan Ansari at Patna MeT centre said, “The sky would remain clear and the northwesterly wind may blow with of 10-15km per hour. Dry weather will prevail over the state. The moisture level in the air was recorded between 40 and 80. Due to decrease in moisture level, people are experiencing the chill in the wind.” The windy conditions had the positive impact on the overall air quality index (AQI) of Patna, which improved in moderate category from 186 to 166 in the last 24 hours. As per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) daily bulletin, the overall AQI of 166 for Patna was the average of AQI level of six air monitoring stations at BIT-Mesra, Patna (143), Eco Park (138), SK Memorial Hall (151), DRM office, Khagaul (81), Planetarium (235) and Patna City (201). The CPCB stipulates that ‘moderate’ AQI can lead to breathing discomfort in people with lungs, asthma or heart diseases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mercury-in-patna-plunges-to-10-8-degrees-c-gaya-coldest/articleshow/79356915.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 23, 2020||Varanasi||RSS leaders review works done by cadre during lockdown||PRAYAGRAJ: A two-day meeting of the Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh, spread over eight sessions, began in Prayagraj on Sunday to review RSS volunteer’s role during the lockdown and efforts to encourage countrymen to become self-reliant. Apart from RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat and general secretary Bhaiyaji Joshi, chief minister Yogi Adityanath reached Prayagraj in the evening and joined the discussions. Four Sah Sarkaryavah, including Dattatreya Hosabale, Dr Manmohan Vaidya, Dr Krishna Gopal, and Mukundji along with three Akhil Bharatiya adhikaris were also present in the meeting. This was the second meeting of Akhil Bharatiya Karyakari Mandal (Poorvi Uttar Pradesh Kshetra) of RSS held in Prayagraj post Diwali. A total of 11 meetings of karyakari mandal are held across the country. Interestingly, there was no use of any plastic made utensils\ articles in the meeting during the distribution of snacks to spread the message of environment protection. Besides, paper and cloth were used for the decoration of dais.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/rss-leaders-review-works-done-by-cadre-during-lockdown/articleshow/79358455.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Kanpur||Cops book Vikas’s aide for using SIM issued on another person’s ID||KANPUR: Police on Saturday night booked one more alleged aide of slain gangster Vikas Dubey for using a SIM card obtained on the ID of another person. The FIR was filed at the Nawabganj police station. "An FIR was lodged under relevant sections of IPC against Raju Bajpai, an alleged aide of slain gangster Vikas Dubey, a resident of Surya Vihar Khora area of Nawabganj, who was in possession of a SIM card obtained on ID of one Deepak Bajpai” said inspector Nawabganj Ramakant Pachauri. Earlier on Friday, on the recommendations of SIT, police had booked nine persons, including the gangster's wife Richa Dubey, his aides--Monu, Ram Singh, Shiv Tiwari, Shanti Devi (minor wife of slain Amar Dubey), Rekha Agnihotri, Vishnupal and the gangster's brother Deep Prakash Dubey for using SIM cards of other persons. To recall, the government had formed SIT to probe the killings of eight policemen, including a deputy SP rank officer in Bikru village. On the recommendations of SIT, police had also registered an FIR on Friday against nine persons, including slain gangster Vikas Dubey's brother and wife, for obtaining an arm license by using fake documents. It may be mentioned that eight policemen, including DSP Devendra Mishra, were ambushed in Bikru village in Chaubeypur area of Kanpur when they were going to arrest Dubey, and fell to bullets fired from the rooftops shortly after midnight on July 2 and 3. Dubey, arrested by Madhya Pradesh Police on July 9, was killed in an encounter in the morning of July 10 when the police vehicle carrying him from Ujjain to Kanpur reportedly met with an accident and he tried to escape from the spot in Bhauti area in Sachendi, police had said. Prior to Dubey’s encounter, five of his alleged associates were killed in separate encounters, while more than 44 other accused have been identified, out of which 37 were arrested and sent to jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/cops-book-vikass-aide-for-using-sim-issued-on-another-persons-id/articleshow/79358524.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Patna||Rush at airport as many fly back to workplaces||PATNA: Heavy rush was witnessed at the city airport and bus depots on Sunday as people were heading back to their workplaces after the Chhath festival, which concluded on Saturday. Many people preferred flights, buses and private or rented vehicles to return from home as many trains were either not running amid the Covid-19 pandemic or had no berth available. Flyers at the airport complained of being stuck in long queues for security checks due to slow process and following the Covid-19 safety norms and protocols. Some of them reported late for boarding due to this reason. Ankur Kumar Singh of Kadamkuan, an IT professional working in Mumbai, said there was a long queue for security check at baggage counters and frisking without maintaining any social distance. “The airport needs to increase the facilities owing to huge rush amid the pandemic,” he said. Ravi Bhardwaj flying to Delhi said, “I had anticipated the rush to resume work from Monday. So, I reached almost 2 hours before my scheduled flight time.” Smriti Kumari, a banker heading to Hyderabad, said, “Due to Covid, many people prefer flight to travel. The airport also has less number of counters to get boarding passes and space for security check-in.” Amritansh, who missed his flight, tweeted: “Worst experience with GoAir flight Patna to Bengaluru. They moved my flight to morning without prior intimation. No email, SMS, phone (sic).” The airlines executives at Patna airport claimed that all the outgoing flights were full. The number of flights at Patna airport increased from 44 to 50 before the Chhath, giving more options to flyers to travel from Patna to Bengaluru, Delhi, Kolkata, Mumbai and Hyderabad. The revised schedule will remain effective till December-end. Several people were also seen inquiring about the ticket availability and direct flights on some routes. The prices on several routes have also increased due to high demand. The maximum rush was for Delhi flights. Many people were seen inquiring about the tickets at the airport after they failed to get train tickets. The state government is running seven interstate buses (including chair car and sleepers) on Delhi and Jharkhand routes, state transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rush-at-airport-as-many-fly-back-to-workplaces/articleshow/79356748.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 23, 2020||Business||At Rs 44,378 crore, net FPI inflows into equities near record peak in November||MUMBAI: Monthly foreign fund buying in domestic equities in November is on the cusp of breaking the all-time high record set in August this year, if the current trend continues. The surge comes as global liquidity flows from major central banks worldwide continued their easy-money policy to support fragile economies. So far in November, foreign fund managers have net bought stocks worth Rs 44,378 crore. That seems on track to beat the Rs 47,080 crore level seen in August this year, which is the highest recorded ever since the corresponding official data was made available starting January 2002. If one considers the provisional data for Friday, which shows a net buying of Rs 3,860 crore by foreign portfolio investors (FPIs), the highest ever level has already been recorded this month. The third-highest monthly flow was recorded in March 2017, when a little over Rs 30,900 crore worth of Indian stocks were bought by foreign institutional players, data fetched from CDSL showed. With six trading sessions still remaining before the month ends, and if the current trend of daily inflows continue, the August record could be surpassed, market players said. Official data also showed that so far this month FPIs have net bought assets worth a little over Rs 49,400 crore, which include net inflows through equities and debt, while these entities have recorded a net outflow through the hybrid route. Despite two months of such high net inflows, the total figure for the year till date is just about Rs 18,800 crore. That’s mainly because of a net outflow of nearly Rs 1.2 lakh crore in March this year, as fears about a Covid-induced global sell-off took most major markets to multi-year lows. According to Groww co-founder & COO Harsh Jain, high liquidity coupled with improving global economic indicators and clarity about the US presidential elections are driving the FPI investments. In addition, “with global trade improving and economies world over showing green shoots, investors are becoming more comfortable in investing in emerging markets like India”, Jain said. According to domestic fund managers, foreign funds are pouring money into India as there is a global deluge of capital that in prompting the ‘risk-on’ rally. They are also drawing “comfort, confidence and strength” from the normalcy of corporate earnings by India Inc. This, despite many parts of the economy yet to return to pre-Covid levels. In the July-September quarter, leading companies from several sectors announced strong profit numbers, mainly due to a sharp fall in costs of operation. After such a deluge of flows, some market players are cautious about whether the current run could continue or not. According to Samco Securities senior research analyst Nirali Shah, FPIs with their massive liquidity strength eventually aren’t buying as aggressively after the first two weeks of November. “And this points out that optimism (among foreign fund managers) has reached its peak, at least from an intermediate point of view,” Shah said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/at-rs-44378cr-net-fpi-inflows-into-equities-near-record-peak-in-nov/articleshow/79358951.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Rajkot||74 violators detained in Rajkot||RAJKOT: During the ongoing night curfew in Rajkot, city police detained 74 people and seized 72 vehicles on charges of violating curfew orders on Saturday night. Taking a serious note of a spike in Covid-19 positive cases, Rajkot police commissioner Manoj Agrawal issued orders for imposition of night curfew in the city. Curfew began at 9 pm on Saturday and ended at 6 am on Sunday. Rajkot police forced shops and other business establishments to down their shutters on Raiya Road, Kalavad Road, Gondal Road, Dhebar Road, Trikon Baugh, Kuvadava Road, Morbi Road and Jamnagar Road. “During patrolling to enforce curfew orders, we detained 74 people who were found loitering around without any valid reason and also seized 72 vehicles for allegedly violating curfew norms,” said an official from Rajkot police. The city police also erected check posts at various entry points into the city which included Gondal Road Chowkadi, Kalavad Road Chowkadi, Madhapar Chowkadi, Morbi Road, Kuvadava Road and Bhavnagar Road. “We barred all incoming vehicles from entering into the city. The vehicles also included state transport buses,” added the official. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/74-violators-detained-in-rajkot/articleshow/79356913.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||A ‘CV of failures’ penned by IIM-A grads||Ahmedabad: ‘I could not clear the final summer internship interviews for my top 3 preferred firms despite being on hotlist in one of them,’ writes a student. Another writes, ‘I failed in Class XII exam as I didn’t know how to write in English.’ These are just the two of the 26 and growing ‘CV of failures’ by IIM Ahmedabad (IIM-A) students posted on Instagram. A project, initiated by Prof Devasmita Chakraverty and carried out by PGP students Aarushi Agarwal, Ashutosh Rungta and Mehul Bhola, intends to highlight that any failure is not final – even those getting admission in the top B-school of India could have academic or professional failings that they overcame. The project went online on November 20. Prof Chakraverty developed ‘Managing self-limiting beliefs in education and training’ course and 2020 marked its maiden year. “In the course, students learn to critically look at education system, theories of learning and motivation, and concepts such as imposter syndrome. In one of the sessions, we started developing a combined CV of failures,” she said. “The students realized that we take pride in discussing our successes and accomplishments, but often forget to talk about failures.” The concept was introduced a few years ago by Johannes Haushofer, a professor of psychology and public affairs at Princeton University, to make a broader audience realize that all encounter failures in one form or the other while eventually achieving success. The project is also inspired by the popular ‘Post Secret’ initiative. “Students were hesitant to write about their failures at first. But soon, we created a seven-page long ‘CV’ in 15 minutes. Someone could not get into their dream college or pursue the field they wanted to, whereas someone could not find a position after several internships. Someone had given up on the dream of becoming a musician for a career in engineering,” said Prof Chakraverty. The students participating in the initiative said that there still exists a great hesitation in sharing our stories of failures with others as it’s associated with weakness, even when such experiences teach valuable lessons. The project thus took shape where the community members are encouraged to write anonymously on a postcard and put it in a drop box on the campus. An anonymous online form is also introduced. The project intends to broaden its horizons with inclusion of all current and past students, faculty and staff members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/a-cv-of-failures-penned-by-iim-a-grads/articleshow/79357685.cms||Parth Shastri
November 23, 2020||Hyderabad||City became unstable under TRS: BJP MLA||Hyderabad: BJP Dubbak MLA M Ragunandan Rao said that the TRS leaders should first tell the people what they have done for Hyderabad before asking BJP on what the NDA government did for the city. Addressing a press conference on Sunday, he said that the TRS had sent a team to study the water supply project in Ahmedabad. He alleged that after the TRS came to power, the city became more unstable. “The Centre has the responsibility of protecting the country. Why is the TRS objecting people from going to temple, we will go to whichever temple we like,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-became-unstable-under-trs-bjp-mla/articleshow/79358704.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Mysuru||Tribal communities write to CM demanding forest rights||Mysuru: The tribal communities living on the fringes of Nagarahole Tiger Reserve have launched a campaign demanding their rights over the forest. As a first move, they have written to chief minister BS Yediyurappa seeking justice. According to the communities, the latest move follows a recent demand by the Hunsur sub-division forest rights committee asking them to submit evidence and sketches to prove that they are living inside the forest area before being evicted. The tribal persons said they were evicted from forest area since four decades under rehabilitation schemes. However, communities, especially the particularly vulnerable tribe group (PVTG) Jenu Kuruba, have lived in the forest by collecting natural food like tuber, sweet potato, mushroom, honey, leaves and bamboo shoots. They said as per the government details submitted to the high court, 1,801 tribal persons from 22 haadis in HD Kote taluk and 1,106 tribal persons from 22 haadis in Hunsur taluk were evicted from the forest area in the last 40 years. However, there are around 5,000 tribal persons who have been evicted from the forest. Hunsur-based NGO Development through Education (DEED) director S Srikanth told TOI that they are demanding hakku patra for the communities from the government. “The tribal communities have been evicted without proper rehabilitation. There are more than 80 haadi with 3,418 tribal families living outside the Nagarahole Tiger Reserve. According to the FRA 2006, there is provision for granting 10 acre land to each tribal family inside the forest area for their living. But there are people in the forest department who are giving wrong information to the government against the tribal rights,” he said. Srikanth said they will take up the protest against the government if the tribal persons are denied their rights. “We are also planning to file an atrocity case against the officers and individuals who are against the tribals and their rights,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/tribal-communities-write-to-cm-demanding-forest-rights/articleshow/79356244.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
November 23, 2020||Patna||State Cong chief, 7 others take oath as MLCs||PATNA: Bihar Congress president Madan Mohan Jha and seven others took oath of the state legislative council membership in the presence of its acting chairman Awadesh Narayan Singh on Sunday. Four of the eight members were elected from the graduates’ constituencies while the other four from teachers’ constituencies. With the 8 new members, there are 58 MLCs in the 75-member Upper House. Seventeen seats, including 12 of the nomination quota, are vacant. Others who took oath as MLC were Devesh Chandra Thakur and Neeraj Kumar of JD(U), Nawal Kishore Yadav and NK Yadav of BJP, Sanjay Kumar Singh and Kedar Nath Pandey from CPI and Sarvesh Kumar, who won as an independent candidate. CM Nitish Kumar, deputy CM Tarkishore Prasad, Pro-tem assembly Speaker Jitan Ram Manjhi, minister Sheila Kumari and former deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi among others were present during the oath-taking ceremony. Except Sarvesh, who wrested the Darbhanga graduates’ constituency seat from JD(U)’s Dilip Kumar Chaudhary, the other seven retained their respective seats. These eight seats fell vacant on May 6 after completion of six years’ term of the outgoing members. But elections for these seats could be held only in October because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The number of JD(U) MLCs has increased to 23 from the existing 21 and the BJP’s tally went up from 17 to 19. Congress now has four MLCs and CPI two. The opposition RJD has six members, LJP 1, HAM-S 1 and independent 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-cong-chief-7-others-take-oath-as-mlcs/articleshow/79356361.cms||Madan Kumar
November 23, 2020||Patna||Science College initiates steps to ensure academic and infrastructure development||PATNA: Even as Patna Science College, a premier institution of higher education in science, could not celebrate its 94th Foundation Day this year owing to Diwali and Chhath holidays, it has initiated steps for ensuring its all-round academic and infrastructure development. College principal SR Padmadeo told the newspaper on Sunday that first of all the internal quality assurance cell (IQAC) of the college would be reconstituted and the annual report of the institution would be uploaded on its website within a month. The college is all for improving its grade (B) awarded by the National assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) recently owing to certain glaring deficiencies. The college is also planning to construct a separate multi-storied library building on the space made available after demolition of the old, dilapidated gas manufacturing unit located adjacent to chemistry department. Presently it is located in the overcrowded administrative block. The library is soon to be fully-developed into an e-library along with an air-conditioned reading hall. The state education department would be approached for providing necessary financial assistance to the college for all these development schemes, he said. The principal further pointed out that the alumni of the college would also be approached for extending their cooperation and help in restoration of the old glory of the institution. The college has applied for registration of its alumni association with the new office-bearers and execuitve committee members. In the meantime, a section of some ambitious alumni have started Global Science College Alumni Foundation with more than 1500 members from different parts of the world principally with an aim to help the college grow into a world- class institution, said college’s former principal S N Guha. Established in July 1927 as a science wing of Patna College this college started functioning independently from 1928 when its buildings were inaugurated by Lord Irwin on November 15, 1928. The college is centrally located in Patna, occupying an area of approximately 28.32 acres of land and containing separate blocks for different science departments. It has been the breeding ground for the future scientists, researchers and administrators. It can boast of its distinguished alumni holding very high positions in diverse fields of science, medicine, engineering, banking, administration etc., inside and outside the country. The college building, which has been declared as ‘heritage site’ by the state government, has undergone necessary repair and renovation with the financial assistance provided by the education department. “The college is likely to celebrate its foundation day soon. A decision to this effect will be taken when the institution along with all other wings of Patna University (PU) reopens Diwali holidays on Monday,” said principal Padmadeo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/science-college-initiates-steps-to-ensure-academic-and-infrastructure-development/articleshow/79356831.cms||B K Mishra
November 23, 2020||Patna||Hilsa RJD candidate likely to move HC today||PATNA: An RJD leader and former MLA Shakti Singh Yadav is all set to move the Patna high court on Monday to challenge the Election Commission (EC)'s results of the recently concluded assembly polls for the Hilsa constituency in Nalanda district. Yadav had contested the election on an RJD ticket but lost to Krishna Murari Sharan of JD(U) by 12 votes only. He, however, claimed that he was earlier declared winner by the returning officer (RO) of Hilsa constituency by a margin of 549 votes. “I was later informed that I have lost by a margin of 12 votes,” he said. He further said, “I have decided to move the high court against the election result. I will file the complaint petition on Monday against the RO concerned for his deliberate attempt to favour a particular candidate in the counting of votes and thus denying justice to me.” The RJD leader alleged that his appeal was earlier turned down by the RO for obvious reasons. “I hope the court will do justice to me and I will be declared winner from the seat, which I had won in the 2015 elections. I have full faith in the judiciary,” Yadav told this newspaper on Sunday. Altogether six candidates had lodged their complaint with the Election Commission, seeking recounting of votes. However, their applications were rejected by the commission citing various reasons. CEO H R Srinivasa had, however, clarified that no anomalies were found during re-verification of the postal ballots as alleged by some candidates. As per the Election Commission, 11 seats were as such where a nail biting finish had taken place during counting of votes on November 10 and the margin between victory and defeat was less than 1000 votes. Six out of these 11 candidates were not satisfied with the counting and they had challenged the decisions of the returning officers concerned. For example, Narendra Singh alias Bogo Singh, the candidate from Matihani had filed a complaint with the EC after Raj Kumar Singh of LJP defeated him with a margin of 333 votes. He had sought for recounting of all EVMs, VVPATs and the postal ballots. Similarly, Sudhakar Singh of the RJD defeated Ambika Singh of the BSP with a margin of 189 votes from Ramgarh assembly constituency. Ambika had filed a complaint with the EC, seeking recounting of votes. Similar complaints were also received from losing candidates (second position) of Hilsa, Parbatta, Dehri and Kurhani assembly constituencies. CEO H R Srinivasa had told mediapersons that the applications of the candidates concerned were verified but their reasons were not genuine. Hence, under relevant sections of ECI rules, the applications were rejected for recounting, the CEO had said, adding “We have given reasons and other details to every candidate in written format.” Earlier, the RJD and the Congress had alleged that the ECI had taken sides of the NDA candidates in counting of votes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hilsa-rjd-candidate-likely-to-move-hc-today/articleshow/79356348.cms||Ramashankar
November 23, 2020||Mysuru||Anti-Corruption Bureau to probe MUDA site irregularities||Mysuru: The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) is likely to probe alleged irregularities in site allotment to former IFS officer Nagaraj. Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) chairman HV Rajeev on Saturday said that he had directed the authority commissioner DB Natesh to file a complaint to the ACB. Recently, MUDA authorities had found that retired IFS officer Nagaraj’s wife Shashikala had allegedly misled the MUDA by providing false information pertaining to the site allowed to her husband at Vijayanagar fourth stage. After MUDA issued notice to Shashikala in November warning of criminal action, she had returned the documents pertaining to the site. During the press meet, Rajeev said that as soon as he came to know about the irregularities, he alerted the officials and prevented loss to the authority. “I have directed the commissioner to file a complaint with the ACB to probe into the case and to take action against the MUDA staff, who is involved in the illegal activity,” he said. Dumping construction debris on ORR prohibited Speaking on construction waste being dumped on either sides of outer ring road (ORR), Rajeev said that the authority will remove the construction waste before November 28. “There around 60 to 65 places on ORR, where miscreants are found dumping the waste. Huge mounds of waste are found in at least 30 places. We will install CCTV cameras in such places and strict action will be initiated against the miscreants,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/anti-corruption-bureau-to-probe-muda-site-irregularities/articleshow/79356640.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
November 23, 2020||Patna||ECR launches winter safety drive||PATNA: The Danapur division of East Central Railway (ECR) has launched winter safety drive with an aim to ensure zero mishap on tracks in the foggy weather conditions. The drive will continue till January. Railways, however, intends to continue the drive depending on the severity of the weather conditions in February. Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM) Sunil Kumar said on Sunday the division has launched winter safety measures as per directives of the Railway Board and ECR headquarters to streamline running of passenger trains on the fog-prone mainline route. Counselling session with loco pilots and guards is being held to follow railway winter safety guidelines strictly, he said. According to the DRM, railways has launched GPS-based winter safety drive in the division. Key men and patrolling men have been given GPS trackers to get position of the fog affected signals in the division. Accordingly, they will alert loco pilots of passenger trains on ‘walkie-talkies’. Besides, safety officials have been monitoring the drive from 8pm to 8am every day, he said, adding senior officials have been directed to carry out ‘foot-plating’ on the locomotives with loco pilots of the trains during night to check alertness of cabin man and gateman. Railways has requisitioned detonators (fog signals) in good numbers to use them in any emergency during foggy weather conditions. These detonators will be used as fog signals at vulnerable places in the division. The three months of November, December and January are the most crucial period for railways every year to run passenger trains with full precautions, the DRM said. Railways has set up a separate control room at Danapur to keep a tab on the movement of passenger trains. Surprise inspections will continue during night at different places in the division to make railway staff on duty more alert, the DRM said, adding Tal area of Mokama and stations between Neora and Buxar are highly vulnerable during winter. In fact, 30 to 40% stations of the Danapur division are fog-prone during winter, he said. To strengthen further winter measures, railways has also installed flasher lights and retro-reflective posts at each vulnerable place on the mainline route to avert any mishap on the tracks. The visibility test objects (VTOs) and track falling lines have been painted in fog-prone areas, the DRM said, adding railways is extra alert this year following an increase in the speed limit of passenger trains from 110km per hour to 130km/hr on the mainline route. According to the DRM, most of about 280 pairs of passenger trains are passing through the division during night. Thus winter precaution is a must to ensure safe journey for passengers as well as safety to railway assets in the fog-prone division, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ecr-launches-winter-safety-drive/articleshow/79356805.cms||Kumod Verma
November 23, 2020||Patna||Two minors charred to death after house catches fire in Vaishali||PATNA: One Kajal Kumari (15) and her younger sister Nibha Kumari (6) were charred to death while few other family members were injured after their house caught fire at Bind Toli in Saidabad village under Raghopur police station area in Vaishali around Saturday midnight. Raghopur police station SHO Kalamuddin said that the duo’s father Sunil Mahto told police that they were fast asleep when their house was suddenly up in flames. “Mahto told police that the family had lighted earthen lamps inside the house which had a thatched roof after power cut, following which it caught fire,” the SHO added. Incidentally, Mahto with his wife and other family members ran out of the house after it caught fire, but the two minor kids were trapped inside. By the time, the villagers rushed to the spot for help, the entire house was engulfed in flames, the police officer said. Kalamuddin said both the bodies were handed over to family members after postmortem on Sunday and the district administration would look into the issue of ex-gratia to be paid to the family. Three die in road accident: Meanwhile, three persons were killed after an auto-rickshaw collided with a tractor met and fell into a water-filled ditch besides the state highway near Chirauri under the Chausa police station area in Madhepura at around 9 pm on Saturday. Chausa police station SHO Ravish Ranjan said, “The auto-rickshaw tried to overtake the tractor when it lost control.” Ranjan said, the deceased include the tractor driver Mohammad Rizwan (47) and two passengers Vikash Mallik (25) and Amita Devi (35) “The trio got trapped beneath the vehicles and failed to come out of the water resulting in their death,” he said. The SHO said police have requested the district administration for ex-gratia to next of kin of deceased Rizwan, who was a native of Paina village in Chausa, Mallik, who was a native of Dholbazza in Bhagalpur and the woman was a native of Laxminia under the Rupauli police station area of Purnia. The SHO said the bodies were handed over to the family after postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/two-minors-charred-to-death-after-house-catches-fire-in-vaishali/articleshow/79356327.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Patna||385 new Covid cases reported||PATNA: Altogether 385 new Covid- 19 cases were reported in the state on Sunday, taking the state’s tally to 2,30,632. Officially, five more deaths were reported, taking the toll to 1,221. With two more deaths, the toll in Patna district mounted up to 312, as per the daily bulletin issued by the state health department. One death each was reported from Madhepura, Muzaffarpur and Saran taking their respective district toll to 15, 44 and 48. Sheohar MP and chairperson of the Standing Committee on Social Justice and Empowerment, Rama Devi, has also contracted the virus. She wrote on her Twitter handle on Sunday: “After experiencing initial symptoms of Corona, I got my test done and the report came positive. Health is fine, but I have isolated myself after taking medical advice (sic).” However, the state’s recovery rate is now 97.22% and there are only 5,190 active cases. In the past 24 hours, 606 patients have been discharged from the hospitals and isolation centres, which took the total number of recoveries in the state to 2,24,221. As many as 93,935 new samples were tested at health facilities and laboratories taking the number of total samples tested so far to 1,36,37,477 in the state since March. The government data apart, AIIMS- Patna reported four deaths in the past 24 hours, and all the deceased are from Patna district. One was 53- year- old man from Dariyapur, 59- year- old-man from Patliputra, 75- year- old man from Mithapur and an 83- year-old man from Ashiana Nagar. AIIMS-Patna nodal incharge Dr Sanjeev Kumar said that 24 new patients were admitted and seven were discharged on Sunday. There were 164 patients undergoing treatment in the hospital. No deaths were reported from NMCH, while no new admission or discharge was registered in the past 24 hours. The hospital has eight patients undergoing treatment for Covid-19 virus. In Patna, 97 Covid cases were reported on Sunday, taking its tally to 40,472 so far. However, with 38,587 recoveries and 312 deaths, there are 1,573 active cases in the district. Covid cases reported from some other districts included Muzaffarpur (38), Nawada (28), 15 each in Supaul and Darbhanga, and 14 each in Bhagalpur, Jamui and Jehanabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/385-new-covid-cases-reported/articleshow/79356880.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 23, 2020||Nagpur||Woman tries to set husband’s ‘second wife’ on fire, arrested||Nagpur: Alert cops of Bharosa cell office on Ambazari Road made a timely intervention and saved a woman from being burned alive on Saturday. The victim, Mousami Zode, later approached Rana Pratap Nagar police station, where an offence of attempt to murder was registered against Savita Sawalakhe. Zode had earned the wrath of Sawalakhe for marrying her husband Vinod in March this year. Zode, a widow with two children, was working with Vinod at his manufacturing unit, which makes brass utensils cleaning powder. Vinod and Savita too have two children from their marriage. Vinod’s second marriage had triggered a dispute between the two families. Savita had approached Shanti Nagar police station, which had referred the case to the Bharosa cell, a family dispute redressal cell of the city police, for further action. Police sources said two counselling sessions had already taken place at Bharosa cell between the women. A senior officer of the Bharosa cell said Sawalakhe had left the counselling session and abandoned the process. Sawalakhe was asked to furnish a statement but she had refused. Sawalakhe had left Bharosa cell but she is learnt to have returned on seeing Zode and her husband seated on a bench outside the office. She had brought petrol from her two-wheeler in a bottle and tried to douse Zode with it. As she was trying to light a matchstick to set Zode afire, cops rushed out and overpowered her. She was later handed over to Rana Pratap Nagar police station. The cops have placed Sawalakhe under arrest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/woman-tries-to-set-husbands-second-wife-on-fire-arrested/articleshow/79357675.cms||Soumitra Bose
November 23, 2020||Patna||Race for Rajya Sabha seat to hot up||PATNA: The race is hotting up for byelection to the Rajya Sabha seat falling vacant after the demise of LJP founder Ram Vilas Paswan. The Election Commission of India (ECI) has announced December 14 as the date to hold the election for which a notification will be issued on November 26. The votes will also be counted on December 14. Though LJP chief Chirag Paswan has not made any official comments on the seat, which fell vacant after his father’s death, his party’s media cell incharge Krishna Kumar Kallu on Sunday said it will be a real tribute to the departed leader if his wife Reena Paswan’s name is considered by the top BJP leadership. However, LJP has already soured its relations with JD(U), an NDA partner in the state. LJP itself is no longer a part of the state NDA. “Under these circumstances, JD(U) will not support Reena’s candidature,” an LJP source said. Chirag made personal attacks on JD(U) president and CM Nitish Kumar during the state assembly elections. A senior BJP leader said the name of former deputy CM and senior party leader Sushil Kumar Modi was under consideration as Nitish may also support his candidature. The seat was offered to the LJP leader by the BJP as part of its commitment made to Ram Vilas during the seat-sharing talks for the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Paswan was the sole LJP member in the Rajya Sabha. One will need the support of 122 legislators to win a Rajya Sabha seat. No single political party in the state has that number. Ram Vilas was sent to the Rajya Sabha with the JD(U) support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/race-for-rajya-sabha-seat-to-hot-up/articleshow/79357382.cms||Ramashankar
November 23, 2020||Dehradun||Valley of Words concludes, Nishank gives literary awards||MUSSOORIE: The three-day-long Valley of Words (VoW) literary festival concluded on Sunday. This year, the festival was held online in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic and was attended by people from all parts of the country and also from across the border. On Sunday, awards in the field of literature were given under seven categories. These awards were given in a valedictory session chaired by Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank', Union minister for education. The award for best Hindi non-fiction book was given to ‘Gyan ka Gyan’ written by Hriday Narayan Dikshit, speaker of Uttar Pradesh Assembly. The award for best creative writing in Hindi was given to Anamika for her work — ‘Pani ko Sab Yaad Tha’. ‘Wasted’ by Ankur Bisen won the award for best English non-fiction and ‘The Radiance of a Thousand Suns’ by MS Someshwar won best creating writing in English. Under the category of translation from regional language, Nadeem Khan and Santosh Alex were given the award and under the category of writing young adults books, Supriya Sehgal and Nasera Sharma received the honour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/valley-of-words-concludes-nishank-gives-literary-awards/articleshow/79356607.cms||Anmol Jain
November 23, 2020||Business||Byju’s in talks for fresh $200 million fund-raise at $12 billion valuation||BENGALURU: Online education startup Byju’s is in advanced stages of talks to raise $200 million in fresh capital from US-based investors T Rowe Price and BlackRock at a valuation of $12 billion, a person directly aware of the matter said. BlackRock is an existing investor in the firm. The development comes less than two months after Byju’s raised $500 million from top global technology investment firms Silver Lake Partners, DST Global and others at a valuation of close to $11 billion. Once formally closed, the latest round would take Byju’s total fund-raise to over $1 billion this year as demand for online education remains high amid the pandemic. T Rowe Price has previously backed large Indian internet firms like Paytm and Flipkart. The Bengaluru-based Byju’s had announced the investment from Silver Lake Partners last month, but did not comment on DST Global’s participation. Silver Lake has been in the news for its recent investments in Reliance Retail as well as Reliance’s Jio Platforms. “This round should be closed in the coming few weeks,” the person mentioned earlier said. A spokesperson of Byju’s declined to comment, while emails to T Rowe Price and BlackRock did not elicit any response. Byju’s has other marquee investors including Tencent, Prosus Ventures, Sequoia, Mary Meeker’s Bond Capital, and General Atlantic. The capital being raised would be used for global expansion as well as to finance acquisitions to strengthen its offerings. Earlier this year, it acquired code-learning startup WhiteHat Jr in a $300-million cash deal. With the pandemic accelerating the adoption of online education in India, the sector has seen an increase of nearly four times in investments at $1.5 billion in the first nine months of 2020, compared to $409 million in the whole of 2019, according to data from Venture Intelligence. Unacademy, Vedantu and Eruditus are some of the other prominent names in the space that have raised capital from investors like SoftBank, US-based Coatue and South Africa’s Prosus Ventures. Byju’s was started by Byju Raveendran in 2007 as an offline coaching class for the Common Admission Test (CAT) to enter IIMs. Later in 2009, several of his students joined him to start Think & Learn, which tried the tablet-based format and eventually found significant traction after launching as an app in 2015. According to the company, it has doubled its revenues from $189 million in the financial year ending March 2019 to $378 million in the financial year ending March 2020. In September, it said it has 64 million registered students, of which 4.2 million are paid subscribers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/byjus-in-talks-for-fresh-200mn-fund-raise-at-12bn-valuation/articleshow/79358921.cms||Digbijay Mishra
November 23, 2020||Kolkata||Pandemic opens up global avenues on e-platforms for Kolkata museums||KOLKATA: The pandemic that forced the closure of city museums for over seven months has also opened up to a whole new audience and a world of possibilities. They, especially Indian Museum and Victoria Memorial Hall, have now been able to reach out to more people by leveraging digital platforms and connect with segments that they’d always aspired to converse with but rarely managed to. Enthused by the response, the museum authorities are determined to further focus on online initiatives even as they resumed on-site activities. “We had never really explored the potential of online presence till the lockdown. We have since started making most of the online platforms where noted academicians, artists and celebrities are delivering talks or performing,” said IM education officer Sayan Bhattacharya. “While we had a constraint with the resource pool earlier, internet has blurred location barriers. Now, we are able to engage with experts from not only India but also across the world,” he said. VMH, too, has been able to tap into the global resource pool. Over the past few months, VMH has had sessions with Geraldine Forbes, distinguished professor emeritus of history, State University of New York, Oswego; Ania Loomba, Catherine Bryson chair professor of English, University of Pennsylvania; Sanjukta Sunderason, lecturer Modern South Asian Cultures, University of Leiden; and Simon Wille, department of art history, University of Innsbruck, among others. “We’ve always been a popular museum and draw record crowds. But many among them were tourists from Bengal who came on conducted tours of Kolkata from the districts. For them, VMH is among the many must-visit places. While we had been welcoming them, we also wanted to bring in those who are really interested in a conversation on the museum and its artefacts. Though we did do talks earlier, we now have a response from a much larger audience,” said VMH curator Jayanta Sengupta. Employees at the science museums — Science City and Birla Industrial & Technological Museum (BITM) — are particularly enthused about the wider reach. The summer camps that Science City organized online this year, saw participation from children across the country and abroad. “We are now working on a technology that will enable virtual interactive exhibitions. The issue here is digital inclusivity. There is much we can do but we have to ensure that the content we create is accessible to those with low internet speed as well,” said Choudhury, who is the director general of National Council of Science Museums alongside the Indian Museum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pandemic-opens-up-global-avenues-on-e-platforms-for-city-museums/articleshow/79358702.cms||Subhro Niyogi
November 23, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Railways runs more special trains||PATNA: The passengers’ rush after Chhath was enormously high at Patna Junction, Rajendra Nagar Terminal, Danapur, Muzaffarpur, Samastipur, Darbhanga, Raxaul and Saharsa railway stations in Bihar on Saturday and Sunday. According to East Central Railway (ECR) chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar, at least 15 festival special trains are originating from Patna Junction to clear passengers’ post-Chhath rush. These trains are Patna-Vasco de Gama (02742), Patna-Purna (07609), Patna-Bandra Terminal (09272), Patna-Indore (09314/09322), Patna-Puri (08450), Patna-Bilaspur (02894), Patna-New Delhi (04409, 04003), Patna-Habibganj (02146), Patna-Ranchi (08256, 02363), Patna-Jammu Tawi (02355), Patna-Mumbai (03249) and Patna-Banswadi (03253) in Karnataka. Similarly, railways is running 12 special trains from Rajendra Nagar Terminal, Danapur, Patliputra Junction and Gaya. These are Gaya-New Delhi (02397), Gaya-Chennai (02389), Patliputra-Chandigarh (03255), Danapur-Tata (08184), Danapur- Yashwantpur (03209), Islampur-Hatia (08623), Patliputra-Yashwantpur (03251), Patliputra-Lucknow (02529), Rajendra Nagar Terminal-Ajmer (02395), Rajendra Naghar Terminal-Howrah (02352) and Danapur-Anand Vihar (03257), Kumar said. Nine special trains are also originating from Muzaffarpur, Samastipur and Barauni stations. These are Muzaffarpur-Anand Vihar (04025), Muzaffarpur-Delhi (04029), Muzaffarpur-Howrah (05272), Muzaffarpur–Ahmedabad (05269), Samastipur- Lokmanya Tilak (01022), Barauni-Gawalior (04186), Barauni-New Delhi (04405), Barauni-Ernakulum (02521) and Barauni- Lokmanya Tilak (02585), the CPRO said, adding five special trains are running on Darbangha-Jallandar (05251), Darbhanga-Mysore (02577), Darbhanga-Amritsar (05211), Darbhanga–New Delhi (04407) and Darbhanga-Pune (01034) routes. Seven special trains are running from Jayanagar. These are Jayanagar-Manihari (05284), Jayanagar-Udhana (05563), Jayanagar- Puri (08420), Jayanagar-Lokmanya Tilak (05547), Jayanagar-Sealdah (03186), Jayanagar-New Delhi (04091) and Jayanagar- Anand Vihar (04433), Kumar said, adding three special trains are running between Dhanbad and Patna and five from Raxaul to Mumbai, Hyderabad and Howrah. Likewise, six special trains are running from Saharsa to Anand Vihar, Amritsar, Bandra Terminal and Delhi either weekly or biweekly to cope with the rush, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/railways-runs-more-special-trains/articleshow/79356791.cms||Kumod Verma
November 23, 2020||Kanpur||Man hacks elder brother’s minor sis-in-law to death||KANPUR: A 25-year-old man allegedly axed his elder brother’s minor sister-in-law to death and then killed himself by jumping in front of a train in Banda district on Saturday. The shocking incident took place in Attara town of the district on late Saturday evening. Station House Officer Attara, Akhilesh Mishra said, “The minor girl hailing from Satna district of Madhya Pradesh had come to look after her pregnant sister in Attara town of the district a few days ago.” The deceased man Nanhe Arakh (25), of Mehdu Ka Purwa, reached his elder brother’s house late on Saturday evening and then dragged his brother’s minor sister-in-law to a nearby secluded spot and hacked her to death with an axe. “After killing the minor girl, Nanhe reached a railway track near Raja Ka Talab Galla Mandi and committed suicide by jumping in front of a fast approaching train,” said the SHO further. “We have sent the two bodies for post-mortem examination. We are trying to scan the call detail records of the deceased man. As per the family members, the man had entered into an altercation with the minor girl over some issue on Saturday evening. We are probing all the possible angles in the case,” said a police official privy to the investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/man-hacks-elder-brothers-minor-sis-in-law-to-death/articleshow/79358572.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Patna||Gupkar Alliance dangerous, says Nityanand Rai||PATNA: Union minister of state for home affairs Nityanand Rai said on Sunday asked Congress to make its stand clear on the Gupkar Alliance, which is contesting the district development council (DDC) elections in Jammu and Kashmir and “dangerous for the country”. “The stand of National Conference (NC) and PDP on the abrogation of Article 370 and 35 (A) is not in the interest of the country,” Rai said. “The Gupkar Alliance partners have demanded the restoration of Articles 370 and 35 (A), but the government of PM Narendra Modi will never accede to it,” Rai said, adding that senior Congress leader P Chidambaram had earlier said the Articles 370 and 35(A) would be restored in the future. Rai said Congress must clarify its position on the Gupkar Alliance stand because the NC and PDP have been supporting the cause of the separatists and, therefore, have become separatists in J & K and also refusing to recognize the national flag. “Congress is not a part of the Gupkar Alliance. Nonetheless, it will be completely destroyed and nothing of it will remain, if it continued to be in alliance with the NC and PDP to contest the DDC elections, because it is not in the interest of the country,” Rai said. “The abrogation of Articles 370 and 35(A) has marginalized the terror elements and also brought peace and order in the troubled region,” Rai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gupkar-alliance-dangerous-says-nityanand/articleshow/79356928.cms||Abhay Singh
November 23, 2020||Hubballi||Work on Half Ring Road to end in four months||HUBBALLI: If all goes according to plan, two national highways – NH-218 (Kusugal road) and NH-63 (Gadag) – will be connected to each other by the half ring road, work on which is currently under way, in four months. Once the two highways are linked, traffic on roads in the centre of Hubballi will reduce considerably since vehicles bound for Bengaluru, Karwar, Vijayapura and Gadag can skirt the city and reach the highways directly. Arterial roads in the centre of Hubballi are often choked owing to the movement of vehicles, particularly trucks and buses, bound for highways. Once completed, the half ring road will mean that all of this traffic will be diverted away from the chaos of city roads. National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) executive engineer RK Mathad said that work on the stretch between NH-218 and NH-63 would be completed by February 28. “Work is proceeding apace, and nearly 80% of the work is complete,” Mathad said. Another NHAI official said that, delay in land acquisition, coupled with the enforced hiatus owing to Covid-19, had delayed the completion of the project. “The project was originally slated for completion in December 2018. We have spoken to the contractor, who has promised us of completing the work by February,” the official said. He added that the stretch between Gadag Road and AH-47 (Gabbur Road) and Anchatgeri would be completed by March. “Nearly three-fourth of the work on the stretch has been completed. We are eager to complete the work at the earliest and open the road to traffic. The Covid-induced lockdown delayed completion of the project considerably,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/work-on-half-ring-road-to-end-in-four-months/articleshow/79355959.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
November 23, 2020||Vadodara||Eight booked for rioting over old enmity in Nagarwada||VADODARA: Eight persons were booked after two groups clashed over old enmity in Nagarwada area late on Saturday night. Police said that the two groups living in Mehtawadi in Nagarwada had nurtured grudges for some time over a couple belonging to the two groups who eloped to have an inter-caste marriage against the wishes of the elders. On Sunday night the two groups came face to face and soon the spat turned into fisticuffs. The groups also later pelted stones and glass bottles at each other and damaged a couple of two-wheelers parked on the road. Around four persons living in the area sustained minor injuries. Cops from Karelibaug police station who were deployed to implement night curfew had to rush to the locality to contain the situation. “We have identified eight persons based on the footages of the CCTV cameras, but there were a dozen more people. The accused will be nabbed soon,” said a police official. The rioters have been identified as Vinod Solanki, Mahendra Solanki, Mayur Solanki, Minesh Solanki, Sanjay Parmar, Mitesh Panchal, Vikas Parmar and Sachin Parmar. A sub-inspector lodged a complaint as no one from the two groups came forward to complain against each other.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/eight-booked-for-rioting-over-old-enmity-in-nagarwada/articleshow/79356559.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Patna||Bid to loot Rs 5cr foiled in Muz, driver shot at||PATNA: Quick action by an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) of police foiled a bid to loot more than Rs 5 crore in cash which was being remitted in a high security van from Muzaffarpur to Saran on Sunday. However, the cash van driver was shot at by criminals who had fired several rounds during the loot attempt, which took place on NH-722 near Bakhra under the Saraiyya police station area in Muzaffarpur at around 10.45am. Police said the injured van driver was identified as Mohammad Hafiz (43). He had sustained bullet injury in his right arm during the loot attempt and was rushed to SKMCH for treatment. Police also said the cash van had veered off the road and fell into a roadside ditch after criminals in a car intercepted it. Saraiyya SDPO Rajesh Kumar Sharma said apart from the driver, an employee of a private firm, which deals in cash remittance, and two private armed guards were travelling in the cash van. “The van was loaded with more than Rs 5 crore at the Muzaffarpur office of the firm. Part of the cash was to be unloaded at Saran, while the rest amount was to be send to Siwan. All the money was to be deposited in ATM kiosks,” he said. Sharma refused to disclose the identity of the ASI and said he was on his way to join duty from home when criminals intercepted the cash van. “He raised an alarm which attracted the attention of commuters. The ASI also immediately informed the police following which a patrolling vehicle of Saraiyya police station rushed to the spot. The criminals were then forced to flee,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bid-to-loot-rs-5cr-foiled-in-muz-driver-shot-at/articleshow/79356288.cms||Debashish Karmakar
November 23, 2020||Hyderabad||K Chandrasekhar Rao assures all support to Tollywood||HYDERABAD: Ahead of elections to the 150 wards of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation on December 1, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Sunday said the state government would extend concessions and exemptions to support the film industry and its workers who suffered losses due to cinema halls remaining closed and film shootings not being permitted in view of the pandemic. At a meeting with film personalities here on Sunday, representatives from the film industry told the CM about the losses incurred by the film industry due to the pandemic and urged him to extend support. The chief minister assured the delegation, which included actors K Chiranjeevi and Akkineni Nagarjuna, that all measures would be taken to protect and support the Telugu film industry. “The state government has taken measures to attract several industries into the state. When that is the case, will the government keep quiet when an existing industry is in trouble? Hyderabad is the centre of a large film industry, just like Chennai. Lakhs of people are employed in the industry and are dependent on it. Covid-19 has caused damage to the film industry just as it has to other sectors. The responsibility to save and protect the film industry lies on both the government and film personalities, alike,” he said. The chief minister added that the measures for the benefit of the film industry will be included in the TRS GHMC poll manifesto. Chief secretary Somesh Kumar, film chamber president and general secretaries Narayan Das Narang and KL Damodar Prasad, producers’ council president C Kalyan, distributor Sri Sudhakar Reddy, film producer Niranjan Reddy and others participated in the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cm-kcr-assures-all-support-to-tollywood/articleshow/79358693.cms||Roushan Ali
November 23, 2020||Allahabad||Selection process for Group C, D staff to be revamped||LUCKNOW: The selection process for Group C and D employees through UP Subordinate Services Selection Commission is being revamped and will now be a two phase process. In an order issued by the department of personnel, it has been said that instead of holding a main examination each time vacant posts are advertised, UPSSSC will now hold a preliminary eligibility test. Depending on their performance, candidates will be given percentiles. This will be a general exam with a common syllabus. Based on the percentiles, candidates will be selected to appear for main exams as and when posts are advertised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/selection-process-for-group-c-d-staff-to-be-revamped/articleshow/79358495.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Goa||Determined to protect our natural heritage: Students to Javadekar||PANAJI: Over 400 Goan students have signed a letter addressed to the Union minister for environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) Prakash Javadekar in a protest against the three infrastructure projects cleared to run through protected biodiversity hot-spots in the state. “As young citizens of Goa, we are determined to protect our natural heritage, and we hope that you will take our voices into consideration,” the letter reads. The letter highlights the devastating impact of the three projects and laments the lack of regard to ecology and quality of life in the state. It also lists a number of endemic species that will be affected, expresses concern about the potential impact on Goa’s oldest tribal community – the Dhangars who have been living within the forest for generations. “The Dhangars are a farming community, whose main source of livelihood is dairy farming—for which they depend on vital areas of the sanctuary,” the letter states. The signatories also pointed out how the Dudhsagar Falls, and other rivulets originating in the forest will be irreversibly affected. “At a time when the world is reeling under the pressure of accelerated climate change and in the midst of a pandemic, when the available science clearly shows a correlation between the destruction of ecosystems and a rise in zoonotic diseases, we do not believe that such projects are justified, or scientifically sound,” the letter reads. The letter also points out the lack of transparency at each stage of decision making and that such decisions must be taken “with public consultation and consent, and informed by the most up-to-date science,” “The student community of Goa would like to state, for the record, that we do not consent to this reckless devastation of nature. Thousands of citizens have already written to you and we hope that you will add this second letter from the student community to the list.” the letter reads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/determined-to-protect-our-natural-heritage-students-to-javadekar/articleshow/79358701.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Agra||Removal of BJP flag from MLA’s car on campus: AMU to move SC for quashing of case against staff||AGRA: After the Allahabad high court’s decision to reject the plea of Aligarh Muslim University’s (AMU) 12-member proctorial team for quashing of criminal proceedings against them in the case of preventing BJP MLA Dalveer Singh’s vehicle from entering the campus premises with a party flag on it and allegedly abusing its driver, the AMU has now decided to file a petition in the apex court. The university spokesperson Shafey Kidwai told TOI on Sunday that “according to varsity’s rule, no vehicle with flags of political parties is allowed inside the campus". And the AMU proctorial staff were only doing their duty, Kidwai said. So, they have moved the SC. The 12-member proctorial team had earlier moved the HC challenging criminal proceedings pending against them in the court of chief judicial magistrate in Aligarh. However, the HC on Thursday dismissed the petition filed by Professor Brij Bhushan Singh and 11 other members, on grounds that the presence of the accused at the place of the incident is not disputed. Therefore, whether they abused the 'victim' or not can only be determined by the trial court after going through evidence placed before it, the court observed. During the course of the hearing, the petitioners’ counsel referred to certain circulars of the university banning the use of flagged vehicles of any political party on the university campus. The state government counsel argued, saying the offence was "serious" and could have wider ramifications on law and order. The incident took place last year on October 22, when Guddu, the driver of the BJP MLA Dalveer Singh from Barauli constituency of Aligarh, went to pick up Singh’s grandson, Vijay, from the varsity but was allegedly stopped by the AMU proctorial team at the main gate. According to the FIR, the staff members took him out of the car and forced him to remove the party’s flag from the vehicle before allowing it to enter the campus. The complainant also stated that when he opposed their move, the proctorial team members allegedly abused him, saying that "BJP members are not allowed in the campus". The FIR of this incident was registered under sections 342 (wrongful confinement) and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) of IPC on the basis of a complaint filed by the MLA’s driver Guddu at Civil Lines police station on the same day. After an investigation, the police filed a charge sheet against the varsity officials on January 23, which was later challenged before the high court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/removal-of-bjp-flag-from-mlas-car-on-campus-amu-to-move-sc-for-quashing-of-case-against-staff/articleshow/79355229.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
November 23, 2020||Agra||71 more test Covid-19 positive in Agra, district tally 8,611||AGRA: At least 71 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Sunday evening, taking the district tally to 8,611. The patients included three staffers of the SN Medical College (SNMC) and two staffers of the district hospital. Moreover, a 60-year-old woman died while undergoing treatment at the SNMC. The resident of Nai Ki Mandi locality was suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome and chronic renal disease. According to the health department, the Covid-19 patient died due to a co-morbid condition. So far, 161 deaths of Covid patients have been reported in Agra district. The current Covid sample positivity rate in Agra district is 2.6% and the fatality rate 1.8%. Also, 76 Covid patients were discharged on Sunday. Of the 8,611 cases reported, 7,914 [91.9%] have been declared "cured and discharged". The number of active Covid cases in the district decreased from 542 on Saturday, to 536 on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/71-more-test-covid-19-ve-in-agra-district-tally-8611/articleshow/79355850.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Dehradun||Traders in Banbasa protest, demanding to collect dues from Nepal retailers||PITHORAGARH: Traders of Banbasa in Champawat district near the India-Nepal border staged a protest on Sunday on being denied permission to enter Nepal and collect their dues from traders there. The protestors said business had come to a standstill because of the lockdown. Before the pandemic, Nepalese traders carried essential commodities from India to their country. Some were loaned the items before the lockdown in March. Speaking to TOI, Bharat Bhandari, president of Traders’ Association, Banbasa, said, “Even though the district administration allowed Nepali traders to come to India in the last one month, Indian traders didn’t get permission to go to Nepal. Many traders have given commodities on credit to businessmen in Nepal’s Mahendra Nagar and Dhangari areas and hence, a good amount of our money is stuck in Nepalese markets. We want permission to go to Nepal freely, like we did before the lockdown, or our agitation will continue indefinitely.” Sub divisional magistrate of Tanakpur, Himanshu Kafaltia, said, “According to the Central government’s guidelines, citizens of Nepal and Bhutan can come to India and Indians can go to other countries, if allowed. So, even though Nepal citizens are coming to India, Indians cannot go to Nepal yet as the country’s border will remain sealed till December 15.” A few days ago, five traders had been allowed to go to Nepal’s Kanchanpur municipality, but the businessmen complained that the procedure at the checkpost took too long. In response, Kanchanpur administration said the details of those who wanted to enter Nepal could be submitted a day in advance in order to expedite things.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/traders-in-banbasa-protest-demanding-to-collect-dues-from-nepal-retailers/articleshow/79356613.cms||Prem Punetha
November 23, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala govt to decide on allowing more pilgrims, says Kadakampally Surendran||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state government is seriously considering the request of the Travancore devaswom board (TDB) to increase the number of devotees allowed per day at Sabarimala, said devaswom minister Kadakampally Surendran. A final decision in this regard will be taken after having discussions with chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and the health department, he said.  TDB president N Vasu said the board is confident that the Covid protocols and social distancing can be ensured if the number of pilgrims to the shrine is increased. At present, only 1,000 pilgrims are allowed to trek Sabarimala a day as per the recommendation of the expert committee headed by chief secretary Vishwas Mehta. During the weekends, 2,000 devotees are permitted to have darshan. The health department had strongly objected to increasing the number of devotees. The TDB had requested the government to increase the number of devotees to 5,000 per day since the revenue has been severely hit due to the restrictions. “We hope that the government will consider our request and take a favourable decision in the coming days,” said Vasu. The TDB has observed that 40% of the people who have reserved with the virtual queue are cancelling the trip. Hence, at present on an average 1,600 people are giving tokens for darshan. The TDB has informed the government that already it has incurred a loss to the tune of Rs 350 crore and if the devotees are restricted further then the board will not be able to provide the salary and pension of the employees. After the review meeting held in Sabarimala last week, the devaswom minister had said the government would support the TDB to compensate the loss it has incurred.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/min-govt-to-decide-on-allowing-more-pilgrims/articleshow/79357696.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cops intervene after airport cabbies overcharge||AHMEDABAD: Instead of ferrying passengers home without any trouble from SVPI airport on Sunday, a number of cabbies overcharged them. The malpractice came to the fore after personnel from the SVPI Airport Police Station intervened in a heated argument between cabbies and passengers outside the domestic terminal on Sunday afternoon. R R Desai, inspector, SVPI Airport Police Station, said: “We went to the airport when we were informed about a prolonged argument between drivers and passengers over fares.” Desai added: “We held a meeting with the cab drivers’ association and instructed them clearly to charge only what is due, especially in such unprecedented circumstances.” Desai said if the drivers violated norms again, strict action will be taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cops-intervene-after-airport-cabbies-overcharge/articleshow/79357690.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow University alumnus takes centre stage with ‘Paansa’||LUCKNOW: As the arts quadrangle of Lucknow University glistened under white light, its heritage highlighted by illumination of the stage, present and former students of the institution remained glued to their seats as 40 artists presented ‘Paansa’, a play directed by theatre personality and LU alumnus Salim Arif. ‘Paansa’, written by poet and lyricist Gulzar, is an interpretation of Pavan K Varma’s English poem ‘Yudhisthir and Draupadi’. “In the 100th year of LU, the idea was to come here for around two months and train present students for the play. But Covid-19 pandemic left the plan haywire,” said Arif after the colourful and thought-provoking performance. “LU has set an example for many who are hiding behind pandemic. Positive work can be done even under limitations. Centennial celebrations were organised both online and offline,” he added. Exhorting young generation, he said time had come for them to take forward the baton and ensure a smooth transition of ideas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lu-alumnus-takes-centre-stage-with-paansa/articleshow/79359415.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Muslims and AIMIM not related, Majlis against poor: G Kishan Reddy||HYDERABAD: Hitting out at the AIMIM, Union minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy on Sunday alleged that the Asaduddin Owaisi-led AIMIM is a family-run party that has a history of harassing poor Muslims. He said that the AIMIM has inherited the ideology of the razakars—private militia organised by Qasim Razvi during the Nizam rule— and that the BJP sees AIMIM as having no relation with Muslims. Speaking to reporters at a ‘meet the press’ programme, he said, “As far as Majlis party is concerned, BJP is very clear in its stand. There is no relation between the Majlis party and Muslims. Muslims brothers are different and the Majlis party is different. The Majlis Party harasses thousands of Muslims in Hyderabad. It encroached upon the properties of thousands of Muslims using mafia gangs and settlements.” Slamming the TRS for ‘failing’ to keep its poll promises such as “two bedroom houses” for the weaker sections, the minister claimed that L&T Metro cost was overrun by Rs 3,500 crore due to delays caused by the K Chandrasekhar Rao’s government. “They cannot even claim the success of the Metro. Works of the Metro began much before Rao took over as CM of the state,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/muslims-and-mim-not-related-majlis-against-poor-kishan/articleshow/79358707.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Curfew lifts air quality in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: The curfew in the city and limited vehicle movement once again brought alive the memories of the first Covid lockdown when the city’s air quality index (AQI) went below 100. For the last two days, the curfew once again brought the AQI below 100 in the city and reached 98, considered ‘good and satisfactory’ level according to Safar data. The Safar data also forecast that the city AQI on Monday night would be about 92, better than Sunday’s AQI. However, officials said that the forecast was based on the two-day reading and had nothing to do with the curfew that will be imposed from 9pm to 6am in the night every day. AMC officials said that though the forecast was below 100, but from Monday the routine traffic movement will push up the AQI. Among the four cities monitored by Safar only Pune, with an AQI of 77, had a better AQI than Ahmedabad. Civic body officials said that even the local AQI of Pirana had also registered as good and satisfactory for the past two days since the bio-mining project was halted and vehicle movement was almost unnoticeable. But what came as a surprise for the officials was that the AQI in Satellite area was constantly above 110, which was moderate. “If vehicle movement was to blame, the what was the reason of high AQI in Satellite during curfew?” mused an officer. Civic body officials will now probe into the Satellite AQI phenomenon and try to ascertain whether vehicular movement on SG Road was the contributing factor, or something else. They also pointed out that the AQI of Bopal has shown remarkable improvement, probable because the dumping site in the area is being removed and soon a bio-diversity park will come up. The AQI of Bopal is usually near that of Pirana, but for the last one month Bopal’s AQI had dropped below 200, considered moderate, and on Saturday and Sunday, Bopal had the lowest AQI in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/curfew-lifts-air-quality-in-city/articleshow/79357700.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
November 23, 2020||Hyderabad||132 crore ‘chargesheets’ must be filed against PM: KTR||HYDERABAD: Launching a scathing attack on the BJP government at the Centre for releasing a chargesheet against the TRS government by state BJP on Sunday, TRS working president KT Rama Rao said 132 crore chargesheets need to be filed against Prime Minister Narendra Modi for cheating the people. “The Prime Minister had promised to deposit Rs 15 lakh in each bank account by opening zero balance accounts. He also promised two crore jobs every year and announced a Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package. None of the industries have got the package. Where is the ‘housing for all’ scheme by 2022 as assured by Modi?” he said. KTR said while that the state government had contributed Rs 2.72 lakh crore to the Centre in the form of income tax, excise, GST and other taxes, while the Centre had given only Rs 1.42 lakh crore to statutory financial assistance and share in taxes. “Which means, for every Rs 1 paid by Telangana to the Centre, the state got only half, i.e. 50 paise. I dare the BJP leaders to tell what the Centre has done for Hyderabad, and did the BJP government give any special project to the state capital? The Centre did not release funds for Telangana towards flood relief, while Karnataka and Gujarat got funds,” KTR said. Addressing a road show in Khairatabad, he said when TRS regime is giving Rs 10,000 to flood impacted people, now BJP is saying that they will give Rs 25,000. “We will give the list of 6.5 lakh beneficiaries, let them distribute money. During the Covid-19 pandemic, we were there with people, where was BJP then” he asked. After the polls, we will distribute the funds to everyone, he added. The TRS working president also said they have envisaged plans for the city in such a way that it will not have water scarcity till 2050.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/132-cr-chargesheets-must-be-filed-against-pm-ktr/articleshow/79358706.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow boy who won medal at LU’s first convocation in 1922||LUCKNOW: Ashutosh Bhattacharya from the city was one of the first gold medal winners of Lucknow University and awarded at the first convocation in 1922 for topping MA (English). He topped in BA 1 and BA 2 in 1919 and 1920 respectively, scoring highest in English and sanskrit. He was given White Memorial gold medal for topping MA two years later and was appointed as a lecturer in LU’s English department the same year. He served there till 1958. His son Prof SN Bhattacharya, too, taught at the chemistry department after doing his PhD at Leeds University, England. “My father’s name was later written, perhaps in Malviya Hall, with golden ink, which got erased when part of the hall was demolished for renovation,” says Prof Bhattacharya. “He never got pension, as LU then didn't have the provision. But he had a deep spiritual yearnings. He followed Anandamayi Ma across the whole country,” he says. “He had the largest collection of Time magazine and National Geographic magazine, along with dictionaries for latin, french, whatever translations,” he adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/city-boy-who-won-medal-at-lus-first-convocation-in-1922/articleshow/79359440.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Varanasi||Vindhya & Bundelkhand wallowed in apathy since independence: PM||VARANASI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday launched a veiled attack on Congress, accusing it of pushing Vindhyachal into the blind spot of development since independence, despite the region being rich in natural resources. While virtually launching the Rs 5555-crore piped water supply project in Sonbhadra and Mirzapur, Modi said, Vindhya and Bundelkhand regions were wallowing in ‘abhaav’ (shortage) for decades. “Though blessed with rivers, these twin regions were tagged drought-prone, forcing women to travel miles to fetch water and triggering a mass exodus,” Modi said, after kicking off 23 piped water schemes at a digital event at Ghaghraul dam near remote Karmao village of Sonbhadra. He said, the Jal Jeevan Mission scheme, which would benefit 42 lakh people of the region, is aimed at building self-reliance. Modi categorically insisted that the poor and tribals were not given priority till BJP came to power in 2014. Citing how the scheme helped 2.60 crore families across India to receive piped drinking water, he said, “It’s a matter of time when 41 lakh people in 3,000 villages will receive tap water in their homes, which would check diseases like cholera, typhoid, encephalitis,” the PM said. At least 1,600 villages of Mirzapur and 1,389 villages of Sonbhadra will benefit from the project, which is pegged at Rs 2,343 crore and Rs 3,212.18 crore respectively, complementing the ‘Atal Bhoojal Yojana’, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/vindhya-bkhand-wallowed-in-apathy-since-independence-pm/articleshow/79358500.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
November 23, 2020||Nagpur||Patients showing dengue signs, testing Covid +ve & vice versa||Nagpur: With sporadic cases of dengue and viral infections surfacing, medical colleges and private hospitals have observed that several patients are exhibiting corresponding symptoms like fever with chills, drop in platelets, breathlessness, infected lungs but confirming only for other disease. For example, dengue patients have tested RT-PCR negative but had low CT scan score, and breathlessness. On the other hand, Covid patients are complaining of body and joint pain and fever with chills which are symptoms mainly associated with dengue, malaria or typhoid. Doctors feel this may be confused with only dengue or Covid and advised physicians to also look for complete investigation. GMCH medical superintendent Dr Avinash Gawande last week found many patients having fever with chills but they were only Covid positive. Dr Hema Dhoble, head of Covid Unit at Suretech Hospital, Jamtha, said in some patients platelet too is down though they tested negative for dengue. “We are testing such patients for dengue too just to rule it out as fever chills is associated with dengue too,” she said. Dr Dhoble also found a strange case which showed all symptoms of Covid but tested positive for dengue only. “One patient from Madhya Pradesh exhibited complete signs of Covid. Her HRCT scan score was pretty low indicating infected lungs, had fever, and was breathless. But her RT-PCR report was negative and she was shifted to non-Covid ward. Patients in rural areas in Central India are at risk as such thorough diagnosis may be missed,” she said. She citied another example of a mother-son duo from Wani. “They were RT-PCR positive but platelet count was low and had fever with chills,” she said. These conditions are result of injudicious use of paracetamol and antibiotics, doctors say. “When these patients see a doctor, they had already started paracetamol (dolo) to suppress fever. So fever remains mild, while infection goes unnoticed. Hence, there should not be a situation where we are treating Covid and missing dengue or vice versa,” she said. Axon Hospital director and critical care physician at OCHRI Dr Santosh Dhole said fever with chills can’t b called a new symptom. “Fever is one of Covid symptoms. It is possible a patient of either dengue, malaria, or urinary tract infection is also infected with Covid. We too have been observing patients who are Covid positive with platelets count on the lower side,” he said. Consulting pulmonologist at Kingsway Dr Vikram Rathi said any viral infection can cause drop in platelets although other causes of the drop should be evaluated. “Nowadays invariably every patient is getting tested for Covid. If the drop in platelets is not explained by Covid purely, than we investigating for other causes like dengue. Yet, both Covid and dengue infection have also been found out to be coexisting in few patients. For high risk patients, it is a deadly combination,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/patients-showing-dengue-signs-testing-covid-ve-vice-versa/articleshow/79357692.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
November 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||92 vehicles seized; 13 cops get virus||Ahmedabad: In all, 33 police personnel and officials and 14 Home Guard and Traffic Brigade jawans are still being treated for Covid, said city police chief Sanjay Srivastava who addressed the media on Sunday. He said that over the two days of curfew in the city, 13 police personnel and officials contracted Covid, of whom five have recovered. Srivastava said that during the curfew, 92 vehicles were confiscated and fines amounting to Rs 2.44 lakh were recovered from their owners. Moreover, 279 cases were registered for not wearing masks and Rs 2.79 lakh was recovered in fines. “During the curfew and thereafter during the night curfew from Monday, eight DCPs, 15 ACPs, 56 inspectors, 157 sub-inspectors, and 4,500 other personnel were deployed,” Srivastava said. “Moreover, 3,655 Home Guard jawans were pressed into service.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/92-vehicles-seized-13-cops-get-virus/articleshow/79357720.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Jaipur||Restart jumbo ride at Amber Fort: Rajasthan BJP chief to CM||JAIPUR: State BJP president Satish Poonia, who also represents Amber constituency, has written a letter to chief minister Ashok Gehlot to resume elephant safari at Amber Fort. Poonia also demanded the state government to increase the grant money provided for maintenance of the elephants. A letter dated November 22, reads, “During the Covid-19 crises, the mahouts are facing acute financial stress. Elephant ride at the Amer Fort should be resumed again. Also, the state government is providing Rs 600 per day per elephant. But, it is not sufficient as elephant diet costs approximately Rs 3,000.” On Saturday, the TOI in its report, “Debt-ridden Jaipur mahouts demand to resume jumbo ride at Amber” highlighted the plight of mahouts and elephants in absence of employment. The pandemic for nearly nine months has severely affected the earnings of the mahouts at “Haathi Gaon” in Jaipur. With ride closed, elephants are forced to rest in the stands. Nearly 10,000 family members are waiting with bated breath for normalcy to return. The tourism at Amber Fort was re-started on June 2, 2020. But elephant rides continue to be restricted. Memorandum submitted by the Elephant Village Development Society reads, “The elephant ride was suspended on March 18. As our livelihood has been seriously affected, we are facing immense difficulty to pay school fees of our children and meet our day to day expenses.” In Jaipur, during the tourist season, the elephant owners earn around Rs 6,000 to 8,000 per day from tourists who visit Haathi Gaon. The abrupt shutdown of elephant village has affected the lives of these captive animals and their caretakers whose main job is to serve the thousands of domestic and foreign tourists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/restart-jumbo-ride-at-amber-fort-raj-bjp-chief-to-gehlot/articleshow/79358712.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: JDA plans schemes for farmhouses and agri-warehousing||JAIPUR: After reclaiming its prime land from encroachers, the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) plans to develop farmhouse and agro-warehousing scheme. The civic body’s enforcement team recently removed encroachment from 120 bigha land at Natta village in zone-13. Similarly, 180 bigha of land was reclaimed in Govindpura Ropda in zone-10. An official said, "A survey will be conducted of both the lands to decide whether to develop a farmhouse scheme or agro-warehousing scheme. A report will be tabled in a review meeting on Tuesday". Moreover, JDA will soon launch agro-warehousing scheme at Amber. It has earmarked 1.19 lakh square metre land in Akheda and Maheshpura village. Out of the total land, 33,000 square metre will be reserved to develop 18 big warehouse plots. Facilities including hotel, restaurants, petrol pumps, banks and others will be developed on the remaining land. "The scheme has been launched in the close proximity of agriculture farms. Moreover, it is also connected with the industrial areas, railway and bus stand," added the official. JDA is also planning to develop a similar warehousing project on Ajmer Road, Tonk Road and Agra Road. Officials claim that these projects will boost the infrastructure and jobs avenues in the city and businessmen and farmers will also be benefited. "If companies develop warehouses in these areas, they can definitely get proper connectivity with national capital as Jaipur comes under a counter magnetic city. Moreover, it is not far from Agra, Delhi and nearby areas where a lot of industries are established. The investors would be in the centre point of the golden triangle," an official said. Finding an innovative way to earn revenue, JDA this year had decided to prepare an action plan to sell its land. The deputy commissioners were asked to include re-planning of the plots, fix auction rates, methodology of auction and wide publicity of JDA assets in the action plan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jda-plans-schemes-for-farmhouses-and-agri-warehousing/articleshow/79358718.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Flood-hit residents face vote obstacles||Hyderabad: Several flood- affected families are afraid that they may be deprived of their right to vote in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections, which are scheduled to be held on December 1. Lack of awareness on how to exercise their rights in view of the damage to documents and other important papers has put many in a fix. “The flood has damaged many important documents and many don’t know how they can use their voting right in the upcoming GHMC elections,” Nazeer, one of the voters from Yakutpura, said. Mohammed Ahmed, vice-president, TDP minority cell, told TOI that polling campaigns have been limited to certain localities due to fear of public wrath. “Everytime voters are made aware about the importance of voting, but this time around no such drive is being seen. If you ask a common man about the polling date, he is surprised as he is not even aware about the polling schedule,’’ he said. TDP has asked the state election commission to issue a notification about the alternate ID cards or make some other provision for the flood-hit families. “Many have lost their documents in the floods and hence it will be difficult for them to exercise their franchise. Obviously, they may express their anger against a party leader by voting against him but they are more afraid of becoming ineligible to vote,” Ahmed said. Majority of those living in slums may lose their voting right due to lack of necessary documents. “Temporary voter ID cards should be issued to the flood-hit people. The EC should take note of this issue and let the flood-affected families exercise their democratic right,’’ the TDP leader said. Social activist Asif Hussain Sohail said that during the rescue operations many people lost Aadhaar and PAN cards. "It is a matter of concern for the voters if fake IDs are used. The issue shouldn't be ignored and the EC must remain alert to prevent malpractices during voting,” said Sohail, who took part in the rescue operations in the flood-affected areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/flood-hit-residents-face-vote-obstacles/articleshow/79358713.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Ruckus at Nampally BJP office||Hyderabad: BJP workers and supporters of MLA T Raja Singh on Sunday ransacked the party’s state head office in Nampally after the final list of candidates for the GHMC polls was released. Singh’s supporters were reportedly upset with the allotment of ticket to Surekha Om Prakash, wife of BJP leader Om Prakash, in Singh’s assembly segment Goshamahal. The workers damaged the furniture and attacked Om Prakash. Meanwhile, the poll campaign by the BJP candidates and the ruling TRS gained momentum in Mailardevpally division on Sunday. The BJP campaign vehicle was allegedly damaged by TRS workers. BJP workers further alleged that they were stopped from campaigning in the ward. The police later intervened and brought the situation under control.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ruckus-at-nampally-bjp-office/articleshow/79358724.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Jayakwadi dam set for 22 TMC water release for Rabi season||AURANGABAD: The Jayakwadi major irrigation project, which is currently filled to its designated storage capacity, is scheduled to release nearly 22 TMC water for irrigation purpose during the current Rabi season, benefiting 1.46 lakh hectare land under agriculture in Marathwada, authorities concerned have said. As the existing model code of conduct associated with Graduates’ Constituency poll for Marathwada has further delayed the crucial meeting of the Canal Advisory Committee which should ideally take place by October 15 every year, the governmental members of the panel are scheduled to meet on Monday to give an official nod for allocation of water for different purposes. Assistant superintendent engineer associated with Command Area Development Authority (CADA) of Godavari Marathwada Irrigation Development Corporation (GMIDC) Jaising Hire on Sunday said that total three rotations are likely to take place from Jayakwadi dam for Rabi season. “Besides Rabi season, Jayakwadi dam will also have a planned release of nearly 19 TMC water for hot-weather season which will be carried out in total five rotations. It will benefit agricultural land spread over 53,000 hectare land in Aurangabad and other parts of Marathwada,” he said. While Rabi sowing in the region is in progress, no water release for the irrigation purposes from Jayakwadi dam has sparked angry reactions from the farming community. Farmers’ leader Jayaji Suryawanshi of Annada Shetkari Sanghatana said that Rabi crops such as wheat, sorghum and chick-pea need water. “The non-release of water has posed issues before farmers who have either already undertaken sowing or are planning to do it soon. The rise in mercury level has further aggravated the issues before the farming community. It is ironical that the farmers are kept waiting for water-release even though Jayakwadi dam is full,” he said. The district administrations from Aurangabad, Jalna, Parbhani and Beed along with other government authorities are scheduled to join virutal meeting of Canal Advisory Committee for Jayakwadi dam on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/jayakwadi-dam-set-for-22-tmc-water-release-for-rabi-season/articleshow/79358744.cms||Prasad Joshi
November 23, 2020||Lucknow||Anupam Kher recalls Lucknow days, tells Lucknow University students to chase passion, not marks||LUCKNOW: ‘Don’t worry about marks, just follow your passion’ – this was the word of advice to students from versatile actor Anupam Kher who shared the experiences of his Lucknow days during virtual interface with youngsters as part of LU centenary celebrations on Sunday. During the talk, moderated by poet Yatindra Mishra, Kher spoke about his struggles and how marks and medals are not everything. “Lessons taught by life and pursuing one’s passions can help achieve anything,” he said. “I never intellectualized my work. Apne kandhey pe gold medal leke nahin ghoomta main (I don’t brag about my gold medals). For me, journey is more important than the destination. I scored poorly in academics but still if I am here at a university, it means I have done something in my life,” he said. “My competition was with myself. Mera muqaam main tha (My destination was my own self),” he added. Kher said he did not study at LU but had fond memories of passing by the university every day as he lived in Niralanagar. “Now, I may romanticize the past and my struggle but those days were really tough. I used to act in plays for Rs 100. Hard work paid and I got a job of Rs 1,200 per month at Bhartendu Natya Academy,” he recalled. When asked by the poet why he accepted the role of an elderly man (in ‘Saraansh’) at such a young age and was it not a risk, he replied: “If you try you risk failure, if you don’t, you ensure it. Main hero nahin actor banne aya tha (I wanted to be an actor, not a hero).” “My father was my best friend. He used to say that failure is an event,” he added. Kher motivated students not to be scared of failures and said, “Coronavirus pandemic has taught us many things. It has made us realize that we need very few things to stay happy.” During the interaction, the actor also appreciated a poem, ‘Ladkiyan bahut ladaka hoti hain’ by a Lucknow-based poet Pankaj Prasoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kher-recalls-lucknow-days-tells-lu-students-to-chase-passion-not-marks/articleshow/79359472.cms||Mohita Tewari
November 23, 2020||Kozhikode||Kodanchery: For Thankachan, it’s a costly ‘deposit’||KOZHIKODE: Sixty-year-old farmer Thankachan Kunnumpurath, hailing from Kodenchery, has become the go-to man for farmers who have been battling wild boar menace in Kodanchery and nearby panchayats. During the last three months, he has shot down nine crop raiding wild boars. Following the order issued by the government in May permitting shooting down of crop raiding wild boars by persons empanelled by the forest department, Thankachan has made the most number of killings in the state which has made him eligible for payment of Rs 9,000 from the forest department, apart from bestowing the crop saviour status among his colleagues. However, the local body election notification has ended his gun- toting days as he along with many other empanelled shooters, have had to deposit their guns at the police stations as part of election model code of conduct. All licensed gun holders are required to deposit their guns at the police station after the announcement of schedule of any election till the election process is over. Thankachan had started shooting crop-raiding wild boars after getting the required permission in August and have been responding to the numerous calls he receives from farmers in Kodanchery, Thamarassery and nearby areas. “During the last three months, I have been venturing out on my scooter with the 12 bore gun looking for crop-raiding wild boars. The trips which start at 11pm used to continue till 4am,” Thankachan said. He said that at least the licensed gun holders empanelled by the forest department should be exempted from depositing the guns in the police stations during the elections as it used to take around three months to get the guns back during the previous elections. “Wild boar attacks peak during the northeast monsoon months. Also, many tuber crops, including tapioca, are ready for harvest now and the wild boars are wrecking much havoc. Day before yesterday even my tapioca plants were destroyed. There was nothing I could do as I had deposited my gun at the police station,” Thankachan said.  State forest minister K Raju said that the depositing of guns during elections is necessitated by the model code of conduct. As the state government has recently extended the tenure of the government order allowing the killing of wild boars, the licensed fire arms holders empanelled by the forest department can make use of the provisions after they get their guns back once the election process is over. “Meanwhile, the farmers who face wild boar menace can approach the forest department and if necessary the department officials will shoot down the animals,” the minister added. According to forest department authorities, only 95 wild boars have been gunned down in the state after the government issued the order in May.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/for-thankachan-its-a-costly-deposit/articleshow/79357728.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Jodhpur||British citizen who tested positive twice bitten by Cobra||JODHPUR: British citizen Ian Jones, who is working in Jodhpur with traditional craftsmen under a charity-backed social enterprise, had multiple medical conditions in a short span of time but is recovering fast. Having survived bouts of coronavirus twice apart from dengue and malaria, Jones was recently admitted to a private hospital by his colleagues following a snake bite, which caused blindness and paralysis. According to CMHO Balwant Manda, he also tested Covid positive and was treated for multiple medical conditions. “After showing signs of recovery, he was discharged from the hospital last week”, Manda said. According to information, Jones was bitten by a cobra and was admitted to a hospital in Jodhpur last week. The doctor, who treated him, said Jones came to the hospital after being bitten by a snake. He also was suspected to be Covid but tested negative during treatment. Referring to his medical conditions of blurred vision and paralysis like symptoms, he said that these were the temporary symptoms caused by the effect of snake poison. A former healthcare worker, Jones has been working with traditional craftsmen through his charity-backed social enterprise, Sabirian, which helps import their goods in Britain to help them escape poverty. Community Action Isle of Wight, which owns Sabirian, has set up a GoFundMe page to raise funds to cover Jones’ medical costs and in the hope he can eventually be sent home. “Dad is a fighter and during his time in India he suffered from malaria and dengue fever before Covid,” his son Seb said in a statement on a GoFundMe page set up to help pay his medical bills and travel back to the Isle of Wight in southern England. “He had not been able to travel home due to the pandemic and as a family, we understood his desire to continue to support the many people who relied on him,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/briton-who-tested-ve-twice-bitten-by-cobra/articleshow/79358745.cms||Ajay Parmar
November 23, 2020||Jaipur||Rs 25,000 fine for flouting guest rule at weddings in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The state’s home department on Sunday issued directions to the district collectors and district magistrates stating that in order to ensure that not more than 100 people are allowed in a marriage function and Covid protocol is maintained, the organisers should compulsorily conduct videography of the function. Moreover, the penalty for exceeding the maximum limit of guests has been increased from Rs 10,000 to Rs 25,000. It also stated that, if the district collector/magistrate feels the need to conduct videography of a marriage function, they should do so by setting up a team. Third, after examination of the video, if it is found out that the number of guests is more than the maximum limit, a penalty (of Rs 10,000) should be imposed on the organizer as per Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Act, 2020, and action as per other acts must be taken. The home department issued notification, amending the Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Act, which states any person not wearing mask or face cover in public transport will be fined Rs 500 instead of Rs 200 earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rs-25000-fine-for-flouting-guest-rule-at-weddings/articleshow/79358756.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Curfew means money minting for private transport in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: The curfew in the city meant raking in moolah for private vehicle operators. They stuffed their vehicles with passengers, disregarding social distancing norms, and charged each passenger anything between Rs 350 and Rs 3,500. As the Gujarat State Road Transport Corporation (GSRTC) buses stopped plying on the roads, these private operators parked their vehicles on the outskirts of the city. They packed more than 10 passengers in cars which had the capacity only for nine persons. Those passengers who had arrived in trains from outside Gujarat and were headed for Rajkot, Bhavnagar, Amreli or even Kutch were dropped on the outskirts of the city by Ahmedabad Municipal Transport Service (AMTS) buses. “I came to the city from Delhi and was headed for Rajkot. An AMTS bus dropped me near Sanathal crossroads from where I walked to Ahmedabad-Rajkot Highway. Many vehicles were parked at the crossroads. They were overcrowded. For Rajkot they were charging Rs 350 in a car which had 10 passengers,” narrated Vimal Singh, a traveller. “In the absence of private luxury buses and the GSRTC buses, the private operators were minting money, showing a complete disregard to Covid safety norms,” Singh said. “When I asked a taxi driver for a personal trip to Rajkot, he asked me to cough up Rs 3,500. Moreover, he said that he wouldn’t drive me into the city, but would drop me on the outskirts of Rajkot,” he added. Narrating his experience, another passenger Kunal Shah, a resident of Bhavnagar, said: “There were small buses that were operating from the highway. They were charging double the fare for Bhavnagar. Also, people were made to sit on tables in the space between two seats, and the majority of these passengers were without masks. The passengers who had come to Ahmedabad from north India had to suffer a lot.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/curfew-means-money-minting-for-private-transport/articleshow/79357726.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
November 23, 2020||Coimbatore||In Dharmapuri, cop stopped from cremating wife’s body||Coimbatore: A special sub-inspector (SSI) of police was on Saturday night stopped from cremating the dead body of his wife, who her relatives said was murdered by him. The Dharmapuri town police subsequently sent the body to the government hospital for postmortem. While police have registered a case under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (suspicious death), inspector Rathnakumar said the actual cause of death would be known only after getting the autopsy report. “Action would be taken based on that.” A relative of the deceased said the SSI, Karmegam, who was attached to Bommidi police station, often used to fight with his wife Baby, a private school teacher, over differences of opinion. They were residing with their two sons at Vennampatti area in Dharmapuri town. A few days ago, the source said, Karmegam had fought with his wife and hit her on head. She was admitted to a private hospital and discharged only on Saturday morning. “He fought with her the same night when she fell unconscious. She was taken to a private hospital, where doctors declared her brought dead.” Karmegam subsequently took the body back home. When he attempted to cremate the body, the relatives of the deceased expressed doubts over her death and alerted the Dharmapuri town police. The woman’s relatives demanded action against Karmegam, who they said had murdered her. Inspector Rathnakumar said Baby was taking treatment for lungs and heart problem in Salem. She was also suffering from uterus problem. “We have collected the treatment details from the hospital.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/in-dharmapuri-cop-stopped-from-cremating-wifes-body/articleshow/79358733.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong releases chargesheet against Union min Javadekar||Hyderabad: The Congress on Sunday released a chargesheet against Union minister Prakash Javadekar, asking him to return to New Delhi only after answering the questions posed in it. Telangana Congress working president and Malkajgiri MP A Revanth Reddy said the flood impact in Greater Hyderabad would have been lesser had the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led NDA government acted on Congress MPs’ complaints to save Musi river from encroachments and pollution. Stating that both BJP and TRS are friendly parties and are trying to fool the voters of Greater Hyderabad as if they are rival parties, Revanth said: “Why did not the Union environment ministry take action when I brought to its notice that G.O 111 was being violated in Telangana. It is due to the violations of G.O 111 that tanks overflowed, causing floods and inundation of residential colonies resulting in loss of lives and properties of people in and around the city,” Revanth said. “Why did Javadekar not do anything when I approached NGT too to stop construction of new secretariat buildings in the vicinity of Hussainsagar lake as per Supreme Court orders,” Revanth asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-releases-chargesheet-against-union-min-javadekar/articleshow/79358763.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Varanasi||Narendra Modi lauds Yogi Adityanath’s development pace, deft handling of migrant crisis||VARANASI: Heaping praise on chief minister Yogi Adityanath for accelerating development in the state even during the Covid-19 crisis, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said, “Uttar Pradesh sarkaar ne kamaal kiya hai (UP government has done wonders).” Lauding the chief minister’s pro-people approach, particularly during the pandemic, he said, “Yogi, his team and the people of Uttar Pradesh deserve applause for deftly handling the migrant crisis through rehabilitation and welfare measures.” Praising the government’s strategy to combat encephalitis, he said, “In fact, the Yogi government’s encephalitis management has been the most-talked about achievement and drawn praise from experts too. People would be showering aashirwaad on the chief minister and his team.” He also admired the state government’s move to use drone technology to map houses and resolve property disputes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/modi-lauds-yogis-devpt-pace-deft-handling-of-migrant-crisis/articleshow/79358505.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Five-day session of 17th assembly begins today||PATNA: The five-day first session of the 17th state legislative assembly will begin on Monday. Pro-tem Speaker Jitan Ram Manjhi will administer the oath to the newly-elected 242 other MLAs on Monday and Tuesday, besides setting the process for the formal constitution of the House with the election of the new Speaker on November 25. The proceedings of the state assembly will be conducted in the central hall of the new legislature building, while the legislative council will sit in the state assembly on November 26 and 27 for its two-day session. This arrangement has been made to comply with the norms of social distancing and the use of masks as required for the prevention of Covid-19 transmission. Governor Phagu Chauhan will address the joint session of the state legislature in the central hall on November 26, following which the MLAs will hold discussions on the vote of thanks on the governor’s address as moved by the government. It would be followed by the government’s reply to it. Finally, the House will also pass the second supplementary budget for the 2020-21 financial year. The ruling NDA combine has not as yet indicated as to who will be its candidate for the post of Speaker. BJP has 74 MLAs while JD(U) has 43 in the 243-member legislative assembly. At present, the most prospective candidate for the post is considered to be seven-time BJP MLA from Patna Saheb, Nand Kishore Yadav. But sources close to him repeated on Sunday that he had no information about it. BJP might also throw a “surprise” from among the younger lot of its MLAs on whose name CM Nitish Kumar will also have no objection, sources said. Manjhi on Sunday issued instructions to the senior state government officials concerned to take precautionary steps against Covid-19 in view of the session. Manjhi also held a consultative meeting with the legislative council acting chairman Awadhesh Narayan Singh and senior officials of the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/five-day-session-of-17th-assembly-begins-today/articleshow/79357732.cms||Abhay Singh
November 23, 2020||Lucknow||Pandemic takes its toll on Services Week of IAS cadre||LUCKNOW: The pandemic has forced the scrapping of Services Week, the prestigious annual event of elite IAS cadre, which was scheduled for December. It would have been difficult to hold a big gathering in keeping with Covid protocols and adhering to standard operating procedures.The event, which provides a platform to young and senior officers to interact with the governor, chief minister and government brass, was not held last year too due to preoccupation of the CM in official work. “Given the prevailing situation and apprehension of a third Covid wave, we cannot think of organising the event. It stands cancelled,” said a functionary of UP IAS Association, which has been organising Services Week since the Colonial era. “The Week kicks off with a gathering of over 600 IAS officers. So, we cannot even initiate the event considering the government cap of 100 invites even at weddings. It would be unethical to even consider organising the event as it would set a bad precedence,” said an office-bearer of the association. Apart from brainstorming sessions to hammer out a strategy to implement government programmes, IAS officers also introspect on the state of affairs in the elite cadre. Both heads of state — the chief minister and governor — host lunch and dinner sessions at their official residence. Spouses of officers also invited. The tradition was first broken during the Mayawati regime when the IAS Association was denied permission to hold Services Week when a non-IAS cabinet secretary, Shashank Shekhar Singh, played a key role in scuttling celebrations. However, Mayawati’s successor Akhilesh Yadav revived the event with more colour, sporstmanship and enthusiasm by leading functions and captaining a cricket team of ministers against IAS officers led by chief secretary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pandemic-takes-its-toll-on-services-week-of-ias-cadre/articleshow/79359478.cms||Subhash Mishra
November 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Musi to 2BHK: BJP punches holes in TRS govt claims||HYDERABAD: BJP on Sunday launched a scathing attack on TRS with the release of a 34-page ‘chargesheet’ on failures of the pink party, which administers Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), in the last six years. The document, released by Union minister Prakash Javadekar at an event in the city, questioned if people wanted old city to become Bhagyanagar and if they wanted the new city to become like the old city. This is the biggest chargesheet BJP has released against TRS regime so far unlike the assembly and local polls earlier. BJP has been releasing chargesheets in states where it is in the opposition. Acting on the suggestion of GHMC election incharge Bhupender Yadav, BJP deferred the plan to release manifesto, while a website was launched with questions drawn from the chargesheet. The document primarily focused on 60 points, including TRS claim that it spent Rs 67,000 crore on Hyderabad. “Where has all the money gone and why city suffered floods if that money was spent,” it asked. It also questioned why the promise of 2-BHK houses promised for three lakh poor was not fulfilled. It also asked status of the CM’s promise to make Hyderabad like Dallas and Istanbul. The document asked what happened to KTR’s promise of ‘100 day action plan’ for the city to improve amenities. It alleged though CM promised to make Musi area into a tourism spot, everything remained on paper. “Why illegal occupation of lakes and tanks were not removed as promised during 2016 GHMC polls,” it asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/musi-to-2bhk-bjp-punches-holes-in-trs-govt-claims/articleshow/79358808.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 23, 2020||Kochi||ED probing KIIFB a challenge to state’s powers, says Isaac||Thiruvananthapuram: By deciding to probe into the masala bond of Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB), the enforcement directorate (ED) is challenging the powers of the state, finance minister T M Thomas Isaac said. He said that the news about the probe by the agency into floating masala bond had come to the light through media, and the agency’s move amounts to contempt towards the state assembly. He said that the move is to destabilize the state government. The ED has taken preliminary steps to probe the functioning of KIIFB, particularly regarding the masala bond, through which Rs 2,150 crore was raised by the government from foreign market. It is learnt that the ED has written to the RBI seeking the details of the bond. The finance minister said that the agency is meant for probing the economic crimes, and not for interpreting the Constitution, for which there are courts. “The probe could put on hold Kerala’ development,” he said, adding that the government had nothing to fear. Isaac, who had questioned the comptroller and auditor general (CAG) with regards to the audit report having adverse remarks against KIIFB, also said that he wanted to know on what basis was the ED initiating a probe. “It is true that the CAG report had indirectly blamed the RBI for giving KIIFB the sanction to float masala bond. But I have never made this public,” the finance minister told reporters. “I would like to know on whose complaint the ED is taking up the case,” he added. Isaac said that nothing more was required after the RBI’s approval and the RBI had given sanction to the KIIFB to issue masala bonds up to Rs 2,672.8 crore in a letter dated June 1, 2018. On March 22, 2019, the RBI also issued the loan registration number. It is on the basis of this that masala bonds were floated on March 29 and the bonds were listed in the London Stock Exchange on May 17, 2019. He said that the CAG coming up with such a report without discussing it with the state government is with a clear agenda. Isaac said that the opposition is bothered only on finding a tool to hit the government rather than protecting the rights of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ed-probing-kiifb-a-challenge-to-states-powers-says-isaac/articleshow/79356653.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Allahabad||Passengers to get luggage sanitisedand wrapped at Prayagraj Junction||PRAYAGRAJ: Akin to the airports, baggage sanitisation and wrapping facility on a paid basis will now be available at Prayagraj junction of the North Central Railways (NCR) to the passengers. The step has been taken keeping in mind the passengers who want additional safety from Covid-19 virus. The facility is in addition to several of the provisions introduced by NCR to promote social distancing during the pandemic, including the introduction of boarding passes, contactless ticket checking facility and thermal scanning of passengers, all usually available only at airports. “In the present Covid-19 crisis, there have been consistent efforts from our side to ensure safe travel for the passengers for which passengers are being made aware for taking all precautions through posters, banners, and public announcement of passengers. In this sequence, the facility of sanitisation and wrapping of passengers’ luggage at Prayagraj Junction has been introduced by Prayagraj Division under the guidance of Divisional Railway Manager (DRM), Prayagraj, Mohit Chandra”, said the newly appointed public relation officer (PRO) of the division, Amit Singh. With this newly installed machine, about 2,000 bags can be sanitised, and 500 bags can be wrapped in a day, added Singh. This machine was installed after the joint efforts of the railway administration and book-baggage.com India private limited. During the use of this facility by passengers, the DRM has requested the passengers to ensure compliance of Covid norms. Under this facility, the facility of sanitisation and wrapping of passengers’ luggage will be provided by the book-baggage organisation. The passenger has to pay an amount of Rs 10 for getting their luggage sanitised and Rs 50 for getting the sanitised luggage wrapped. Passengers can get this facility by contacting the counter of the Book-Baggage organisation established in the concourse area of the station. For this, passengers can pay through any UPI (Google Pay, Phone Pay, Paytm) portal. Senior divisional commercial manager Anshu Pandey, station director Anupam Saxena and other officers and employees were present on occasion. A couple of months back, the division had introduced the concept of an innovative QR code-based ticket checking system. The system, developed by Prayagraj division of North Central Railway (NCR), has since been implemented on pan India basis for contactless reserved ticket checking system. On successful reserved ticket booking from anywhere, an SMS containing URL of QR code is now sent to the passenger mobile number. During entering the station or checking of the ticket, passenger clicks on the QR code URL available in his/her SMS and the QR Code of the reserved ticket get displayed on passenger’s mobile browser.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/passengers-to-get-luggage-sanitisedand-wrapped-at-prayagraj-junction/articleshow/79358486.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Doctors depend on lung test to identify Covid positive cases||JAIPUR: A number of patients, who tested negative for Covid in the RT-PCR test, have been found to be suffering from ground glass opacity in their lungs as revealed by high-resolution computed tomography (HRCT). The health department, in an order issued on November 8, acknowleged that a large number of patients who tested negative have been detected with infection in their lungs in HRCT. In the order, principal secretary (health) Siddhartha Mahajan directed all chief medical health officers to depute a nodal officer, who should be a senior doctor, for keeping a database of such patients who have tested negative but have lung infection, said a senior health department official. The issue was raised during the video conferencing of chief minister Ashok Gehlot with health department officials and doctors on Friday. SMS Medical College principal and controller Dr Sudhir Bhandari said even though a patient tests negative for Covid in RT-PCR test, if infection is found in his lungs in HRCT or has any other Covid symptoms, he should be get treatment as per Covid protocol. While HRCT is free in government hospitals, government has put a price cap in private hospitals. The health department officials claimed that HRCT is useful for treatment of Covid patients. In a recent order issued by the health department, in which directions have been issued to the health authorities to provide free transportation to patients having difficulty in breathing in rural areas, to get their HRCT done at district or divisional level government hosptials, if the treating doctors finds its relevant. If doctors find ground glass opacity along with other typical Covid symptoms in CT scan report, they start treating the patients immediately without waiting for the RT-PCR report. HRCT becomes even more important as a diagnostic tool as the sensitivity of RT-PCR is 70% and it could show false negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/docs-depend-on-lung-test-to-identify-positive-cases/articleshow/79358780.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Jaipur||Strictly enforce fresh norms: Rajasthan CM to officials||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday directed the collectors and the SPs of all districts to strictly implement fresh guidelines issued by his office on November 21. The guidelines issued by him include a curfew from 8 pm to 6 am in eight districts which are facing a spike in Covid-19 cases. The number of people in social and religious gatherings has been capped at 100 and fine shot up from Rs 200 to Rs 500. During the meeting with the officials via video conferencing, Gehlot has cleared that in marriages if the attendees go beyond 100, the penalty will be Rs 25,000, up from Rs 10,000. “The police and administrative officials have to regularly visit the markets to see if the Covid-19 protocol is being followed or not,” says the official release. Cracking down on the marriages, Gehlot in the meeting directed the officials that they have to counsel the families solemnizing marriage before the marriage day. “The families have to compulsorily go for videography of the marriage/event,” said the press statement. Clarifying the increase in penalties and stringent measures, Gehlot said that the intention of state is to lower down the cases and to improve the recovery rate. “Due to the festive season, the onset of winters, elections and marriage season, the number of cases has increased. People have seen flouting Covid-19 norms leading to this situation,” said the press statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/strictly-enforce-fresh-norms-cm-to-officials/articleshow/79358777.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Pune||Rise in trekking activity as forts, tourist spots reopen in Maharashtra||PUNE: The district authorities have reported a noticeable increase in trekking activity after the historic forts and tourist spots such as Sinhagad, Rajgad, Torna, Lohagad, Visapur, among others, were reopen from the first week of November. The administration had closed these forts in March in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh told TOI on Sunday, “Visitors and trekkers must strictly follow the Covid-19 guidelines while enjoying their visit to the forts. We are constantly reviewing the situation through our tehsil administration. For now, the situation (spread of infection) is fairly under control.” The district has nearly 60 forts spread across Bhor, Velhe, Maval, Mulshi, Khed, Ambegaon and Junnar tehsils. Trekkers from across the state visit these forts every year in large numbers. The local residents earn their livelihood from the trekking and tourist activities. Several trekking and tourism groups and organizations had called for opening up of the forts to enable the local residents to revive their economic activity and livelihood. “Many families, mainly the tribals, rely on activities such as running makeshift eatery joints around the forts. Some organize home stays and work as guides,” Santosh Shelke, a camp organizer in Maval, said. Akhil Maharashtra Giriyarohan Mahasangh president Umesh Zirpe said, “Sinhagad fort, which is closest to Pune city, has seen a huge rise in footfall. Nowadays, people are going for trekking almost every day instead of weekends. They can do so because of the “work from home” facility, which is enabling them to work from anywhere. We feel people need to explore other forts to avoid crowds at a single place.” Zirpe said, “Commercial trek organizers are yet to start their activity. These groups do not want to take risk for now as following a set guidelines would be a big challenge for them. For example, providing a separate tent to each person is not economically viable for them.” Ashok Pathare, a hotel owner at the foothills of Tung fort in Maval, said, “Hundreds of trekkers from all age groups visited the fort in the last two weeks. We haven’t seen such a crowd in this short period throughout this year.” Junnar’s Swarup Shelkande, who runs a hotel and dairy near Shivneri fort, said, “People here are dependent only on organizing treks, providing meals to tourists and arranging their stay. They earn Rs500 to Rs1,000 daily. This amount is enough for them to run their homes. Some of them make more money. We have been paying extra attention towards social distancing norms. The reopening of forts was needed and is now helping locals in big way.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rise-in-trekking-activity-as-forts-tourist-spots-reopen/articleshow/79357725.cms||Sandip Dighe
November 23, 2020||Allahabad||HC turns down plea of AMU board members to quash criminal proceedings||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court has rejected a petition filed by 12 proctorial board members of Aligarh Muslim University (AMU), including six faculty members, seeking quashing of criminal proceedings against them in a case of alleged wrongful confinement of one Guddu Singh, who claimed to be the driver of BJP MLA from Barauli constituency of Aligarh district Thakur Dalveer Singh. In his FIR, Guddu Singh had alleged that when he had gone to pick up the grandson of BJP MLA, he was forcibly stopped by the proctorial team of AMU and thereafter forced to remove the party flag of BJP from the car. According to him, the 12-member team had abused him and told him that their university had no place for Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Rejecting the petition filed by Professor Brij Bhushan Singh and 11 other members of the AMU proctorial board, Justice JJ Munir said the presence of the accused persons (petitioners) at the place of incident is not disputed. “Therefore, whether they abused the complainant or not can only be determined by the trial court after going through the evidence placed before it during trial and not by this court in the present jurisdiction under Section 482 CrPC (inherent powers of high court),” the court said. During the course of hearing, the petitioners’ counsel had referred to certain AMU circulars banning the use of flagged cars/vehicles of any political party on the university campus. During the court proceedings, though the petitioners’ counsel did not deny the incident of the vehicle being stopped, but denied that any abusive language was used by the petitioners as has been alleged by complainant Guddu Singh. Hence, in this backdrop of the situation, the petitioners were only enforcing the university rules at the time of the incident. However, the state government’s counsel opposed the plea on the ground that the offence is a serious one and could have had wide ramifications on the law and order. He submitted that whatever material was there in the case diary, discloses a triable case, which ought not to be scuttled by the high court in exercise of its powers under Section 482 of the CrPC. According to Section 482 of CrPC, the high court while exercising its inherent powers can pass such orders as may be necessary to prevent the abuse of the process of any court and to secure the ends of justice. The court after hearing concerned parties rejected the petition, observing, “The informant was allegedly abused and then had words spoken to his ears, with intent to create enmity, hatred or ill-will between classes. This is a matter to be determined by the trial court, particularly when the presence of the applicants, each one of them on the scene of occurrence, is not in dispute.” As per allegations in the FIR, on October 22, 2019, Guddu Singh, who claimed to be the driver of Thakur Dalveer Singh, BJP MLA from Barauli constituency of Aligarh, went to pick up Vijay Kumar Singh, the grandson of the MLA. Around 4 pm, when he entered the AMU campus and was on his way to pick up Vijay, he was forcibly stopped by the Proctorial Board team and then forced to remove the BJP party flag. It was further alleged that during the removal of the flag, the 12-member team had abused him and had told that their university had no place for the BJP. The informant had gone on to say that the entire episode hurt him badly, and that the act had a tendency to hurt communal feelings. It is said in the FIR that the party is incumbent in the government, both at the Centre and the state. The act of those forming the proctorial team deserves to be visited with severe action, the FIR added. The FIR of the incident was registered at Civil Lines police station of Aligarh on the same day and the police after investigation had on January 23, 2020, filed the charge sheet against them (petitioners). Hence, the charge sheet was challenged before high court in the present petition. The court passed this order November 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-turns-down-plea-of-amu-board-members-to-quash-criminal-proceedings/articleshow/79345726.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Pune||Four cuffed on charge of abducting 24-year-old man||PUNE: The Pimpri Chinchwad police on Saturday arrested four men on the charge of abducting a 24-year-old engineering diploma holder in a bid to recover dues from his roommate. Police said the arrested men also sought a ransom of Rs25,000 from Abhishek — the brother of the victim, Manish Kumar Bhagat. Police said Bhagat shares a flat at Nanekarwadi in Khed taluka with Anil Gore, who owns an autorickshaw. One of the arrested men, Pramod Phulpagare (34), also an autorickshaw owner, claimed have to lent Gore money and sought repayment. The other three arrested, Sikander Nadaf (32), Kumar Padangale (25) and Amit Gaikwad (25), are his friends. On Friday, the suspects barged into Gore’s room and found Bhagat inside. They forced him to accompany them as they searched for Gore and later locked him in Nadaf’s room. At night, Abhishek lodged a police complaint after he received the ransom call. “The police swung into action and rescued Bhagat from Nadaf’s room in Vallabhnagar in Pimpri and arrested the four men,” assistant commissioner of police Ram Jadhav told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/four-cuffed-on-charge-of-abducting-24-yr-old-man/articleshow/79357761.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Dehradun||CM holds meet with ABAP seers over Kumbh Mela preparations; says all work will be completed by end of this year||DEHRADUN: A delegation of Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad seers led by its general secretary Mahant Hari Giri met chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Sunday at the latter’s residence in Dehradun to discuss the ongoing Kumbh Mela 2021 preparations. CM Rawat told the seers that Kumbh 2021 will be organised in its most divine and grand form keeping in mind the age-old traditions and culture of the mega religious event. “Suggestions of Akhada Parishad and saints will be taken from time to time,” CM told the seers. The CM also informed the Akhada Parishad that the ongoing works for the Kumbh Mela are being reviewed regularly and departmental secretaries have also been instructed in this regard. Similarly, the chief secretary has been directed to personally review the Kumbh Mela preparations after every 15 days. During the meeting, mela officer Deepak Rawat said that the majority of the ongoing infrastructural works will be completed by December 15 and all works will be finished before December 31 this year. It is to be noted that for the Kumbh 2021, nine new ghats, eight new bridges, and several roads are being constructed and the works are nearing completion, said Deepak Rawat. The seers were informed that a special emphasis is being laid on sanitation works. They were also told that encroachments are being removed and the work to provide drinking water and ensure parking arrangements is being undertaken continuously.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-holds-meet-with-abap-seers-over-kumbh-mela-preparations-says-all-work-will-be-completed-by-end-of-this-year/articleshow/79356688.cms||Gaurav Talwar
November 23, 2020||Pune||Constable dismissed from service over molestation slur||PUNE: Additional commissioner of police Jalinder Supekar on Saturday issued an order dismissing police constable Mayur Dnyaneshwar Saste (33) from service following a departmental inquiry proceeding relating to an alleged molestation and attempted suicide case against him. The police had arrested Saste on October 20 on the charge of molesting a woman constable at the Shivajinagar police headquarters earlier the same morning and causing a bullet injury to another constable in a scuffle after snatching the latter’s rifle and threatening to shoot himself. A local court then sent Saste to 14-day magisterial custody following which he had applied for and secured his release on bail. Saste was since placed under suspension, pending a departmental inquiry that was initiated against him soon after the alleged incident. The Shivajinagar police have not yet filed a chargesheet against Saste as they are awaiting a ballistic expert report relating to the rifle and the bullet that went off during the scuffle injuring the other constable. Supekar told TOI, “Saste has been dismissed as per provisions under Article 311 of the Constitution of India.” The Article enables an appointing authority to dismiss a subordinate whom s/he has appointed in service. “Saste’s behaviour as narrated by the woman constable in her complaint and his subsequent suicide attempt, is unacceptable,” said Supekar. When contacted, Saste told TOI, “I am aware about the dismissal order issued by my senior officer. I have decided to appeal against the order in the Maharashtra Administrative Tribunal (MAT). I want tribunal to hear my plea in detail.” In her FIR, the woman constable had stated that Saste touched her inappropriately during the wee hours of October 20 while the two were on night duty near the quarter gate at the headquarters. An altercation ensued between the two, following which constable Dattatreya Bhendale (48) intervened. Saste the snatched Bhendale’s service rifle and attempted to shoot himself. Constable Bhendale sustained a bullet injury to his hand as the rifle went off while he was trying to stop Saste from pulling the trigger, police said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/constable-dismissed-from-service-over-molestation-slur/articleshow/79357729.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Kochi||CPM candidate in Fort Kochi is rich by the love of people||KOCHI: Stephen Robert, the CPM candidate from Fort Kochi division, is one of the poor candidates to contest in Kochi corporation polls. As per the affidavit submitted by him, his total assets come to just Rs 3,000. And he seems to belong to the genre of people’s representatives whom the masses have been waiting for. The response from voters, not only from the division from where he contests, but from distant places also testifies that. Soon after the CPM announced his candidature on November 12, people from different walks of life have shared their experiences and interactions with Robert. Even those who don’t subscribe to his political ideology also are vociferous in stating that the likes of Stephen are the need of hour. “I am a Fort Kochi native. I make a living by drawing paintings on the street and selling them to tourists,” says M A Mashud, a paraplegic person. “I pledge all my support to Robert. He is a candidate who should win. He has been working for the public, protecting the environment and heritage for the past four decades. Even after continuing in politics and having acquaintances with top political leaders, he hasn’t earned anything other than the love of the people,” Mashud said. Robert stays at his brother’s house and his main “income” is his mother’s pension. He doesn’t even own a motorcycle. “My mother was a school teacher. She superannuated as headmistress. My father was an employee with the Tea Board. I, along with my mother, now stay at my brother’s house. He is working abroad,” Robert said. Elected as the president of SFI Kochi area committee at the age of 16 and later the unit president of the outfit at Maharaja’s College in the 1980s, Robert is now the secretary of CPM Fort Kochi local committee. He has been associated with cultural events like Cochin Carnival and Kochi Biennale. “He has been one of the main organizers of Cochin Carnival since the beginning of 1990s. His efforts were there in making Kochi Biennale a reality,” said K J Sohan, former mayor of Kochi who is contesting from his neighbouring division challenging the candidates of both UDF and LDF. “He belongs to a fading generation. He should win,” Sohan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cpm-candidate-in-fort-kochi-is-rich-by-the-love-of-people/articleshow/79357760.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
November 23, 2020||Jaipur||26,000 oxygen cylinders ready for daily use as cases spike in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: While the sudden spurt in Covid cases has taken toll on the health of people, the health department has claimed that they have made arrangements of 26,000 oxygen cylinders per day, even when the current requirement stands at 12,000. A senior health department official said they have 12,000 beds with oxygen support in hospitals across the state. Oxygen therapy has become an important part of Covid treatment as patients complain of difficulty in breathing. “We have installed 30 oxygen points with wheelchairs at emergency at the dedicated Covid RUHS Hospital to provide oxygen within a minute to patients coming with breathing difficulties,” said Dr Sudhir Bhandari, principal and controller, SMS Medical College. Besides, nodal officers deployed at private hospitals providing Covid treatment by the state government have been asked to keep monitoring the status of oxygen in their respective facilities. Since oxygen is a life-saving essential drug, the health department is promoting its rational use in hospitals. The target oxygen saturation rate should be 94% to 95% for hospitalised Covid patient. Once this rate is achieved, flow of oxygen may not be increased as it may not provide any additional benefit to the patient, said a heath department official. The doctors are using medical oxygen as one of the mainstays for management of moderate and severe Covid cases. “In ‘severe’ patients, the oxygen flow should be maintained at 10-15 litres/ minute and for the moderate patients, the oxygen flow should be 2-5 litres/minute. Severe patients are those, whose oxygen saturation rate is below 90% and moderate are those who have more than 90% and below 95% oxygen saturation rate,” said the official. As the second wave might approach faster, the health minister had directed its officials to increase the availability of oxygen. Health department has set up oxygen generation plants at district hospitals, sub-district hospitals and hospitals attached to medical colleges in the state. Besides, liquid oxygen plants are also being set up at hospitals attached to medical colleges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/26k-oxygen-cylinders-ready-for-daily-use-as-cases-spike/articleshow/79358805.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Medical admissions to be tougher than in last year||Ahmedabad: This year, getting admission may be tougher not only in government medical colleges in Gujarat, but also in self-financed colleges as merit cut-offs, compared to last year’s, are expected to go up by about 70 marks. Education officials said the difference of marks of the first student on the merit list between 2019 and 2020 was 20 marks and this increased to 23 marks by the merit list number 100. The officials in the admission committee for professional undergraduate medical educational courses (ACPUGMEC) said that there is a steady increase in the gap, and looking at the data appears that of th 5,500-odd seats, there might be a rush for the 235 admission in management quota seats. Those who would be able to afford will opt for the quota. The officials said that the marks of biology subject in Class XII would be considered. Along with this six other formulae will be used to decide the merit rank of the students. Meanwhile ACPUGMEC stated that the choice filling for the first round of admission begin from Monday morning and will continue till Wednesday evening. The first list for medical admission will be declared at Wednesday midnight and students will have to pay their fees between November 26 and December 4. They will have to deposit their original certificates and marksheets between November 27 and December 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/medical-admissions-to-be-tougher-than-in-last-year/articleshow/79357767.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Nagpur||Consent of parents must for students to attend school: Amravati collector||AMRAVATI: Schools in Amravati city and district are all set to reopen from Monday with all precautions, facilitating classes from Std IX to Std XII. Collector Shailesh Naval told TOI that orders to this effect had been issued by him on Saturday itself and there was no hitch in it. He said written consent from parents has been made mandatory for attendance of their wards at school. “In pursuance with the decision taken by the state government in respect of opening schools from Monday, we are opening schools with the cooperation of school management committees,” he said, adding that adequate precautionary measures would be taken. Naval said that schools are being opened in a phased manner as per the guidelines issued by the education department. “We are opening schools after seeking opinion of school management committees, teachers and parents,” he said and added that top priority is being given to students’ security. Instructions have been given to open schools after taking into consideration facilities available, approach roads, places of crowding etc. “To avoid crowding, schools have been advised to engage students of different classes on different days,” Naval said. “We are conducting Covid tests of teachers too. Sanitization and hand wash arrangements are mandatory at school. Classes from Std IX to Std XII are being permitted besides hostels and ashramshalas, particularly those hostels with international students,” he said. AMC commissioner Prashant Rode said that schools in the municipal corporation area would be opening from Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/consent-of-parents-must-for-students-to-attend-school-amravati-collector/articleshow/79358824.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Kochi||Mixed marriage: Syro Malabar Church for strict compliance of norms||IDUKKI: The Syro Malabar Church will soon issue a set of guidelines instructing bishops to ensure that priests solemnizing the marriage between people of different faiths, called ‘disparity of cult’ marriages, are adhering strictly to the canon laws. The church took the decision after an interfaith marriage solemnized by a bishop a few days ago in Ernakulam kicked up a controversy. The marriage between a Irinjalakkuda-based Catholic woman and a Muslim man based in Kochi was held at Kadavanthra St Joseph Church on November 9. Mar Mathew Vaniyakizhakkel, former bishop of Satna, attended the ceremony. The photograph of the couple with the bishop was published in a newspaper which drew criticism from a section of the faithful who slammed the church authorities for ‘encouraging’ mixed marriages. Cardinal Mar George Alencherry has ordered an inquiry and sought a report from the archbishop of Ernakulam-Angamali diocese, Mar Antony Kariyil. In his letter to Mar Antony Kariyil, Fr Benny Maramparambil, the vicar of Kadavanthra St Joseph Church, where the marriage was held, explained that the function was solemnized adhering to the norms of ‘disparity of cult’ marriages. He said he had received a letter from Fr James Athiyunthan, the priest of Kuzhikkattussery church, the bride’s parish, stating that there were no ‘impediments’ for the marriage. Senior priests belonging to Kerala Catholic Bishops Council (KCBC), however, accused both the priests of flouting canon laws. “The Catholic church has written rules to be followed during such situations. The bishop of the concerned diocese has to give his approval,” said a priest. “Besides the probe ordered by Cardinal Alencherry, the Kerala Catholic Bishops’ Council will also look into the matter. After getting the report from the Ernakulam-Angamali archbishop, we will direct the bishops to issue strict guidelines to the priests on conducting ‘disparity of cult’ marriages, said the priest. “It is the participation of a bishop in the marriage that has irked a section of the faithful. He was known to the bride’s family. But he did not see to it that the family has obtained the required approval. He has admitted to lapses on his part,” said the priest. The Syro Malabar church has often raised concerns over inter-religious love marriages. In January this year, the church’s media commission had issued a report pointing out that Christian girls were being targeted and that secular harmony in the state was in danger due to such activities. George Kurian, vice chairman of the National Commission for Minorities had written a letter to home minister Amit Shah, seeking a probe to curb ‘love jihad’ in the state. Kurian quoted a report by KCBC’s commission for social harmony and vigilance, which claimed that 4,000 such marriages were conducted from 2005-2012.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/mixed-marriage-church-for-strict-compliance-of-norms/articleshow/79356665.cms||Sandeep Thomas
November 23, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Rs 25 lakh extortion demanded from BJP MLA, 1 held||PATNA: One Munna Khan (30) was arrested within 5 hours of allegedly demanding Rs25 lakh as extortion from the newly-elected BJP MLA Rashmi Varma from Narkatiaganj on Sunday morning. Varma’s manager Mathura Singh had lodged an FIR with Shikarpur police station in the morning alleging that someone made the extortion call on the personal cellphone number of the MLA-elect, demanding Rs25 lakh, the state police headquarters said in a press note. Shikarpur police station SHO Krishna Kumar Gupta said the caller threatened Varma of dire consequences in case the extortion money was not paid. “On the basis of investigation, police arrested Munna Khan from Pandui Chowk at Bettiah in West Champaran and also seized from his possession the cellphone and sim card used in making the extortion call,” Gupta said. The SHO said Khan was a native of Maheshpur, a neighbouring village of Varma’s place under Shikarpur police station area. “Earlier, Khan used to be Varma’s supporter and worked for her husband. However, he had started working for their political rivals in the area and made the call,” Gupta said, adding further investigation was going on in connection with the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rs25-lakh-extortion-demanded-from-bjp-mla-1-held/articleshow/79357783.cms||Debashish Karmakar
November 23, 2020||Goa||Looking at Goa’s mining request positively: Centre||PANAJI/NEW DELHI: Union mines minister Pralhad Joshi has said that the Centre is looking “positively” at finding a solution to the mining imbroglio in Goa. “Goa has given some representation,” he told a news agency in New Delhi. We are looking at various levels. I cannot comment much, but as far as the sentiments of Goa are concerned, we are there with them. We want to find a solution as far as Goa mining is concerned.” The minister refused to comment further as the matter is sub-judice. “It (mining) has been stopped after the Supreme Court’s judgment. But still, we are looking positively at the request of the Goa government,” Joshi said. Since mining operations came to a halt in Goa in March 2018 after the top court quashed the renewal of 88 leases, the state government has been petitioning the Centre for resumption of the industry. It has also moved the court. Mining had been one of the backbones of Goa's economy for decades Prior to every election held in the state since the closure of mining operations, the government has announced the possibility of “finding a solution” to the mining issue, giving hope to the mining dependents. In September, chief minister Pramod Sawant met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and said that he’s “hopeful of a positive outcome in the coming days”. The state government announced in October that Modi would chair a meeting on the Goa mining issue, but so far, no such meeting has been held. One scheduled meeting was postponed as Joshi had tested positive for Covid. Earlier this month, Sawant said he would meet Union home minister Amit Shah to impress upon the Centre to find a solution to the issue. However, Shah was busy as Sawant’s visit coincided with the results of the Bihar election, the meeting couldn’t take place. The state had earlier urged the Centre to amend the Goa, Daman and Diu Mining Concessions (Abolition and Declaration as Mining Leases) Act, 1987, to restart mining activities. Two mining companies had approached the SC for extension of mining leases till 2037. The state government subsequently maintained that the mining leases could be extended up to 2037, as per the contention of the companies, but that it would abide by the decision of the court. It also said that the mining companies had made a representation to the mines department contending that under the amendment to Section 8(A) of the Mines and Minerals Development Act, they were entitled to extend their mining leases up to 2037.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/looking-at-goas-mining-request-positively-centre/articleshow/79358841.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Lucknow||Wind chill sweeps city, temp plunges||Lucknow: The winter is knocking at the door. As cold winds from snowfed mountains swept the city on Sunday, the minimum temperature dropped below 10 degrees for the first time in the pre-winter season. The weatherman has asked the people to brace for chill and fog in the first week of December. State Met director JP Gupta said that the recent western disturbance (WD) that caused rains in the city and state also led to snowfall in hill areas of north India. As soon as the WD fizzled out, dry and cold northwesterly winds coming from the snowfed mountains started lashing the state, including Lucknow, he added. As a result, the mercury plunged below normal both during the day and night in the city. While the maximum temperature dropped to 24.4 degrees Celsius, three units below normal, on Sunday, the minimum temperature dipped to 9.5 degrees Celsius, two notches below normal. Winds measuring upto 5km per hour also brought a ‘chill effect’ in the air. The minimum temperature was the lowest, not only in the pre-winter season so far, but also in the past three years in November. Earlier, on November 24, 2017, the lowest minimum temperature had dropped to 8 degrees Celsius. The Met director said that another western disturbance is approaching the hill states, which will cause more rains and snow in the mountains for the next 6-7 days. During this period, temperatures will increase by a couple of degrees in the plains, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/wind-chill-sweeps-city-temp-plunges/articleshow/79359484.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 23, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Woman swindled under pretext of receiving ‘corona money’||MANGALURU: A gullible woman lost her mangalsutra valued at Rs 60,000 and Rs 20,000 to a fraudster who made her believe that hospitals provide Rs 2 lakh as corona money. The incident was reported under Ullal police station limits. This comes close on the heels of a 65-year-old woman from Amtady in Bantwal being duped of a pair of gold earrings, after a fraudster convinced her that she has won nearly Rs 1.7 lakh as corona money. According to the complainant,at 9.30 am on Friday, a person identified as Rakesh, aged between 30-35, introduced himself as a bank employee. The victim was near Olapete in Thokkottu. He told the victim that hospitals are offering Rs 2 lakh as corona money, and that she can get the same. He later took her to a private hospital in Derlakatte in an autorickshaw, and asked her for some money to give to the doctor in order to release the money. The victim handed over Rs 20,000, after which he again demanded more money. The victim then gave her mangalsutra to him, after which he fled from the spot. A case has been registered in this regard, and an investigation is on. Woman loses Rs 15L to FB friend A woman who befriended a fraudster on Facebook lost Rs 15 lakh. The fraudster conned the victim under the pretext of sending her a gift from abroad. According to police, the victim, a resident of Pandeshwar, got connected with an unknown person who identified himself as Rionardo Neil on Facebook. They continued chatting every day, and later exchanged numbers, and used to talk over the phone. The fraudster, after a few days, said that he would send her a gift, and the woman after initially rejecting it, agreed to accept it. On August 28, the complainant received a call from a woman who identified herself as a staff member from a courier company. She asked the complainant to pay Rs 32,800 to release the gift. After a few hours, another woman called her and said that she is from the customs department in Delhi. She said that she had to pay Rs 14,91,840 as various taxes, which the complainant paid without realising that she was being duped. A complaint has been registered at the city cyber police station in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/woman-swindled-under-pretext-of-receiving-corona-money/articleshow/79356694.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Kochi||Jacobite faction of Malankara Church restarts protests||KOCHI: The Jacobite faction of the Malankara Church on Sunday held satyagraha meetings at parishes across the state as part of relaunching the campaign to resist the church takeovers by the Orthodox faction and demanding an ordinance to avoid the same. Metropolitan trustee of the Jacobite faction Joseph Mar Gregorios Metropolitan inaugurated the protest meeting at Karingachira St George Church in Ernakulam. Meeting was held at Thiruvananthapuram St Peter’s Cathedral under the leadership of the parish vicar. At Kattachira, where the church has already been taken over by the rival faction, the devotees entered the cemetery with the help of authorities to conduct prayers. The meet here was led by vicar Fr Roy George Kattachira. Protest meet at St Peter’s & St Paul’s Jacobite Syrian Old Church, Pengamuck in Thrissur, was led by the co-vicar of the church Fr Eldho Mazhuvancheryparambath. At St George Jacobite Church in Mudavoor, which was taken over a few days ago, the Jacobite faction members erected a temporary structure in which they conducted mass and the protest demonstration. At St Mary’s Church, Thrikkunnathu in Aluva, the protest meet was led by Mathews Mor Antheemos Metropolitan. Jacobite sources said that Sunday’s meetings were only a precursor to a series of protests, which will be launched by them in the coming days. “The protests were stopped after the chief minister took the initiative to hold discussions. But the rival faction withdrew from the peace talks. As forceful takeover of churches has restarted, the working committee which met on Friday had decided to go ahead with protest campaigns. We are also seeking an ordinance to protect our rights,” said an office-bearer of the Jacobite faction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/jacobite-faction-restarts-protests/articleshow/79356669.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Pune||Three years on, Pune rail yard revamp work crawls||PUNE: Nearly three years after the railway authorities announced the Pune rail yard remodeling project, work has progressed to a mere 10%. The plan was to increase the length of all the six platforms of the railway station allowing them to accommodate trains with more than 22-23 coaches. Pune rail division’s public relations officer Manoj Jhawar told TOI that the work has to be completed in four phases and the cost of the whole project rests at Rs 113 crore. “At present, phase-1 of the project is 10% complete. It will take four months more to be done,” he added. The project was first talked about in January 2018 by former divisional railway manager Milind Deouskar. Rail officials at different times had said that it will be completed by 2019. “We faced technical problems, which led to many discussions and deliberations. Some plans had to be drawn up over and over again, one of the reasons for the delay. However, work is now back on track and we are expecting it to be complete in two and half years. The project is important and will change the face of the Pune rail yard and the platforms,” the official added. A source in the division said the railway yard is on and will provide space for all the platforms to get extended. It will take a while for the project to take shape, the official said. The authorities had hoped to fast-track work this year, but said the pandemic had brought it to a standstill. “While fewer trains operating from the station would allow work to be done faster, there weren’t enough workers available from March till July. Many daily-wage workers had gone to their native villages, and we couldn’t take advantage of the sparse train traffic. However, now with more reopening, we are back on track,” another official, who requested anonymity, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/three-years-on-pune-rail-yard-revamp-work-crawls/articleshow/79357774.cms||Joy Sengupta
November 23, 2020||Jaipur||Kirana King in Jaipur raises Rs 7 crore from RVCF, to expand footprint||JAIPUR: The Pink City-based grocery shop aggregator Kirana King raised pre-series A funding of Rs 7 crore from Rajasthan Venture Capital Fund to fund its expansion plans of reaching 1,000 stores by the end of 2021. Kirana King, which started its retail aggregation operations in 2017, currently has a network of more than 200 stores in Jaipur and wants to expand in major cities and towns of the state. “We need funds to increase store count, invest in technology and manpower. Besides this pre-series A funding of Rs 7 crore, we are also looking at closing another round of funding by the end of March to support our aggressive network expansion plans,” said Anup Kumar, founder and CEO Of Kirana King. Kirana King invests in improving infrastructure and look and feel of the shops before taking them onboard. With larger number of shops under its network, it gains an economy of scale and bargaining power to source products for them at competitive rates. Similarly, it also uses the shops’ network as a platform to market new products, offering various deals. “We transform the existing kirana stores into new, modern shops by investing some money in their infrastructure and then take care of their supply side by providing timely access to products at competitive rates. Thirdly, these shops are also used as a platform to generate demand for new products through various marketing initiatives,” added Kumar. The aggregator had a revenues of Rs 15 crore in 2019-20. But Kumar said in the current year, their revenues will reach between Rs 50-60 crore. “By the end of 2021, we have a target of reaching 1,000 stores in various cities of the state. After that we will enter other states. The company is well on course to be a strong grocery retail aggregator in India by 2025. Kirana King is looking to have four times revenue growth during the current financial year compared to Rs 15 crore we did in the last year,” added Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/kirana-king-raises-rs-7cr-from-rvcf-to-expand-footprint/articleshow/79358868.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Varanasi||‘Launch of potable water project a festive day for Vindhya region’||VARANASI: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath termed the launch of the rural drinking water project for the villages of Sonbhadra and Mirzapur districts as a festive day for the people of Vindhya region. Addressing the gathering of people from the villages of the two districts at a function hosted by the Sonbhadra administration near Ghaghraul Dam at Karmao village, on Sunday, Yogi said that, “Since independence, only 398 villages of the Vindhya region could get the facility of drinking water. Today we are beginning the work to ensure supply of pure drinking water to about 3,000 villages.” It is not less than a festival for the Vindhya region as pure drinking water would mean freedom from diseases. The region will be freed from the problem of pure drinking water in the next one and a half years, the CM said. Built in 1917, Ghaghraul Dam was only used for irrigation purposes, he said adding that, but now it will utilized to supply drinking water. “For the first time after independence, such a big project is being started in the Vindhya region. Given the immense possibilities of tourism, the airstrip is also being extended,” the CM added. Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and UP Jal Shakti minister Mahendra Singh were also present on the occasion while Governor Anandiben Patel remained connected virtually.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/launch-of-potable-water-project-a-festive-day-for-vindhya-region/articleshow/79358517.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
November 23, 2020||Lucknow||Virus count stays above 300, kills 6 more in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: As the number of fresh Covid-19 cases continued to be more than recoveries for the fourth consecutive day, the number of active Covid-19 cases in the city climbed to 3,402 on Sunday, up from 3,191 on Thursday. Of the total active cases 2,113 are recuperating at home, while the rest, including moderate and serious ones, are under treatment in various hospitals. Total 351 new infections were reported in 24 hours, while recoveries were 313. The deaths due to the disease also increased with six more patients succumbing to the infection. Both the daily tally and toll of Lucknow continued to be the highest in the state, accounting for 14% and 16% of overall infections and casualties respectively. The city is witnessing a surge of cases with more than 300 people contracting infections daily for the past four days. According to the state Covid bulletin, the caseload now stands at 69,242. Of these 64,877 (94%) have recovered so far. However, 963 (1.4%) patients could not survive. There was no let-up in the situation in Gomtinagar, Indiranagar, Rae Bareli Road and Aashiana with the areas recording 38, 35, 21 and 20 new cases respectively in the past 24 hours. These areas have been reporting high transmission rates since August. Other areas with high incidence included Cantonment (22), Alambagh (19), Chowk (19) Aliganj (16), Mahanagar (16), Hasanganj (13), Jankipuram (13), Hazratganj (12), Vikasnagar (11), Chinhat (10) and Madiaon (10). Authorities said that samples of 10,389 people were collected on Sunday for tests. These included contacts of the active cases and those who had come to Lucknow from other states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/virus-count-stays-above-300-kills-6-more/articleshow/79359490.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Goa||‘Both Karnataka, Goa will abide by SC order on Mhadei’||PANAJI: BJP Goa desk incharge and Karnataka MLA CT Ravi said on Sunday that both Karnataka and Goa would abide by the Supreme Court order on Mhadei. BJP national president J P Nadda is likely to visit Goa on December 21 and 22. Ravi, the MLA of Chikmagalur who was recently appointed the party’s Goa desk in-charge, arrived in Goa on Sunday to discuss various issues with party leaders. Speaking to reporters, Ravi said he discussed how to strengthen the party in the state. When asked about how Karnataka continues to divert water despite the court order, Ravi said, “It is your feeling”. He added that BJP is a national party and to it, both Goa and Karnataka are equal. Ravi, who took a review of all party committees, was also in the state to plan Nadda’s trip. In October, the Goa government filed a contempt petition in the Supreme Court against Karnataka for illegal diversion of the Mhadei’s waters to the Malaprabha river basin, and sought a direction for a joint inspection of the Kalasa site under an independent assessor. The state has sought a direction to restore the natural flow of the Mhadei river towards Goa. The plea has also stated that due to Karnataka’s contumacious acts, there is a sharp reduction of water flow to the Surla nullah that passes through the Mhadei Wildlife Sanctuary and is a violation of the Wildlife Protection Act. The plea has sought an “order directing the contemnors/respondents to take remedial and curative actions to make good the loss of water to the state of Goa pursuant to their acts of diversion and to further restore the natural flow of the Mhadei river towards the state of Goa.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/both-ktaka-goa-will-abide-by-sc-order-on-mhadei/articleshow/79358869.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Nagpur||Down for 3 weeks, Covid picking up speed again||Nagpur: The analysis of new Covid-19 cases, and recoveries recorded in last four weeks clearly shows that the pandemic which was under control during October and declining during the first two weeks of November, is once again showing upward trend. As expert doctors told TOI earlier, this spike in could be the outcome of recent festive rush but many still believe this could be the start of the fresh second wave of Covid-19 in the region. As far as Vidarbha region is concerned, last three weeks between October 25 and November 14 reported constant decrease in number of cases, increase in number of recoveries and reduction in number of deaths. But, the fourth week — from November 15 to 21 has shown increase in new cases and deaths, and decrease in recoveries. Nagpur has also shown almost the same trend. “It could be very early to comment whether this spike is the beginning of second wave or not, but the way administration is preparing is indication that they are expecting second wave sometimes between December-January,” said a senior member of the Nagpur Covid task force. Decision taken by district collectors across the region also proves the same. Chandrapur District collector Ajay Gulhane has directed the health administration to prepare for the second wave of the infection. In Akola, District collector Jitendra Papalkar has directed to expose the optimum capacity of RT-PCR testing facility. The district has started conducting more than 1,500 tests from last 3 days. In Amravati, 2,000-plus tests are being conducted on daily basis. Even smaller districts like Washim and Yavatmal are conducting more than 1,000 tests per day. Earlier, 11 districts in Vidarbha region used to conduct less than 1,5000 tests per day even during the September peak. But, testing has increased so significantly since November 15, that the average number of tests is nearing 20,000 tests per day now. The strategy is to conduct more RT-PCR tests in rural areas. Early results of sero-survey conducted in Nagpur, Wardha and Akola districts of Vidarbha show that cities have more prevalence of Covid-19 than rural areas. During the festival season, many people travelled from cities to villages. This community movement can spread infection in rural areas. Infectious disease specialist Dr Ashwini Tayde said that even cities are not completely safe from spike. “Cases will continue to come even from cities are sero-prevalence is not same in all parts of the city. Some areas still have many infection prone patients,” she said. According to her, people are relaxed now and due to this they are missing out on initial early reporting to hospitals.“Virus will continue to spread. If we introduce a complete or partial lockdown, the spread will be paused for the time-being but not forever. When movement will restart, we will witness another spike. So, best solution is to follow protocol and avoid getting infected,” said Dr Nitin Shinde, infectious disease specialist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/down-for-3-weeks-covid-picking-up-speed-again/articleshow/79357771.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 23, 2020||Madurai||TN soldier laid to rest at native village||Tuticorin: Naik K Karuppasamy, 34, who died in an accident while on duty in Ladakh on Thursday, was laid to rest with full state honours at Therku Thittankulam village, his native near Kovilpatti in Tuticorin district late on Sunday. Talking to reporters, wife of the martyr Thamayanthi, 30, said she is proud of his martyrdom and that she will send her son Pradeep Raj, who is now one-year-old to serve the Indian Army. Karuppasamy, who served the army for 14 years, was in the artillery regiment. His mortal remains were flown from Delhi to Madurai around 3.15pm, where it was received by personnel from the armed forces. Madurai district collector T Anbalagan and corporation commissioner S Visakan were among those who paid homage before the remains were taken to the village. Hundreds of villagers, jawans and ex-servicemen from nearby thronged Therku Thittankulam to receive his body. Information and publicity minister Kadambur C Raju, Tuticorin collector K Senthil Raj, SP S Jayakumar, officials from the armed forces, revenue officials and police officers paid tribute to Karuppasamy. Twenty-four rounds were fired by eight soldiers in three rounds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tn-soldier-laid-to-rest-at-native-village/articleshow/79359491.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||21,621 candidates in provisional merit list for medical courses||The admission committee for undergraduate and postgraduate courses in medical, dental, ayurvedic and homoeopathy on Sunday announced that 21,621 candidates have made it to the provisional merit list for the first round of admission. Of the 24,538 candidates who purchased online PINs, 24,143 could successfully register. The committee verified 22,978 candidates of which 21,621 made it to the merit list. As many as 1,357 candidates were not included in the list due to non-fulfillment of different eligibility criteria, it said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/21621-candidates-in-provisional-merit-list-for-medical-courses/articleshow/79357786.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Pune||Four fake FDA officials in net over extortion bid||PUNE: The Chikhali police on Saturday arrested four men on the charge of posing as officials from the Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) and demanding money from a bakery owner for not taking any action against him. A police team led by assistant inspector N S Nyamane caught suspects Ranjit Bhosale (54), Sanjay Mallad (34), Ram Surve (50) and Pradip Malkar (36), while they were negotiating with the bakery owner about the monetary settlement. Nyamane told TOI that around 8.30pm the suspects went to Huma Bakery in Talawade. The owner’s son, Faisal Ansari, was at the counter. “The suspects, posing as FDA officials, alleged that there was no expiry date on the packs of bread and some other products were not packed. They threatened the son of strict action if he did not pay a fine or opt for a settlement,” he said. “When Ansari told his father about the incident, the latter became suspicious and alerted the police. Our team reached the spot and caught the impostors red-handed,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/4-fake-fda-officials-in-net-over-extortion-bid/articleshow/79357785.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Ajmer||Four killed in car-truck collision in Ajmer district||AJMER: Four persons were killed when a car collided with a truck near Kharwa village on Ajmer-Beawar highway on Sunday afternoon. While three of the deceased were travelling in the car bearing a Maharashtra number, the fourth victim was the truck’s cleaner. Police are trying to identify the deceased. Police said a SUV coming from Beawar side collided with a stationary truck. While one person in the car and the truck’s cleaner died on the spot, two of the four others who were seriously injured died during treatment in a Beawar hospital. Police said the truck was on way to Jaipur and the driver and the cleaner had got out to cook food on the roadside. Cleaner Khem Singh (38) had gone to the rear of the truck to get something when the speeding SUV hit the lorry crushing Singh on the spot. The SUV’s driver also died instantly while four passengers were injured seriously and were rushed to a hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/four-killed-in-car-truck-collision-in-ajmer-dist/articleshow/79357790.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Hathras accused brought to city||Ahmedabad: Four accused persons of the Hathras gang rape of Uttar Pradesh which took place on September 14, 2020, were brought to Ahmedabad Central Jail on Sunday by Central Bureau of Investigation (Ghaziabad). Sources said that the accused have been brought to Ahmedabad for their forensic tests. A senior jail official of Ahmedabad Central Jail said that a CBI team had come to the jail on Sunday morning with the four accused. “As the documentation was over by 4pm on Sunday we took the custody of the four accused. CBI officers said the accused would be taken for different forensics tests, including a lie detection test at Gujarat Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) Gandhinagar. Till then, the four accused will remain in Ahmedabad Central jail” he added. A 19-year-old Dalit woman was gang-raped in Hathras district of UP allegedly by four upper caste men. After fighting for life for two weeks, the woman died in a Delhi hospital. According to sources, the victim was dragged by the accused including main accused Sandeep Thakur and three others allegedly by her dupatta and allegedly raped. The police had registered a complaint on September 20 and recorded her statement on September 22. “Her spinal cord was severely injured and she was admitted in a Delhi Hospital. She died on September 29, while under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hathras-accused-brought-to-city/articleshow/79357793.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Nashik||Rural polic nab 2 burglars||Nashik: Two people have been arrested by Nashik rural police in connection with two burglary cases registered with the Sinnar police. Police have also recovered the stolen articles and seized the truck used for committing the crime, all worth Rs 10.52 lakh. The suspects have been identified as Shaikh Ajim Shaikh Badshah (46) of Takli village in Aurangabad and Wajid Rafiq Chaudhary (25) of Walunj in Aurangabad. The police are also searching for the third suspect who is currently on the run. “On November 10, some unidentified suspects had stolen electric parts, motor pumps, electric motors, grinder wheels and batteries of two-wheelers and four-wheelers from two closed establishments near Udyog Bhavan and Sangamner Naka in Sinnar,” a police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rural-polic-nab-2-burglars/articleshow/79358852.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Jaipur||Jawan helped in smuggling of drugs, arms from Pakistan||JAISALMER: During interrogation, it came to the light that BSF jawan Virendra Singh of 91 Battalion helped smugglers to bring consignment of drugs and weapon into India from Pakistan. In Augsust and October, Singh had helped the smugglers to bring two consignments of pistol and 25 kilogram of heroin. He had got Rs 9 lakh for the work and bought a second hand car for Rs 3 lakh. Further interrogations are continuing and more startling facts are likely to come out. According to BSF sources, on November 17, four drug peddlers were arrested at Shahkot police station area in Jalandhar district in Punjab and 11kg heroin and Rs 11.25 were recovered. During inquiry, it was revealed that heroin was smuggled into India on October 21 and 22 night from the international border adjoining Ganganagar and BSF Jawan Virendra Singh of 91 Battalion deployed there helped in getting the consignment enter into India, sources said. On the request of Punjab police, BSF sources said that during inquiry Singh said that he had helped entering two consignments from Pakistan into India and he was deployed at Majiwala post in Ganganagar. Total 20 kilogram heroin and a pistol was smuggled into India on October 21 and 22 night from Majiwala post and smuggler Ranjeet Singh gave Rs 6 lakh to the jawan for clearing the consignment. Sources said that earlier Virendra on August 28, 2020 helped getting six packets of heroin into India from Pakistan and got Rs 3 lakh.  He bought a second hand car with this amount. In this way, he got total Rs 9 lakh for two consignments. Sources said that later Virendra was put on duty to some other border outpost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jawan-helped-in-smuggling-of-drugs-arms-from-pakistan/articleshow/79357802.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Patna||Maoist carrying Rs 10 lakh reward killed in Gaya||GAYA: A Maoist zonal commander carrying Rs10 lakh reward on his head and one of their informers were killed in an encounter at village Mahuari under Barachatti police station area in Sherghati subdivision of the district on late Saturday evening. They were identified as Alok Yadav and Vikas of village Rohi under Barachatti police station area. A policeman and two villagers also sustained injuries during the encounter. “Police have recovered one AK-56 and an Insas rifle, two magazines of AK-56, 165 cartridges of AK-56, one Insas magazine, 10 cartridges of Insas rifle and some other explosove items,” Gaya SSP Rajiv Mishra said on Sunday. The Jharkhand government had announced Rs10 lakh reward on Alok’s head. Only a few hours before the encounter, the Maoists had killed Virendra Yadav, brother-in-law of Nagarpurdih panchayat mukhiya, and his associate Jairam Yadav, at Mahuari where they had reached to enjoy a cultural programme organized on the occasion of Chhath. On getting information about the double-murder, Barachatti police, along with 205 CoBRA (composite battalion for resolute action) jawans launched a search operation. They received information about the Maoists’ presence at Mahuari. The security personnel cordoned off the area after which Maoists opened fire. The security personnel retaliated and more than 100 rounds of fire were exchanged from both sides. Mishra said while Alok’s body was recovered from the encounter site, police found Vikas dead during search operation as he had managed to escape after getting injured. “Another Maoist supporter Vijay, who was also injured in the encounter, later got caught. He is undergoing treatment at ANMMCH under police custody. Vijay told the police that he along with Vikas and one Jitendra had reached the village on a motorcycle to kill Virendra. Vikas, who acted as informer, had old enmity with Virendra. The family members of Virendra have demanded arms licence. We have asked them to apply for the same,” the SSP said. Virendra was on the Maoists’ target for long and had been living in Barachatti. He had come to his village on Chhath. Earlier, the Maoists had killed his brother in Sasaram. It was the second incident within a week after the Maoists had blown up a portion of a community building at village Bodhi Bigha under Dumaria police station area on last Sunday. They had left a pamphlet at the blast site and demanded Rs2 crore as levy from former BJP MLC Anuj Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/maoist-carrying-rs10-lakh-reward-killed-in-gaya/articleshow/79357826.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Woman doctor held for sending threat mails to former fiancé||AHMEDABAD: Cybercrime cops on Saturday held one doctor Vidhi Shah, 26, of Patan for making a fake e-mail address and sending threat mails to doctor Mehul Mehta and his girlfriend. Police said Shah was earlier engaged to Mehta but then they broke up. “To take revenge, the accused made the fake email ID and sent the mails, ” said a cyber cell official. Police said Mehta had first submitted application to cyber cell and then lodged a complaint on Saturday that some unknow person is sending e mails to him and his girlfriend. “He had mentioned in the complaint that the accused wrote to his girlfriend ‘He has killed my sister and being a woman why don’t you feel anything?’ The accused also threatened ‘now see what happens’,” said an investigator. Police traced Vidhi Shah from the IP address log of the device from which the threat mails were sent. “We have held the accused and sent her for pre-arrest Covid test,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-doc-held-for-sending-threat-mails-to-former-fianc/articleshow/79357810.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Pune||Baramati councillor, 5 others held for aiding suicide||PUNE: The Baramati police have arrested six men, including a councillor from Baramati, for abetting the suicide of a local businessman, and were looking for their three accomplices. Businessman Preetam Shah (55) consumed poison on October 22, and died in a hospital on November 1. He had a petrol pump and a cement supply business. Additional superintendent of police, Milind Mohite, told TOI, “We have arrested Jayesh alias Kunal Kale, Jaysingh Ashokrav Kate Deshmukh, Sanjay Kate, Pravin Galinde, Hanumant Gawli and Sunil Awale.” Deshmukh is a sitting councillor and linked to the NCP, while Kate is chairman of APMC in Baramati. A suicide note was found by the family when the family opened his shop on November 17. The note, the police said, mentioned that he had borrowed money from residents, including some of those arrested, and nine persons were harassing him to repay. "We are verifying the sum borrowed from each person,” Mohite said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/baramati-councillor-5-others-held-for-aiding-suicide/articleshow/79357809.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Army jawan booked for committing unnatural act||AURANGABAD: Aurangabad rural police arrested a 35-year-old army jawan late on Saturday on the charges of forcefully committing unnatural act with his wife. According to police, the victim has alleged that her husband is a sex addict. Vaijapur police inspector Samratsingh Rajput said, “Soon after the registration of an FIR on late Saturday night, the suspect was immediately arrested.” The suspect was produced before a holiday court on Sunday. Since the police had nothing to seize or recover from the suspect, he was granted bail by the court. As per the complaint lodged by the victim, ever since she got married to the suspect, he has been forcing her to watch pornographic movies and replicate the acts. The woman told police that any objection or reluctance to his demands would make him violent, following which he would brutally assault her. The woman, in her complaint, has also cited one such incident of domestic violence that took place in Bhopal, during which she had sustained head injuries and had to be admitted to a hospital. Police said that the woman has alleged that when she took up the matter with her in-laws, they blamed her. According to police, one of her in-laws, who is a serving policeman, has also been named in the complaint. The said policeman is accused of threatening the victim. Rajput said that they had only arrested the victim’s husband while considering the apex court’s directives, the ones facing charges for domestic violence and criminal intimidation were not arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/army-jawan-booked-for-committing-unnatural-act/articleshow/79357803.cms||Mohammed Akhef
November 23, 2020||Rajkot||Convict hangs self in Rajkot Central Jail||RAJKOT: A convict serving life imprisonment, who was quarantined upon his return after parole, hanged himself to death in Rajkot Central Jail on Saturday night. Police said Jayanti Rajani (41) was sentenced for life in a murder case of 2010. The verdict against him was pronounced on December 30, 2017. “After the completion of his parole period, Rajani was put under a 14-day quarantine in the barrack number 5 on Saturday, as per rules,” said an official from Pradyumannagar police station. “It appears that Rajani sank into a deep depression which drove him to take the drastic step. Rajani used the bed sheet to hang himself from the ceiling of the toilet in his barrack,” added the official. Rajani was the resident of Ganjivada locality in Rajkot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/convict-hangs-self-in-rajkot-central-jail/articleshow/79355940.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Nashik||27% less motorists booked in October compared to previous month||Nashik: Police action against erring motorists in Nashik city has dropped by 27% in October as compared to previous month, official data shows. The drop in action against erring motorists is attributed to commissioner of police Deepak Pandey’s instructions to the traffic police asking them to be more focused on streamlining vehicular traffic rather than challaning motorists for driving without license and other documents, not wearing helmet, etc. Pandey had made it clear that traffic police would not be focusing on challaning erring motorists, but on streamlining the vehicular traffic. In October, the traffic branch challaned 23,584 motorists for various Motor Vehicle Act-related offences whereas in September, they took action against 32,383 people for the same offences. Meanwhile, Pandey has told Nashik RTO officials to contact city police if they need assistance with conducting a special drive against erring motorists. As a result, a few drives were also undertaken by city police to keep a check on criminal elements. Those found violating traffic rules were booked during the drives and slapped with fines accordingly. RTO officials, however, said that they still were slapping fines on motorists who were found to be breaking traffic rules under the Motor Vehicle Act. The only difference is that they were not conducting special drives against motorists for not wearing helmets, seat belts, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/27-less-motorists-booked-in-october-compared-to-previous-month/articleshow/79358881.cms||Santosh Sonawane
November 23, 2020||Nashik||Six-laning of Mumbai Agra highway on stretch between Gonde to Pimpri Sado to begin soon||Nashik: The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) will be taking up the work of six-laning of 20-km stretch on Mumbai-Agra highway from Gonde to Pimpri Sado junction due to increased traffic. MP Hemant Godse said that the work would be taken up in the next two-three months. He said that a junction is being constructed at Pimpri Sado under the Mumbai-Nagpur Samruddhi Mahamarg project. It would help motorists access the Samruddhi Mahamarg to move towards Aurangabad and Nagpur. At the same time, motorists from Nashik side heading to Mumbai can also access the Samruddhi Mahamarg from Pimpri Sado junction to reach their destination faster. The Mumbai-Agra highway passing through Nashik is a six-lane one and goes up to Gonde, about 30 km from Nashik city while the Pimpri Sado junction of the Samruddhi Mahamarg is located just 20 km away from Gonde. Hence, there would be increased traffic on this 20 km stretch. In view of this, MP Hemant Godse had written to the officials of NHAI to take up the work six-laning of the Gonde-Pimpri Sado stretch of the highway. Godse said that the six-laning of the 99 km Gonde-Vadpe section of Mumbai-Agra highway is already proposed and a Detailed Project Report (DPR) is already been made. However, if the 20 km stretch from Gonde to Pimpri Sado is completed first, it will help motorists to access Pimpri Sado junction and head towards Mumbai at a faster pace. The same route can also be used by motorists coming from Mumbai and heading towards Nashik side as they can use the Samruddhi Expressway till Pimpri Sado junction and then take the Mumbai-Agra highway to move towards Dhule and Bhopal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/six-laning-of-mumbai-agra-highway-on-stretch-between-gonde-to-pimpri-sado-to-begin-soon/articleshow/79358879.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Goa||No infra, no voting in ZP polls: Honda locals||VALPOI: Over 100 villagers in the hamlet of Narayan Nagar in Honda, Sattari, gathered on Sunday and threatened to boycott the upcoming zilla panchayat polls over the lack of basic amenities like roads and sufficient water supply to the settlement. Residents claimed that no developmental works have been taken up there in at least 20 years. Narayan Nagar, under the jurisdiction of the Honda village panchayat, consists of around 350 houses, with a population of about 2,000. Villager Prasanna Bhangle said the main road, interior roads and the road proceeding to the crematorium ground are in urgent need of repair. Besides this, calls to authorities for basic necessities like sufficient water supply and a playground for children have gone unheard for the past two decades . “It is too much to bear now. We will not keep quiet. If the work of road repairs is not started within 15 days, we will boycott the upcoming ZP elections,” Bhangle said. The locals have now formed a 26-member action committee, which will submit a letter to chief minister Pramod Sawant stating all the grievances of the villagers. Villager Gaurish Malkarne said that if there is no action within 15 days of submission of the memorandum, villagers will not vote at the ZP polls. “If the government doesn’t take our issue seriously, we will take the harsh decision of not moving out of our homes on election day,” he said. “Ours is among the highest revenue-generating settlements of Honda panchayat, yet we see no benefits coming our way. If the government is not bothered in developing the village, then the villagers will have to carry out work on the crematorium ground by spending their own money,” he said. Panch Purnali Kerikar said that putting up a united front before the authorities is the only hope of getting any work done in the area. “I am with the people. As a representative of the village, I am struggling to get work done for my area. I have never got any positive response from departments concerned.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lacking-basic-amenities-honda-hamlet-threatens-to-boycott-zp-polls/articleshow/79358880.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Goa||Away from cruise boats, wealthy tourists in Goa flock to yachts and catamarans||PANAJI: A few years ago, tourists visiting Goa would look forward to an evening cruise on the Mandovi; in fact, a trip without one was often considered incomplete. But over the past few years, many more options are available to those who wish to enjoy the water and have the means to splurge. From exclusive fishing trips to pre-wedding shoots to yachts, premium experiences have secured a market among India’s rich. Although most cruise operators are yet to start their operations even as the government issued permissions last month, many yacht operators are back on their feet already, and around 15 of them are already in action. Amey Parsekar of Rediscovery Cruises said when he, along with his partner Viraj, started backwater trips five years ago, people were unaware of this option. Slowly, the concept picked up, and in the past two-three years, competition has risen. “A few years ago, even tourist taxi drivers didn’t know about the backwaters and yachts parked at Britona. Now, there is a lot of competition. However, there are some jetty issues that need to be addressed,” said Parsekar. Almanzo Barreto, who conducts yacht trips, said that there’s a big market for pre-wedding shoots, and that their clients are tourists from North India. A two-hour pre-wedding shoot on a yacht can cost upwards of Rs 20,000. “We provide the yacht service, and clients have to arrange for photographers and makeup artists,” he said. Shoots are usually conducted in the backdrop of the state’s backwaters, which provide an experience of exclusivity to couples. While other activities are yet to pick up, pre-wedding shoots already started as soon as the government permitted operations by cruise boats and other vessels last month. “Clients also hire yachts to celebrate birthdays or anniversaries,” he said. “Corporates pick catamarans for their celebrations as they accommodate more people. Yachts or catamarans provide a premium experience.” Captain of ports James Braganza said that yachts are more in demand today, as most cruise operators are yet to resume operations. “Cruise boats are yet to return from their annual repairs, and comply with other conditions before they resume operations,” he said. The government has issued detailed standard operating procedures (SOPs) for river cruises and other vessels. Besides people hiring yachts for pre-wedding shoots and birthdays, there is another niche segment — professionals hiring yachts to experience deep sea fishing. A fishing trip of around four hours, depending on sea conditions, is for those with expertise in the art, and can cost Rs 5,000 an hour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/away-from-cruise-boats-wealthy-tourists-flock-to-yachts-catamarans/articleshow/79358882.cms||Bindiya Chari
November 23, 2020||Lucknow||UP to conduct random Covid tests on passengers reaching from Delhi||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh has decided to conduct random Covid tests on people coming from Delhi in wake of a pandemic surge in the national capital. Talking to reporters on Sunday, chief secretary, RK Tewari said, “We will be testing people coming from Delhi via flight, bus or train. There has been a spike in cases in districts adjoining Delhi and we could also limit guests at weddings or other events.” The move comes a day after Maharashtra government announced it was considering halting flight and train services from Delhi due to the Covid spurt in the national capital. And to combat a possible second wave, UP government on Sunday conducted 1.75 lakh tests, clocking the highest number till date even as 2,588 fresh cases were recorded over 24 hours. With this total tests touched the 1.79 crore mark, inarguably the highest in the country. Additional chief secretary (health) Amit Mohan Prasad said, it was time to take extra precaution because of rise in cases in Delhi and districts in National Capital Region. The highest positivity rate was recorded in districts of Gautam Buddh Nagar, Ghaziabad, Meerut, Lucknow and Varanasi, he said and those with low positivity rate included Ambedkarnagar, Shravasti, Kanpur Dehat, Balrampur and Hathras. Since its outbreak, Covid claimed 7,559 lives in the state and Prasad claimed the recovery rate hovered around 94.08% over last few days. He said, the state had 23,806 active cases, of which a maximum of 3,402 were detected in Lucknow, followed by 2171 cases in Meerut. As many as 10,902 infected people were being treated in home isolation and 2,356 people were hospitalised. The surveillance mechanism was also being stepped up to ascertain growing number of cases and arrest its spread. He said, surveillance was being conducted in 1,61,396 localities straddling 2.92 crore households and over 14.27 crore people. Additional chief secretary, information, Navneet Sehgal said, to boost economic activity, the state government would organise a loan fair next week for entrepreneurs and MSME units in the state. He said, almost all industrial units were now functioning and spurring state’s growth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-to-conduct-random-covid-tests-on-passengers-reaching-from-delhi/articleshow/79359504.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Kolhapur||‘EWS for Marathas should not hamper SEBC’s legal battle’||Kolhapur: Rajya Sabha MP Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati has asked the state government to ‘guarantee’ that allowing Maratha students to get the benefit of the economically weaker section (EWS) category for MBBS admissions would not hamper the legal fight for a 13% separate quota for the community granted under the socially and educationally backward category (SEBC).The admission process for both MBBS and BDS is going on in the state. The Supreme Court has put an interim stay over SEBC reservation. Some students had moved a petition in the Bombay high court (HC) allowing them to avail admission through the EWS quota. While allowing the students to get admission under the EWS category, the HC asked them not to avail SEBC reservation for educational purposes. After the rulings, there has been a growing demand from parents and students affected by the stay over the SEBC quota to get MBBS admission under EWS category. Sambhajiraje tweeted, “SEBC reservation has not been cancelled but stayed by SC. I am of the opinion that if we go for EWS, our legal fight for SEBC will be adversely affected. State government should guarantee us that granting EWS to Maratha students will not affect SEBC in any way.”Maratha students from across the state are preparing to knock the doors of the HC to get admission under EWS category as despite having good marks, they did not get MBBS admission in the first round. The parents of the students are planning to file a joint petition hoping that their children would get admission to MBBS through EWS category in the next round. They are also demanding to postpone the process for the next round till the court comes out with a ruling. Vinod Patil, a petitioner in support of SEBC in SC, said, “The EWS applies only to government medical colleges. Maratha students will not benefit much as EWS quota is not applicable in private colleges. We will study the rulings and accordingly put forth our demands before the government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/ews-for-marathas-should-not-hamper-sebcs-legal-battle/articleshow/79356747.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Nagpur||Cop traces owner, returns lost cell found at Chhath puja venue||Nagpur: Traffic head constable Shehnaz Ansari, attached to Kamptee division, helped a devotee get back a lost cell phone in the early hours of Chhath puja last week near Kamptee river, where a sizeable crowd had gathered for rituals.State home minister Anil Deshmukh lauded Ansari on social media.Ansari, deployed on bandobast duty since 3.30am, picked up the high-end cell phone lying on the road after a passer-by pointed it out to her. “I picked up the cell phone and tried to see whether it had any kind of lock. Thankfully, there was no lock and I could operate it,” said Ansari.Ansari traced a contact in the phone with the name ‘papa’. “I dialled the number, and a man answered the call. He seemed to be at the same location as similar noises could be heard in the background,” she said. “The family had not even realized that the cell phone had been dropped. They rushed to locate me after I informed the family member that the cell phone was in my possession,” said the traffic cop.Ansari said the family was a relieved after the cell phone was returned to them.Ansari had won accolades in the media earlier for rescuing a vagabond with a serious injury on his leg, and getting him admitted at a hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cop-traces-owner-returns-lost-cell-found-at-chhath-puja-venue/articleshow/79357791.cms||Soumitra Bose
November 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||IMFL worth Rs 10L found from shed||Ahmedabad: Special operations group of city crime branch seized 2,316 bottles of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) worth Rs 10 lakh on Saturday night from a shed beside an office in a party plot in Naroda. The party plot is on the road leading from Dastan Circle to Naroda Ring Road. Sub-inspector P K Bhoot and his team received a tip during their curfew patrol and raided the shed. “We found one Nimesh Kakde, 26, of Khokhra and hailing from Chandrapur in Maharashtra. We found the bottles in cardboard cartons. The accused said the liquor was brought by Vasant Khatri of Ahmedabad and was to be delivered to Natraj in Nadiad,” Bhoot said. In another incident, which took place on Sunday afternoon, Kagdapith police found 60 litres of country liquor from an abandoned scooter. The liquor was packed in polythene pouches. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/imfl-worth-rs-10l-found-from-shed/articleshow/79357814.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Covaxin efficacy can be over 60%: Official||Hyderabad: India’s first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine candidate Covaxin is expected to achieve an efficacy of over 60%, going by the results of the Phase 1 and 2 clinical trials, a top official of the vaccine’s maker Bharat Biotech has said. “We aim to achieve at least 60% efficacy but it can also be more. Chances of the vaccine being less than 50% effective are remote as suggested by our trial results,” said Bharat Biotech executive director Sai Prasad. The World Health Organisation (WHO) as well as several drug regulators around the world, including the authorities in India, have set a minimum efficacy criterion of 50% for approving a Covid-19 vaccine. Pointing out that the results of the Phase 1 and 2 trials involving around 1000 participants were “promising”, he said about “85-90% of the participants seroconverted in the vaccinated groups and that Covaxin was found to be safe without any severe adverse events. However, the company said there was one adverse event during the Phase 1 trial, which was investigated and determined as not being vaccine related. Bharat Biotech said it had provided the details pertaining to the adverse event to the Indian drug regulators before taking permission to proceed with Phase 2 and 3 trials. Prasad had earlier told TOI that the efficacy data from Phase 3 trials is expected to be available only by the end of the first quarter of 2021 or second quarter of next year after which the company would apply for regulatory approvals and commercial licence for the vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covaxin-efficacy-can-be-over-60-official/articleshow/79358883.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
November 23, 2020||Pune||Pune: Cyber crooks return with ‘Free Thali’ bait, dupe five persons over a week||PUNE: A techie from Aundh recently called a cell phone number with a geo-tagging facility. He had noted down the phone number from a website while running an online search to order a ‘Thali’ from a prominent restaurant in Deccan. The man, who answered the call, identified himself as a ‘manager’ of the restaurant and told the techie that the eatery was offering a ‘Thali’ free on every order placed. The techie then ordered two ‘Thalis’, totally worth Rs800, and went on to pay Rs1,000 online for the food and delivery charges. However, the ‘Thalis’ never reached his home. When the techie tried to get in touch with the so-called manager on the number he had dialled, he realized that his number had been blocked. A private security agency operator from Erandwane had a similar experience involving the same number. “There were guests at my home for Diwali and I wanted to order food from the restaurant preferred by my relatives. However, despite paying Rs2,400, the food I had ordered was never delivered. I had transferred money to the man’s UPI app, then I realized that I was cheated,” he said. Senior inspector Rajkumar Wakchaure from the cyber crime police told TOI, “We have received five such cases over the last week. Cyber fraudsters have been executing such tricks ever since restaurants reopened last month. People should not call geo-tagged cell numbers, but visit the restaurant’s official website and dial the genuine number. People should also pay only after receiving the food order at their doorstep.” The police are investigating all five cases in which victims have been duped of money ranging between Rs1,000 to Rs6,000. “There was a lull of such crimes in the last three months as prominent restaurants were shut owing to the lockdown measures. However, as restaurants started functioning, the cybercrooks too swung into action,” said Wakchaure. Between January and April, the cyber crime police received complaint applications from 26 citizens claiming that they either ordered liquor or food from stores and restaurants but the suspects cheated them. In some cases, the victims ended up sharing credentials of their UPI applications with the suspects, who then siphoned off money ranging between Rs2,000 to Rs40,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cyber-crooks-return-with-free-thali-bait-dupe-five-persons-over-a-week/articleshow/79357816.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Kolkata||At Rs 45, potato price breaches all records in West Bengal||KOLKATA: Retail potato (common Jyoti variety) price touched an all time high of Rs 45/kg while onion price rose to Rs 70/kg on Sunday, burning holes in the pockets of consumers at a time when the city is reeling from an unprecedented financial crisis because of the pandemic. In fact, for the first time Bengal’s monthly consumption of potatoes, according to agriculture marketing department, is down by more than 1lakh tonnes from 5.5 to 4.25 lakh tonnes. The premium category Chandramukhi was selling for Rs 50-Rs 55 in the market with hardly any taker. Potato, being an essential staple, determines prices of a lot other perishables. According to vegetable vendors, higher potato price has prevented from cooling off the price of other vegetables. Onion, which cooled off a bit and stabilised at Rs 50 a kg, is again on an upswing. TimesViewStrict monitoring needs to be there to ensure that seasonal fluctuations do not go beyond the normal range. Various government agencies have been visiting markets; inspectors need to ensure there is no profiteering.“We are having a tough time running our families with prices of daily essentials constantly spiralling out of our budget,” said Malay Acharya, a private company employee, whose salary was reduced by 50% because of the pandemic. “On Sunday, I bought a Rs 50-kg bag at Rs1,980, which is Rs 39.6 a kg. After sorting and removal of rotten ones, 1kg potato costs around Rs 42.5. I am selling the potato at Rs 45. My margin is of Rs 2.5 which includes the cost of transportation. Cops and enforcement agencies are raiding us, sparing the big traders, who are dictating price by hoarding potatoes and controlling the supply line,” said Sujit Das, a potato trader at Old Behala market. “Under the current regime of new agriculture policy, a section of potato traders took full advantage by hoarding potatoes and selling them when at time when price rises sharply,” said Kamal Dey, member of the task force responsible for controlling prices of essential commodities. The onion on the other hand, had a sharp upswing, taking the retail price closed to Rs 70 in most of the markets. The onion wholesale price, even a fortnight ago, was Rs 1,700 per 40kg bag (Rs a 42.6 a kg). The retail price dropped to Rs 50 a kg. On Sunday, the price rose to Rs 2,300 a bag (Rs 57.5 a kg). Naturally, the retail price rose Rs 70 a kg, said Sk Asgar Sk, a Janbazar onion trader. Since onions are getting better price in south India over east India, much of the onion is going to there. Koley and Posta markets are receiving only two trucks, compared to 15 to 20 trucks a day. The huge mismatch of demand and supply is jacking up the price unusually. “The price of potato and onion is likely to rise further till December 15. The potato price may dip only after potatoes from Punjab enter Bengal in mid December. By that time, the stored potatoes need to be exhausted,” said Dey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/at-rs-45-potato-price-breaches-all-records/articleshow/79357812.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
November 23, 2020||Pune||Half a term later, schools in Pune district’s rural areas reopen today||PUNE: Schools in the rural areas of Pune district will begin classes for standards IX, X and XII from Monday. The Pune zilla parishad has got all the schools sanitised and thoroughly cleaned to welcome students while parent-teacher meetings were conducted by teachers and school heads. Of the 5,600 teachers tested till Saturday evening, 17 had were found positive and have been told to take treatment as per the doctors’ instructions. The municipal corporations across the state on Saturday decided to reopen schools at later dates after taking stock of the Covid-19 situation. The Pune ZP had announced the schools’ reopening on Friday, and started preparations. Pune ZP chief executive officer Ayush Prasad said, “ All schools that are meant to open on Monday will start operations. Teachers’ testing has also been conducted.” There are over 20,000 teachers in the ZP schools in Pune district and the RT-PCR test for Covid-19 has been made mandatory by the state education department in its notification on November 10. Secondary education officer Ganpat More said, “We will start the schools in phases, and most of them have undergone the inspection and have all arrangements in terms of the precautionary measures as issued by the state government. They will definitely open on Monday. The teachers who have tested positive have been told to take treatment.” Since Friday, the schools’ management committee meetings were being conducted in the presence of parents inside classrooms. They were told about the standard operating procedures and the precautions the schools were taking. More said, “We are also conducting a physical inspection of schools on the arrangements they have made about the sanitisation of the premises, hand washing arrangements, cleanliness and hygiene, seating arrangements, marking inside schools following social distancing protocols.” Several teaching and non-teaching employees across eight districts of Marathwada have tested positive during the screening carried out by the district administrations. Parbhani and Hingoli district administrations were considering to start the schools sometime in December, while in Aurangabad, schools situated in urban areas will start from the first week of January, while schools in rural areas will start from Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/half-a-term-later-schools-in-pune-districts-rural-areas-reopen-today/articleshow/79357825.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
November 23, 2020||Pune||Pune: Woman duped of Rs 3.75 lakh in bid to get Railways job for brother||PUNE: The Kondhwa police are looking for a Market Yard resident after a woman (30) registered an FIR accusing the former of cheating her of Rs3.75 lakh over the last 10 months after promising to help her brother secure a railway ticket checker’s or a clerical job. The woman lodged the complaint with the police on Saturday, stating that the Market Yard-based woman claimed to be a social worker and that she knew many top officers in railways and other government offices. The ‘social worker’ claimed that she could help that complainant’s brother secure a job using her connections. The FIR said the social worker then demanded Rs5 lakh for securing the job in January. She also demanded photocopies of education certificates of the complainant’s brother. Police said the complainant showed her inability to pay Rs5 lakh all at once, following which the ‘social worker’ told her to make part payments. After paying a collective sum of Rs3.75 lakh over the months, the complainant realised she had been duped as the ‘social worker’ failed to give her brother a joining letter as promised, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/woman-duped-of-rs-3-75l-in-bid-to-get-railways-job-for-brother/articleshow/79357821.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Hyderabad||TIMS docs threaten strike, demand leaves||Hyderabad: State health authorities on Sunday threatened disciplinary action against the resident doctors of Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (TIMS), Gachibowli after the senior resident doctors threatened to go on strike over the issue of cancellation of alternate weekly quarantine leave. TIMS Gachibowli is now one of the two nodal centres for treating Covid-19 patients in the state after non-Covid services were resumed at Gandhi Hospital on Saturday. The resident doctors are demanding the restoration of alternate weekly quarantine citing additional threat to their lives and that of their family members in the absence of quarantine. Stressing that the quarantine rule is not recommended by the Centre, the TIMS director maintained that there will be no rollback of the decision. An official statement from the director’s office said, “Quarantine leave has not been advised by Government of India’s advisory dated 18th June, 2020. Quarantine leave was given initially during the lockdown phases but now with opening up to near normalcy levels, quarantine leave has been removed as it is not advised. In TIMS, all precautions to prevent infection among healthcare workers have been taken. PPE kits, N-95 masks, surgical gloves and sanitisers are being provided to all staffers on Covid-19 duty.” It was further stated that TIMS has a Hospital Infection Control Committee (HICC) which is responsible for implementing the Infection Prevention and Control (IPC) activities and organises regular trainings on IPC for healthcare workers. It was also clarified that salaries till October 2020 of all contractual staff (faculty, doctors, medical officers, head and staff nurses and paramedical staff) were credited into their accounts and senior residents too have been paid their stipends till the month of October.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tims-docs-threaten-strike-demand-leaves/articleshow/79358887.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Hyderabad||ACB searches DSP’s houses and office||Hyderabad: Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) sleuths have conducted searches at the houses and office of Kamareddy DSP Laxminarayana in relation to the recent bribery case registered against Kamareddy circle inspector. On Friday, ACB sleuths arrested Kamareddy circle inspector I Jagadish and his associate M Sujay for demanding Rs 5 lakh bribe from complainant Bathula Sudhakar in relation to cricket betting case registered under Telangana Gaming Act. During the investigation, ACB discovered certain information indicating the alleged involvement of Kamareddy DSP Laxminarayana’s role in the matter . Based on the information, ACB teams conducted searches at the DSP’s houses in Trimulgherry, Secunderabad, his official residence and office in Kamareddy. “We have seized some documents and cash during the searches. We are verifying the details,” said an ACB official. The ACB team also found evidence about the involvement of a SI of Kamareddy police station but the SI is currently not available for questioning. On November 6, the accused accepted a bribe of Rs 1.39 lakh to release Sudhakar on station bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/acb-searches-dsps-houses-and-office/articleshow/79358890.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Kolkata||Pingla patachitra for New Town Covid awareness||KOLKATA: The West Bengal Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) authorities are spreading awareness about Covid-19 through patachitras (traditional cloth-based scroll paintings) by folk artists of Pingla in West Midnapore. This time, the artists have gone beyond mythology for their paintings and touched upon the importance of wearing masks, washing hands frequently, sanitizing home and its precincts and maintaining social distancing through the art form. This caught the attention of the Hidco authorities, who chose some of these artworks in its awareness drives against Covid. These patachitras were exhibited recently at the ICCR and Emami Art, from where Hidco picked up the paintings that are being displayed on LED boards. The patachitras that follow the traditional motif drawing pattern juxtaposed in a modern context, yielded positive reaction from the residents of New Town and has encouraged Hidco to order more such paintings from Naya, the patachitra village of Pingla. The village has been transformed into a scroll drawing hub where the state MSME department is trying to revive this ancient art of Bengal with the help of UNESCO. Pingla pata has also won the GI tag. Some painters of Naya like Anwar Chitrakar and Mahadeb Chitrakar have brought the winds of change in the art by depicting on their canvases various contemporary issues such as child abuse, molestation, drug and substance abuse, women’s rights, elections and the CAA. Many of these artists have participated in international exhibitions organised by the Centre as cultural exchange ambassadors. “Now, the most pressing issue is Covid and we feel that we should make people aware of the pandemic through our brushstrokes. So, many of us have resorted to pata painting on this issue. We are happy that Hidco has paid attention to our initiative and promised to buy more paintings from us,” said Anwar Chitrakar. Hidco chairman, Debashish Sen, said, “I was surprised on seeing the exhibition of these paintings, first at the ICCR and then at a city gallery. I thought these paintings could be used to spread Covid awareness among people in New Town in an innovative way.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pingla-patachitra-for-new-town-cov-awareness/articleshow/79357830.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
November 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Mask-less clicked, challaned at Sukhna Lake, Rock Garden||CHANDIGARH: The UT police conducted a special drive and caught 23 people roaming at Sukhna Lake and 15 at Roack Garden for having their faces uncovered and issued them challans on Sunday. During the drive, many people, especially women, were seen arguing with the cops. The police collected Rs 19,000 as fine from violators on the spot. The police said many people carried masks in their hands, while others did not wear the same properly and had tied it till their chins or not covering their noses. The police said they recorded videos of those roaming without masks in their mobile phones and stopped them for challans. Those arguing over the challan were shown their videos by the cops. The lake police post under the supervision of Jaspal Singh, in-charge, carried out the drive. Jaspal said due to increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in and around the city, the senior officials ordered to check people roaming without masks at the lake or other public places. The challan for not wearing masks at public places is Rs 500 and visitors have to pay the fine on the spot. However, many people were seen arguing with the cops and giving excuses for not wearing the same. According to the available police data, as many as 12,098 city residents have been challaned for not wearing masks in public places in the different parts of the city from June 23, 2020 to October 31, 2020. The police data reveals that they have collected Rs 60.49 lakhs as fine for the same. A maximum of 5,946 people were caught without masks in July and Rs 29.73 lakhs was collected as fine. Social distancing norms go for a toss Social distancing, wearing masks and other preventive norms were a miss at two most prominent tourist destinations of the city i.e. Rock Garden and Sukhna Lake on Sunday. Teams of the Chandigarh administration, constituted under the SDM (central) and Chandigarh police, under the supervision of the Sector 3 police station SHO, were deputed at both the locations and issued challans to violators. While entering the Rock Garden, people were seen standing in queues by maintaining some distancing, but the moment they entered the premises of the Rock Garden, all norms were tossed up without any fear or concern of the pandemic. People were openly seen moving without masks in groups, taking pictures. There was no monitoring inside the Rock Garden. The situation was almost similar at the Sukhna Lake too. Though, at the entry point of the lake, people were seen wearing masks, but the moment they crossed the police post and other areas, they openly flouted the norms. The gathering was huge on Sunday due to holiday. The Chandigarh administration had deputed three teams of the health department for Covid-19 testing at the lake. Harjit Singh Sandhu, SDM (central), said, “We are quite strict against violators and directions have already been given to the commanders concerned in this regard. The checking drive will continue in the future too.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mask-less-clicked-challaned-at-sukhna-lake-rock-garden/articleshow/79356757.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Kolkata||East-West Metro ready with structure of country’s second deepest Metro station at Esplanade||KOLKATA: East-West Metro’s 28m-deep Esplanade station is now structurally complete. This is Kolkata’s most important Metro station, because it will be a connecting point for the three Metro lines; the existing north-south link, and the under-construction East-West and the Joka-Esplanade corridors. The 16km East-West Metro, when fully operational, will link Sector-V with Howrah Maidan, travelling below the Hooghly. The huge 30,000sqm Esplanade station is India’s second deepest Metro station. The deepest is the 30m station below Howrah railway station. Esplanade station is at par with Delhi’s Hauz Khas Metro station, also built 28m below the surface. Kolkata Metro Rail Corporation (KMRC) is implementing the Rs 8,575crore project. A truncated 7km stretch between Sector-V and Phoolbagan is now operational. Even as East-West Metro’s Sealdah station may be commissioned next August, Esplanade station will be functional only when the 6.5km Howrah Maidan-Sealdah section is ready. Structural work completed, block work (partitioning the various system rooms, ticket counters and so on) has started at the Esplanade station. It was from here that ITD ITD-Cementation, building the last 2.45km underground tunnels of the Metro corridor between Esplanade and Sealdah, had launched the two tunnel borers back in January, 2019. The tunneling was supposed to have been completed in March, this year, but one of the tunnel boring machines (TBMs) hit an aquifer on August 31, last year, and pushed back the project, that has missed multiple deadlines. Another 800m of tunneling, due to begin in December-end, is still left. “Until the tunneling is over, two 10m-by-10m openings in the Metro station can’t be covered up. These serve as shafts for the TBM,” a KMRC official said. Meanwhile, finishing work for the completed portions of the station will be done. “But things like air-conditioning and other finishing work can’t be until the entire station box is covered,” the KMRC official said. The station was dug so deep so that the twin tunnels, passing through SN Banerjee Road towards Sealdah, could steer clear of the north-south Metro’s tracks. The “interchange” East-West Metro’s Esplanade station has been linked with the existing north-south corridor through a subway. The station has four tiers, aligns with the north-south corridor on the mezzanine level. Ticket counters will come up on this level since it’s the first space commuters will access. Then comes “upper concourse”, the space reserved for a commercial complex, followed by the “lower concourse”. The entire floor will be used for MEP (mechanical, electrical and plumbing) installations, which include air-conditioners, transformers, generators, power cables. Finally, there’s the fourth, or platform level. This has double discharge platforms leading to twin tunnels. During construction, pre-cast panels were used to form the various levels and internal structures, similar to the construction of underground basements of highrise buildings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/e-w-metro-ready-with-structure-of-countrys-second-deepest-metro-station-at-esplanade/articleshow/79357822.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
November 23, 2020||Pune||Patient’s kin attack guard at Sassoon General Hospital||PUNE: The Bund Garden police on Saturday evening arrested three men, all residents of Tadiwala Road slum, and booked a woman on the charge of assaulting a security guard and damaging medical equipment in the casualty ward of Sassoon General Hospital after the staff asked them to remove their shoes. The hospital staff had asked the men and another relative (a woman) of theirs to remove their shoes and to not stand near the patient, a woman, whom they had brought to the hospital for treatment, police said. The trio was infuriated by these instructions and assaulted the security guard, police added. The hospital’s chief medical officer (CMO), Dr Shankarlal Choudhari, lodged a complaint with the police. The arrested men were identified as Sohan Pawar (23), Yogesh Waghmare (22) and Suraj Waghmare (20). Sub-inspector Tukaram Fad of the Bund Garden police said, “The patient’s family members took her to the hospital in a state of panic at around 3.30pm. The patient was then moved to the casualty ward.” “A nurse noted that the family members were wearing shoes inside the ward. She told the security guard to have a talk with them, but the men started abusing him and other staff. The guard asked them to walk away but they attacked him instead,” he said. Later, they damaged medical equipment and a computer in the ward, Fad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/patients-kin-attack-guard-at-sassoon/articleshow/79357835.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Gmada to demolish 60 houses in Jujhar Nagar on November 25||MOHALI: As many as 60 families are on the verge of losing their dwellings situated at Jujhar Nagar in Mohali as the structures in which they have been living in from the past three years have now been declared illegal by the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (Gmada). Gmada has put 60 families on notice of eviction and will carry out demolition drive on November 25. Gmada estate officer Tarsem Chand said, “This colony is not approved and we had issued several notices of eviction earlier as well. We will now go ahead with the demolition of these illegal structures on November 25.” He said during the survey conducted by Gmada, many such colonies have been found unuthorised and notices were issued to the promoters. On the other hand, residents have alleged that they are not at fault as the builder sold the plots claiming these to be authorised and approved by Gmada. The houses were constructed by them three years ago and now they have been served notices that the colony is unauthorised. The residents have also questioned that what were the authorities of Gmada doing when the houses were being constructed on these plots, which have now said to be unauthorised? Prem Singh Bist, president of the colony residents’ welfare association, said, “What is our fault in this? We have spent our lifetime savings to buy plots and construct houses for our families. Our houses have been registered and we have paid the government fees for the same. We have legal electricity, water and sewerage connections and now Gmada is saying that the colony is illegal colony.” Another resident Sayed Akthar said, “Even the builder is not responding after we received notices. Our children will come on road.” Despite repeated attempts, builder Gurdev Singh could not be contacted. Gmada officials said the builder produced stay orders against the demolition, but the stay orders turned out to be fake with no authenticity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/gmada-to-demolish-60-houses-in-jujhar-nagar-on-nov-25/articleshow/79356766.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali: Flats built on land meant for parks, builder gets notice||MOHALI: A builder of Victoria Heights, a housing society in Zirakpur, has been found in violation of building shops and flats on the land required for parks, which led the residents to file a petition in the Punjab and Haryana high court seeking action. Following the petition, the HC has put the Punjab government as well as the builder on notice. The HC has directed the Punjab government, local bodies department as well as the builder to file their reply by November 25. The HC has also given last chance to them to explain their reasons in the matter, failing which regular hearing in the case will start by December 1. Giving information about the petition filed by the RWA of the Victoria Heights to the high court, Sukhdev Chaudhary, chairman of the joint action committee, said not the shops have been built on the space reserved for parks, but flats have been constructed on it. Chaudhary that the builder has also cheated RERA by producing forge and false building plan, which showed wrong details of placement of flats and shops. “When we approached the tehsildar over the issue, he said he registered the land on the basis of the building plans. The department did not physically verify the original plan at site,” he said. He said the petition filed in the Punjab and Haryana high court mentions that RERA numbers and parks illegally taken by the builder have been scrapped and flats are being built and the municipal council has been unable to take any action. Significantly, this project was started in 2010, but till date the project has not been completed. Sukhdev Chaudhary said the JAC will extend cooperation in people’s struggle. In the petition, RWA, Punjab chief secretary, additional chief secretary of the local bodies department, director of the local bodies department, district deputy commissioner Mohali, executive officer of the Zirakpur municipal council, chief town planner, grievance authority, Fortune Multitrack Private Limited, RERA Punjab and director of the Fortune Multitrack Private Limited have been made a party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/flats-built-on-land-meant-for-parks-builder-gets-notice/articleshow/79356761.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Madurai||Runway expansion: Govt urged to move fast on Madurai underpass||Madurai: The state government should take an expeditious decision on expansion of the Madurai airport runway in the wake of Airports Authority of India informing that proposal to construct an underpass for Ring Road through the runway is financially unviable, various stakeholders have said.Ring Road, which connects various southern districts, passes through the proposed place where the runway expansion was planned. It will have to be diverted to circumnavigate the area or an underpass built. Observers point out that although such a diversion would cost far less, it could be unrealistic considering the additional 160 acres of land acquired. This may lead to litigation and the process could drag on for years. It has been 12 years since the acquisition of 615 acres of land for runway expansion was proposed, but it is yet to be completed. "Although Mysore and Varanasi airports are getting underpass, AAI has refused it for Madurai citing the cost factor. State government should come forward to take up the project in the best interests of the development of the southern districts," said an official at Madurai airport.At present, Madurai airport’s runway length is 7,500 feet which is proposed to be expanded to about 12,500 ft, which means it will have to be expanded for about one-and-a-half kilometres. This will facilitate the landing of wide-body aircraft.Senior president of Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce, S Rethinavelu, opined that it would be well and good if the state government is ready to support the project fully. Or else, it should talk to AAI and arrive at a fund sharing formula. The state government is ready to bear half the project cost in railway projects, a similar arrangement can be worked out in this case too, he suggested.Since industrial development has been eluding Madurai and the southern districts due to lack of infrastructure and connectivity, expansion of the airport runway will offer a solution, Rethinavelu said. He also urged the central government to add Madurai airport in Bilateral Aviation Safety Agreement (BASA) so that foreign carriers can launch services to the city. The airport should also be declared international airport, he urged. Revenue minister R B Udayakumar, who visited the airport recently, had promised to take up the underpass proposal with the chief minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/runway-expansion-govt-urged-to-move-fast-on-madurai-underpass/articleshow/79359514.cms||V Devanathan
November 23, 2020||Kolhapur||NMC plans on composting for big housing societies||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC), in order to bring the city among top-five clean cities in the country, has decided to focus on home composting in big residential housing societies. The civic body is planning to rope in non-government organisations (NGOs) for helping the housing societies in carrying out this activity.This will also help the NMC to reduce the burden in collection of garbage. “The ranking of Nashik city among clean cities in the country under the Swachh Survekshan has improved a lot — from 67 in 2019 to 11 this year — among cities in the country with a population of over 10 lakh,” a senior official from NMC said. The NMC has already geared up for the Swachh Survekshan 2021 and has already assigned tasks related to the exercise. For the next cleanliness survey, major thrust has been given on treatment of solid waste and it is essential to have management and treatment of the solid waste at source. Last year too, the NMC had implemented a home composting project in the city and composting of around one quintal of waste was carried out at some residential societies in the city. Currently, the NMC has appointed private contractors for collecting garbage across the city through collection vans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/nmc-plans-on-composting-for-big-housing-societies/articleshow/79356765.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 23, 2020||Hyderabad||HC lifeline to two GHMC candidates||Hyderabad: In a last-minute intervention, Justice A Abhishek Reddy of the Telangana high court on Sunday came to the rescue of two GHMC poll candidates and stayed the returning officers’ orders rejecting their nominations and directed authorities to allow them to contest. The judge passed these interim orders in two separate petitions filed by Congress candidate Kuna Srinivas Goud from Ward No 125 and BJP’s Renu Soni from ward No 49. Since Sunday was the last day to finalise the candidates remaining in the fray, the aggrieved candidates moved urgent pleas and the judge heard it as house motions and passed the orders. In the case of Kuna Srinivas, the returning officer had received a complaint that he has three children and, showing this as a reason, he passed an order rejecting his nomination. The judge said that passing such unilateral orders without any inquiry and without even seeking the explanation of the candidate was unfair. He stayed the order of the returning officer and directed authorities to allow him to contest in the ongoing polls. Similarly, in the case of Soni, her nomination from Ghansi bazar ward was rejected by the returning officer on the grounds that she has three children and that she does not belong to the BC community to which this ward was reserved. Hence, she was held to be not eligible to contest. Her counsel explained to the court that the returning officer crossed his brief in deciding the matter because an election tribunal earlier dismissed similar pleas against Soni. “She was holding a valid BC certificate issued by the Tahsildar,” the counsel said. Justice Abhishek Reddy in his order said that a returning officer cannot pass orders contrary to the order of an election tribunal. Only an appellate court can set aside such orders. “It is beyond the purview of quasi-judicial officers like returning officers to intervene in such orders,” the judge said and directed him to allow Soni to contest in the ongoing election. In both these cases the returning officers acted on complaints from rivals of the petitioners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-lifeline-to-two-ghmc-candidates/articleshow/79359524.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Pune||Hunter killed after loaded rifle goes off by accident in Pune||PUNE: A 25-year-old man from Bhor taluka died as his licensed rifle accidentally went off, while he was chasing a rabbit on Saturday night. The incident occurred in a forest in Karandi village, around 40km from here, off Pune-Bengaluru highway. The Rajgad police have identified the victim as Amit Bhadale of Salavade village in Bhor taluka. The police have registered a case of accidental death. Sub-inspector Kaustubh Sangvekar of the Rajgad police station told TOI that Bhadale operated a tea stall at Salavade village. On Saturday night, Bhadale and his two friends Ankush Jadhav and Babaraje Jadhav went to the forest area in Karandi village to hunt rabbits. “Bhadale was carrying his grandfather’s licensed double bore gun,” Sangvekar said. He said that while walking on the Kamthadi-Karandi Road on the forest land, they noticed a rabbit. “Bhadale fired one shot at the rabbit and started running behind it while carrying the rifle, which was loaded,” Sangvekar said. While running in the dark, Bhadale lost his balance and fell. “As soon as he fell, the rifle in his hand accidentally went off and the bullet pierced his chest,” Sangvekar said. Bhadale’s friends took him to a private hospital at Nasrapur. He was later shifted to a private hospital in Pune, where he succumbed to the bullet injuries. “We have registered a case of accidental death. Prima facie there is no foul play in the case,” Sangvekar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hunter-killed-after-loaded-rifle-goes-off-by-accident/articleshow/79357829.cms||Mihir Tanksale
November 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Covid cases go up by 15 per cent, experts cite fatigue factor||CHANDIGARH: There has been a rise of 15% in Covid-19 cases till November 22 as compared to last month. The public health experts attribute this to a sense of fatigue which has set in the general population as well as the medical fraternity. “Precautions of wearing mask and observing social distancing are not being followed as people are getting too relaxed. Most feel that the flu is a common cold and recovery rate is better, so they do not bother to adhere to the precautions,” said a public health expert at the PGI. He said, “However, we are seeing severe cases which could have been managed at mild to moderate levels at home. Due to the casual attitude, people are reporting late to hospitals with severe Covid-19 infection.” From November 1 till 22, the city has seen 2,195 Covid-19 infections and 34 deaths. While from October 1 till 22, there were 1,791 cases. The weekly average growth of the cases has seen a rise from 0.6% in the city to 0.9% till date. This is more than the national average of 0.4%. Himachal Pradesh is at the top slot of weekly growth of cases with daily growth of 2%, while Haryana is at the third slot with a growth of 1.2%. Chandigarh is placed at the 10th rank in the recent weekly average growth of Covid-19 cases in the country. Chandigarh’s total positivity rate in the last week has been 11.6%, while the national average was 4.1%. For this week, the rate has been 10.9%, while the national average is 4%. With the change in the weather and many respiratory infections being reported at this time, doctors are concerned as the pandemic has yet not gone. “Winters are known to be harsh on the elderly. This winter is going to be risky for those with compromised health. The only thing that can work in the stage of community transmission is community action and each individual’s action,” said Dr Parvinder Chawla, senior consultant, internal medicine at a private hospital in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covid-cases-go-up-by-15-experts-cite-fatigue-factor/articleshow/79356768.cms||Shimona Kanwar
November 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Flood-damaged road irks residents||Secunderabad: A major B T road between Bapuji Nagar X Roads and Soujanya Colony in Bowenpally of Secunderabad Cantonment was damaged due to the recent floods. The loose gravel on the stretch is posing danger to motorists. “Are the officials of Secunderabad Cantonment Board sleeping? Even after a month, they could not repair the road. Vehicles are getting damaged,” D Janardhan, a commuter, rued. The commuters also expressed anguish over the official apathy on giving a facelift to various other stretches including Bowenpally market-NIMH, Trimulgherry X Roads-Bowenpally market, Karkhana-Trimulgherry RTA Office, Lalbazar X Roads-Post Office too. Besides commuters, residents of nearly 50 to 70 colonies in the eight SCB wards slammed the SCB officials for turning a blind eye to civic issues and road maintenance. “How long will we have to continue commuting on these roads?” Ashok Reddy, a resident of Green View Enclave, asked. A few weeks ago, the engineering wing officials of SCB had done a survey on roads that were damaged due to inundation and found that nearly 50 to 80 km of roads were damaged. “We have noticed that the roads were heavily damaged in ward numbers I, IV, VI, VII and VIII after nalas overflowed and over 80 per cent retaining walls were washed away. The sewage at four to six feet gushed into the residential colonies and caused inundation. We have estimated the cost of the roads which were damaged due to inundation and it has come up to Rs 39.64 crore.” SCB chief executive officer B Ajith Reddy told TOI. Already, we have submitted the report on property damage along with an estimate of Rs 90 crore to the central team, seeking financial help as flood relief amount. We are waiting for sanction. The road restoration works will commence after tenders are floated, said the CEO. Replying to a query, the CEO said that a proposal of laying white topping road between Bapuji Nagar X Roads vis Soujanya Colony to the tune of Rs 1.20 crore, was approved at the SCB meeting on October 19. For the first time, SCB has decided to lay white topping road on a pilot basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/flood-damaged-road-irks-residents/articleshow/79358892.cms||Sunil Mungara
November 23, 2020||Patna||Jeweller’s kidnapped son rescued||BEGUSARAI: The Begusarai police rescued the 15-year-old Mohit Kumar, who was kidnapped from Garhara Railway Colony in Begusarai district on Sunday morning. Two persons were arrested. The kidnappers had demanded Rs1 crore as ransom from Mohit’s father Mukesh Thakur, who runs a jewellery shop in Baro Bazar area near Garhara Railway Colony. Begusarai SP Awakash Kumar confirmed that the criminals had demanded ransom. Mohit was kidnapped when he was going to play cricket. According to sources, criminals wearing masks came on a four-wheeler without a number plate and pulled Mohit inside the car.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jewellers-kidnapped-son-rescued/articleshow/79357865.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 23, 2020||Nashik||1,075 ineligible beneficiaries in Nashik return Rs 1.8 crore||NASHIK: As many as 1,075 farmers across Nashik district have returned Rs 1.8 crore that they had received under the Union governments Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PMKISAN) Yojana. These farmers are taxpayers and, therefore, ineligible for the scheme. Resident deputy collector Bhagwat Doifode said the farmers had returned Rs 1.8 crore after the government had issued notices to them as they had wrongly benefited from the scheme that was meant to provide relief to marginal farmers. The PMKISAN Yojana assured payment of Rs 6,000 annually, in three different instalments, to the marginal farmers who do not have resources other than farming and who are not the taxpayers. The scheme was launched in December 2018 and the data portal was open for the farmers to upload their details by themselves. As a result, many farmers uploaded their details with Aadhaar number and the benefited from the scheme. Later, when the PMKISAN Yojana department scrutinized the applications, it found that a large number of farmers were taxpayers and, hence, were not eligible for the scheme. It then asked the district collectors to recover the amount from the farmers. In Nashik district, 12054 ineligible farmers got the benefit amounting to Rs 11.3 crore. The district administration has started the process of recovering the amount from such farmers. “We have issued notices to the farmers through the tahsildars. If the farmers fail to return the money, entries would be made against their properties (land records) for the recovery,” the officer said. It may be noted that heavy rainfall across the district has affected the crops and farmers’ income. This is the primary reason why the farmers are unable to clear their dues. “However, we are confident that the farmers will be able to settle the account in the next couple of months,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/1075-ineligible-beneficiaries-in-nashik-return-rs-1-8cr/articleshow/79358893.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 23, 2020||Nashik||From Kashmir to Kanyakumari, Nashik youth sets new cycling record||NASHIK: Om Mahajan, a 17-year-old from Nashik, has set a new record by cycling from Kashmir to Kanyakumari — covering 3,600km — in just eight days, seven hours and 38 minutes. The teenager has beaten Colonel Bharat Pannu’s previous record of finishing the same journey trip his cycle in eight days, nine hours and 48 minutes last year. Om comes from a family of proficient cyclists. A few years ago, Om’s father Hitendra Mahajan had finished the world’s toughest cycling competition Race Across America (RAAM). Earlier, Om’s uncle Mahendra Mahajan had set the record of cycling from the country’s northern to the southernmost points in 10 days and 10 hours in November 2018. Besides wanting to bring the record back home, Om had his sights set on breaking the record set by Pannu. Om started cycling from Srinagar at 6.22am on November 13. He cycled through Delhi, Jhansi, Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Madurai and reached Kanyakumari on November 21. Not being able to hide his enthusiasm for setting a new record in cycling from Kashmir to Kanyakumari, an excited Om said, “It was an arduous journey. I had to brave both cold and bad weather, bad roads and blockades in Srinagar. I also experienced heavy rain and heat in Karnataka during my journey. I slept only for two to three hours per day and continuously pedalled. I cycled around 450 to 480km per day. “This mission is dedicated to late Jaspal Virdi, the founder president of Nashik Cyclists Foundation (NCF) who wanted to make Nashik a cycling capital of India,” said the young cyclist. Om himself used to cycle to school and college since Class V. Now, he wants to set an example by encouraging all school and college-going students to cycle to their respective educational institutions everyday. Om said he felt using cycles as a mode of conveyance for going to schools and colleges was very cool. “Cycling improve health and also saves the environment. I want school and college-going students to save the environment and also stay fit and fine,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/from-kashmir-to-kanyakumari-nashik-youth-sets-new-cycling-record/articleshow/79357845.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 23, 2020||Chennai||Cyclone Nivar to leave Chennai drenched||CHENNAI: The city is likely to experience heavy to very heavy rain as cyclone Nivar is likely to make landfall between Mamallapuram and Karaikal on Wednesday noon or afternoon. Rainfall of 6cm-10cm is expected. Monday will be generally cloudy with light drizzle as the weather system is too far away and it will start raining on Tuesday as the cyclone edges closer to the coast. Villupuram, Cuddalore, Puducherry and Chennai are expected to have heavy rain when it starts to make landfall on Wednesday. An IMD bulletin said a well-marked low pressure in the Bay of Bengal closer to the Tamil Nadu coast will intensify into a depression in the next 12 hours and will develop into a cyclonic storm in the subsequent 24 hours. It is moving at 18kmph speed towards the coast. Read AlsoCyclone Nivar: Depression formed over southwest Bay of Bengal, likely to intensifyCHENNAI: A depression that was formed on Monday morning over the southwest Bay of Bengal and located around 630km away from Chennai coast is likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm -- which will be named Nivar – in the next 24 hours. The system is expected to bring heavy rain to Chennai andS Balachandran, deputy director general of regional meteorological centre, Chennai, said, “Rain will start in coastal districts on Monday and will intensify step by step. On Tuesday and Wednesday, some areas on the coast will receive heavy rain and very heavy rain. Fishermen should not venture into the sea till November 25.” He also said there are chances of heavy rain to start in the city and its suburbs on Tuesday. Six teams of NDRF leave for Cuddalore & Chidambaram towns in Cuddalore Dist in the wake of cyclonic storm warning b… https://t.co/ZpyrBz3oFu— TOIChennai (@TOIChennai) 1606105329000The well-marked low pressure is located 760km away from Chennai and 700km from Karaikal. It will skirt the coast of Sri Lanka and move northwest to hit the Tamil Nadu coast. A Met official said the system is moving at a good speed and has been named as cyclone Nivar by Iran. Private weather bloggers hint that conditions such as wind shear, warm sea surface temperature and absence of dry air are in favour of the cyclone to intensify. However, the speed at which it will move and also develop can be a drawback, making it less intense. The low pressure is fast turning into a depression, in 12 hours instead of the 24 hours forecast earlier. There is a 0.46inch thunderstorm in the sea where the low pressure is concentrated but probably because of its presence, it was a hot and rainless Sunday across the state. The cyclone is likely to improve the rainfall deficit the city is facing this northeast monsoon. Chennai has received 477.4mm rainfall so far since October 1 against the expected 539mm, leaving a 11% deficit. Tamil Nadu has a 23% deficit with 242.6mm rainfall recorded so far against a normal 314.1mm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cyclone-nivar-to-leave-city-drenched/articleshow/79357857.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Pune||AAP protests over ‘inflated’ power bills||PUNE: Aam Aadmi Party on Sunday staged an agitation in front of deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar’s house to raise the issue of “inflated” power bills and its recovery. “Ajit Pawar is a senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and also the state finance minister. He should speak about the suffering of the common people because of the inflated electricity bills,” Abhijit More, state spokesperson for the Aam Aadmi Party, said. “As a special provision, the finance ministry should provide funds to the power supply department. The power ministry should waive off electricity bills for the power consumed by common citizens during the lockdown period,” More added. The Covid-19 period has proved to be very troublesome for citizens. The working class especially, have faced problems during this period, he said. They are suffering due to job losses. The common people have been burdened with increased power bills, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/aap-protests-over-inflated-power-bills/articleshow/79357847.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Kochi||Malayali diaspora: RAID & TAYLOR||When Saju Mathew landed in the United Kingdom on a student visa in 2010, he had no clue he would represent England in an international sporting event nine years later. But that was the destiny. Today a strong member of England’s standard-style kabaddi team, Saju believes it was his love for the sport that helped him achieve his dream. A nurse by profession, Saju has been part of the England team since 2018. Although kabaddi is not a popular sport in the country, England is slowly getting stronger in Europe and hoping to raise its standard in the coming years. Saju has national coach Ashok Das to thank for spotting his skills and selecting him to the national team. Das has been working for years to popularise kabaddi in England and strengthen the national team. Today, the sport has many takers in universities and people from different ethnicities are getting involved. Although there are many British Indians in the national team, Saju is the only Malayali. “I first got in touch with Das in 2012-13 after I saw his story on BBC,” Saju recalled. “We used to stay in touch, but never met as he was in Birmingham and I was in Wiltshire. And since I had just started working, I did not have a car to travel to his training place. But Saju was ready to wait. By 2017 he got his permanent residency, citizenship, and financial backing to pursue a parallel career in kabaddi. “I started practising at Das’ academy from 2017-18. But I could go there only once or twice a month. But when I got an opportunity to relocate, I chose Worcester, a place close to Birmingham,” he added. Saju was a prominent part of the England team that participated at the 2019 European Kabaddi Championships in Scotland. However, the team could not practise much this year because of the Covid outbreak. “Being a contact sport, it is difficult to practise kabaddi by maintaining social distancing. However, plans are going on for the commencement of tournaments in 2021. We hope the pandemic ends soon. We can’t wait to start practising and crack on,” he said. Looking back at his life, the 34-year-old believes he is an accidental player. “A sportsperson’s best years are from 18 to 30. But I have not been a regular player during these years. Instead, I got in the England team only after 30,” he said. Growing up in Alappuzha, home of many top kabaddi clubs, Saju always loved the sport. But he was more into badminton and cricket during his childhood. He started playing kabaddi only at 16 when his school team found themselves short of a player. “To be honest, I didn't even know the rules properly when I played my first game. Although we lost the game, I fell in love with the sport immediately,” he recalled. But destiny did not let him continue a sporting career as he had to move to Bengaluru for nursing studies, and later Ranchi for work. While his friends joined professional kabaddi clubs, Saju could only take part in practice sessions when he used to visit home for holidays. Although later he founded a kabaddi club with his friends, he had to move to the UK soon to do a health and social care course. He thought he had lost his connection with the sport. But fortunately, the England team came calling for Saju. He still misses playing with his friends at his native place. “It was fun getting sponsors for our club and playing with friends. Now, I try to be part of the club by helping them in my capabilities,” he added. Saju works as a file auditor at Worcestershire Royal Hospital. He lives with his wife and two daughters. Kiran Tom Sajan, who hails from Kochi, is a journalist based in London.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/malayali-diaspora-raid-taylor/articleshow/79356786.cms||Kiran Tom Sajan
November 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Two, including 11-month-old, die after unknown vehicle rams car||Hyderabad: Two persons, including a 11-month-old girl, died in a road accident after a car hit an unknown vehicle from the rear side on Sunday morning in Koheda, Abdullapurmet. Abdullapurmet police said that there were five persons inside the car when the mishap took place. A 26-year-old woman, Triveni and her 11-month-old daughter died on the spot while three others - Ravi (30), Ramadevi (62), Narasimha Murthy (64) suffered grievous injuries. Police said that the mishap took place when the family of five were coming to the city from Bangalore. They were supposed to go to Yadagirigutta. The incident took place at 6.45am. While heading towards Peddamberpet, the mishap took place in Koheda. Both mother and daughter were seated in the seat next to the driver at the time of accident. Police said that they are investigating the other vehicle involved in the mishap besides the circumstances which led to the accident. In another accident, two persons suffered critical injuries after a car hit another parked vehicle in Banjara Hills road no. 3 on Saturday night. Police suspect that the car driver was drunk. The persons who suffered injuries were seated inside the parked car. Police said that they registered a criminal case and investigation is being done. Police said that it was a case of over-speeding, apart from the suspected case of drunken driving. There were four persons, including a woman, seated inside the car. Due to the impact of the speed, two airbags got ejected and it saved the persons seated in front of the speeding car.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-including-11-month-old-die-after-unknown-vehicle-rams-car/articleshow/79358894.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Jaipur||Centre planning to clean all rivers, says Union minister||JAISALMER: Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on Sunday said people who were hiding their names and religion lure Hindu girls and trap them. The minister told journalists in Pokhran that he wanted to ask chief minister Ashok Gehlot to explain why girls who are caught in this trap are forced to change their names. “The chief minister should first give a reply on this before making a comment on love jihad,” he said. The Union minister said river water flowing to Pakistan will be stopped. “A detailed project report has been prepared and high-level clearance and technical report has already come. Hopefully, in the next one or two years, water flowing to Pakistan will be stopped,” he added. The minister is on a Jaisalmer visit for the last two days and is campaigning continuously for the panchayat elections. He said the Centre was planning to clean other rivers just like the swachch Ganga mission. He said Ganga has now emerged as one of the cleanest rivers in the world. “In the last six years of PM Narendra Modi rule, the Ganga has become clean,” he added. Minister said the Jal Sansadhan ministry had planned to clean all the rivers falling in the five basins of the country and work would start soon. “Till the general public gets associated with this work, the project won’t be possible. It is Modi’s dream that it should be responsibility of every person to keep rivers flowing and clean,” he added. Mentioning about panchayat elections, he said the Rajasthan govt has carried out delimitation and restructuring in panchayat elections to suit its needs. He said the government could change the borders, but cannot change people’s mentality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/centre-planning-to-clean-all-rivers-says-union-min/articleshow/79357849.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Project to boost livelihood of people in 13 backward blocks||JAIPUR: The state’s rural development department will be launching cluster facilitation programme (CFP) project under MGNREGA in 13 most backward blocks of five aspirational and one backward district for the improvement of livelihood of people in these areas. The five aspirational districts are Dholpur, Karauli, Baran, Sirohi and Jaisalmer. Two other blocks have been selected in Tonk district. “The Centre is funding the three-year project. Government of India has sanctioned Rs 11 crore for three years. Under this project, intervention of experts will be sought for three different areas. One is Geographic Information System (GIS) expert, second will be livelihood expert and third will be NRM (Natural Resource Management) expert,” said Arvind Saxena, executive engineer, MGNREGA. “In these blocks, the experts will support implementation in these areas. We are already doing these things now. But, with the intervention of the experts, implementation in these areas will get a boost. This will also help improve the livelihood conditions of the rural people in these 13 blocks,” he added. Through this project, the rural individuals will be encouraged to develop their poultry farms, and kitchen gardens and support working on their agricultural lands etc. “It is already under process and the project will be implemented soon in these backward blocks,” said Saxena.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/project-to-boost-livelihood-of-people-in-13-backward-blocks/articleshow/79357856.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Ludhiana||On the wings of delay: Halwara airport is yet again caught in red-tapism||Ludhiana: The construction work of the international airport at Halwara may get delayed further: despite floating tenders for the construction of boundary wall, the public works department (PWD) is yet to open the same, as they are yet to get mandatory approval from Airport Authority of India (AAI). Meanwhile, AAI officials are waiting for mutation of the acquired land at Aitiana in favour of the Authority before giving go ahead to state government department for start of work on boundary wall. The PWD officials said the tenders for construction of about 2,300m boundary brick wall, with a height of 10 feet and 2 feet wide, were to be opened in the first week of November. Executive engineer PWD (building and roads (B&R) wing), Rakesh Garg confirmed that they are yet to get approval for the construction of boundary wall from AAI. He indicated that tenders will be opened after they get the necessary approval. PWD officer said the estimated cost of construction of boundary wall is around Rs 3 crore. He added that it might take about six months for construction of the boundary wall once the work begins. An AAI officials, meanwhile, said permission might not be granted without mutation of acquired land for Halwara airport in the name of authority. An AAI officer asking not to be named said the state government has got mutation of land of Sahnewal Airport in the name of AAI, but it is yet to transfer the ownership of land at Aitina, where land has been acquired for Halwara airport, in the name of AAI. He added that it was in the memorandum of understanding between AAI and the state government that land will be transferred to AAI but despite that it has not been done. The officer further said the project cost of Halwara international airport will be around Rs 500 crore and for AAI to invest so much money, it needs to generate asset. He added that once they get the ownership of land, the approval will come. “We are also anxious to shift operations from Sahnewal to Halwara, as the later has better facilities including landing facility at lower visibility,” said AAI officer. The officer further said after the acquired land is transferred to AAI, they will try that the work on the airport building having three terminals, including international, domestic and cargo terminals, takes place simultaneously with the boundary wall construction. He added that the airport terminal complex will have state of the art equipment, including Cute (common user interface terminal) system, inland baggage and facial recognition system for walk through identification facility for passengers. “Both, state government and AAI should expedite the process for construction of airport, as it is a long-pending demand of the city. We the people are facing the brunt of the bureaucratic delays,” said Dr Gauhar Vatsayan, a city resident. Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said “Reference sent to government to clarify in whose name to mutate the land.” Can be added as boxes: Box 1: The Government of Punjab and the Airport Authority of India had signed the Agreement for a Joint Venture for setting up New Civil and Cargo International Air Terminal at the land of Aitiana village in Tehsil Raikot at IAF Station Halwara, Ludhiana. Box 2: An official statement by the government had said that with the construction of this International Airport, long pending demand of the Ludhiana residents would be fulfilled. It added that the Punjab government is making efforts to ensure that this airport becomes operational in the next two and a half years. In the first phase of the project, which will include the development of a new international civil terminal over an area of 135.54 acres for full-fledged operations up to Code-4C type aircraft. Box 3: The project shall be implemented through a Joint Venture Company (JVC) is formed with the majority stake of 51% of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) and 49% stake of the State Government through the Greater Ludhiana Development Authority (GLADA).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/on-the-wings-of-delay-halwara-airport-is-yet-again-caught-in-red-tapism/articleshow/79357886.cms||Shariq Majeed
November 23, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur soldier to be laid to rest in his village today||Kolhapur: Preparations are on at the Nigave village to perform the last rites of Havildar Sangram Shivaji Patil, who succumbed to the injuries sustained in an unprovoked ceasefire violation at the Line of Control (LoC) in the Nowshera sector of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday. Patil is the second soldier from Kolhapur district to have died while fighting enemies at the border. Though a pall of gloom looms large over Patil’s village in particular and the Kolhapur district in general, the death of the martyr has only strengthened the resolve of over 250 youths in his village to join the Indian Army. As many as 90 men from Nigave village, which has a population of approximately 4,000, are serving in the army.Mayur Patil, a youth taking preparations to join the army, said, “We practice every day at the ground where Patil used to practice. He will laid to rest at this ground only. However, his death has not deterred us from joining the army. Not just our village, many people from villages in Kolhapur are serving the country.”Patil had extended his tenure by two years. He had not returned home this Diwali. He wanted to build a new home for his family. His friends say he was planning to undertake the rest of the construction of his house after returning to his village in the first week of December. “We will help his family complete the house the way he had planned. He was among the first few from this village to have joined the army and guided many people to serve the country. He had a very cordial relation with the youths. Everyone looked up to him as their idol,” said Pramod Jadhav, one of his childhood friends.Patil’s mortal remains will be bought to his village by Monday morning. The local police are expecting around 25,000 people to attend the funeral. Meanwhile, several functionaries from many political parties are queuing up to meet Patil’s family members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-soldier-to-be-laid-to-rest-in-his-village-today/articleshow/79356793.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Nagpur||Tribal, unaided schools not to reopen in Yavatmal district||YAVATMAL: Barring schools under tribal development project, social welfare department and unaided schools, schools across the district will reopen on Monday. Education Officer, secondary, Vikas Chavne, confirmed that schools in Yavatmal district will start from Monday. He, however, said that the tribal schools and unaided schools are not opening from Monday. Covid-19 tests will be done for teachers till November 23. “Regarding test for students, there is no arrangement from administration and the parents are concerned about it,” said district president of MNS students wing Anil Hamdapure here on Sunday. Hamdapure further said there is uncertainty over the role of managements regarding availability of sanitizers and hand wash for students. Meanwhile, a teacher from Pusad was knocked down by a speeding car while he was going to Umarked to bring Covid-19 test reports of teachers in his school. He was rushed to Nanded and admitted there in a critical condition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tribal-unaided-schools-not-to-reopen-in-yavatmal-district/articleshow/79358902.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Dehradun||Overflowing sewage making life miserable for Indresh Nagar residents||DEHRADUN: The menace of overflowing sewage has been causing inconvenience to the residents of Dehradun's Indresh Nagar locality for two years now, say area locals. An illegal construction over the sewage line and insufficient capacity of septic tanks are the major causes behind the issue, according to the locals who say that the dirty water not only emanates unbearable stench but also finds its way into their homes sometimes. “The issue of overflowing sewage has become a health hazard for area residents, particularly the elderly and children. A new sewage line was installed in the area two years ago but the problem never got resolved. We have made repeated complaints since then but to no avail. The residents are forced to live under pathetic conditions. We just hope the concerned authorities at DMC take cognisance of our plight,” said Kuldeep Swedia, a local resident. Another local Tej Kumar Walia told TOI, “Though my house is situated at a distance from the lane where the sewage overflows, its stench can be felt all over the place. At a time when we are trying to make Dehradun a smart city, problems like overflowing sewage must be addressed at the earliest.” Meanwhile, Manoj Kumar, ward councillor from Indresh Nagar, said, “The problem of overflowing sewage is mainly due to an unauthorised construction which was initiated by a local right on top of the sewage line. However, the construction was stopped after the intervention of the Dehradun Municipal Corporation (DMC) and the police. Since then, the matter has been lying pending at the DMC. Unauthorised construction in the area also makes it difficult for door-to-door garbage collection vehicles to pass. Once the illegally constructed walls are removed, the maintenance will get easy.” He added, “As the garbage collection vehicles were not able to reach every household because of narrow lanes in the area, the locals were forced to dump household garbage in drains. We are also getting the bigger drain cleaned. Once the DMC resolves the issue of illegal construction over the sewage line, its maintenance will be carried out.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/overflowing-sewage-making-life-miserable-for-indresh-nagar-residents/articleshow/79356794.cms||Abhijeet Singh
November 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Now, drunk co-passengers to be booked in accident cases||HYDERABAD: A co-passenger who is drunk, apart from a drunken person on the wheel, will also henceforth land in the soup along with the driver in case there is a mishap. This is being implemented in Cyberabad commissionerate. Till now, in cases of drunken driving leading to road accidents, the police used to file criminal case against the driver of the car or the bike, while the co-passenger, even if he/she was drunk, was ignored for the crime. Cyberabad police have taken a decision to make even the co-passenger on the vehicle an accused in criminal cases. Cyberabad deputy commissioner of police (traffic), Vijay Kumar, said that in such cases co-passengers are being made accused since they wilfully sat in the vehicle despite knowing that the driver was also drunk. A few days ago, a club manager died and his wife got injured after a drunk SUV driver hit them, whhile they were travelling on a bike, in Mahapur. In this case, the co-passenger, who was drunk, was made an accused by the police. He had allegedly instigated the driver to go fast by jumping the signal. Till now, co-passengers have been made accused in 15 different cases. In these 15 cases, 8 people have died and 16 persons have got injured. However, there is a mixed reaction from legal experts about its tenability when it goes for scrutiny before the concerned court. “I feel that the co-passenger cannot be held liable as per law. In abetment, there has been encouragement to the prime accused from the other person to commit the offence. In this case, the co-passenger, even if he is drunk, has no role in accident,” senior criminal advocate Nampally court, Gandham Gurumurthy told TOI. However, some other advocates felt that it is a positive initiative and can stand before courts if the police can back their case against the co-passengers with evidence. This is being implemented post-lockdown in Cyberabad to create deterrence among motorists to avoid drunken driving.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/now-drunk-co-passengers-to-be-booked-in-accident-cases/articleshow/79358900.cms||Srinath Vudali
November 23, 2020||Ludhiana||Kin of fire-fighters who died in 2017 incidebt hold ‘path’||Ludhiana: The family members of fire-fighters who had died in a building collapse incident in November 2017 paid tributes to the departed souls on Sunday by organising a ‘path’ and langar at Suffian chowk, where the incident had happened. The incident had taken place on November 20, 2017, but families selected Sunday for paying tributes. The family members were a little bit disappointed when mayor Balkar Sandhu and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal could not attend the programme. In this incident 9 fire-fighters had lost their lives when the building had collapsed during the fire incident. The families of eight fire fighters had gathered at the spot for organising the ‘path’. Earlier, the family members were planning to organise it at the central fire station, but then they decided to organise the same at the spot where the incident had happened. Manjit Kaur, wife of a deceased sub-fire officer Rajkumar, said, “Through this ‘path’ we remembered those brave fire-fighters who lost their lives while performing their duty. We selected this spot where we had lost them and once we reached here all those bad memories were once again fresh in our minds.” She said the joint commissioner, Kulpreet Singh, area councillor Gurdeep Neetu and even MLA Surinder Dawar had come to the spot but the mayor and commissioner gave the programme a miss. She said they should have come as the families of the departed souls would also have felt nice. Malkit Singh, father of deceased fire-man Manpreet Singh, said perhaps they did not turn up because families would have asked about the jobs and other benefits which were still pending. He said they had organised any such thing after three years but still the authorities did not come for five minutes. Earlier, the families had shown resentment for not getting the benefits even after getting the gallantry award and kin of three fire-fighters are yet to get jobs on compassionate grounds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/kin-of-fire-fighters-who-died-in-2017-incidebt-hold-path/articleshow/79358045.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Can topple TRS govt in two months, says AIMIM MLA||HYDERABAD: A senior All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) legislator on Sunday said it would take the party only two months to topple the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) government even as the TRS described it as a joke. On November 19, IT Minister KT Rama Rao had said there was no alliance with MIM and the party was confident of winning more than 10 seats in MIM’s turf in the Old City in the GHMC polls. Reacting to KTR’s statement, MIM Charminar legislator Mumtaz Ahmed Khan on Sunday described the TRS working president as a parrot. “KTR is a parrot. He is new into politics and MIM has the capacity to bring down the TRS government in just two months,” Mumtaz said. After taking part in an ongoing GHMC election campaign in the old city, the Charminar MLA, quoting the late MIM President Sultan Salahuddin Owaisi, said that “MIM has always been a key player in bringing a party into power or bringing it down”. While the MIM and the TRS have had no formal alliance, experts say tacit understanding between the two parties exist and they have warm relations, and much of the talk could just be political posturing ahead of polls. Reacting to Mumtaz’s comments, animal husbandry minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav said it was silly that AIMIM was threatening to topple the TRS government. “People know the number of MLAs each party has, and it is a joke that a party with seven MLAs is saying that it will topple the government,” he said. In the 119 Telangana assembly, TRS has 100 seats and AIMIM seven, but the growing clout of Asaduddin Owaisi’s party in Telangana and across India has been a growing concern for the TRS. MIM also has 44 corporators out of the 150 wards in GHMC. “AIMIM should know if KTR is a child or adult by looking at his road show. Didn’t AIMIM leaders go around TRS ministers for developmental work related to the old city,” Yadav said, adding: “We will not fall into their trap even if they make instigating comments.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/can-topple-trs-govt-in-2-mths-says-mim-mla/articleshow/79359529.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Jaipur||‘India’s longest water tunnel to be ready by January’||JAIPUR: Country’s longest water tunnel will become operational by January 2021. The 8.75km-long tunnel will pass through the hilly tract connecting Jhalawar till the border of its neighbouring Baran district. The tunnel will connect the dam at Ahawad Kalan village. From here the water will be supplied through canals to 2.5 lakh households and 1.41 lakh hectares of land in Baran and Kota districts. It will enable farmers to grow rabi crops in full capacity. A portion of water will be kept for wildlife in the area to bring back its old glory. The tunnel has been constructed at a cost of Rs 299 crore. “The Parwan tunnel work could easily be called as one of the most economical and fast-paced projects of India. A comparative study of water tunnel projects across India states that it is the longest water tunnel ever made,” said Naveen Mahajan, secretary of the water resources department, Rajasthan. The Parwan dam has a capacity of 400 million cubic metres and it draws water from the tributaries of Chambal. The major challenge was a hill spread in the area of 10km blocking the way for providing water in villages and towns located on the other side of the hill. The option of taking the water from the surface canal was an expensive affair and disastrous for local ecology. “This project is critical in enhancing livelihoods of Hadouti belt farmers. The whole project is being implemented on pressure irrigation. The key challenge of getting the 8.75km long tunnel through has been achieved by the department in record time, work on barely 250m is left as of today,” said Mahajan. The boring of the tunnel was the only option. Engineers said that drilling was difficult since the tunnelling work was to be done through a geological stratum of strong to very strong quartzite sandstone. The state government has shot a letter to the central government urging them to declare it a national project which will bring in more funds from the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/countrys-longest-water-tunnel-to-be-ready-by-jan/articleshow/79357884.cms||Shoeb Khan
November 23, 2020||Chennai||NGT wants squatters on Manali Lake gone||Chennai: National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the state revenue department to take action against encroachments on Sadayankuppam Lake in Manali. A joint-committee constituted by NGT southern zone had identified 13 private encroachments in the water body, which was renovated last year. Though it has a storage capacity of more than 1 crore cubic feet of water, it was neither renovated nor desilted for long and the once drinking water source had turned into a sewage pond due to poor maintenance. After the tribunal’s intervention, it was renovated by the public works department (PWD) along with other state agencies and a NGO. Poor maintenance has once again turned the lake into a gutter, say residents. NGT joint-committee, which looked into the issues, said during their inspection of the lake in August, the lake was dry and right at the heart of the lake, there were more than 20 survey numbers (16.77 hectares) listed as patta lands as per revenue records. They also found 13 encroachments on the lake bund near the toe portion of the lake. They varied from tiled houses, sheds to thatched houses. So the committee directed the revenue department to take necessary steps to issue form I and II notices to encroachers. Thiruvottiyur tahsildar was told to survey the field and demarcate the boundaries of the lake. NGT SZ members Justice K Ramakrishnan and Saibal Dasgupta directed the revenue department to carry out the said directions and submit a report before the next hearing on December 23. Other state government departments such as PWD and Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) too have been told to submit reports on efforts to strengthen the lake bund and ascertain the groundwater quality there. The NGT had in June told local authorities to consider setting up a bio-diversity park at the lake, proposal which is still pending.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ngt-wants-squatters-on-manali-lake-gone/articleshow/79357930.cms||Ram Sundaram
November 23, 2020||Bareilly||Pilibhit SP orders SHOs to prevent protesters from climbing water towers||Pilibhit: Following the order of the director general of UP Police to the SSPs and SPs across the state, Pilibhit superintendent of police Jai Prakash Yadav has issued instructions to all station house officers (SHOs) to take necessary steps to prevent protesters or demonstrators from climbing the water towers in the district.“This move is aimed at averting a risky situation from arising during protests or demonstrations and keeping the drinking water in tanks safe from any attempt to mix hazardous substance,” said the SP.The SP said the SHOs would remain in contact with municipal authorities, town area committees and Jal Nigam officials for evolving protective methods, while the prime responsibility of doing physical work on the spots would be carried out by the departments concerned which had command and control over the water towers and responsibility of their maintenance.According to information collected by the SHOs, the district has as many as 70 high water towers, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pilibhit-sp-orders-shos-to-prevent-protesters-from-climbing-water-towers/articleshow/79354597.cms||Keshav Agarwal
November 23, 2020||Hyderabad||‘Existing investors have strengthened Brand Hyd’||Hyderabad: Stating that the existing investors have strengthened ‘Brand Hyderabad’, Telangana IT and industries minister KT Rama Rao on Sunday said over 23% of the new investments that came into Telangana in the last six years were made by its existing investors. “More than 23% of the Rs 2 lakh crore investment that we have got in the last six years has come from existing investors,” Rao said during an interactive session organised by the city’s apex IT sector body Hyderabad Software Enterprises Association (HYSEA). “More importantly, what is testimony to Telangana’s strength today is that over 80% of the investments have already been converted into operations,” Rao added. He pointed out that apart from the IT and life sciences sector that have contributed to the economic growth of the state, the new sectors like electronics, electric vehicles (EVs), food processing, textiles and logistics will boost the growth by attracting investments and generating employment over the next 10 years.“I am excited about electronics and EVs and I am very upbeat that Telangana could emerge as the EV hub. We already have got a couple of large investors like Olectra and Mytrah..,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/existing-investors-have-strengthened-brand-hyd/articleshow/79358906.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Ludhiana||PAU like family, do not vitiate atmosphere: VC||Ludhiana: Vice-chancellor of Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), Baldev Singh Dhillon has urged the employees’ unions not to vitiate the atmosphere of the university campus, and instead come and discuss their issues with the authorities. “The fraternity of PAU is like a family and if any problem arises, the head of the family comes forward to solve the issues,” he stated. Dhillon further assured the employees that all their genuine demands will be redressed and they should give up the path of agitation. R S Sidhu, registrar, said the authorities are doing their best to solve the issues. Meanwhile, the university has issued details of the position of cases with respect to demands of employees’ unions. To implement old pension scheme for employees appointed up to July 9, 2012, the authorities said the issue is just not PAU’s alone. “The government has to consider the case of PAU and other institutions together and the university can only implement the order of the state government, if issued, in this regard,” added PAU officials. PAU employees are also demanding that for the posts of agriculture field officers (AFO), ASIs should be promoted by lowering the qualifications and experience. The authorities claim that the promotion channel to the AFO post was created as well as 10 posts were created in January 2019. Again increasing the positions or lowering the qualifications within two years is not logical. Other demand is that, the grade pay of library attendant and meteorological attendant be enhanced to Rs 2,400 on par with lab attendant. The PAU authorities said they have written to the department of agriculture, government of Punjab in this regard and action will be taken accordingly. They said even after the period of experience of technical staff was reduced on January 6, 2016, now again employees’ union is demanding for further reduction without any logic and reason. Further, for the demand that the salary of clerks and steno-typists appointed after January 15, 2015 be granted as per DC rates that are given to grade-B employees during the probation period, PAU authorities said salary is fixed according to the instructions of the agriculture and finance departments, so, if any new instruction comes from them, it will be implemented. The employees’ union has also demanded the period of experience for promotion from AAO to AO may be reduced from two years to one year. But PAU authorities claim that the minimum service required for promotion from superintendent to AAO, from AAO to AO is only two years. As for the union’s demand that the promotional posts of JEs and SDOs may be filled immediately, the authorities claim that nobody fulfills the criteria for promotion to the post JE (civil) and the promotion to the post of SDO is sub-judice. The authorities also said that they have taken a few actions already like the increasing of the posts of car supervisor and anomalies cases of junior and senior employees have been decided. They also said as the union had raised the issue of difficulties being faced in the internal audit — as the government had closed the pre-audit system on August 1 — the university has started its own pre-audit system. Meanwhile, president of PAU Employees’ Union, Baldev Singh Walia said, “The statement of the VC is contradictory. On many of demands, PAU has said it follows Punjab government's instructions. But there are many clear cut instructions by the government that are not being followed by the university — such as Punjab government promotes clerks to senior assistant, where as in the PAU, clerks having more than 11 years are still not promoted. Also Punjab government has issued instructions that three years of probations service is countable, but PAU has still not adopted this. The government has also reduced time of experience for promotion in many categories, these instructions are also not followed in the PAU. Again, Punjab government pays B category rates to clerk during probations but PAU sticks to C category rates.” Walia also said that he had told the VC that there was no need for video conference, as the employees were gathered outside Thapar Hall and the VC can address them directly. “But the VC did not have courage to face employees and discuss our demands,” added Walia. SAD criticises VC for ‘walking over’ protesters Maheshinder Singh Grewal, senior vice-president of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) criticised VC Dhillon for crossing over the turbans of protesters in the PAU. He said employees of the PAU were peacefully protesting for their demands and blocked the gate of administrative block when Dhillon walked over them. Maheshinder Singh Grewal said, “Dhillon has not only hurt religious sentiments, but also killed the democracy as employees have full right to protest for their demands in a democracy. This will be taken up with the SGPC and suitable action will be taken. We will also raise the issue in Vidhan Sabha.” He also demanded that the VC be removed from his post immediately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/pau-like-family-do-not-vitiate-atmosphere-vc/articleshow/79357913.cms||Mehak Jain
November 23, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS MLA Mynampalli faces voters’ ire over worn out road||HYDERABAD: Malkajgiri MLA M Hanumanth Rao faced the heat of local residents of Yapral, who have been up in the arms demanding re-carpeting of a 2km road (Hanuman Mandir junction- Balaji Nagar stretch) with a slogan ‘No Road, No Vote’, when he went to seek their votes for the GHMC election on Sunday. He was greeted with large number of protestors by standing along the 2km damaged road with banners ‘No Road, No Vote’, No Road, Why Road Tax?’ besides loud slogans. The residents cornered the MLA and sought his explanation about the poor condition of the road besides seeking assurance to get the road repaired. The MLA, despite trying hard to convince them that he will get the repair done after the election was unable to convince the locals, who were in no mood to listen to him as they claimed that they are fed-up. Residents of gated communities like GK Pride, Meghadri Heights, Prakrutik Vihar and other local residents staged the protest. They insisted the MLA give a written undertaking. Subsequently, the MLA signed a letterhead assuring that he will take up the issue and get the road repaired. The video of the MLA being questioned by the protestors, went viral on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-mla-mynampalli-faces-voters-ire-over-worn-out-road/articleshow/79358904.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM assures to fulfil demands: Leader of unemployed youths||JAIPUR: Convener of Rajasthan Berozgaar Ekikrit Mahasangh – a group unemployed youths – Upen Yadav on Sunday met chief minister Ashok Gehlot, who assured them of conducting REET 2020 examination at the earliest. He directed education minister Govind Singh Dotasara for the same and asked special secretary Arti Dogra to look into other issues of the group. “Tomorrow we will meet and decide our future course of action. The chief minister directed the education minister (Govind Singh Dotasara) to complete REET 2020 examination at the earliest and also asked special secretary Arti Dogra to solve our issues on a priority basis,” said Yadav. “The chief minister also assured us of resolving all other issues after proper examination of those. The CM also praised us for creating a pressure while saying that it helps the government realize that unemployed youths are upset,” he added. In protest against the state government for not fulfilling their demands, a group of unemployed youths, had decided to travel to New Delhi on November 24 to meet former Congress president Rahul Gandhi at his residence.  Waada Khilaafi Day on Dec 17: On the second anniversary of the state government, on December 17, the All Rajasthan State Employees Joint Federation will observe the day as “Wada Khilaafi” Day in the state for not fulfilling the demands of the government employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cm-assures-to-fulfil-demands-leader-of-unemployed-youths/articleshow/79357888.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Mangaluru||Rs 8 crore loan for redevelopment of Kadri Market||MANGALURU: The Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) has received a letter from the Karnataka Water and Sanitation Pooled Fund (KW&SPF) Trust offering a loan of Rs 8.6 crore to redevelop Kadri Market.  The Rs 12.3 crore project was stalled due to a shortage of funds. The market-cum-commercial complex project at Kadri market will be taken up through a Rs 8.6 crore loan, and the remaining amount of Rs 3.7 crore will be borne by the MCC. The foundation stone for the complex at Kadri was laid in March 2018. Premanand Shetty, chief whip of the ruling BJP in the MCC council, said the city corporation has received a letter from the KW&SPF Trust sanctioning a loan of Rs 8.6 crore for the modified proposal for redevelopment of Kadri market. As per the KW&SPF terms, the city corporation will have to pay interest at the rate of 5% per annum payable quarterly. The entire loan is repayable within a period of 12 years in quarterly instalments, including moratorium period of two years. During the moratorium period, only interest on the amount drawn will have to be paid on a quarterly basis. Upon completion of the project, the quarterly instalment of the loan repayment will be Rs 21.5 lakh, Shetty said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/rs-8-crore-loan-for-redevelopment-of-kadri-market/articleshow/79356811.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Chennai||Arrivals drop; onions, shallots, carrots to cost more this week in Chennai||CHENNAI: Wholesale prices of onion and carrot are likely to increase this week, days after the rates of the vegetables started stabilizing. Rates of small onion (shallots) will increase by Rs 10 a kilogram. Drop in arrivals of vegetables has once again pushed up the prices at the Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex (KWMC), according to market sources. Carrot is expected to cost Rs 20 more per kg in the week ahead while onions will cost Rs 60 a kg. The city is receiving ten less trucks of onions. V R Soundararajan, former member of Market Management Committee of KWMC and a wholesale trader, said price hike of onion at the source wholesale markets in Karnataka and Maharashtra has had a ripple effect. “We hope it doesn’t increase till December because the first crop season has ended and the second crop season will begin,” he said. “Small onions will cost Rs 10 more per kg as arrivals from Perumbalur have reduced,” he said. Ladies finger and potato prices are expected to be stable and bring solace to consumers. Meanwhile, 600 semi-wholesale fruit shops were reopened at the KWMC on Sunday evening. They were shut in May after it turned a Covid-19 hotspot. But business may not revive immediately. S Srinivasan, president of Chennai Fruits Commission Agents Association, said trade in other sections at Koyambedu has not reached pre-Covid levels. “Same will be the case with fruit wholesale,” he added. Only the flower section of Koyambedu market remains closed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/arrivals-drop-onions-shallots-carrots-to-cost-more-this-week/articleshow/79357893.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Ludhiana||Govt schools urged to gear up for 100% results this academic year||Ludhiana: Education department has geared up for ‘mission shat pratishat (100%)’ for 2020-21 session. To motivate school heads and the teachers, a webinar was organised on Monday. The session dealt with good practices and experiences of the previous session. As many as 400 principals and heads of Ludhiana, Moga and Patiala districts schools attended the webinar via zoom video conferencing. The webinar was presided over by secretary of school education, Krishan Kumar and moderated by assistant director of State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT), Salinder Singh. Principal of Government Senior secondary Smart school Shahpur, Davinder Singh Chhina made a presentation on strength, plans and strategies for mission 100%. Chhina, while sharing the best practices of last academic year, said, “The summer camps, extra classes by the teachers, continuous analysis of the results and academics, incorporation of one mark questions and multiple-choice questions, teacher training, bi-monthly tests, meetings with parents of below-average students and bright students, online classes for meritorious students, special classes for students scoring less than 40% marks in July-September tests, special focus on students with more than 90% marks, adoption of intelligent students by the school heads, result analysis with school heads, special trainings for NTSE students and Gyan Utsav academic activities and activities based education were the factors that had brought the desired results and quality education last year.” However, according to him, the discrepancies for the previous session included score-oriented questions rather than quality-oriented questions, lack of practice for full-fledged three-hour exams and less focus on students with 60-70% marks. Elaborating the challenges for the current session, Chhina said, “Proper checking of daily homework assignments is not done, teaching had to be done on distance mode for more than seven months due to pandemic lockdown, absence of traditional education, gaps due to Covid-19 situation, less interactive academic sessions and less written work.” But he added the challenges are being overcome by the united efforts of teaching fraternity and school heads and principals under the directions of the education department. He also added, “Along with implementing the best practices of the previous session, the education department had worked hard to improve the learning outcomes of the students through its pilot project -Punjab Achievement Survey (PAS) and in the last few months, online educational modes by the department had revolutionised the education system of the state despite Covid-19 challenges.” Secretary Kumar, while reposing faith in teaching fraternity and school heads and principals, stressed the need to empower the school heads and principals. “Motivation and appreciation of the teachers and school heads are high on the agenda of the department as they are all putting up great efforts to bring about quality education in the state as well as updating the school system and environment,” said Kumar. “Our main emphasis is on the learning outcomes, NTSE coaching and to improve communication skills of government school students through English booster clubs,” he said. District education officer (SE) Swaranjeet Kaur said, “Education department has taken lead in strengthening buddy groups, outreach educational programmes, redesigning and reducing the syllabus, letting the students know about these at the earliest, accelerating zoom classes via video conferencing and organising specialised coaching for NTSE aspirants.” Jasvir Singh Sekhon, district mentor of science, said, “Teaching fraternity and school heads are feeling rejuvenated about ‘mission shat pratishat’ and the department has framed nice academic strategies to achieve the set and desired academic goals.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/govt-schools-urged-to-gear-up-for-100-results-this-academic-year/articleshow/79357954.cms||Mehak Jain
November 23, 2020||Hyderabad||‘Gear up for registration of non-agri properties’||Hyderabad: Registration of non-agricultural properties will not resume from Monday (November 23) as announced earlier by the government. It will resume after the high court vacates a stay on it. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Sunday directed officials to start the process of registration of non-agriculture properties on Dharani portal after the stay is vacated in the high court. He said the government was ready to start the process. “The government had already given explanation on the issues raised by the Telangana high court in this regard. Since the case comes up for hearing on November 23, the administration should be ready to start the registration process from November 25,” the CM said at a review meeting on Sunday. Officials have already fixed the price of properties in villages, towns and urban areas and no one has any discretionary powers to change them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gear-up-for-registration-of-non-agri-properties/articleshow/79358926.cms||Roushan Ali
November 23, 2020||Nashik||FASTag selling points increased at toll plazas||Nashik: The national highway authority of India has increased the points of sale of FASTags at all the toll plazas in the district for the convenience of motorists. Senior NHAI officials in Nashik said that the government has made FASTag compulsory for all four-wheeler vehicles from January 1, 2021. Dileep Patil, project director of NHAI, Nashik said, that kiosks of various banks issuing FASTags have been set up on either side of the highways near the three toll plazas – Ghoti, Pimpalgaon and Chandwad in the district. He said that as of now, more than 75% of the motorists passing through the toll plazas have already affixed FASTags on their vehicles. As a result, only one lane at the toll plazas is a hybrid lane, cash as well as electronic payment of toll fees can be done. All remaining lanes have been converted into FASTag lanes. However, due to Covid-19, the implementation of the FASTag was relaxed to some extent. NHAI officials added that decision on keeping a lane open or not for cash collection of toll fees will be taken taking into account the situation then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/fastag-selling-points-increased-at-toll-plazas/articleshow/79356816.cms||Santosh Sonawane
November 23, 2020||Chennai||Now, students and women vendors can take suburban trains in Chennai||CHENNAI: Southern Railway has allowed more categories of people to commute by suburban trains in the city. Students, candidates appearing for examinations, admission tests or interviews; women vendors carrying perishables and sportspersons travelling for practice or performance will now be permitted to travel by suburban trains. Students will have to show their hall tickets or permission letters while the vendors will have to show their vendor season tickets at the counter before proceeding to the train. Sportspersons will have to show authorisation from their associations or institutions to buy tickets. Southern Railway will be allowing women commuters and children accompanying them to travel during non-peak hours from Monday. The non-peak hours will be till 7am, 10am to 4.30pm and 7.30pm to closing time of the services. So far, people who have air tickets and railway tickets on long distance trains are allowed to take the local for last mile connectivity. They can produce their flight or express train tickets to buy suburban train tickets. Southern Railway has scaled up the number of suburban services and is operating 244 trains a day, around 40% of pre-Covid-19 level, said a railway official. Sources said more categories of the public are being allowed to take the trains as the state government has requested that full-fledged services be resumed. The Union home ministry is, however, yet to clear full-scale operations of suburban trains. Long distance suburban services to Tiruttani and Sulurpetta have also resumed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/now-students-and-women-vendors-can-take-suburban-trains/articleshow/79358029.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Ludhiana||Bodies of 2 virus victims interchanged, case filed||Jalandhar: After a Jalandhar-based hospital interchanged the bodies of two Covid-19 patients and a family even cremated the body of a person unrelated to them, a case has been registered against the hospital. The goof up was discovered when the family of 78-year-old Tarsem Lal came to the hospital on Saturday to take his body and found that of an unrelated man instead. They questioned hospital authorities and called the family of Jaspal Singh, who had also died of Covid-19. Jaspal’s son Parbhleen said they cremated the body only half an hour before receiving the call on Saturday evening. He said they had not opened the body bag and did not come to know that it was not his father’s body. On Sunday, Prabhleen and his family cremated his father’s body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bodies-of-2-virus-victims-interchanged-case-filed/articleshow/79358909.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad, other SIC benches fail to upload orders||Aurangabad: Most of the benches of the State Information Commission (SIC), including Aurangabad, have not been uploading the orders issued towards the second-appeal under RTI Act 2005, drawing ire from the stakeholders. RTI activist Bhaskar Prabhu said the state chief information commissioner must ask for necessary rectification within a stipulated time. “If we visit the official website of the SIC, the orders in the decision section are not up to date. Furthermore, the orders uploaded and monthly disposal record section numbers do not tally, which is like is giving wrong suo-motu information,” said Prabhu, who has lodged a complaint with the state information commissioner Sumit Mullick. As per status check, the Aurangabad bench had uploaded last order on August 10. Moreover, it has uploaded only one order per month from June to August, which is contradictory to the data corresponding to the monthly disposal of second-appeals made under the RTI Act 2005. Similarly, the Nagpur bench had uploaded last order on June 15, whereas Nashik bench uploaded the last orded on September 2. Among other benches, Konkan bench uploaded the last order on October 29, while Pune did the same last time on September 27. The Mumbai bench has a relatively better show with last order getting uploaded on November 2. Civic activist Omprakash Varma said the SIC should lead by examples when it comes to the suo-motu disclosure of information. An official mail send to the SIC seeking its stand on the issue remained unanswered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-other-sic-benches-fail-to-upload-orders/articleshow/79356841.cms||Prasad Joshi
November 23, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand Vidhan Sabha turns 20; ruling, oppn engage in banters at function||RANCHI: The Jharkhand Vidhan Sabha’s 20th establishment day was celebrated on Sunday amid political banters between lawmakers from the ruling and opposition camps. While BJP fired veiled salvos at the ruling alliance over the impasse of Babulal Marandi’s appointment as the leader of opposition (LoP), the treasury bench picked on the opposition over the November-15 guidelines on Chhath. Biranchi Narayan, the chief whip of BJP’s legislative party, said it would have been nice had Marandi been invited to the occasion as the LoP. “The LoP is a jewel of the Vidhan Sabha. Had we got Babulaljii on the dais as the LoP, then the programme would have been brighter,” Narayan said. Notably, Marandi abstained from attending the programme. The BJP’s legislative party had elected Marandi as its leader in the budget session earlier and sought his appointment as the LoP of the House, but the Speaker is yet to either approve JVM-P’s merger with BJP or Marandi's elevation as BJP’s legislative party leader so as to hold the post of LoP. Chief minister Hemant Soren, who spoke minutes after Narayan, underscored his government’s efforts to contain the spread of Covid-19. Asserting that despite being a backward state, Jharkhand set an example in fighting the virus. “There was no panic among the state’s people and not a single person died of hunger. While many states are witnessing a surge in cases and hinting at taking lockdown like steps to curb the spread, we are trying to make people’s lives easier,” he said. Stating that the government and lawmakers cannot fight the pandemic without people’s participation, Hemant said, “Till a cure is found, I appeal to all and suggest that everyone follows the directives being issued by the government.” The CM’s statement was seen as a veiled attack on BJP lawmakers who protested the government’s Chhath Puja guidelines and took to the roads to demand permission for devotees to offer prayers at waterbodies. Under pressure, Hemant rolled back the order. The programme was attended by both current and former lawmakers, including Dhanbad MP P N Singh, Ranchi MLA C P Singh, Jamshedpur (East) legislator Saryu Rai, former MLA Sudha Choudhary and ministers of the state cabinet. Speaker Rabindra Nath Mahto was also present at the occasion. Nalin honoured Shikaripara’s five-time MLA Nalin Soren was handed over the best performing MLA’s award by governor Draupadi Murmu. Receiving the award, Nalin reminisced about the days of the movement for a separate statehood in which participated shoulder to shoulder with JMM chief Shibu Soren. “It is the love and faith of my electorate which got me here,” Nalin said. Martyrs & Covid warriors honoured On Sunday, families of slain Indian Army troopers Kundan Kumar Ojha, Ganesh Hansda, Santosh Gope, who were killed in a fistfight with Chinese troops in Galwan, were honoured along with the kin of slain ASI Govardan Paswan, constables Yudhisthir Malwa, Manohar Hansda, Dhaneshwar Mahto and others on the 20th establishment day of the Jharkhand vidhan sabha . Ranchi civil surgeon Dr V B Prasad and other medical practitioners were also honoured for their role during the pandemic. Additionally, the toppers of state board exams were also felicitated on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jkhand-vidhan-sabha-turns-20-ruling-oppn-engage-in-banters-at-function/articleshow/79356847.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 23, 2020||Trichy||Trichy man makes ‘short’ tribute to Covid warriors||Trichy: A 26-year-old youth from Trichy city has shot a two-minute short film as a tribute to the Covid-19 frontline workers and medical professionals involved in battling the pandemic for the past eight months. The short film, shot at Trichy, encourages viewers to not let their guards down as Covid-19 infection is gradually declining.“We wanted to portray the difficulties faced by the frontline workers involved in treating the patients. The short film was to honour their efforts in keeping us safe,” Vamsee Krishna, the filmmaker, said. Named as ‘Covid Warriors’, the short film captures two minutes in the life of a paramedical staff on duty in a Covid-19 ward. The difficulties faced by the health workers in wearing multiple personal protective equipment (PPE) and mental trauma were portrayed in the movie. “People think that the pandemic is over, actually it is not. We still need to support the frontline workers and follow the safety measures,” Vamsee added.The short film made by a team of nine youths also credits the preventive measures taken up the Trichy Corporation workers and efforts put by the ambulance drivers in safely transporting the Covid-19 patients. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-man-makes-short-tribute-to-covid-warriors/articleshow/79358918.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Trichy||Trichy ramps up testing to pre-empt spike after Diwali||Trichy: Although active Covid-19 cases in Trichy city have dropped below 100 after a period of five months, the health authorities have increased the RT-PCR testing and monitoring in closely packed neighbourhoods. Despite the drop in active cases, the officials have decided to watch and analyse for 28 days to gauge the impact of the extensive crowding that was witnessed during Diwali.Since November 19, the active cases in Trichy city have remained below 100, for the first time since June. A high rate of discharges and a fall in fresh infections was cited as the reason. The positivity rate that went past 8% in August has now dropped to 1.7%. Yet, not taking any chances, the authorities said that they are prepared for a worst-case scenario where there is a spike in Covid-19 cases post Diwali.Even as the fresh infections in Trichy district have remained below 30 cases per day for a week after the festival, the impact of overcrowding during Diwali has to be observed and analysed till the second week of December. “We have not relaxed any strategies that were in place when Covid-19 was peaking. Surveillance is enhanced by monitoring the record of outpatients in all hospitals and increased testing in densely populated areas,” Aravind Kumar, district epidemiologist told TOI.Trichy city has increased the RT-PCR testing from 650 to 850 tests per day and the random sampling is being carried out in densely populated areas. Fever camps are being conducted in areas such as Uyyakondan Thirumalai and Srirangam. “We need to be cautious throughout the double incubation period of 28 days,” M Yazhini, city health officer said. Trichy Corporation has plans to intensify the penalisation drive against people caught without face masks in public spots from Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-ramps-up-testing-to-pre-empt-spike-after-diwali/articleshow/79358912.cms||Deepak Karthik
November 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: BJP, JJP set up civic poll panels||CHANDIGARH: A day after deciding to contest civic polls together, Haryana coalition partners Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) announced committees for planning for civic polls in Panchkula, Ambala and Sonipat as well as panchayat elections. BJP Haryana president on Sunday announced incharges of three cities. Former finance minister Capt Abhimanyu has been made in charge for Panckula, former party state president Subhash Barala will be in charge for Ambala, and education minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar will look after Sonipat. Elections to three bodies are expected to happen by the end of December, sources said. Meanwhile, JJP has also announced two committees for election strategies. The committees will submit their report to party high command and national president Ajay Chautala A four-member committee for municipal corporation elections includes MLA Devender Singh Babli, JJP’s urban local bodies in charge Ishwar Singh Maan, urban local bodies cell in charge Rohit Ganeriwala, and trader cell in charge Suresh Mittal. The committee will conduct a study and suggest how JJP should participate in elections — including party symbol, candidates, and dealings with ally BJP. The committee for panchayat polls will include MLA Jogi Ram Sihag, Rajesh Liwani, Kamlesh Saini, Harsh Kumar and Manju Chaudhary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bjp-jjp-set-up-civic-poll-panels/articleshow/79358917.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: ‘Wealthly countries failed in keeping mortality rate down’||CHANDIGARH: Prevalence of democracy in a country has been positively related to the spread of Covid-19 infections. However, democracy has also been a deterrent to death outcomes in situations when countries like South Korea experience high per capita income. These are the findings of a study conducted on the global spread and socio-economic determinants of Covid-19 pandemic by Patiala-based Punjabi University’s economics professor Lakhwinder Singh and Jaipur-based Institute of Development Studies’ assistant professor Varinder Jain. Based on the regression analysis of 24.33 million Covid-19 infections across the globe till August 27, the study also concludes that democracy and good governance plays a significant role in curtailing mortality rates. “When you are imposing lockdown and restrictions in a democratic country, people believe that it is an attack on their rights and therefore their freedom cannot be completely curbed. People do not comply with the restrictions and challenge the government. This has happened in the United States and even in India, including Punjab,” said Professor Singh. Whereas in the country like China, people follow guidelines meticulously, he reasoned. Citing an example of Donald Trump’s defeat in the United States elections as he failed to curb Covid-19 deaths, Professor Singh said people in a democracy respond differently if deleterious outcome is high. Similarly, in a country like South Korea having high per capita income, the incumbent government won the elections because it was able to curb the Covid-19 deaths to a large extent. Comorbidity main determinant of deathsThe study has found co-morbidity and not the elderly population share as significant determinant of death outcomes. Similarly, researchers did not find any significant impact of out of pocket health expenditure per capita and hospital beds availability on death outcomes. It has also found a negative impact of internet usage on death outcomes which reflects the importance of information in preventing mortality. The main policy implication that emerged from the study is till the availability of effective medical treatment (vaccine), the physical or social distancing, wearing masks, public and personal hygiene and good governance can save the population from both infections and fatalities. Affluent countries more affectedA positive relation has emerged between universal health care and magnitude of Covid-19 infections which implies that when masses are having access to universal health care, they also become less scared of pandemic which worsens the situation. The regional pattern, as per the study, indicates that the affluent regions of Europe and North America accounted for a major share of world’s Covid-19 infections whereas the poorer regions of Africa accounted for only a marginal share in world infections. Similarly, there had been varied patterns of the Covid-19 mortality across European nations as the death burden has remained more concentrated in countries like Italy, Spain, United Kingdom and France. Germany, despite having similarly high levels of infections, could control the mortality incidence to just 4.81 percent which indicates its relatively sound health system and the governance ability to respond effectively at times of crisis. For containing deaths, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Bahrain, Qatar remained the best and Belgium, Italy, Portugal, USA, Sweden had been the worst till August 27. India had low fatality rateDespite having constraints posed by an under-developed health sector, the medical practitioners in India could maintain a relatively low level of fatality rate, says the study. But, it has remained higher than that observed in the case of Pakistan. However, India remains at the top in the number of Covid-19 positive cases given its large population size. Similarly, median age has also emerged as significant factor which indicates that the nations with a relatively high median age are at a high risk of infection. The researchers also found that in countries where an extensive testing was done, there had been not only less infections, but the death outcome had also remained low. The study also found a positive relation between a nation’s level of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions, which being a proxy for nation’s affluence, indicates that the affluent nations are significantly exposed to Covid-19 infections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/wealthly-countries-failed-in-keeping-mortality-rate-down/articleshow/79358911.cms||Sanjeev Verma
November 23, 2020||Chandigarh||In Covid year, record excise revenue in Haryana||CHANDIGARH: The Haryana excise and taxation department has set a record in tax collection in the last six months. The department, which has released its collection figures under the new excise policy public, said it had collected Rs 660 crore more revenue than the previous year. Deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala holds the portfolio of the excise and taxation department. He issued the new policy in March. However, on March 23, the policy could not be implemented as the lockdown had been declared. Usually, the old policy runs till the end of the financial year, which is March 31, and the new policy comes into effect from April 1. This time, the new policy started from May 6. The figures are for the first two quarters, from May 6 to August 19 and August 19 to November 18. In the six months, the department collected a revenue of Rs 4,165 crore. In the first two quarters of last year, the department had collected Rs 3,504 crore. It is believed that the excise department will not only meet the target of raising revenue of Rs 7,500 crore mentioned in the new policy, but collect 25% more. “The major reason behind the claims of excise revenue and increase in the next six months is that till now neither the transport services in the state have been fully restored nor has there been any consumption in hotels, restaurants and bars etc. as they remained closed for the first six months. The number of labourers in the state is also less as compared with last year and there are restrictions on weddings,” said Dushyant. When the then finance minister issued the new excise policy for 2019-20, the target was to raise a revenue of around Rs 6,600 crore at that time, under which the department collected a revenue of about Rs 6,500 crore by March 31. It is now hoping to generate Rs 5,000 crore in the next two quarters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/in-covid-year-record-excise-revenue-in-hry/articleshow/79358914.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Shimla||Liquor cess funds cow shelters in Himachal Pradesh||SHIMLA: Cess imposed on liquor is helping in the protection, rehabilitation and provision of shelter to cattle abandoned across the state by their owners. The fund generated from the collection of liquor cess is being deposited in the account of Gau Seva Aayog. Till now, Rs 7.95 crore has been received in this account. The government has also decided to give 15% of fund collection of temple trusts and around Rs 17 crore is likely to be pooled in ‘Gau Raksha Rashi’ every year. So far, the government has succeeded in providing shelter to 15,177 stray cattle. Animal husbandry minister and chairman of Gau Seva Aayog, Virender Kanwar said this amount will be utilised for protection and rehabilitation of 19,889 stray cattle in the state. The government, he said, has decided to set up a cabinet sub-committee in its first cabinet meeting to give suggestions for protection and conservation of cows in the state. The state government has also provided a grant of Rs 15.03 crore to Gau Seva Aayog for 2018-19, 2019-20 and 2020-21. Kanwar said the state government constituted ‘Gau Seva Aayog’ last February for the protection and rehabilitation of stray cattle. “To raise financial resources for the smooth functioning of Gau Seva Aayog, the government decided to levy Rs 1 Gau Vansh cess on the sale of each liquor bottle since March 2018,” he said. The Gau Seva Aayog has prepared a policy guideline for gausadan owners, under which monthly grant of Rs 500 per gauvansh is being provided for successful operation of new as well as old gausadan, gaushala and cow sanctuaries. This grant is given as financial assistance only to those gausadans, gaushalas and cow sanctuaries that have provided shelter to at least 30 cows. So far, the Aayog has distributed Rs 1,25,65,500 to gausadan operators. The Aayog has also started the process of completing the formalities for registering 111 gausadans out of 186 run by NGOs across the state. The state has also started building cow sanctuaries and big shelters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/liquor-cess-funds-cow-shelters-in-hp/articleshow/79358922.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Nashik||Police to write to NMC for removing encroachments in Nepali Corner||Nashik: The traffic police will write to the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) to remove encroachments in the Nepali Corner area near Shalimar, which leads to traffic congestion.Many small traders have set up their stalls mainly of clothes and other household articles on both the sides of the road opposite Nepali corner. This leads to people crowding at these places till evening, which leaves very little space for the motorists.Motorists coming towards Shalimar from the main road and the Raviwar Karanja hardly have any space to drive through the rush. The encroachments also almost blocks the entrance and exit gate of the regional referral hospital. Police said accidents also takes place in this area.The encroachments gradually started increasing after the unlock process and it increased tremendously during Diwali, said the police officials.More than a decade ago, the Tibetan people used to sell warm clothes in this area. Taking into account the traffic congestion, they were shifted to the Tibetan market along Sharanpur road, after which the local traders started using this space.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/police-to-write-to-nmc-for-removing-encroachments-in-nepali-corner/articleshow/79356888.cms||Santosh Sonawane
November 23, 2020||Trichy||Erect statue of Rajendra Chola: Hindu Munani||Trichy: The state executive committee meeting of Hindu Munnani was held in Trichy on Sunday. State president of the Hindu Munnani Kadeswara Subramaniam headed the meeting. In a resolution, the Munnani appealed that the Tamil Nadu government should erect an 83-feet statue of Rajendra Chola, at Gangaikonda Cholapuram. While stating the incidents of denigration of Hinduism and Hindu belief in Tamil Nadu, a resolution condemned the anti-Hindu hate speeches.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/erect-statue-of-rajendra-chola-hindu-munani/articleshow/79358924.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Madurai||MKU gives free access to digitised books||Madurai: Madurai Kamaraj University has made available for free 1,296 books which were digitised from its library. The Dr TPM Library has initiated the digitization work for rare books in Tamil and English literature published 60 years ago, taken from MKU Library, with the support of Directorate of Public Libraries. The digitization work covers rare books, select distance education lessons and MKU publications etc., Out of the 1,296 books that were digitised and released online for free, 791 books were rare books in Tamil and English literature. “Our aim is to make these rare books available for the consumption of the common public. The digitized rare books have been uploaded and available in the MKU Library website on http://www.mkulibrary.org/. The e-books can be downloaded by users at free of cost,” said Dr B Suresh, the university librarian. As per a press release from the university, Dr M Krishnan, MKU vice-chancellor, received the digitized content from Dr S Kamatchi, librarian and information officer, Anna Centenary Library, Chennai. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mku-gives-free-access-to-digitised-books/articleshow/79359558.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 23, 2020||Madurai||No post-fest rise in cases yet, but officials stay vigilant in Madurai||Madurai: As the district continues to report around 30-40 Covid-19 cases per day, health officials asserted that number of tests conducted daily stays at 3,000 and that post Diwali there has been no spike. However, officials remain wary and said that it will take some more time to determine if there is going to be a post-Diwali rise in Covid-19 cases. “We are maintaining testing at 2,500-3,000 samples per day as before Diwali. Anticipating cases during and post Diwali, testing has been particularly intensified in corporation areas within the city limits where movement of people is more. So far, there is no indication of any cluster,” said Dr KV Arjun Kumar, deputy director of health services, Madurai. Currently, Madurai reporting an average of 20-40 cases a day, while the positivity rate in the district is just over 1%. City Health Officer Dr P Kumaragurubaran said that around 2,300 samples are being collected for testing per day within the corporation limits. “Keeping the number of Covid-19 tests high is crucial as there are many who may be asymptomatic carriers. People with fever and symptoms of Covid-19 are being actively identified. We are testing anyone who may be suspected of having Covid-19 infection,” he added. There are currently 264 active Covid-19 cases in the district. Carrying out tests has been a challenge for health workers as there are only limited number of people who are contacts of Covid-19 patients or come to hospitals with symptoms. “We have to resort to random tests as now we don’t have hotspots as such and prevalence is sporadic. Pregnant women, frontline workers and their families, high risk groups like elderly with co-morbid conditions are being covered as well apart from contacts and those who go to hospitals,” said a health official. In neighbouring district of Virudhunagar, around 1,500 samples are being tested for Covid-19 per day. Though testing has come down from 3,000 in the district, the number of fresh cases remain very low. While the number of Covid-19 cases had dropped to single digits, in the last few days, it has seen a marginal rise to around 20-30 cases per day. “Only if the number of fresh cases per day goes up to 50 or beyond we can say that there is a spike. The recent cases have all been largely sporadic. We have been asked to increase the number of samples further and hold more camps for Covid-19 testing post Diwali. Fever cases amid rainy season is also being observed and investigated,” said a health official from Virudhunagar district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/no-post-fest-rise-in-cases-yet-but-officials-stay-vigilant-in-madurai/articleshow/79359548.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
November 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Lake club eatery to close doors for non-members||CHANDIGARH: Only members of Lake Sports Complex, popularly known as lake club, will be allowed to avail restaurant facility on the premises— a change to occur after two years. The sports department of the UT administration had allowed non-members to avail the facility in 2018. Now, it has revised the terms and conditions for a tender to allot work to resume the restaurant and dine-in facility only for its members. Most of the members had raised objections to the old practice, arguing when they were paying huge fee, why were outsiders being allowed. They also claimed it could create chaos at the club. The move had come during a detailed discussion among senior officers and employees of the department. The sport department would allow members to take caterer facilities from outside for marriage or other functions, otherwise, the successful bidder, who would be given the charge of the restaurant, would be there for functions or programmes of members. By making these changes in the terms and conditions, the department has started the process to float the tender to get the competent bidder. Since financial viability was the most crucial component for the department, things were being planned accordingly, said an official. The club has around 1,200 members — 500 of them are permanent. The club offers sports like tennis, archery, gymnasium and swimming.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/lake-club-restaurant-to-be-open-only-for-members/articleshow/79358925.cms||Deepak Yadav
November 23, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana-Delhi flight again rescheduled to afternoon hours||Ludhiana: More than two months after the lone flight operator had rescheduled the Ludhiana-Delhi flight to morning, fulfilling a long-standing demand of the local business community, it has changed the timing again to the afternoon hours. This has not gone down well with many businessmen as the timing doesn’t suit them. As per the recent revised schedule that will be effective from December 1 to February 28 next year, the lone Air India flight to the city will take off from Delhi at 2pm and reach Sahnewal airport at 3.15pm. The revised schedule suggests that the flight from Ludhiana will take off at 3.45pm and reach Delhi by 4.55pm. Earlier, Air India had announced change in timings from afternoon hours to morning hours from September 10 and at that time Air India had said that it was being done on demand from the business community. As per that schedule, the flight will depart from Delhi at 9am to reach Ludhiana at 10.15am and fly back at 10.45am. Even as the flight timings have been changed as per the latest schedule, the flight will continue to operate on four days a week, which include Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. The airport officials said that the flight timings were being changed to afternoon hours as there were cancellations and delays in the flight due to visibility issues because of fog/smog in the ongoing winter. They added that since the flight needs a visibility of 1,500m for landing, so it usually gets cancelled or delayed due to fog/smog, etc. at the airport in the morning hours. Meanwhile, the data of cancellations and delays from October 20 to November 7 suggests that on four days the flight was cancelled due to bad weather in Ludhiana while on four days it got delayed. The data with TOI suggests that occupancy of the flight continues to be low. Even as the occupancy for arrival flight is between 20-30%, for outgoing flight, it is between 18% to 29% for incoming flights. Air India officials said that the occupancy had been low because of the pandemic. They added that they don’t expect much change in the occupancy of the flight with change in timing of flight and things would return to pre-Covid times when the occupancy was even more than 80%. Meanwhile, many businessmen from the city said that the change in timing to afternoon hours was not good. “Even if flight occupancy is low and weather is posing a challenge to operations of the flight, morning timing still remain the preferred one. We hope things will change for better after the Covid pandemic ends and that time also it would be of great help to the industry if flight operates in the morning hours. In the morning, we can take flight to Delhi, meet clients and return by evening by other means of transport,” said Sameer Verma, a city-based trader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ludhiana-delhi-flight-again-rescheduled-to-afternoon-hours/articleshow/79358065.cms||Shariq Majeed
November 23, 2020||Trichy||Covid-19: 145 cases in south TN, 155 in central districts||Madurai/Trichy: The number of fresh Covid-19 cases in the 10 southern districts of the state showed a mild spike for the second consecutive day. The number of cases climbed from 145 on Saturday to 151 on Sunday. The lone casualty in the region was an 80-year-old man in Theni. Meanwhile, the central region recorded 155 new cases taking the tally to 69,673, which include 1,178 active cases. The region also recorded one death in Trichy pushing the toll to 893. Madurai (33) recorded the highest number of fresh cases in the region, followed by Tenkasi (23) and Virudhunagar (20). Tenkasi is recording more than 10 cases for the first time in more than two weeks. The seven other districts recorded less than 20 cases each. Ramanathapuram (7) had recorded the lowest number of cases. Theni (8) and Tirunelveli (9) are the other districts with less than 10 fresh cases each. The number of active cases in the region continued to drop marginally to 1,015 from 1,033 on Saturday. Except for Madurai (264), the other districts have less than 150 active cases each. In the central districts, the overall positive cases are coming down, but Nagapattinam recorded 44 cases, the highest in the region. Karur and Thanjavur districts recorded 25 fresh positive cases each. Thanjavur district is on top in deaths as it counted 226 casualties so far. Covid cases were also reported in Tiruvarur (24), Trichy (21), Pudukottai (8), Ariyalur (7) and Perambalur (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/covid-19-145-cases-in-south-tn-155-in-central-districts/articleshow/79358927.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Trichy||Five govt school students from one Tamil Nadu village make the cut for MBBS||TRICHY: Keeramangalam in Pudukottai district is in a festive mood as five students from the village are all set to join government medical colleges, thank to the 7.5% horizontal quota for government school students. This is the first time that these many students – four girls and a boy – have managed to bag MBBS seats from the village. Failing in their first attempt last year, all five decided to repeat the national eligibility-cum-entrance test (NEET) this year thanks to their teachers who didn’t stop with just motivating the young minds to chase their dreams. Knowing their humble background, some of the teachers gave monetary help to three of the students to get private residential coaching for the test in Chennai. Two others went to Trichy for private coaching. Most of them would have repeated NEET next year as well if they didn’t make it this time. All the five studied in Tamil medium which made it even more difficult for them to study NCERT syllabus in English. It took a toll on the NEET score of C Jeevika who had to satisfy with 241 marks. While she was mentally prepared to repeat the test, she said she was overjoyed that the government’s decision on the quota helped her bag the seat this year itself. “I want to pay back the debt that my parents owe by way of borrowing for my NEET coaching, soon after becoming doctor,” said another student, M Dharanika. People have been visiting the students in the last few days and praising their efforts. Saying that he didn’t expect such a reception from the village, R Hariharan of government boys higher secondary school, said,” Village heads have been asking all five of us to guide upcoming medical aspirants from the village saying we have now become role models.” Son of daily wagers, he is all set to join Pudukottai government medical college. A Divya, who top-scored among the five with 384 in NEET, said she owed her success to her teachers who were available to clear their doubt even during the lockdown. M Prasanna, another student who got a seat, said NEET was more of a mental game, and keeping calm during the exam and managing time were keys to success. Saying that the students have made the government GHSS, Keeramangalam, proud, postgraduate teacher S Kodiarasan said the girls were meritorious and they knew they will somehow manage to clear NEET. All teachers were helping students who showed interest and commitment to go the extra mile to achieving their goals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/pudukottai-village-celebrates-as-5-bag-mbbs-seats/articleshow/79358939.cms||Sampath Kumar
November 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Jobs of Chandigarh powermen to stay safe, JERC assured||CHANDIGARH: The UT administration has submitted in written to Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC) that the service terms and conditions of the power department employees will remain protected after privatisation. The submission, part of a detailed privatisation roadmap filed before the regulator, reads: “The employees will get transferred to the distribution company. Their terms and conditions of employment cannot be made inferior.” The administration has decided to form a company to take over the department's assets. A new trust will manage the pension of the the government employees shifted to the private company. The administration has floated a request for proposal (RFP) already and invited bids from private players. Despite the powermen union's protest, the administration is carrying out the Centre's directions for starting with privatisation. It has appointed department's executive engineer Pawan Kumar Sharma as nodal officer for all tendering, coordination, ministry interaction, and transaction advise. In May, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said that the electricity distribution companies in the Union Territories (UTs) will be privatised. Earlier, the UT had engaged government-owned Power Finance Corporation Limited to unbundle the electricity department and transform it into a corporate. The employees continued with their protest, seeking support from residents and political parties. Last year, UT special secretary (engineering) wrote to the superintending engineer (SE) that the administration had decided to appoint a consultant for the corporatisation of the electricity wing. The special secretary directed the SE to get on with competitive bidding for this hiring. Earlier, even the JERC had ordered restructuring and reformation of the department as mandated by the Electricity Act, 2003. During a public hearing in 2018, the commission had pulled up the department for the delay in enforcing the corporatisation mandate. Since Chandigarh doesn't generate own electricity, the state utility will look after transmission. State load dispatch centre will be integrate the operations, do optimum scheduling and dispatch of electricity, maintain accounts of the transmitted quantity, and control the intra-state transmission system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/service-terms-of-ut-powermen-stay-protected-jerc-assured/articleshow/79358940.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
November 23, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC polls: Nearly 700 withdraw nominations on last day||HYDERABAD: Nearly 700 nominations in the GHMC elections were withdrawn by candidates belonging to various parties, which included the likes of TRS, BJP, Congress, TDP, and independents when the reports reached on the last date for withdrawals on Sunday. Election authorities were busy with the procedure of completing the scrutiny of withdrawals way past midnight. They said the final count of the exact number of withdrawals and the publication of party-wise final list of contesting candidates and independents would be released on Monday. Leaders of several political parties, including TRS working president KT Rama Rao, Congress working president A Revanth Reddy, BJP state president Bandi Sanjay had a tough time in convincing rebels and others to withdraw from the electoral fray in favour of the candidates finalised. KT Rama Rao was delayed for a commitment as he had been getting in touch with rebels to convince them to withdraw their nomination. “I apologise for coming 45 minutes late to the programme. My delay is due to the time consumed in cajoling and convincing aspirants to withdraw from the electoral fray. Its an important exercise,” he told the participants of the Brand Hyderabad programme. Sources said that the TRS, BJP and Congress leadership were by and large successful in convincing rebels and others to withdraw their candidature. However, a final picture of which of the parties will have more rebel trouble will be clear on Monday. Over 2,500 nominations filed by 1,825 candidates made it through scrutiny of nominations on Saturday. In the 2016 GHMC elections, over 2,900 nominations were filed but only 1,333 candidates remained in the fray after the withdrawal of nominations. This year too, the number of candidates contesting in the GHMC elections is likely to come down from the existing number when the final list is published by the election officials on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nearly-700-withdraw-nominations-on-last-day/articleshow/79358942.cms||Roushan Ali
November 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Asaduddin Owaisi hits campaign trail, seeks votes in local lingo||HYDERABAD: “Salaam Valekum - pehli taarik ku patang ke nishan pe vote dijiye (Vote for kite on December 1),” AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi requested voters in typical Hyderabadi lingo in the bylanes of Erragada in Jubliee Hills assembly segment on Sunday. Dressed in his trademark sherwani with a skull cap and mask, Owaisi sought votes in the door to door campaign. He addressed voters as “amma” and “saab”. “Salaam valekum Khan saab, we came here just to take your vote. Why are you shying away,” said Owaisi to a person. The lanes were filled with people. Wherever he saw youngsters, Asad emphasised the point that onus was on them to ensure people in their locality come out and vote. Children took autographs and selfies with the Hyderabad MP, while party workers showered petals from rooftops. Later, he addressed two gatherings in the Nampally assembly segment. He took potshots at his opponents and called himself Dhule bhai (groom). “They (TRS) are saying there is no alliance, did we marry or what? We have the power to shake the political platform” said Owaisi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/owaisi-hits-campaign-trail-seeks-votes-in-local-lingo/articleshow/79358947.cms||Nabinder Bommala
November 23, 2020||Nagpur||Tigress with 4 foetuses found dead in Karhandla||NAGPUR: A tigress with four foetuses was found dead in Umred-Karhandla-Paoni wildlife sanctuary, 70km from here, on Sunday morning. With this, Maharashtra has lost 16 tigers this year, five in the last one month alone. The carcass of the tigress, aged around 3-4 years, was traced in compartment number 1452/1 of Taas beat by forest guard during regular patrolling. The spot is inside the forest and nearby village is about 3km. Divisional forest officer (DFO) Rahul Gawai, who was on a tour of the park, reached the site immediately. During spot inspection, four foetuses claimed to be around eight-week-old were also found aborted nearby. Two foetuses were female, a male, and gender of one could not be ascertained. “The carcass of the tigress was dragged about 50 metres inside the thickets. Several signs of territorial fight were visible in nearby stream including blood trails, multiple tracks of pugmark and drag marks, heavily disturbed ground and hair were spread everywhere,” said Pench CCF & field director Ravikiran Govekar. Post mortem was carried out in the presence of wildlife veterinarians Dr Chetan Patond and Dr Syed Bilal, Dr LA Khan, livestock development officer (LDO) from Nand, Sanjay Karkare & Vasanta Kahalkar, both representatives of NTCA & PCCF (wildlife), respectively. The carcass was found eaten up from left side with rib cage broken. There were puncture marks on ventral neck due to canines and death might have occurred due to asphyxia and bleeding. Considering the post mortem and circumstantial evidence, prima facie it seems internecine fight can be attributed as the cause of death. It may be possible that the tigress must have aborted during the fight with a male tiger. “We have collected samples and camera traps have been deployed to gather additional information. All minutest details are being gathered to rule out any other possibilities as the cause of death,” said Gawai. Officials said the carcass was disposed of as per NTCA guidelines. The tigress was captured during the last Phase-IV tiger estimation exercise. She was a new entrant to the sanctuary. This is the 16th tiger death in Maharashtra, including that of the missing tigress Mayuri from Tadoba tourism zone. Maharashtra is second after Madhya Pradesh where 25 tiger deaths have been reported this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tigress-with-4-foetuses-found-dead-in-karhandla/articleshow/79358956.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
November 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Bapu’s article laid foundation of Gujarat University||Ahmedabad: On November 23, Gujarat University will celebrate its 71st foundation day. The idea of this special university, which was to cater to the Gujarati language in independent India, lied in Mahatma Gandhi’s insistence for the same. ‘Navi Vidyapith’ (a new university) was the title of the article that Bapu wrote in Harijan Bandhu journal on November 2, 1947— a few months before he was assassinated in January 1948 — emphasising on the need to establish a new university to teach subjects in Gujarati in Gujarat. Bapu’s dream was realized on the exact day of the Harijan Bandhu article, November 2, 1950, and it’s foundation stone was laid by his most trusted follower deputy PM Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel.The function was held in the engineering hall of the university. Sardar Patel, who was also the Gujarat University Trust’s chairman, said, “This Maha Gujarat university will play a pivotal role in integrating all parts of the Gujarat into one and that the university should cater to the needs and upliftment of citizens residing in the thousands of villages in the region. This has always been my dream too.” Bapu in the 1947 article had appealed similar universities for Marathi, Kanada, Oriya and the Assamese. He had reasoned that the very move will help individual states to strengthen regional language instruction across schools and help development of regional languages.After the Bombay province passed the Gujarat University Act, 1949 a year earlier, the Maha Gujarat University was to cater to 10 major district in Gujarat region — Ahmedabad, Kaira, Panchmahal, Bharuch, Surat, Sabarkantha, Banaskantha, Vadodara (except those areas which was being catered by MS University), Mehsana and Amreli district. “Sardar laid the foundation of ATIRA and Maha Gujarat University on the same day. Present on that day were the mayor and Kasturbhai Lalbhai as well,” says city-based historian Rizwan Kadri. Interestingly, a few days earlier, the first senate meeting of the university was held.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bapus-article-laid-foundation-of-gujarat-university/articleshow/79358069.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Trichy||Plan to raise pulses on 56,500 acres under bund crop scheme||Trichy: The agriculture department has planned to raise black gram in 56,500 acres in the delta districts under the bund crop scheme during the current samba season. The scheme will provide additional income to farmers without spending anything on fertilizers. The system will also help farmers chase the pests, which affect paddy, with the help of beneficial insects attracted by the bund crop. The department is planning to do bund cropping across the delta districts such as Nagapattinam, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Trichy during the samba season. Cultivating pulses such as black gram, green gram, and red gram on the bunds would attract more beneficial predators and parasitoides, which eat the harmful insects that affect the standing samba paddy. Bund cropping on samba paddy fields is an effective measure to control pest attack. If we cover the bunds of six acres, it is equal to raising the pulses in one acre, Panneerselvam, joint director of agriculture, Nagapattinam, said. “During the last samba season, we covered 50,000 acres for raising pulses under the bund crop scheme. However, we are trying to cover at least 37,500 acres during the current samba season, as more number of farmers took up kuruvai paddy compared to previous years,” Panneerselvam said. Apart from pest control, it is an additional income for farmers. The government is providing seeds to farmers free of cost, he said. Agricluture officials in Thanjavur have also planned to cover 8,000 acres under the bund crop scheme this year, officials said. A Justin, joint director of the agriculture department, said last year they could cover around 6,500 acres. However, they hope that the area would go up to 8,000 acres, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/plan-to-raise-pulses-on-56500-acres-under-bund-crop-scheme/articleshow/79358954.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
November 23, 2020||Hyderabad||AIMIM’s threat a joke: Talasani||Animal Husbandry minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav on Sunday said it is silly that AIMIM is threatening to topple the TRS government, reports Sribala Vadlapatla. Saying that people know the number of MLAs each party has, he said it was a joke that a party with seven MLAs is saying that it will topple the government. “AIMIM should know if KTR is child or adult by looking at his road show. Didn’t AIMIM leaders go around TRS ministers for developmental works related to the old city?” he sought to know. “We will not fall into their trap even if they make instigating comments,” Talasani added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/aimims-threat-a-joke-talasani/articleshow/79358957.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 23, 2020||Ludhiana||‘We are expecting a second peak in second week of Dec’||With the number of Covid-19 cases again rising in Ludhiana district, it is staring at the possibility of a second surge. The authorities have started making preparations to check it. Among the officers who are involved in making strategy and preparations for this, additional deputy commissioner (development) Sandeep Kumar, who is the nodal officer for Covid-19 management in Ludhiana, is actively involved in the process. He talked to TOI’s Shariq Majeed on the probability of a second surge and preparations to check it. Q: When is the second surge expected in Ludhiana district? Though we are seeing a rise in the cases, what I expect is that we will be peaking for a second time in the second week of December. We are saying this after analysing the data for the last 15 days. The range of positive cases is between 60 to 80 cases and only twice we have crossed the 100 mark. Q: Do you expect the second surge to be worse than the first one? Though experts can tell about that, but I think it will not be as worse as the first peak. There are many factors involved in this. One of the factors I consider is that we have now got lot of experience, the medicines are now available, expert opinion is available and protocols have been standardised. So, I don’t think that it will be worse. Q: How many cases you expect in the second surge? There are many studies and many projections by experts, but we expect that it will be around 60% of the first peak. Q: What are the steps that you are taking to check the second surge. Has the first peak experience helped? We have already started our review meetings with nodal officers of each activity and we have also conducted two meetings with the private hospitals and other hospitals and they have also emphasised on mask wearing and other things. For Chhath Puja also, we did a detailed meeting with all those people so that the spread does not take place. We are gearing up and holding daily meetings, which we used to have during peak time also. We have started these with the departments concerned, including health, MC, etc. Q: There seems to be some sort of fatigue seen among many people who are not wearing masks or are ignoring other norms related to Covid. What are you doing to ensure that norms are followed? All private hospitals have agreed to the proposal that they will be given particular area where they will be sensitizing people in an area. We have more than 20 private hospitals which are into Covid-19 patient handling and since the problem is in Ludhiana district, so we have divided the district into zones and given one particular area to each hospital in these zones. They will be using their own innovative ideas to sensitize people in that area. Q: Health department had collected data on comorbidities. Will you use that data in checking the second surge? There is one district development cell which is analyzing the whole data and the comorbid cases will be our priority this time around. Q: Is there any move to impose another lockdown? I think we will not be reaching that position or situation wherein a lockdown can be needed. We don’t need it. We will be able to cross this peak without the need for imposing a lockdown. Q: When do you expect vaccine for Covid-19 to come? Vaccine will be coming by December end and we have made the preparations for administering it to healthcare workers, priority people, including the vulnerable ones who have comorbid. There is a difference of time of one and half months in the second and third wave, so by that time vaccine will be there and we will be able to pass through this Covid pandemic. The first priority for vaccination are the healthcare workers, old people, those with comorbid conditions, officials working in the front line, including administrators and police, etc. Q: What is your message to people in Ludhiana as far as Covid-19 pandemic is concerned? The message to the people in Ludhiana is that as per the government guidelines, until the vaccine is there, we will have to wear mask. It is the only vaccine available at this point of time. They should follow norms related to Covid, including wearing masks, maintaining social distancing, hand hygiene, etc. We have requested the commissioner of police to enforce the SOPs and have also asked the SDM offices to report about this. Q: Is industry working properly as of now? Manufacturing has picked up and they are now working at more than 60-70% of their capacity, so there are no industrial issues. But yes, if Covid-19 increases and rises to that level, then there will be some restrictions, not from our side, but from industrial houses. They may be regulating their labour movement and other movements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/we-are-expecting-a-second-peak-in-second-week-of-dec/articleshow/79358074.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Chandigarh||100 heritage furniture items stolen from Panjab University, say police||CHANDIGARH: More than 100 heritage furniture items ranging from tables and chairs were stolen from different departments of Panjab University, police have claimed after interrogating a 48-year-old carpenter arrested for allegedly stealing 48 heritage chairs from the university between November 1 and 3. Sarfaraz, a resident of Baltana in Zirakpur, is in three-day police remand since Saturday. Police sources said the accused revealed the names of other persons who stole the chairs from sociology department of PU. Sources said the thieves sold the chairs to another gang who further sent the furniture abroad. All the accused have been identified and would be arrested, police said. Police on Friday night arrested one person who allegedly used to send stolen heritage furniture abroad for auctions. Police had received a tip-off that Sarfaraz was coming to Sector 25 to sell some items. Cops laid a trap and caught Sarfaraz with two stolen chairs and recovered 18 more chairs from the forest area in Sector 25 on his disclosure. Police said the accused used to buy damaged heritage items from thieves and supply them to brokers and junk dealers at high price after carrying out repair work. Police had registered the theft case on the complaint of Manjit Singh, superintendent, sociology department, who had alleged 48 heritage chairs were missing from seminar hall at the art block building IV, PU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/100-heritage-furniture-items-stolen-from-pu-say-police/articleshow/79358944.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Baby sold for Rs 1 lakh rescued, one arrested||TRICHY: Pudukottai police on Sunday brought back a 20-day-old baby sold to a childless couple in Tirupur district for Rs 1 lakh and arrested a 58-year-old man who took the child from the parents. The newborn was handed over to the child welfare committee (CWC) in Pudukottai. The baby was subsequently admitted to Pudukottai medical college hospital for observation along with the mother. The CWC had on Friday exposed the sale of the baby of a poverty-stricken couple to unidentified people in Erode through a broker. It had referred the case to Viralimalai police after learning about the sale and informing Child Line helpline 1098. The baby born on November 2 was the fourth daughter of a 32-year-old man and 26-year-old woman of Viralimalai. The couple already had two girls and a boy and was in deep financial crisis. As soon as the baby was born, the accused Kannan, a resident in their neighbourhood, volunteered to help the family. He tried to persuade the woman into giving away her baby citing her financial situation. However, she said in her complaint that she refused to budge and got discharged from the hospital after the baby was born. On November 11, Kannan tricked the woman and took her baby to Erode and gave it to a woman. He also gave the baby’s mother Rs 1 lakh before leaving. Back home, her husband reprimanded her for ‘selling’ the baby. Police rescued the baby on Sunday and arrested Kannan for taking it away from the couple. A case has been registered against him and further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/baby-sold-for-rs-1-lakh-rescued-one-arrested/articleshow/79358945.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: St Kabir School plans offline exams, parents say won’t send kids||CHANDIGARH: Parents have expressed concern over a plan of St Kabir School, Sector 26, to hold offline exams in December, with many saying they will not send their children to school, landing it in a similar situation that St John’s School, Sector 26, is facing. The school has decided to conduct classes IX and X post midterm examination, Class XI’s term-II examination and Class XII’s pre board–I examination. Gurpreet Bakshi, administrator, St Kabir School, said, “We are not going to force parents to send their children to school keeping the current situation in mind. However, classes X and XII will need to come to school to write their papers sometime in the future.” The school in its notice to parents said, “The final examinations of academic session 2020-21 will be held in classrooms at exam centres while observing all safety measures against Covid-19 infection. The reports are supported by the fact that CBSE has started taking action for establishing exam centers and nominating centre superintendents.” “In the recently concluded parent-teacher meeting, a majority of parents requested the school to conduct the examinations on its premises to maintain their sanctity. To get students attuned to examinations in a formal exam hall setting once again, the school authorities have decided that from December, all examinations will be held in the school,” the notice added. Some parents, however, replied in writing that they were not willing to give consent to the school for offline examinations. Director school education Rubinderjit Singh Brar maintained the education department will examine the issue. “We will examine the matter in consultation with CBSE next week. I personally feel it should be optional.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/st-kabir-plans-offline-exams-parents-say-wont-send-kids/articleshow/79358952.cms||Kamini Mehta
November 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Love Jihad law violates Articles 14 & 21: Asaduddin Owaisi||HYDERABAD: Reacting to the draft ‘Love Jihad law’, AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Sunday said the proposed law is in gross violation of Articles 14 & 21. “I would say spread love, spread only love. How much more hatred will you spread, end the hatred Modiji (dilo ko jodne ka kaam kigiye),” said the Hyderabad MP. “Will you end Special Marriage Act, too. Choice is now a fundamental right in Constitution. BJP diverting the attention of the youth, who are victims of unemployment,” he said. Speaking about cow cabinet meet in Madhya Pradesh, Owaisi said, “When will the people who have been rendered jobless start earning, and will the government accommodate those who have lost jobs in that cabinet?” He asked whether BJP will agree with Savarkar’s and Golwalkar’s definition of Hindutva. “If de-radicalization happens, who will be the targets? Will it be the ones who go to shops and ask vendors to stop selling crackers? UAPA is a draconian law, which is used to imprison innocent Muslims, Dalits and dissenters,” he said. “What did the central government give to Telangana and Hyderabad. Floods hit the city, houses were inundated but what financial aid did Modi government give? They are trying to give a communal colour as they failed to provide aid,” he said. Owaisi also said that there is no alliance between TRS and AIMIM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/love-jihad-law-violates-articles-14-21-asad/articleshow/79358967.cms||Nabinder Bommala
November 23, 2020||Trichy||Udayanidhi held again, now in Kuthalam||Mayiladuthurai: DMK youth wing secretary Udayanidhi Stalin was arrested by the police in Kuthalam in Mayiladuthurai district day on Sunday, during his ‘Vidiyal Nokki Stalin Kural’ (Stalin’s voice for awakening) election campaign. Police arrested him along with party functionaries before he could start, on charges of violating Covid-19 restrictions. DMK party treasurer TR Baalu complained to the DIG of Tamil Nadu on Sunday along with DMK organising secretary RS Bharathi and senior advocate P Wilson stating that the arrest was an abuse of police power to favour ruling AIADMK. In the complaint, he also alleged that the ruling party is conducting public meetings all over the state in blatant disregard to norms laid down by the government. The chief minister and his council of ministers are going everywhere violating social distancing norms and holding meetings where the party men gather in large numbers. He requested the DGP to do the needful to direct all police officers in the state to refrain from arresting or impeding DMK members from carrying out lawful election campaign, meetings or events while adhering to Covid-19 regulations. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/udayanidhi-held-again-now-in-kuthalam/articleshow/79358969.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Trichy||Spl camp held to solve man missing cases||Trichy: The district police conducted a special camp on Sunday to crack unresolved man missing cases registered across the district for years. In the camp, photos of missing people have been analyzed with the photos of unidentified bodies with the help of Crime and Criminal Tracking Network & Systems (CCTNS). More than 150 people including police officials and complainants participated at the camp. H M Jayaram, inspector-general of police, central zone, Z Annie Vijaya, deputy inspector-general of police inaugurated the camp in the presence of superintendent of police, Trichy district, Senthilkumar. Photos of all the unidentified dead bodies collected from eight districts in the central region were used at the camp. To identify the missing people, their family members, relatives and friends were invited to the camp. During the camp, a man missing case was resolved with the help of his relatives. The deceased, a native of Kulithalai in Karur district, has been missing in the Lalgudi police station limits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/spl-camp-held-to-solve-man-missing-cases/articleshow/79358958.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Bulk drugs park may attract Rs 11,100 crore||Gandhinagar: State government body Gujarat Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC), which is aggressively pursuing the project for setting up a bulk drugs park at Jambusar in Bharuch district, expects an investment of about 1.5 billion USD (about Rs 11,100 crore) in the project. The proposed bulk drugs park at Jambusar is being set up even as Gujarat has a strong presence in the pharmaceutical sector and has established itself as a national leader in manufacturing of drugs. More than 3,300 pharmaceuticals units are operational in the state. GIDC is in the final stage of setting up a bulk drugs park in Jambusar. After initial hiccups, the project, spread over 815 hectares of land, is close to completion, government officials said. The state government expects that the union government will provide assistance for the project. M Thennarasan, vice-chairman & MD, GIDC said, “Post Diwali, we are expecting good movement in progress of work at the proposed bulk drugs park at Jambusar. It would be a geographic cluster for Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient (APIs), formulations and vaccine manufacturing companies, both local and global, along with surgical com0ponent manufacturers, research and R&D testing laboratories.” He added, “In Gujarat, there is a high demand in pharmaceutical sector and the proposed Bulk Drugs Park has the potential to attract an investment of USD 1-1.5 billion in next two to three years. We expect project assistance from the GOI as well. If the state gets selected by department of pharmaceuticals, government of India among the three states for establishing a bulk drugs park under the scheme ”Promotion of Bulk Drug Parks”, the state government will be eligible to receive 70% of the project cost in the form of grant-in-aid up to maximum limit of INR 1,000 crore (USD 133 million) for creation of common infrastructure facilitates of the park. Government of Gujarat will contribute the remaining project cost for the development of bulk drugs park.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bulk-drugs-park-may-attract-rs-11100-crore/articleshow/79358079.cms||Kapil Dave
November 23, 2020||Ludhiana||Kin of victim stage protest outside police station||Ludhiana: A day after the death of 40-year-old man, his family staged a protest outside Salem Tabri police station on Sunday. They were also carrying the body along. The protesters were seeking an FIR against the wife and in-laws of the deceased. They also stated that they would not cremate the body till the arrest of the accused. After the peaceful protest which was held for half an hour, the cops managed to pacify the protesters and assured them that the police will take action after receiving the viscera report of the victim, Sumit Sharma of Phillaur. On Sunday afternoon, Sumit’s father, along with some more relatives, gathered outside the police station at Salem Tabri and staged the protest. The protesters parked the ambulance, carrying the body of the deceased, outside the main gate of the police station. Father of the victim, Darshan Kumar Sharma, alleged that either Sumit’s wife and in-laws of his son had murdered his son or they forced him to commit suicide as the accused were allegedly harassing Sumit. He had given a written complaint to the police and said that despite that no action had been taken yet by the police. Inspector Gopal Krishan, station house officer (SHO) at police station, Salem Tabri, said that the autopsy had not confirmed the cause of death. The doctors have sent the viscera of the deceased for chemical examination to know the cause of death. The police will take action after getting the viscera report. The 40-year-old man had died under mysterious circumstances in Bhora Colony, Salem Tabri, on Friday night. The kin alleged that Sumit’s wife used to beat him up. Moreover, his wife and in-laws had allegedly grabbed Rs 14.5 lakh of Sumit due to which he was reportedly upset.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/kin-of-victim-stage-protest-outside-police-station/articleshow/79358077.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Trichy||Pressure on teachers as kids abandon dull Kalvi classes||Trichy: The school education department has again asked government and government aided school teachers to ensure that children watch Kalvi Tholaikatchi classes at their respective homes. Lack of creative content for primary classes and absence of interaction has made it difficult to make children focus on these classes. As there is no mechanism to check if students are regularly watching the classes, many students especially in the primary classes have lost track of classes, say teachers. To enable government and government aided school students to learn from home, Kalvi Tholaikatchi started streaming classes for students in classes 2-12 from August 26. The recorded version of classes by teachers is being streamed not only on Kalvi Tholaikatchi but also 11 other channels. In case students miss these classes in television, they also have the option of watching the videos on its YouTube channel. All the district chief education officers in the state have been instructed to ensure that the weekly schedule of different classes reaches students, through a circular released a couple of days back. They have been asked to direct teachers and students to subscribe on Kalvitvofficial.com and the YouTube channel and watch the classes by downloading the videos. The headmaster of a government aided school in Trichy said many of the students have lost track of the classes as parents could not monitor their children as they have started going for work after lockdown norms were relaxed. Parents take their phone along with them for work and return only in the evening. Teachers send the recorded version of classes through WhatsApp if children miss out on television. The video classes without animation or graphics are not engaging especially primary class students, said another head master from a government school. Students tend to get diverted as they are unable to focus on the narration for 40 minutes, said the HM. A block education officer from Trichy said that he has been asking parents to keep track of classes watched by children daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/pressure-on-teachers-as-kids-abandon-dull-kalvi-classes/articleshow/79358962.cms||Sampath Kumar
November 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh breathing cleaner air in November than last year||CHANDIGARH: The air quality in the first three weeks of November has been better as compared to the corresponding period last year, not turning poor and remaining under good and satisfactory category. Last year, the air quality index (AQI) in the month had reached poor category. Track the pollution level in your cityThe ban on crackers and rain have stopped residents from gasping for breath. Debendra Dalai, member secretary, Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee, and director, environment, UT said, “Banning crackers and rains played a key role in improving the air quality in the city. People supported us by not bursting crackers and that too helped.“ Another reason, according to experts, is that the winter has so far not been very severe. The moment temperatures start dropping, the air quality is expected to deteriorate, they said. This is likely to happen in the next few weeks. “Not only in Chandigarh, adjoining areas and nearby states too witnessed better air quality in the last few days,” an official said. The AQI had gone up to 295 in November last year, while this year the worst level it has touched is 189, according to data of Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee. Last week, the AQI was even 32, the third best in the country, and has not touched the 200-mark so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/city-breathing-cleaner-air-in-nov-than-last-year/articleshow/79358963.cms||Deepak Yadav
November 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Uttam says BJP uses TRS when needed||Hyderabad: Stating that TRS and BJP had no right to seek votes in GHMC elections, Telangana Congress president and Nalgonda MP N Uttam Kumar Reddy on Sunday said despite repeated demands by the Congress to include Covid-19 treatment in Arogyasri scheme, the TRS government did not done it. “The TRS party members allegedly took their cut while distributing Rs 10,000 financial assistance to the flood affected families. On the other hand, the BJP government has not given funds for development of Greater Hyderabad,” he alleged. “Minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy, BJP state president Bandi Sanjay and BJP’s OBC leader K Laxman did not even ask the Central government when it dropped the ITIR project that was sanctioned by the Congress-led UPA government. Now, the BJP leaders are going around the houses of Congress leaders pleading with them to join the saffron party,” Uttam said. “What right do the TRS and BJP have to seek votes for GHMC elections? Chief minister KCR and his MPs supported the Modi-led government on abrogation of Article 370, GST, demonetisation and the Triple Talaq Bill. The BJP government at the centre takes the help of TRS when required. Now, both the parties are playing a drama of being rivals in GHMC elections,” Uttam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uttam-says-bjp-uses-trs-when-needed/articleshow/79358971.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Insurer fined for not reimbursing mediclaim after sanction||AHMEDABAD: A consumer commission in Gandhinagar has imposed a fine of Rs 10,000 on an insurance company in a “bizarre” case of denying health insurance money to a senior citizen only because one of his bank accounts had been closed upon his retirement. The Gandhinagar District Consumer Dispute Redressal Commission has ordered the United India Insurance Pvt Ltd to reimburse Rs 1.91 lakh claim with 9% interest to policy holder Ashwinbhai Shah, a resident of the state capital, for his wife’s knee replacement injury in 2017. The insurer has been also ordered to pay Rs 15,000 as compensation for causing mental harassment besides compensation of Rs 10,000 for deficiency in service and unfair trade practice. In this case, Shah’s wife underwent a knee replacement surgery in July-August 2017, and the retired bank employee claimed the expenditure incurred on treatment. The claim was sanctioned and the insurer transferred the amount through RTGS to Dena Bank’s Manekpur branch, where Shah used to work. But the amount was not received because the bank account had been closed upon Shah’s retirement in October 2016. Shah immediately provided details of his new account in Gandhinagar branch, but the amount was not received. He made repeated representations, but did not receive the money. He sued the insurer finally. The insurance company argued that it was not a fault on its part because the account was closed. The consumer court did not buy the insurer’s argument and said that it meted out disservice to senior citizen making him battle against the company unnecessarily for three years. It further said, “There is no fault on part of the insured because payment was not made even after second bank account details were provided… This is a bizarre case in which a senior citizen has been dragged into the litigation not for the fault of complainant but for the sheer carelessness and negligence on part of the insurance company.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/insurer-fined-for-not-reimbursing-mediclaim-after-sanction/articleshow/79358082.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Ludhiana||Relief for bizmen as farm bodies lift blockade till Dec 10||Ludhiana: In a relief to city businessmen who have been facing huge losses due to non-movement of trains in and out of Punjab, farmer associations have decided to lift the train blockade till December 10. On Saturday evening, as soon as the farmers decided this, the railways swung into action and inspection of tracks was started by the divisions concerned. It is expected that once the railways confirms the clearance of tracks the trains will start running normally and as per sources, a few goods trains which are stranded near Ambala and Ludhiana may run from Monday evening. Meanwhile, businessmen are of the view that the state and central government should convince farmers to allow unconditional running of trains rather than fixing the date of December 10. Jagbeer Singh Sokhi, president of Sewing Machine Development Club, said, “This is a very big relief for the industry as due to non-running of trains already goods worth Rs 32,000 crore meant for export and import could not be traded just due to non-movement of trains. The ‘rail roko andolan’ has caused losses worth several hundred crores to Ludhiana industry. We are happy that trains will be able to run again from Monday or day after and the goods stuck at ports and in factories will be able to reach the destinations and we will be able to encash our capital invested in the goods. But at the same time it is very disappointing that this movement of trains is temporary and till December 10 only as decided by the farmer associations.” Sokhi added that, “This temporary run will prove to be a setback for us as we will not be able to place any new orders for steel raw material to Ludhiana from steel plants located in others states as the delivery via trains takes 10-15 days from these states. In case an order is placed on December 1, it will not be able to reach us till December 10, the last day of the deadline given by farmers. Both state and central governments should convince farmers to not to set any date for allowing the running of trains as this is going to hit them as well because already their tax revenue too has dipped due to the disruption of rail services.” According to GS Kahlon, president of the Auto Parts Manufacturers Association, “Farmer agitation is costing us dearly and we are facing a double blow. On one hand we are unable to export our goods while on the other hand the rate of raw material meant for local factories has shot up by more than Rs 8,000-Rs 10,000 per tonne due to shortage in absence of running of any goods trains. The temporary running of trains is welcome, but it is not a permanent solution to our problems as with uncertainty on what will happen after December 10 we cannot do make any commitment with our customers about delivery of goods. As of now the raw material stuck on the way will be able to reach us but what about the raw material which we will require after December 10. Therefore, lifting of blockade is going to help us only temporarily and governments should take initiative to end this crisis.” According to Atul Saggar, general secretary of Apparel Manufacturers Association of Ludhiana, “We are feeling a bit relieved because there are still a large number of destinations in north east part of the country, where we are unable to deliver the garments as trains are the most safest and fastest mode of transporting our goods there. Now, we will be able to send our cartons stuck at the railway station and our factories. We request farmers to understand the gravity of the situation and take into account the loss incurred by each factory of Punjab with every single day of non-movement of trains and allow the trains to run unconditionally.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/relief-for-bizmen-as-farm-bodies-lift-blockade-till-dec-10/articleshow/79358081.cms||Mohit Behl
November 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Woman moves court to talk to her son on video call||AHMEDABAD: A woman in Gandhinagar approached the court after her estranged husband did not allow her to talk to their only son on video call. The court fixed call timings and ordered the man not to create any obstacle between the mother and child during video calls. The couple has been fighting a legal battle for custody of their only child for last two years. Their only son is in the husband’s custody. He has instituted a suit under the Guardians and Wards Act for permanent custody of the child. Before the lockdown, the woman used to see the child and frequently talk to him on phone. However, since people’s movement became restricted by March end due to Covid related lockdown; the husband took advantage and denied her any contact with the child. The woman then approached the court with the complaint. She told the court that she had not seen her son since March and sought permission to call the child. The Gandhinagar sessions court summoned the husband, who put forth various pretexts, but assured the court that he would connect the mother with the son, but the child may not be comfortable to talk between 1pm and 4pm. The court said that the welfare of the child is paramount consideration in custody matters and the court has to give due weight to a child’s ordinary comfort, contentment, health, education, intellectual development, and favourable surroundings and over and above his physical comforts cannot be ignored. “It is also necessary to see for the welfare of child that he would enjoy the company of his mother. For that, it is in the interest of justice, let the applicant mother be permitted to meet her minor son every day through Video Call- electronic media,” the court said and fixed time for the calls. It directed the husband not to interfere during the talk and not to create any hurdle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-moves-court-to-talk-to-her-son-on-video-call/articleshow/79358100.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Hyderabad||15 dogs find homes in Hyd adoption drive||Hyderabad: Driven by a mission to provide a home to Indian dogs and to encourage responsible pet ownership, Voice of Voiceless—an animal welfare NGO—organised an adoption drive at Our Sacred Space in Secunderabad on Sunday. Out of the 40 dogs that were brought to the adoption drive, 15 were adopted. “We are a small group of dog lovers from Mahendra Hills who came together to set up this initiative. With over 30 million stray dogs in the country, every single adoption counts. We were overwhelmed by the number of people who came for the adoption drive that we organised for the first time. Our focus currently is also towards getting the stray dogs vaccinated and sterilised so that we can control their population,” said Malavika Jaggi, an active member of the group. The organisers further added that the stray dogs have had a very hard time, not just with Covid-19 reducing their food supply from commercial establishments, but also with the recent floods and Diwali, which was extremely stressful for them. “The adoption drive is an attempt to help them come out of such stressful situations,” said Dr Suchitra Tandan, another member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/15-dogs-find-homes-in-hyd-adoption-drive/articleshow/79358994.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 23, 2020||Kolkata||New Town stubble burning leads to spike in pollution||KOLKATA: Air Quality Index (AQI) in New Town has consistently remained in the moderate to poor range over the last one week with a high PM2.5 count, especially in the evenings and through the nights, according to readings taken by a private agency. Track the pollution level in your cityAs per the readings, AQI has been rising from the evening and remaining high till early morning and sliding during the day. On Sunday, the AQI was 163 at 10 am. It dropped to 101 at 1 pm but again increased to 120 at 6pm. As per the West Bengal Pollution Control Board’s automatic station in Bidhannagar, which is close to New Town, the AQI was 250 at 1 pm, 229 at 4 pm and 214 at 6pm on Sunday which is poor. PM 2.5 or fine particulate matters are tiny air pollutants that can infiltrate the lungs. High volume of PM 2.5 causes the air to be hazy, reduces visibility and is considered harmful for health, especially for those with asthma or COPD. Residents of the township apprehend that the recent spate of stubble burning in and around New Town has led a deterioration in air quality. Though the number of stubble burning cases has come down after formation of local resistance groups who are keeping a vigil, the nuisance continues to persist in pockets of New Town even as the authorities are prevent it. “I shifted to New Town from CIT Road after my doctor advised me to move away from my polluted neighbourhood. But the purpose is now getting lost with these incidents of stubble burning polluting the air,” said Deben Bhagat, a resident of DLF New Town Heights in Action Area III. “Stubble burning has come down from two to three cases daily to a few cases a week. However, it will take time for the problem to be checked completely. We are constantly keeping an eye,” said Kakoli Saha, a resident of New Town Action Area II. “Cases have dipped in the last few days but the real test will now begin as some dwellers are likely to set up fire on the roadside to keep themselves warm during the winter,” said Ankur Roy Chowdhury, vice chairperson of New Town Forum and News (NTFN), a local NGO and resident of New Town’s CE block. “Stubble burning is the major reason behind the slide in air quality at New Town. Once we get rid of it, things will improve,” said Samaresh Das, NTFN chairperson. NKDA said they were taking steps. “Awareness campaign is on and signage boards are being installed. Drone surveillance is also being conducted. Volunteers are doing rounds on bikes to keep a check,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-town-stubble-burning-leads-to-spike-in-pollution/articleshow/79358106.cms||Suman Chakraborti
November 23, 2020||Mumbai||Pandemic props up housing issues at IITs||MUMBAI: An old IIT adage from insiders who emphasise on well-being on the campus goes: “Even IITians need to sleep.” Now, it is taking on a new meaning. IITs have woken up to a huge problem: There is no place to sleep on campus. IIT Bombay, for one, may be forced to partially outsource student housing when it allows students to get back and when social distancing norms are no longer required. A total of 8,853 beds (not rooms) will have to be allocated to 11,490 students. In IIT Guwahati, married scholars are allotted rooms as per a waiting list. IIT Delhi has no land to build new hostels now. Discussions are on to demolish eight old hostels to construct new taller residential blocks but with a huge fund requirement and a public-private partnership model is being considered. Current infrastructure for a student population of about 10,000 at IIT Madras includes a total of 7,080 rooms and 9,043 cots (includes single, double, triple, quadruple and common rooms) in all hostels. “Due to the pandemic, students entitled for the hostel facility are not encouraged to stay outside campus. Online teaching is helping this semester to tide over room constraints,” said the IIT-B spokesperson. “The number of students increases each year. In 2021, we will get around 1,000 extra rooms in a new hostel, but we will be short on space again soon after that, so we are now focusing on building new hostels at IIT-B.” This isn’t merely a Powai problem though. Almost all older institutes have lodging constraints. Starting 2008 when the phase-wise OBC quota was rolled out, to supernumerary seats for foreigners and girls, and the most recent EWS quota, the last decade has seen massive intake expansion, with little focus and expenditure available for other campus facilities. IIT-B also surveyed the count of OYO rooms around Powai and eventually about 80 PhD students were put up in rented accommodation rooms in 2019. Similarly, thousands of IIT Delhi students stayed out of campus in 2019. “The issue is of funds and time, plus the hostels have a heritage value. We have a committee to look at the public-private model, under which we give the land. Someone will construct the hostels and run them and recover the money, over time,” said an IIT-D spokesperson. However, currently living on campus is highly subsidised at Rs 1,500 per month. “If a private player comes in and charges more, what happens to those who cannot afford that fee? A feasible financial model has to be thought about,” said a source. A committee helmed by professor Deepak Phatak is looking at all the older IITs where issues range from building highrise hostels, raising funds, working under a PPP model, which may up living rates at some IITs. “There is no single solution which will work for all IITs. IIT Roorkee, for instance, has a structure that is 117 years old. Almost all older IITs have structures that are 50-60 years old. They will all have to be demolished and newly built. We are considering different proposals but it would not be fair to say anything more till the IIT Council discusses the report,” said Phatak. BOX: IIT Delhi: For a total of 11,000 students in 2020, there are 6,500 who can be accommodated in hostels. Two new hostels, 900-bedded complex for boys and another girls hostel with a capacity of 400 beds are coming up IIT Bombay: Student count 11,490, hostel rooms 7,321, beds available 8,853 IIT Madras: Students count 10,000. A total of 5,586 boys and 1,494 girls rooms; and 9,043 cots/seats for boys (7,105) and girls (1,938) IIT Kharagpur: “The decision regarding accommodation is under consideration and shall not be finalized unless the process of admission is completed keeping in mind the specific requirements for COVID-19,” said IIT Kharagpur director V K Tewari. Currently, Kharagpur has enough beds for all students on its rolls IIT Guwahati: Total hostel rooms 6,490; 5,300 boys live in single occupancy, so do 860 girls and another in 330 double occupancy IIT Gandhinagar: For a total of 1,834 students, capacity and infrastructure (beds, study tables, chairs, mattresses) to accommodate close to 2,000 occupants. Majority hostel rooms are single seated IIT Hyderabad: For the expected on-roll student strength of 3,356, which includes the 2020 intake of 1,153, there are 12 hostel blocks, named after renowned Indian scientists, which include the newly constructed precast block to accommodate UG intake||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pandemic-props-up-housing-issues-at-iits/articleshow/79359053.cms||Hemali Chhapia
November 23, 2020||Kochi||Collector asks municipal officials to follow rules & keep Kochi clean||KOCHI: After citizens started complaining about garbage getting accumulated at various regions in the city, collector S Suhas has stepped in to address the issue. The collector, who heads the administrative committee of Kochi corporation, has issued directions to municipal officials and supervisory staff to keep the city clean. He has instructed them to follow ‘section 7 of municipal solid waste handling rules and implement it in letter and spirit’. The Sec 7 of the rules implies implementation of schedule two, three and four of the municipal solid waste handling rules. It details from door-to-door collection of waste to segregation and disposal. Issuing the instructions, Suhas said, “We have received many complaints regarding mismanagement of waste collection and debris removal,” adding that officials will have to follow orders of the administrative committee. TOI, in its edition dated November 21, 2020, had reported about waste getting piled up near Mount Carmel Church on GIDA-Chathiyath Road stretch. With the Kochi corporation heading for local body polls, there has been serious lapses in waste collection and management. People began to complain about garbage getting accumulated at various places in the city, including prime locations. Following the TOI report, corporation took steps to clear the garbage piled on the GIDA-Chathiyath Road stretch. Former Kochi mayor K J Sohan said, “Kochi corporation doesn’t have a health officer. Positions of chief health officer, assistant health officer and additional health officer are lying vacant.” Health officer has powers to address issues related waste collection, transportation and disposal. “But, at Kochi corporation a health inspector has been given the charge of health officer. In these circumstances, it will not be possible to implement municipal solid waste handling rules in letter and spirit,” he added. Earlier, councillors would interfere if garbage remained piled up in their divisions. “With their tenure coming to an end, most councillors don’t consider it as their responsibility any more. Moreover, many are engaged in election campaign,” a former councillor said. “There may not be problems in door-to-door waste collection. The work is entrusted with Kudumbashree and guest workers. However, waste from neighbouring local bodies are dumped at bordering areas of the corporation. If the collector or such powerful authorities take stringent punitive action against those dumping, the issue can be addressed,” the former councillor added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/collector-asks-municipal-officials-to-follow-rules-keep-city-clean/articleshow/79357029.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Kochi||Gold worth around Rs 50 lakh seized at Cochin International Airport Ltd||KOCHI: Gold in compound form, weighing around 1,089.63g, was seized from a passenger who arrived at the Cochin International Airport Ltd (Cial) from Sharjah on Sunday. According to sources, Customs Air Intelligence Unit foiled the smuggling bid and seized the contraband. Sources said the passenger had kept the gold compound concealed on his body in small packets. The person, who hails from Kalikkavu in Malappuram, had arrived in an Air India Express flight. The seized compound is worth around Rs 50 lakh, sources said. Sources said the passenger had completed most of the checks at the airport but customs officers, who found his behaviour suspicious, made him undergo a detailed checking in which the contraband was seized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/gold-worth-around-rs-50l-seized-at-cial/articleshow/79357038.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan reports record cases for 4 days in a row; Covid testing intensified||JAIPUR: The state reported its highest single-day spike of 3,260 new Covid cases on Sunday, taking the infection tally to 2,43,936, while 17 fatalities pushed the toll to 2,163. It was the fourth straight day that the state registered record cases. Jaipur too reported the biggest one-day jump with 603 fresh infections. In the last five days, the state tested 1.43 lakh samples, a 108% growth in sampling. Testing facilities remained relatively dull during Diwali from November 13 to 17 as only 69,009 samples were tested during the period, with a negative growth of 32% in cumulative five-day testing figures. A senior health department official said, “We increased the number of testing across the state, especially in eight districts including Jaipur, Jodhpur, Udaipur, Kota, Ajmer, Udaipur, Bikaner and Alwar. Directions have been issued to identify the cases in the early stage with special focus on patients with influenza like illness. We have facilities to test more than 50,000 samples per day,” said Dr KK Sharma, director (health), health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-reports-record-cases-for-4-days-in-a-row-testing-intensified/articleshow/79359075.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Mangaluru||Colleges reopen: 29 students test Covid-19 positive in Mangaluru||MANGALURU: As many as 29 students, including six medical students, of a city-based college tested positive for the novel coronavirus, five days after they started attending classes on campus, said Ramachandra Bairy, district health officer. 16,441 students, staff tested for coronavirus. Classes being conducted on campus in Dakshina Kannada commenced on November 17, and so far 16,441 students, college staff and non-teaching staff of education institutions have been tested for the novel coronavirus.  Bairy said that as on November 21, out of 29 students who tested positive for Covid-19, 16 students, including six medical students were from Mangaluru taluk, seven from Bantwal, four from Sullia and one each from Puttur and Belthangady. Two students are isolated in hostels and the rest are at their respective homes. Covid-19 testing for students continued even on Sunday. Meanwhile, college managements have said that attendance is likely to increase from Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/colleges-reopen-29-students-test-ve/articleshow/79357044.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Ludhiana||E-rickshaw turns over, kills boy, 4||tnnLudhiana: A 4-year-old boy died after the e-rickshaw he was travelling in overturned in Ayali Kalan village on Saturday evening.The deceased has been identified as Ankush, a resident of Ayali Kalan. His grandfather Kusheshvar Das said in his police complaint, “I along with my grandson and other family members had gone to Jhammat bridge of Sidhwan Canal to offer Chhath prayers. We hired an e-rickshaw of a man who lives in our village. After offering the prayers, we took the same e-rickshaw to return home. Its driver was driving very recklessly. When he took a sharp turn, he lost balance of the vehicles and it turned over. Ankush suffered a severe head injury and died on the spot.” Following the accident, the vehicle driver escaped from the spot.Raghunath Enclave police post assistant sub-inspector Ravinder Singh said a case has been registered against the e-rickshaw driver, Sunil Kumar of Ayali Kalan village, under sections 279 (reckless driving) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the IPC. We have impounded the vehicle, but the accused is on the run. He will be arrested soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/e-rickshaw-turns-over-kills-boy-4/articleshow/79357052.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Jaipur||Sariska villagers coming forward to relocate out of tiger territory||JAIPUR: Sariska Tiger Reserve (STR) administration has set up an example for other sanctuaries to relocate villages from the critical tiger habitat (CTH). In record time, the forest department has shifted villages from core area of STR to create an inviolate space for tigers. According to records, the forest department has partially relocated Panidhal village, five years after rehabilitating the villagers of Dabali. STR field director RN Meena said, “For the first time in history, the villages were shifted within two months after giving consent. Out of 24 families in Panidhal, five have shifted and remaining will be shifted before December 10, after the wedding season. Once the village is entirely razed, the area can be occupied by the big cats including male ST-13, tigresses ST-10 and ST- 12 and their progenies.” The forest administration’s efforts to educate villagers in the recent past has started yielding efforts as more villages are coming forward to move out of the forest. Out of 29 families, 13 have given their consent for relocation from Haripura village. “After receiving the consent, we immediately transfer Rs 50,000 to the family. This exercise has built up the trust. The forest team recently organised the visit of villagers to display the life of families who shifted out of the forest,” added Meena. Riding high on success, the STR administration plans to shift six villages including Sukola, Devri, Kankwari, Kraska and Pilapani within a year. “Majority of the families that had shifted opted for land packages as it’s beneficial for them. The package includes 6 bighas of agriculture land, 60 x 90 square-feet plot and electric connection for agriculture. The villagers who moved out earlier has witnessed an increase in land value in Tijara, Kanpura and other areas. This has motivated people to shift out,” said a district administration official. As the process is expedited, wildlife enthusiasts believe Sariska could accommodate more big cats. Dinesh Durrani of Sariska Foundation said, “Efforts put in to relocate villages from CTH by divisional commissioner and filed director is remarkable. It will show fruitful results in future. The six villages, which are on priority list, have waterbodies and favourable landscape. More than six tigers can live in the area once habitat is improved.” According to the guidelines of the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), the government of Rajasthan had notified 881.11 sq-km area as CTH on December 28, 2007. As per records, currently there are 26 villages in CTH that need to be relocated and that are said to be violating the tiger habitat. Out of these, 10 villages are on ‘Priority I’ and the rest are on ‘Priority II’. Sariska admn plans to shift six villages within a yearRiding high on success, the STR administration plans to shift six villages including Sukola, Devri, Kankwari, Kraska and Pilapani within a year. “Majority of the families that had shifted opted for land packages as it’s beneficial for them. The package includes 6 bighas of agriculture land, 60 x 90 square-feet plot and electric connection for agriculture. The villagers who moved out earlier has witnessed an increase in land value in Tijara, Kanpura and other areas. This has motivated people to shift out,” said a district administration official. As the process is expedited, wildlife enthusiasts believe Sariska could accommodate more big cats. Dinesh Durrani of Sariska Foundation said, “Efforts put in to relocate villages from CTH by divisional commissioner and filed director is remarkable. It will show fruitful results in future. The six villages, which are on priority list, have waterbodies and favourable landscape. More than six tigers can live in the area once habitat is improved.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sariska-villagers-coming-forward-to-shift-outside-tiger-reserve/articleshow/79359111.cms||Ajay Singh
November 23, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Inkel told to expedite CCRC work||KOCHI: The district administration has instructed Inkel, the agency which is entrusted with the construction of Cochin Cancer Research Centre (CRRC), to complete the work on at least one block of the structure by February 2021. The overall progress of the work on the four blocks of the CCRC is still around 35%. While 100 civil works on the first basement floor of all the four blocks have been completed, the work on the second basement floor of all the blocks except A block has been completed. The progress of the work on the second basement floor of A block is 85%. The civil works on the ground floor of C and D blocks have been completed, the work on A and B blocks has registered a progress of 83% and 85% respectively. While the work on the first floor of B, C and D blocks is yet to be started, the work on A block has recorded a progress of 59%. “The government has asked Inkel authorities to expedite the work. The Inkel, in turn, has asked its contractor to bring in more workforce. There was a slowdown after the lockdown. Now, the work has gained momentum,” an official associated with the project said. It was in October 2017 that the KIIFB board chaired by chief minister Pinarayi Vijyan gave approval for the first phase of CCRC. As per the original schedule, the entire work of the CCRC should have been completed by August 2020. But Inkel failed to make adequate progress in the work. The state government had allotted Rs 379 crore for setting up the hospital. Out of it, Rs 87 crore has been disbursed for completing the civil works. Even if the civil works are completed by February, mechanical, electrical and plumbing work may be delayed as authorities are yet to invite tenders for the works. Measures for procuring medical devices and equipment also are under process. Many of the equipment will have to be imported. Recruitment of staff also is yet to be started.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/inkel-told-to-expedite-ccrc-work/articleshow/79357057.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Mumbai||New directives in store for Boeing 737 Max||MUMBAI: The European aviation safety regulator will be issuing a directive with certain additional actions, beyond those listed by the US, to ensure safe operations of Boeing 737 Max aircraft. The European Union Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) viewpoint that the actions suggested by the US aviation regulator aren’t adequate enough for Boeing 737 Max’s safe return to the skies holds significant bearing given that it’s the regulatory overseer for Airbus, the only other large passenger jet aircraft manufacturer in the world. Transport Canada Civil Aviation, the watchdog for Bombardier too will be imposing its own conditions on the Boeing 737 Max aircraft's return to service, said media reports quoting Canadian transport minister. The Civil Aviation Administration of China, the first regulator to ground the Boeing 737 Max, said in a state broadcast, that it had no set timetable to return the Boeing 737 Max to service. Following two fatal air crashes within a span of five months that killed 346 people, aviation regulators worldwide announced, one-after-another, the grounding of the Boeing 737 Max in their respective countries in March 2019. India’s Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) was among the last few regulators to impose the ban. Eventually, the US Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) grounded the aircraft. The two crashes were linked to an anti-stall system that overrode the pilots to repeatedly put the aircraft nose down. The anti-stall system did that in response to an indication from a faulty sensor that erroneously read the aircraft nose as too high. The FAA in a directive issued last week rescinded its grounding order. It paved the way for US airlines to bring the Boeing 737 Max back to commercial passenger service following changes like installation of new flight control computer software in each aircraft, additional pilot training. FAA statement on Boeing 737 Max return to service issued on November 18, said: ``The design and certification of this aircraft included an unprecedented level of collaborative and independent reviews by aviation authorities around the world. Those regulators have indicated that Boeing’s design changes, together with the changes to crew procedures and training enhancements, will give them the confidence to validate the aircraft as safe to fly in their respective countries and regions. ‘’ However, on November 20, EASA announced the it has not decided to adopt the FAA directive. The EASA air worthiness directive said: ``The results of safety investigations conducted by the authorities of the states where these events occurred (accidents), as well as EASA’s own safety review, have confirmed that, when the actions as specified in FAA directive have been accomplished, the affected aeroplanes can be returned to service. However, EASA also found that sufficient reason exists to require certain additional actions, deemed necessary to ensure safe operation of the affected aeroplanes, including pilot training.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/euro-aviation-regulator-to-issue-directive-for-boeing-737-max/articleshow/79359125.cms||Manju V
November 23, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Gas-cutter ATM gang fleeing in cars on covered trailers?||KOLKATA: Taking a leaf out of the 2004 Bollywood action flick “Dhoom”, a gang of interstate ATM robbers — who have been giving a hard time to the cops sweeping cash vaults after breaking open ATMs across the state with gas-cutter machines — is perhaps wheeling their cars onto covered trailers parked on highways while leaving Bengal after multiple heists in a night, suspect cops. On the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday, three ATMs — one at Michaelnagar in Bidhannagar and two in Howrah’s Dhulagarh and Bagnan were prised open with gas cutters. While Rs 10 lakh and Rs 18 lakh were looted from Michaelnagar and Bagnan, respectively, the robbers failed to pull out the cash from the Dhulagarh ATM. In all the cases, the robbers smeared the CCTV cameras inside the unguarded ATM kiosks with black paint to block visuals and dismantled the ATMs’ anti burglary alarm system to prevent immediate cop intervention. A somewhat similar heist was carried out at a Tiljala ATM on Friday night from where Rs 13 lakh were looted but unlike the earlier so-called perfect heists by the gang, this time the ATM had caught fire that attracted local attention. Kolkata Police couldn’t specify if it was the handiwork of the same gang. Cops in Howrah said as per the grainy CCTV footages, they have found the robbers — four in number — travelled in their own car and although the car could be tracked moving towards the highways, it couldn’t be spotted at the toll plazas. “The gang possibly wheels the car into a trailer somewhere on the national highways. Since it is impossible to check the interiors of each trailer at checkposts, we believe they are leaving the state while hiding themselves along with the car inside the covered trailers,” said a senior officer of Howrah City Police. The officer said the gang possibly belongs to north western India — around the UP, Delhi, Noida and Haryana belt. “It looks like they may have some tippers in Bengal but the entire gang comes from outside the state. They conduct a recce and then chart a number of unguarded ATMs on their route that they plan to rob,” said the officer. Previously there has been several failed attempts to break an ATM. However, in the past few months, there have been multiple successful ATM robberies at Narayanpur in Bidhannagar, Barasat, Panskura, Debra and Malda. “Deployment of private guards at every standalone ATM increases cost. But, all ATMs come with security services that alert local cops as well as the security control room of banks about any attempt to tamper ATMs,” said a senior private bank official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/gas-cutter-atm-gang-fleeing-in-cars-on-covered-trailers/articleshow/79358113.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
November 23, 2020||Kochi||Ernakulam excise to launch special drive ahead of polls||KOCHI: With the local body polls around the corner, the Ernakulam excise division will launch a special enforcement drive next week. The move is aimed at preventing illegal narcotic and abkari activities ahead of the polls. A detailed order regarding the drive will be issued soon. Deputy excise commissioner, Ernakulam division, T A Ashok Kumar said that special task forces will be set up across the district within the jurisdictions of each excise range offices and they will be coordinated by the control room to be set up at divisional office at Kacheripady. “Vehicle inspection and highway patrolling will be strengthened till the polls are held. The Covid-19 restrictions will affect the enforcement but there is chance of increase in the inflow of ganja and production to illicit arrack. Hence, special combing drives have to be conducted in association with other agencies like the state police, forest, fisheries, Coast Guard and railways,” he said. The department will also warn officers about fake alerts which have to be dealt carefully. “Majority of the information and tip-off we receive are from the intelligence wing of the excise and the rest come for the public. Most times info provided by the departmental agencies is valid but only 35% of info from public are authentic. The authenticity is likely to decrease during the polls as political parties can use such alerts as part of propaganda. Hence alerts will have to be double checked before taking actions,” Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/excise-to-launch-special-drive-ahead-of-polls/articleshow/79357069.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Nashik||Efforts to add 6-km flyover in Bharatmala projects||Nashik: MP Hemant Godse said the state government will be recommending the Centre to include the proposed 6-km long flyover from Datta Mandir to Dwarka Circle in the Bharatmala project. The state public works department is not in a position to take up the construction of the flyover due to its high cost, while the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) is also hesitant to take up its construction as the stretch where the flyover is proposed to be constructed forms a missing length between the Mumbai Agra Highway (NH 03) and Nashik Pune Highway (NH 50), said the MP Speaking to TOI, Godse said it was a matter of time, the recommendation was made after which the work of the proposed project will start rolling again.  In 2016, Nitin Gadkari, the Union minister for road transport and highway, had announced the construction of this flyover at a cost of approximately Rs 1,000 crore to decongest the traffic between the two highways in Nashik city.Commuters on the Pune road, which is the stretch between Nashik Road and Dwarka in the city, would be relieved as vehicular traffic on this road keeps increasing. Given the chaotic situation on this stretch, the local authorities have set up road signals at Dwarka, Pournima bus stop, Vijay Mamta junction, and Datta Mandir among others.The state PWD was supposed to carry out the work of the flyover on this stretch but two years later, the work was handed over to the NHAI due to its huge cost. Later, the NHAI said it cannot construct the flyover.He was pursuing the matter with the authorities concerned and the ministers of state and the Centre, said the Shiv Sena MP.The Bharatmala project is a project which is funded by the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/efforts-to-add-6-km-flyover-in-bharatmala-projects/articleshow/79479712.cms||Santosh Sonawane
November 23, 2020||Ludhiana||Virus kills 2, infects 98||Ludhiana: Two residents of Ludhiana died of Covid-19 and 98 tested positive on Sunday.As per the local media bulletin, the district casualties included a 60-year-old man of Kailash Nagar in Doraha, who had hypertension, chronic kidney disease and left ventricular failure, and a 52-year-old man of Model Town, who had diabetes, hypertension and chronic kidney disease.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the district toll has risen to 881 and that of outsiders to 367.To date, 4,33,048 persons have been tested.Of the 98 new cases, 36 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), 11 positive cases’ contacts, 24 from OPD, 20 through tracing process, one health-care worker, one severe acute respiratory infection case, an interstate traveller, and three pre-operative cases.On the day, 16 outsiders, too, tested positive here.The local health department officials said the Ludhiana case count has increased to 22,044 and that of outsiders to 3,105.So far, 20,365 patients have recovered, which constitutes 92.38% of the total cases.There are 795 active cases here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/virus-kills-2-infects-98/articleshow/79357076.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad records highest daily death toll in 140 days||AHMEDABAD: The city had witnessed the deaths of eight Covid-19 positive patients in a day on July 5. On November 22, the city again touched the figure after 140 days. At 13, it was also the highest daily death toll for Gujarat in the past 48 days. The analysis of the city’s Covid-19 figures reveals that in the past two days, the city had lost 13 Covid-19 patients. To put the figure in perspective, it consists of 20% of the 64 deaths the city has recorded in entire November month so far, which had the daily average of 2.5 deaths before November 21. Ahmedabad has accounted for 46% or nearly half the mortality of Covid-19 patients in November, reveals the analysis. “There are multiple reasons for the sudden spike. First, the overall number of cases are on the rise. For the past three days, the city is recording 300-plus cases. Thus, given the share of the patients with high viral load and comorbidities, the overall death rate may increase,” said a city-based epidemiologist. “Second, due to the seasonal factors and high infection, those above 60 years of age could succumb to the infection. Moreover, there are also factors such as time of reporting to the hospital – if the patients have arrived late in the medical facility due to festivities, chances of survival get reduced,” he added. Experts cautioned against the crowding on the account of night curfews. “To make the move effective, it is very essential that all citizens adhere to the norms of social distancing and wearing mask. Crowding during the day and curfew at night won’t work – we must follow the rules including frequent washing of hands,” said the expert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-records-highest-daily-death-toll-in-140-days/articleshow/79358227.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Kochi||After drop in rainfall, temperature in Kochi raises by over one degree Celsius||KOCHI: For the past few months, continuous monsoon had kept mercury levels between 28C-30C, however, Kochiites have slowly begun to feel the heat during the day. October-day temperatures have shot up this month in the city amidst evening thunder showers almost every day. On Saturday, however, people in the city woke up to a huge mist blanketed morning. Meanwhile, morning fog has been occurring in island areas for some days now. According to meteorological data, the average maximum recorded in October was 30.5C while the minimum was 24.3C. After considerable drop in rainfall, temperatures have gone up by more than a degree. Usually, minimum temperatures are around 24C in November and fall to about 22C in December. The cause for mist, according to experts, was the high humidity after it had rained on Friday night. The water vapour in the air due to the high levels of humidity has condensed causing the mist, said K Santhosh, director, IMD. Kochi recorded around 96% humidity on Saturday. “There is a slight change in wind pattern too which causes mist in the morning. Humidity is high in the region and since mornings are cool and skies are clear, there is mist or fog in the mornings,” he said. IMD had forecast a strong winter for north India this season. However, there will not be much winter in Kochi. Also, there has been no major drop in temperatures too. “The day time temperatures have been slightly higher. We have not seen any major drop in temperatures because one more system is forming in Bay of Bengal which is likely to bring more rain to the south Peninsular region. That is the reason why we haven’t begun to have cooler mornings,” S Abhilash, joint director-ST Radar, Cochin university.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/after-drop-in-rainfall-temp-in-city-raises-by-over-1c/articleshow/79357089.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
November 23, 2020||Ludhiana||No long stay: Cop pack shuffled, 30 transferred||Ludhiana: Inspector general (Ludhiana range) Naunihal Singh transferred 30 cops on Saturday. The move came after Punjab director general of police Dinkar Gupta issued orders saying, “Cops, from the rank of head constable to inspector, who have served for more than 15 years in the same district and for not more than 20 years in the same range in their service career will now be transferred.”On Friday, Naunihal Singh had sought a list of such cops from Ludhiana city police, the Khanna SSP, the Ludhiana rural SSP and the Nawanshahr SSP. Naunihal Singh said, “The cops were transferred in the wake of the Punjab government’s rule.”Fourteen cops of the rank of sub-inspector posted in Ludhiana police commissionerate have been transferred to Nawanshahr, Khanna and Ludhiana rural. Basti Jodhewal police station SHO sub-inspector (SI) Arshpreet Kaur Grewal, SI Gaganpreet Singh, SI Manisha Verma, SI Jatinder Kaur, SI Rajandip Singh Khehra, SI Jaswinder Singh have been shifted to Ludhiana rural; SI Richa Rani, SI Kiranpreet Kaur, SI Neeru Rani, SI Varinderpal Singh to Khanna; SI Ravinder Pal Singh, SI Aseem Hans, SI Davinder Singh, SI Nippu Jamwal to Nawanshahr. Those who have been shifted from Khanna are SI Sandeep Kaur, who has been moved to Nawanshahr, SI Sukhdeep Kaur, SI Paramdin Khan and SI Gurjant Singh, who have been transferred to Ludhiana commissionerate. From Ludhiana rural, SI Harmeet Kaur has been transferred to Khanna; SI Kirandeep Kaur to Nawanshahr; SI Avneet Kaur, SI Jaspreet Kaur, SI Manjit Kaur, and SI Ramandeep Kaur to Ludhiana commissionerate. From Nawanshahr, SI Neeraj Chaudhary has been moved to Khanna; SI Manpreet Kaur, SI Vijay Kumar, SI Ramandeep Kaur, SI Gurkirat Kaur and SI Radha Krishan to Ludhiana commissionerate. Commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwla said, “We are relieving the cops. As per the new guidelines, all sub-inspectors in the home district are being posted out.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/no-long-stay-cop-pack-shuffled-30-transferred/articleshow/79357091.cms||Payal Dhawan
November 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Virus storm in swanky Iscon Platinum, goes red||AHMEDABAD: On Sunday, most parts of the posh Iscon Platinum on Sardar Patel Ring Road were declared a micro-containment zone, a move that affects 304 families. The development exemplifies the sweep of Covid in the newly merged areas of Bopal. Fifty-two families in three societies of South Bopal have also found themselves in the red zone. The 304 families of Iscon Platinum comprise 1,150 members. This is not the first time that the society has been in the corona headlines. In June, there were reports of three-odd cases in the society. Thereafter, maids were barred from entering the premises. On Sunday, the AMC declared the list of micro-containment areas and Iscon Platinum had the highest number of affected families. The list said that all of Blocks K, O, Q, and R were micro-contained while several floors of Blocks A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, N, and S were designated red. The news of micro-containment spurred rumours that the society had organized a get-together. There was also a speculation that maids working in the society are all infected. Moreover, since Sunday noon there were rumours of 80 cases being reported from Safal Parisar Parts I and II. The buzz began after the AMC declared the 6th floor of the D-Block in Safar Parisar-I a micro-containment zone. However, deputy municipal commissioner, South West Zone, G H Solanki said the rumours were baseless. Nine twin bungalows in Arohi Homes and 20 twin bungalows in Arohi Residency in South Bopal were also declared micro-containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/virus-storm-in-swanky-iscon-platinum-goes-red/articleshow/79358125.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Ludhiana||Major fire erupts in scrap godown||8 fire tenders, 22 firemen battle flames for over 2 hrsLudhiana: A major fire broke out on Sunday in a scrap godown located in Peeru Banda of Salem Tabri here. Workers present in the godown had a narrow escape as they ran out to safety on seeing the flames.Fire officials said a short circuit in a scrap pressing machine kept on the first floor of the building caused the fire that also engulfed the second floor. However, timely action by the fire fighters prevented the fire from spreading to the ground floor where a huge stock of scrap was stored. The fire officials said the fire broke out around 12.15pm and as many as eight fire tenders with 22 firefighters were rushed to the spot. The godown is located in a congested area and there is a residential area behind it. The thick smoke billowing out of the burning scrap made the task of fire fighters further difficult.Sub-fire officer Aatish Rai said, "The owner informed us about the fire, which originated from a pressing machine and reached the scrap material like plastic bottles, cardboards, wires etc. The fire spread within seconds and the workers, who were working on the first floor, ran out of the building." The fire was controlled around 2.45pm.Since the godown was located in a congested area, a large number of people had gathered there obstructing the fire fighters in carrying out their operation. The smoke, which was visible from a distance, also brought people to the site.On getting information, municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal, accompanied by joint commissioner Kulpreet Singh, visited the spot even as the fire fighters were trying to rein in the flames. The people complained to Sabharwal that earlier also fire incidents have taken place in scrap godowns due to the carelessness of their owners. They demanded action against the scrap godown owner, because of whom so many lives were put at risk. The commissioner assured them of action against the violations.Safety norms not followedThe fire officials said although scrap dealers keep huge stocks of flammable material, they do not have safety measures in place. They are supposed to keep water arrangement on the premises, but in the past too, several incidents have taken place and no arrangement of water was found.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/major-fire-erupts-in-scrap-godown/articleshow/79357079.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Mangaluru||Science is fundamental to practice of medicine: NBME chief||MANIPAL: Curtains came down on the 3-day e-convocation of Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE) here on Sunday. Dr Peter J Katsufrakis, president and CEO of National Board of Medical Examiners (NBME), USA, who addressed the recently graduated students virtually, hoped that they will remember the lesson the pandemic has taught humanity and that science is fundamental to the practice of medicine. Dr Katsufrakis, said, “While you may be completing your medical education, the reality is that you will continue to be students – students of medicine, and students of science for the rest of your careers. But that is not a burden. That is an opportunity for you to participate in advancement of the human race in the field of medicine.” He advised students to have courage to speak the truth, to advocate for science and to advocate for patients. He congratulated the students who graduated on the day. CS Thammaiah, pro-VC, Mangaluru campus, said, “You live in an era where the pace of technology transition is taking place at a mind boggling pace. Even as I speak, new concepts are being introduced, established paradigms are being refined, and research is opening new vistas. The change being driven by path breaking research is both exhilarating and mesmerizing. As young graduates, it will be your challenge.” Lt Gen (Dr) MD Venkatesh, vice-chancellor, MAHE addressed the graduates. Manoj M Wagle, Manipal College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Sunanda S Rao, Manipal School of Information Sciences, Manipal received the Dr TMA Pai gold medals on the final day. Vasanthi R Pai, trustee MAHE, Dr HS Ballal, pro-chancellor, pro VCs — PLNG Rao and Dilip G Naik, Narayana Sabhahit, registrar and other statutory officers were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/science-is-fundamental-to-practice-of-medicine-nbme-chief/articleshow/79357083.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Ludhiana||City records its coldest Nov night in six years||Ludhiana: The city witnessed its coldest November night in six years on Saturday.The meteorological department, however, predicts that the night temperature will increase in the coming days.As per the department, the minimum temperature in Ludhiana on Saturday night was 6.4 degrees Celsius, which is three degrees below normal and 2.7 degrees less than a day before. The department data for November in the past 11 years showed that it was the lowest night temperature in Ludhiana in the month since 2014, when it was recorded at 5.1 degrees Celsius on November 25. Last year, lowest night temperature in Ludhiana for the month was on November 21 at 9.1 degrees Celsius. Other cities of the state also witnessed a chilling night. Jalandhar recorded 3.6 degrees Celsius, while Amritsar and Bathinda shared the same minimum temperature of 5.4 degree Celsius. Pathankot and Patiala registered 6.5 and 7.8 degrees Celsius, respectively. A Chandigarh meteorological department official said the weather was likely to remain dry with partly cloudy skies in the next few days. He added that both the night and the day temperatures were expected to rise in the next two days. The department website suggested that the night temperature may rise to 9 degrees Celsius till Wednesday and then fall to 6 degrees Celsius till Saturday and the day temperature was expected to rise to 25 degrees Celsius till coming Friday.Day temperatureEven as the Saturday night temperature settled at a record low, the day temperature on Sunday was recorded at 22.2 degrees Celsius, 5 degrees below normal. On Saturday, the day temperature was 21.8 degrees Celsius, which was 5 degrees less than normal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/city-records-its-coldest-nov-night-in-six-years/articleshow/79357085.cms||Shariq Majeed
November 23, 2020||Bhopal||Rambai Singh welcome in BJP, says Prahlad Patel||BHOPAL: Amid reports of Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MLA Rambai Singh willing to join BJP, Union minister Prahlad Patel said that if she is interested in joining the party, she is welcomed. Patel also said the decision to include Rambai into the saffron-fold will be taken by the party’s organisation. “There is nobody stopping anyone from joining BJP. Our party leadership makes a decision and I cannot have an opinion on this. But yes, if she is willing to join us, she is welcomed,” said Patel during a programme in Damoh. The Union minister of state (Independent charge) for tourism and tourism further said that BJP is a big organisation and there is no restriction for anybody to join the party. Recently, Rambai, who is Patharia MLA in Damoh district had expressed her willingness to join BJP and claimed that she has been invited by party leaders. “I’ve been instructed by senior ministers Bhupendra Singh and Govind Singh Rajput (Rajput is my brother-in-law) to join BJP. I am also willing to contest the next assembly election from Patharia as a BJP candidate,” Rambai told the media on November 18. Sources said that Rambai joining the saffron party could affect several BJP leaders planning to contest the next assembly polls from Patharia on a saffron ticket. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/rambai-welcome-in-bjp-says-patel/articleshow/79358124.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Vijayawada||Rs 47,000 crore needed to finish Polavaram project: PPA||AMARAVATI: In what could be a big relief to the state government, the Polavaram Project Authority (PPA) has recommended to the Centre that it would require at least Rs 47,000 crore to complete the project. While approving the finance ministry’s advice to stamp its nod on the resolution of the Union cabinet, PPA has made it clear that the Centre needs to approve the price fixed by the Revised Cost Committee (RCC-II) which put the project cost at Rs 47,000 crore. The Union cabinet in 2017 had passed a resolution to give funds for the Polavaram project at 2013-14 price level which was just around Rs 20,000 crore. Interestingly, TDP, which was part of the NDA government, was silent when the then Union cabinet cleared the resolution. Minutes of the PPA emergency meeting held on November 2 were sent to the Centre on Saturday. Sources said that the strong defence by the state government’s representatives, led special chief secretary Adityanath Das and engineer-in-chief Narayana Reddy, at the PPA meeting had forced the authority to inform the Centre that it was not possible to complete the project at 2013-14 price level. Adityanath Das had made a presentation at the meeting giving various examples of project costs of the national projects revised in the last several years. Das also pointed out that committees appointed by the Union Jal Shakti ministry themselves have finalised the price of Rs 47,725 crore for the Polavaram project after going through several thousands of documents and field inspections. The chief secretary had pushed the PPA by asking senior officials to explain how it wanted to complete the project at 2013-14 price level if it was taken as the final cost. “You (PPA) are the nodal agency (constituted by the Centre) to oversee the construction of the national project - Polavaram. Please tell as to what are your plans to complete the project if 2013-14 price is taken as final to extend the fund support?” Das had asked. He had also argued that separation of drinking water component from irrigation project was not done in any national project and hence should be done only with Polavaram. Jal Shakti ministry joint secretary Jag Mohan Gupta, PPA CEO Chandrasekhar Ayyar said they would take the issue to the ministry’s notice and seek support to prevail upon the finance ministry to grant its approval for 2017-18 price level. Das and Narayana Reddy had also requested PPA to note their dissent on giving the nod to 2013-14 price level. Clearing of revised cost committee recommendations by PPA is likely to help the AP government get the required funding to complete the project within deadline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/rs-47k-cr-needed-to-finish-polavaram-project-ppa/articleshow/79356285.cms||Samdani MN
November 23, 2020||Vijayawada||Guntur man booked for putting up videos of wife on porn sites||VIJAYAWADA: In a bid to earn some easy money, a man from Guntur uploaded videos of his wife on the internet. Upon knowing about the videos being uploaded, the woman lodged a complaint with Disha police on Sunday. According to police, the 32-year-old accused had married the 28-year-old complainant in 2017. The man used to work for an airline parcel company in Hyderabad but moved to Guntur after losing his job. He started a business venture which failed to take off. In order to make some easy money, he secretly started recording intimate videos of his wife and started uploading them on pornogaphic websites. He had even started a paid live streaming service to make more money. The complainant, who works as a ward volunteer, came to know about her husband’s actions after she found the videos of her. When asked about the videos, her husband started harassing her and even forced her to go out with one of his friends. She left him and went to her parents. After he started spying on her, she approached Disha police DSP Supraja and explained her situation. While the woman only reported about the spying, the police investigated all of his criminal acts. Speaking to TOI, DSP Supraja said they have registered a case and have initiated a lookout to arrest the man. She said the IT team was working to remove the videos from the internet. Cops also found out that the man had posted his profile on a matrimony site to marry someone else.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/guntur-man-booked-for-putting-up-videos-of-wife-on-porn-sites/articleshow/79356326.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Vijayawada||Two killed, 8 hurt in Ongole road accident||Vijayawada: Two persons died while eight others were severely injured after the car they were travelling in was crushed between two lorries at Ongole in Prakasam district in the early hours of Sunday. The deceased were identified as Chepuri Satyanarayana Murthy (72) and Potturu Kasi Annapurna (67), both residents of Penupadu under Tenali mandal in Guntur district. Ongole inspector A Siva Rama Krishna Reddy said a marriage party from Penupadu was on its way back from Tirupati. After the wedding, the bride and the bridegroom left in a car and family members of both bride and the groom were travelling in another car. After the second car reached Ongole, a lorry moving ahead of them stopped suddenly on a flyover. The car driver could not control the vehicle in time and rammed into the lorry. At the same time, another lorry that was moving behind the car, rammed into it. Murthy, the maternal uncle of the groom and Annapurna, aunt of the groom, died on the spot while eight others in the car were severely injured. Upon receiving information, police rushed to the spot but both lorry drivers had already fled the scene. Police with the help of firefighters brought gas cutters to bring out the injured persons from the mangled car and admitted them to a private hospital. The inspector said that while four of the injured are critical, the condition of the other four is stable. A case has been registered and further investigation is currently underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/two-killed-8-hurt-in-ongole-road-accident/articleshow/79356358.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Mysuru||Several offices burgled in Hampapura||Mysuru: A gang of burglars decamped with cash, office documents and records in a series of thefts at Hampapura village in HD Kote taluk on Saturday night. The robbers broke into the milk producers’ cooperative society building, gram panchayat office, anganwadi, RO water plant and veterinary hospital building after breaking their locks. They broke open the almirah in the GP office and decamped with some important files. Villagers are shocked as this theft took place near the local Hampapura police station. The incident came to light when the MPCS secretary came to procure milk from producers early on Sunday morning and noticed the doors of many buildings open and alerted police. Hampapura police have registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/several-offices-burgled-in-hampapura/articleshow/79356411.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Vijayawada||Raveen Reddy to be next APIIC VC & MD||Amaravati: In a minor reshuffle of All India Services (AIS) officers, the government appointed senior IAS officer MV Seshagiri Babu as inspector-general of the stamps and registrations department. Seshagiri has previously served as Nellore district collector. The incumbent IG, Siddarth Jain, has been posted as the director of survey and settlement. IRTS officer K Raveen Kumar Reddy has been given the coveted post of vice-chairman and managing director of Andhra Pradesh Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (APIIC) post. He was serving as chief commercial manager (CCM), South Central Railway (SCR) before joining AP services on deputation. Similarly, Indian Revenue Service (IRS) officer M Ramana Reddy has been posted as CEO of AP Towers Limited. He has been kept as full additional in-charge of CEO of concept cities. Before coming on deputation to AP, Ramana Reddy was serving as additional commissioner, GST, Bengaluru. Another IRS officer Ch Rajeswara Reddy, who is waiting for a posting, has been appointed as managing director of the newly-created AP School Education and Welfare Infrastructure Development Corporation. Reddy was working as joint commissioner of income tax department before coming on deputation to AP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/raveen-reddy-to-be-next-apiic-vc-md/articleshow/79356389.cms||Samdani MN
November 23, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka BJP chips in for saffron surge in south||BENGALURU: Keen on making inroads into four southern states — Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala and Tamil Nadu — the BJP central leadership is drawing on its Karnataka leadership to lead the saffron surge. All these states have been given at least one leader from Karnataka to handhold local leadership for electoral gains. While some state leaders believe the experience of winning elections and coming to power in Karnataka twice in the past 10 years has given them an edge, others consider it an opportunity to build leadership for the future. While the high-profile appointment of Chikkamagaluru MLA CT Ravi as national general secretary and in-charge of three major states of Tamil Nadu, Goa and Maharashtra is well documented, the push given to Karkala MLA V Sunil Kumar and Bommanahalli MLA Satish Reddy into Kerala and Telangana indicates BJP’s intent of creating a second-line of leaders. Kumar and Reddy will be working on local elections. According to Kumar, BJP has got a favourable response in Kerala and is gearing up for the first time to contest in almost all the 19,000 gram panchayat seats. “BJP sympathisers are contesting in 95 per cent of these seats and building our cadre base in Kerala,” said Kumar, who will be in Kerala for a week from December 1. He added that the primary reason for faith in Karnataka leadership is its proximity to southern states and local leaders there cannot be made prabharis or joint prabharis. In Hyderabad, Reddy and party colleague Karnataka health minister K Sudhakar will work for the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation elections. Sudhakar is also involved in strengthening BJP in AP. “We’ll contest in all 150 seats and have a strong presence with most local leaders of the TDP defecting to the BJP,” said Reddy. Reddy believes experience of Karnataka leaders in winning polls and being in power gives them the edge over other states’ representatives. “More importantly, the ease with which we can communicate in southern languages is important,” he said. Reddy and Sudhakar can speak Telugu fluently. However, Ravi believes the party has a larger plan. “Unlike other political outfits, the BJP believes in creating a strong second-line leadership and giving them an opportunity to grow. It does not rely on a single leader for eternity and believes in creating 10 strong leaders rather than have one overbearing personality for all,” he added..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ktaka-bjp-chips-in-for-saffron-surge-in-south/articleshow/79357383.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
November 23, 2020||Mysuru||Hand over Datta Peeta to Hindus: Sri Ram Sene||Chikkamagaluru: Sri Ram Sene activists on Sunday donned Datta malas as a part of Datta Mala Abhiyan in Chikkamagaluru. The maladharana programme was held at Sankara Mutt in Chikkamagaluru. More than 20 activists were present, and demanded that Datta Peeta be handed over to Hindus. The district administration has restricted processions and mass prayers at the shrine, but allowed Datta Paduka Darshan on Thursday. Speaking to reporters, the state working president for Sri Rama Sena, Gangadhar Kulkarni said, “Datta Peeta should be given to Hindus. The Supreme Court has directed the state government to take decisions on the Datta Peeta issue. The BJP governments in the Centre and the state should decide about it soon, and hand it over to the Hindu community, he stated. “The BJP has a good opportunity now to hand over the religious site to Hindus. The government should take decisions during the winter session,” he stated, adding that in case the government fails to fulfil the demand, they will launch an agitation. He claimed that Lord Dattatreya’s curse is on chief minister B S Yediyurappa for not fulfilling the promise he made before becoming the chief minister. “He said he would join the Datta Mala Abhiyan, but forgot about it later. That is the reason he has not been able to complete his tenures as the CM though he has become CM four times. He should come to Datta Peeta and fulfil the promise,” he stated. Pics caption: Datta Mala Abhiyan starts at Sankara Math in Chikkamagaluru city. 20 Sri Rama Sena activists wear Datta Mala. This is the 15th Datta Mala Abhiyan for Sri Ram Sena.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/hand-over-datta-peeta-to-hindus-sri-ram-sene/articleshow/79356469.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka investment proposals share drops, but most in India||BENGALURU: Karnataka, which attracted more than half the investment proposals across the country between January and May 2020, saw its share dip to 38% by September-end even as economic activity picked up. From over 50% in May, Karnataka’s share dipped to 42% in June, 40% in July and 38.4% in August. It, however, has the highest share, followed by Gujarat and Maharashtra. According to latest data from the Union ministry of commerce and industry’s Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade, Karnataka ended September with Rs 1.3 lakh crore, up from Rs 1.1 lakh crore at May-end. Compared to proposals worth Rs 2.2 lakh crore at the end of May, investment proposals’ value was Rs 3.3 lakh crore nationally. While Karnataka recorded a 10.3% growth, nationally it was nearly 46%. Gunjan Krishna, commissioner, industries department, told TOI: “It’s generally cyclical in nature, and numbers do fluctuate. But Karnataka is still clearly on top this year and attracting more than one-third of all investment proposals is no small feat. So far as hi-tech industries are concerned, including manufacturing, we’re easily the most preferred state.” In absolute terms, Karnataka was followed by Gujarat and Maharashtra. However, Maharashtra recorded more than 58% growth compared to about 34% in Gujarat. These three states accounted for more than 61% of investment proposals in terms of value, while all other states combined attracted proposals worth Rs 1.3 lakh crore. Experts pointed out that Karnataka’s better performance in the first half could be attributed to a slew of measures introduced through ordinances. “Post June, as economic activity opened up with relaxation of norms, other states have also begun getting investments. We’re confident we’ll end the financial year on top,” a senior official said. Industries minister Jagadish Shettar said confidence in Karnataka continues to be strong. “The state has been growing consistently and multiple reforms in the past few months will see more investors coming to the state,” he said. Data for previous years shows that on average, not more than 25% of all industrial proposals get converted into projects on the ground. Given variables, including feasibility, environmental issues and availability of resources, government officials and industry experts say this is a good conversion rate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ktaka-investment-proposals-share-dips-but-most-in-india/articleshow/79357554.cms||Chethan Kumar
November 23, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: An app to assess student skills||KOCHI: SkEdu, a mobile application to assess skill sets of students and provide them with career recommendations in tune with the new National Education Policy (NEP), has been released on Sunday. SkEdu, a digital assessment platform, is assisted by artificial intelligence. The mobile application, which also provides guidance to teachers and parents and create action plans for weak students, has been developed by JPnMe Pvt Ltd, a startup registered under Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM) and one of the top seven education technology startups being accelerated by the GAIN StartupToScaleup programme, a statement from KSUM said. As part of the launch, a webinar on the topic NEP 2020 — Integrating Technology in Ensuring Holistic Development of Students in School Education was held at 10am on Sunday. An EdTech startup founded in March 2018, JPnMe has a team of experienced teachers, psychologists, child-behaviour specialists and data scientists working to provide overall growth of the school community through active programmes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/an-app-to-assess-student-skills/articleshow/79357111.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Hubballi||Vinay Kulkarni’s judicial custody extended by 14 days||Dharwad: The second additional district and sessions court, which is also the special CBI court, extended by another 14 days the judicial custody of former minister and Congress leader Vinay Kulkarni on Monday. Vinay, arrested in the ZP member Yogeeshgouda Goudar murder case, is already in the judicial custody. He was produced before judge M Panchakshari via video conference on Monday as his judicial custody had ended. The counsel representing CBI argued that the investigation into the murder case was in progress and the CBI officials have stepped up interrogation in the last one week. CBI officials said they have summoned more people, who are said to be aides of Vinay, to appear before the investigating team and they need more time to collect evidence and record their statements. As Vinay is a political leader, there is a possibility of him (Vinay) influencing the evidence and appealed to the court to extend the custody. After hearing arguments from both sides, the judge extended the judicial custody of Vinay by 14 days, and ordered that he be produced before the court on December 7. He has been lodged at Hindalga central prison in Belagavi. The counsel representing Vinay had applied for bail on November 16. Admitting the plea, the court had asked CBI to file an objection. However in a surprising move, Vinay's advocate withdrew the bail plea, saying that the family members of Vinay had asked him to do so. Tingarikar’s bail plea hearing adjourned The high court bench of Dharwad on Monday adjourned the hearing of anticipatory bail application of police inspector Channakeshav Tingarikar to November 30. Tingarikar was the investigating officer in the Goudar murder case as he was the inspector of Dharwad suburban police station which had the jurisdiction over Saptapur, the place of murder. CBI had summoned him for questioning. Fearing arrest by CBI, the inspector had applied for anticipatory bail at the second additional court, which subsequently was rejected. Later, he had moved the high court. Meanwhile CBI sleuths, after a brief break during Diwali holidays resumed the probe. They summoned Basavaraj Mutagi, Vijay Kulkarni, Babu Katagi, Chandrashekhar Indi, Maktum Sogalad and others for interrogation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/vinay-kulkarnis-judicial-custody-extended-by-14-days/articleshow/79375528.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka court refuses to release Rs 53 lakh seized from DK Shivakumar aide||BENGALURU: A local court on Friday dismissed two petitions seeking a directive to CBI to release Rs 53 lakh the agency had seized during a raid on the residence of former minister DK Shivakumar’s associate on October 5 in relation to a disproportionate assets case against the state Congress chief. The court said it found no merit in the pleas of the petitioners — Sachin Narayan, DKS’ aide, and a firm named Wellworth Software Pvt Ltd. In its petition to the special court dealing with criminal cases related to elected MPs/MLAs in the state, Wellworth, represented by its director Basavaraj Jaggal, had requested that CBI be directed to release the amount of Rs 48 lakh seized. The other similar petition filed by Narayan requested the court to release cash worth Rs 5.5 lakh. CBI officials had seized the money from the premises of Narayan on West of Chord Road during the raid on October 5 as part of simultaneous searches on 14 premises in Bengaluru and Delhi belonging to DKS and his associates. Money from cable TV servicesWellworth contended it’s engaged in the business of cable television services and internet services in India through Local Cable Operators. The seized amount of Rs 48 lakh from its registered office was the subscription amount given by the LCOs. But the prosecution contended Rs 48 lakh was seized from a carton kept in Narayan’s room and another Rs 5.5 lakh from a wardrobe in the room. Narayan was present when the search was conducted and did not offer any explanation regarding the money source. The petitioner firm which is now claiming it was their money had not furnished any documents to substantiate the claim, the prosecution argued, saying it needs to verify the source. Wellworth stated it had collected the money from LCOs from Gangavathi, Kolar, Koratagere, Madhugiri and Dharwad branches. It produced the subscriber report and the unaudited cash book extracts for August and September 2020. The prosecution contended the LCOs concerned have deposited the amount to the bank of the company. The prosecution also disputed that the petitioner firm had given Rs 47.8 lakh to Narayan for safe custody and also pointed out the company’s registered address is same as that of Narayan’s residence. The prosecution stated in its objection that Narayan was a co-accused with DK Shivakumar in an income tax department’s case, where money had been seized from Narayan’s Delhi residence, which was in the possession the state Congress leader, in 2018. In the other petition, Narayan claimed the Rs 5.5 lakh was the dividend he received from companies where he had shares. He produced payment vouchers for Rs 1,50,000, Rs 40,000, Rs 1,45,000 and Rs 50,000. The prosecution contended the documents, including ledger account statement produced by him, show only entries regarding the payment. The amount of more than Rs 1 lakh paid twice in cash is not acceptable. Considering the prosecution’s arguments, judge TN Inavally dismissed the petitions. DKS to appear before CBI on Nov 25 The CBI on November 19 issued summons to DK Shivakumar, who says he was asked to appear by 4pm on November 23. Shivakumar claimed he has requested CBI that he would appear on November 25 as he had pre-scheduled work on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/court-refuses-to-release-rs-53l-seized-from-dks-aide/articleshow/79357486.cms||Santosh kumar.B
November 23, 2020||Vadodara||1,000 Barodians fined flouting mask rule||VADODARA: It was a déjà vu for Barodians as the police were back on the roads imposing the night curfew on Saturday. All the main roads were barricaded by 9pm even as commuters were seen rushing back home in the city. As many as 60 people were caught flouting the curfew. “The curfew will be enforced strictly in the night. No citizen should out on the roads between 9 pm and 6 am, except in emergencies. Those caught flouting the lockdown will be booked,” police said. On Saturday night, though, many shops in the outskirts of the city were open till 9pm. Many downed the shutters after the cops began enforcing the lockdown. Fearing that the number of Covid-19 cases may shoot up, the government has clamped night curfew in four major cities. On Saturday night, some passengers who arrived in the city were stuck at the railway station as they couldn’t find transport. “We had barely managed to recover our business and now this night lockdown has again ruined it,” said a owner of a café. The police department too has intensified its drive to penalize those not wearing face masks. Several teams of policemen have been posted in the busy areas and commuters not wearing face masks are being penalized Rs 1,000. At least 1,000 citizens have been fined for not wearing face masks on Friday and Saturday and collected Rs 10 lakh fine. CCTVs are also being used to penalize those not wearing face masks in public places. The civic body too sealed about 20 shops in the city after the owners were found flouting the notification.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/1000-barodians-fined-flouting-mask-rule/articleshow/79356594.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Vijayawada||Claims of poor dog squad baseless, says Vij police chief||Vijayawada: A selfie video of an armed reserve head constable created a flutter in Vijayawada police commissionerate as he appealed to chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy to grant him voluntary retirement as he was transferred without any reason. However, Vijayawada police commissioner B Srinivasulu in a statement on Sunday denied the allegation as baseless and the transfer was part of a routine exercise. Head constable T Srinivasa Rao, who has been working as dog handler in Vijayawada police commissionerate for the past 15 years, was recently transferred to other wing from dog squad. He recorded a selfie video on Saturday addressing the CM saying that he was transferred from his current position as he complained about efficiency of the dog squad. Rao alleged that the dogs working in Vijayawada commissionerate were not up to the mark and needed to be given rest. He said he had written about the same to the higher officials but no action was taken. Stating that he was not fit to perform other duties, he requested the chief minister for voluntary retirement. The commissioner said the allegations about the dog squad were baseless and the dogs are performing well. He stated that Srinivasa Rao has some health issues and had taken a sick leave for two months. “He neither complained about the dog squad nor asked for voluntary retirement in the past and his transfer is part of the regular exercise,” the commissioner clarified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/claims-of-poor-dog-squad-baseless-says-vij-police-chief/articleshow/79356343.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Bhopal||Jyotiraditya Scindia likely to be inducted in Modi cabinet, say sources||BHOPAL: The NDA government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi is all set for a cabinet reshuffle soon. Speculations are rife that the BJP government will increase representation from Madhya Pradesh by inducting one or two ministers in the Central team and Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia will in all probability get a cabinet berth. Scindia, who toppled the Kamal Nath-led Congress government in the state by joining the saffron party in March with 22 MLAs, is expected to be rewarded. Scindia loyalists were also inducted into the Shivraj Singh Chouhan cabinet and some will be adjusted in boards and corporations in the upcoming days. BJP attained an impressive victory in the bypolls, as the saffron party won 19 of the 28 seats. Scindia played an important role in the party’s performance, cementing chief minister Chouhan’s position. He is likely to be rewarded and inducted to the post of cabinet minister at the Centre, said sources. Scindia had been a minister in the last UPA government as well. BJP has recently taken up a major organisational overhauling and inducted three leaders from MP to the national unit. Sources disclosed that it is unlikely that Scindia could be adjusted in the organisational set up now. During his stint in Congress, he was close to several senior leaders from the south and could influence regional leadership in favour of the saffron party, said political pundits. There are six ministers representing the state in the Union cabinet which include agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Thawar Chand Gehlot, Prakash Javadekar, Dharmendra Pradhan, Faggan Singh Kulaste and Prahlad Singh Patel. Reports are also doing rounds that more leaders could be inducted to give representation to the Vindhya or Malwa-Nimar region as BJP had won 28 seats of the total 29 seats in the 2019 Lok Sabha election. Sources also said that the name of former state BJP chief, Nandkumar Singh Chauhan, is also doing rounds for the post of a Central minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/scindia-likely-to-be-inducted-in-modi-cabinet-say-sources/articleshow/79358131.cms||Rajendra Sharma
November 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Five held for LSD trade in Vizag||VISAKHAPATNAM: An engineering student and BBA graduate were among five arrested following the seizure of 33 blots of LSD by a special team of city police. The arrested were identified as Arvind Agarwal (21), K Sahil (20), B Chandra Sekhar (28), Michel Welcom (22) and M Muralidhar (20). Police are on the lookout for Y Ashok who is also an accused in the case. Police commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha said that based on credible information on drug trade in the city, the department had formed special team under PM Palem inspector Ravi Kumar and others to nab drug peddlers and suppliers. Sinha said that Arvind Agarwal who recently completed his BBA had hatched the plan with his friends to make some easy money. Arvind had approached K Sahil and M Muralidhar, his classmates and in Visakhapatnam city and ordered the LSD blots online from abroad. He purchases the blots at Rs 400 and sold them at Rs 1,000 each. Sahil and Muralidhar sold the same at Rs 2,000 to youngsters in the city. The police chief said they have identified LSD users in the city and that necessary steps will be taken to curb the drug menace. Cops said they will continue to intensify their efforts to nab more persons in connection with drug trade and identify the suppliers in the city to curb drug abuse.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/five-held-for-lsd-trade-in-vizag/articleshow/79356365.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Mangaluru||Black soldier fly compost unit suitable for MCC: Pontiff||MANGALURU: Ramakrishna Mission Mangaluru, which has launched several programmes through the Swachh Mangaluru initiative, has successfully implemented a black soldier fly compost unit that manages waste collected from over 1,000 houses in the Uppinangady town limits. Swami Ekagamyananda, convener, Swachh Mangaluru campaign, an ongoing mission launched in 2015, said the Ramakrishna Math has set up a waste management unit in Uppinangady, in association with the gram panchayat. Addressing a special meeting of traders convened by the Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) on Saturday, to discuss solid waste management (SWM), he said, “Within three days of launching the project, people of Uppinangady started adhering to the waste segregation norms. We have been collecting dry and wet waste separately, and the organic manure produced through the unit is supplied to farmers. The black soldier fly compost has very high nutrients, which is seven times more compared to other organic manures,” Swami said. Electric vehicles were purchased for door-to-door waste collection in and around Uppinangady. Separate bins were kept in the vehicle to collect segregated waste, he said. “It was a big challenge for us. When we started the project, the whole world was going through the Covid-19 pandemic. However, we continued our efforts and at present, we have been collecting an average of 900kg of wet waste and nearly 500 kg of dry waste every day. We get an average of 10% manure from the wet waste. This project can be implemented in each ward of Mangaluru city,” he said, adding that the math has also commenced a zero-waste campus project in Mangalore University, and another similar project is under way at the Kateel Sri Durgaparameshwari Temple. MCC commissioner Akshy Sridhar said he will hold discussions and study the proposal. Insisting on waste segregation and solid waste management by bulk waste generators, the commissioner said that the city corporation will act as per rules. He insisted that plastic manufacturers must take up initiatives to recycle the plastic as per rules. The city gets an average of 30-40 tonnes of plastic waste everyday, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/black-soldier-fly-compost-unit-suitable-for-mcc-pontiff/articleshow/79357121.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Bhopal||Malnourished kids to be served milk, not eggs: Madhya Pradesh CM||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Sunday addressed the first cow-cabinet over video conferencing. He called for maximum use of cow-dung and said that acutely malnourished children in the state will be served milk and not eggs in the anganwadi centres. He said cow-dung sticks (gau-kasht) will be utilised as an alternative fuel.. Chouhan also said that cow-urine will be promoted for medicinal purposes. Not just the animal husbandry department but other departs will also participate in the efforts of cow protection and conservation. For environmental protection, more and more cow-dung sticks will be used as fuel. Those cow-shelters working for the promotion of the use of cow-dung sticks will be encouraged. The chief minister said that bovine resources will be utilised with the broader view of a self-reliant Madhya Pradesh. Speaking to reporters before leaving for Agar-Malwa, the chief minister said that signicant decisions have been taken by the ministers in the cow-cabinet. “For further suggestions, I am going to Salriya where experts on cow-protection have assembled. I will hold discussions with them and thereafter, make the final announcements in Salriya,” Chouhan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/malnourished-kids-to-be-served-milk-not-eggs-cm/articleshow/79358144.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Kolkata||E-gadget burglars strike south Kolkata homes||KOLKATA: The resumption of local train services has brought back a major challenge for cops with several gangs from districts like South 24 Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly striking the city. Most of these gangs share a common modus operandi — they target some specific houses and manage to steal expensive electronic gadgets and other households objects. A gang of teenagers in the Ballygunge-Bhowanipore belt has been snatching various items at random and when caught, they show Aadhaar cards as age proofs to ensure that they are sent to shelter homes for being minors. They get released in a week or two and rejoin the gang. Five thefts have been reported from the areas like Ballygunge, Garfa and Survey Park, where robbers decamped with electronic gadgets since Diwali. Those arrested in the past few days told the police that the resumption of train services had made it easier for them to commute to the city and that they used to get off at different stations daily and choose the areas for robbery. “The district gangs are not staying in Kolkata, rather they are travelling here as per their needs. Several women and children are also part of these gangs,” said a police officer. Cops warn senior citizens to be careful as there are some gangs that make people emotional by pretending to be in distress and steal items from their houses. Recently, two women, Tumpa Das and Lali Das, who used to move with a 10-year-old boy and two toddlers and posed as being worst-hit by the pandemic and Cyclone Amphan, were arrested by Garfa police for stealing laptops and mobiles from various houses in Garfa, Selimpur and Jadavpur. While the women and toddlers kept the victims busy in a conversation, the 10-year-old stole various electronic gadgets. They also robbed the locked houses in southern parts of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/e-gadget-burglars-strike-s-kol-homes/articleshow/79358145.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 23, 2020||Bhopal||85% Covid cases in MP reported from cities: CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||BHOPAL: 85% Covid cases in the state have been reported from cities, said chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan during Covid-19 review held on Sunday. “The urban areas are more crowded, hence, there is a greater need to adhere to social distancing in the cities,” said the chief minister while reviewing the situation in all districts through video-conferencing. During the review, Chouhan urged the youth not to be careless. He said, all measures should be taken to prevent Coronavirus, as the percentage of youngsters among the total number of Corona patients is higher. The elderly are taking precautions therefore their percentage in 10. Chouhan also said, the officer incharge of the district and district administration should ensure all measures for prevention by seeking public assistance in the districts in which Corona infection rate is higher than normal. The public should be encouraged to use masks, adhere to social distancing, not open shops till late at night, impose public curfew. He directed, collectors should ensure that markets and localities should not be closed unnecessarily. The decision to close down should only to taken when necessary. In the event of closure of markets, transportation of essential commodities, fruits, milk, vegetables should be ensured. This work should be uniterrupted, people should not have problems, he said. During the review meeting, collectors informed Chouhan that Covid-19 growth rate is higher in districts like Indore, Bhopal, Vidisha, Ratlam, Gwalior, Shivpuri, Datia, Ashoknagar and Dhar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/85-covid-cases-in-mp-reported-from-cities-cm/articleshow/79358147.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Nagpur||Vidarbha’s active Covid cases cross 10,000 after nearly 2 weeks||Nagpur: The possibility of second wave of Covid-19 in Vidarbha increased on Sunday as many alarming developments were reported from across the region. Five out of the 11 districts in the region reported 100-plus new cases for a total of 1,365 for the day. The count was about twice the 670 recoveries reported during the day. With more cases being reported than recoveries, patients under treatment have also increased. This number reached 10667, and surpassed the 10,000-mark after almost two weeks. There were 13 deaths, least in the last five days, bringing the case fatality rate under 2.7% once again. Nagpur district reported eight deaths — 4 from city, 3 from rural and 1 from the other state. Chandrapur (2), Wardha (1), Gondia (1), and Akola (1) also reported deaths, taking the region’s toll to 5,880. Nagpur district conducted nearly 6,000 tests and reported a spike of 485 cases on Sunday. Chandrapur reported 165 cases, Bhandara (136), Gadchiroli (131), Gondia (128), Amravati (80), Wardha (78), Akola (63), Yavatmal (49), Buldhana (46), and Washim (4), taking Vidarbha’s caseload to 2,18,140. Recoveries came from Nagpur (186), Chandrapur (86), Bhandara (82), Wardha (62), Buldhana (49), Gadchiroli (47), Gondia (46), Amravati (46), Yavatmal (40), Akola (13), Washim (13), for a total of 2,01,573. Recovery rate of Vidarbha is 92.40%, which is behind national recovery rate of 93.69%. Amravati: A spike of 80 cases took the district’s caseload to 17,292 on Sunday. For the fifth consecutive day, the district did not report any Covid death, keeping the toll at 372. Only 46 recoveries were reported on Sunday, taking the count to 16,486 for a recovery rate of 95.34%. Now, there are 434 patients under treatment, including two admitted in Nagpur and 203 in home isolation. Chandrapur: With spike of 165 cases, the Covid total of district surged to 18,669 on Sunday. Two deaths were reported during the day, taking to toll to 282. Recoveries reached 16,434 after 86 patients were discharged during the day. Now, there are 1,953 active cases in the district. Wardha: A 56-year-old woman from Deoli died during treatment, taking the Covid toll to 234 in the district. The caseload increased to 7,395 with detection of 78 new patients while recoveries reached 6,744 after and 62 got discharge on Sunday. New cases came from Wardha (44), Hinganghat (18), Deoli (14), Selu and Samudrapur (one each). Now, there are 417 active patients in the district. Yavatmal: The district reported death of a 60-year-old man from the city while 49 new cases were detected, taking the caseload to 11,040. Recoveries reached 10,350 after 40 patients were discharged on Sunday, leaving 304 patients under treatment. Bhandara: Bhandara became the seventh district in region to have more than 10,000 Covid-19 cases. A sudden spike of 136 cases took the caseload to 10,083. Recoveries reached 8,986 with discharge to 82 more patients, taking the recovery rate to 90%. No death was reported. Now, 858 patients are under treatment. Gondia: The district reported spike of 128 cases, taking the count to 11,554. A death was also reported, taking the toll to 152. With 46 patients discharged during the day, recoveries reached 10,534. Now, 868 patients are under treatment. Gadchiroli: A spike of 131 cases took the district’s caseload to 7,456. On the other hand, 47 patients recovered, taking the count to 6,704 and leaving 677 patients under treatment. The recovery rate is around 90%. No death was reported. Akola: Total 1,600-odd tests were conducted in a day in Akola. Of them, 63 tested positive, taking the district’s case count to over 9,000 on Sunday. Recoveries reached 8,230 after discharge to 13 patients, leaving 501 patients under treatment. The district has reported 288 deaths. Washim: Four new cases took the district’s case count to 5,949. On the other hand, 13 patients recovered, taking recoveries to 5647. Washim’s toll is 144. Now, 158 patients are under treatment. Buldhana: Of the 1,119 reports received on Sunday, 46 tested positive, taking the caseload to 10,835. After discharge to 49 patients, recoveries reached 10,263. The toll remained at 134 while 438 patients are under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vidarbhas-active-covid-cases-cross-10000-after-nearly-2-weeks/articleshow/79358187.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 23, 2020||Kolkata||Body-in-sack case: Couple arrested on murder charge||KOLKATA: Cops arrested a couple on Sunday in connection with the murder of a 20-year-old girl at Ekbalpore, whose body was found stuffed inside a cement sack on Thursday morning. The accused, Sk Sajid alias Rohit (30) and his wife Anjum Begum (26), have been charged for throttling the woman, Saba Khatoon, before stuffing her body inside the sack and leaving it outside their residence on MM Ali Road near Babubazar in Kidderpore. “It seems that the motive behind the murder was personal. The victim had an illicit affair with Sajid. The accused claimed that the woman was trying to blackmail them,” said a police officer. “Sajid was arrested around 2. 05am on Sunday from near the crossing of Dent Mission Road and Dr Sudhir Basu Road in Ekbalpore. Later, his wife was also arrested from their residence around 8.15am. She had helped her husband dispose of the woman’s body,” said joint CP (crime) Murlidhar Sharma. According to cops, Sajid had called the victim to his house on the day of murder. When she reached Sajid’s residence, Anjum was not at home. It was claimed that Saba, who had been with Sajid for a few hours, demanded Rs 70,000-75,000 from him after she came to know that he was married. “Till now, we believe that Sajid killed the woman alone and disposed of her body only after his wife returned home at night,” said a police officer. “We are trying to ascertain whether any other person was involved or whether there was any plan to dispose of the body somewhere else. A second person close to the woman is being questioned,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/body-in-sack-case-couple-arrested-on-murder-charge/articleshow/79358179.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 23, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Curbs trigger wedding worries||BHOPAL: “Calling and informing people who have already been invited, that now they are not in the top 200 list of invitees as only 200 are allowed, so please do not come to the wedding, is the toughest part,” say people who have marriages scheduled in November and December. The decision to impose night curfew and restrict gatherings has sparked panic among people who have marriages scheduled in their families in till December. The restrictions have been imposed in five cities, including Bhopal, Indore, Gwalior, Vidisha and Ratlam, in the wake of increasing Covid-19 infections. “We were mentally prepared and had printed only 100 cards. Several other adjustments are are being made, like we have decided to put up a board outside the food stall stating that no one will pick or touch any food with their hands, only those fully sanitized and wearing masks will be deployed for serving food. We have also made changes in the “Sangeet” invitation, which will he held a day before the marriage. Now, it’s only for ladies, no males are allowed,” says V K Maharishi, a resident of Awadhpuri whose son’s marriage is scheduled on December 6. “As far as the 10 pm curfew is considered, our ‘muhurat’ for ‘pheras’ was already 10.30 pm. Now we have decided to schedule it earlier. We will take out the ‘baraat’ half an hour before the previously decided time,” he said. “All said and done, I wish and request the administration that, if possible, the earlier guidelines that allowed 50% of the capacity in outdoor events should be allowed now also. If that happens, I will be able to invite my friends to the wedding too, who have now gone out of the list due to the restrictions. Marriage happens only once in life,” Maharishi said. “We had booked the hotels well in advance — in May-June. We had booked it for 300 guests, and made payments as it is a very tight schedule for marriage in this season. Now what will happen to the money? We had paid the DJ in full, but now cancelled it,” said Maharishi. Similarly Sunil Pandey a resident of Arera Colony, whose cousin is getting married, said, “We had invited around 700 guests, now the biggest problem is how to inform them that now the list of top 200 says that you cannot come to the wedding ceremony. We have already distributed the invites. So far, everyone is in a dilemma, and no one has been asked not to come. Our events were on November 26, we had thrown a cocktail party, then. The marriage is scheduled on December 7 and December 8.” Marriage garden and lawn owners are also worried as there are very few dates of marriage in this season. “Marriage dates are only for 8-9 days this season. Bookings have been done in advance. We are now informing the people who have booked the venue to make required adjustments as per the guidelines issued by government. Like everything should be over by 10 pm as night curfew will be imposed,” said Ravi from Swagat Marriage Garden in Lalghati. “People who have booked venues are already under panic,” he said. Another marriage venue owner, who wished anonymity, said, “One major question which several families are pondering over is, ‘if at a time there are 200 guests who are eating inside and a few others arrive, will those guests who have arrived late be asked to wait outside the venue or come after an hour when those eating inside leave the hall?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/curbs-trigger-wedding-worries/articleshow/79358176.cms||Amarjeet Singh
November 23, 2020||India||Deaths due to hitting parked vehicles double||NEW DELHI: The number of persons killed due to collisions with parked vehicles on roads has more than doubled in the past three years - from 2,317 in 2017 to 5,086 last year. The state police departments started collating this data from 2017 onwards. The increase in fatalities due to parked vehicles in the middle of a busy road have once again highlighted the dire need for a robust highway patrol or police system. A deadly accident on the national highway connecting Prayagraj and Lucknow in UP last Thursday night claimed 14 lives, including six children, after an SUV rammed a truck parked on the side of the high-speed corridor immobilised by a punctured tyre. According to the road transport ministry's Road Accidents in India' report, UP reported maximum number of such deaths since collection of data under this head started. Last year, 1,223 people were killed in such crashes in UP. In 2018, the number of people killed in crashes with parked vehicles stood at 1,299. The data compiled on the basis of reports from state police shows that in 2018, Gujarat reported the second highest such fatalities (478) followed by Haryana (353). During 2019, Punjab reported the second highest number of such deaths (647) followed by Haryana (330). Pratapgarh SP Anurag Arya told TOI that the parked truck did not have retro-reflective tapes to alert approaching vehicles. The driver had also not given any cautionary sign to alert other drivers about the parked vehicle. This even as use of retro-reflective tapes on all commercial and transport vehicles is mandatory as per the Motor Vehicle Rules to obtain fitness certificate. Road safety experts said such safe practices are mostly missing on highways. “We have all good provisions on paper. But until we have visible enforcement and there is a fear of getting caught for every violation, there won’t be any change in the attitude of violators. The issue of a dedicated highway patrol or police has never got any attention despite this having been a matter of discussions,” said a former secretary of road transport ministry. Patrolling the highways is hardly a priority of state traffic as they are preoccupied with other tasks. “Presence and patrolling police on highways is important, not just in case of a crash but some commuters may need some urgent help,” said Kerala transport commissioner Rishi Raj Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/deaths-due-to-hitting-parked-vehicles-double/articleshow/79360010.cms||Dipak K Dash
November 23, 2020||Mangaluru||Covid forces closure of 13 schools in Dakshina Kannada district||MANGALURU: Uncertainty induced by the pandemic, poor enrolment and other issues have forced the closure of as many as 13 primary and secondary schools, including nine aided schools in Dakshina Kannada district. Of the nine private aided schools, five are located in Mangaluru south and north BEO limits, two in Moodabidri and one each in Bantwal and Belthangady taluks. The four unaided schools are situated in Bantwal (two schools) and one each in Belthangady and Sullia. Poor admission, especially due to Covid-19, is the major reason for closure of these schools, said Manjula KL, coordinator Samagra Shikshana Karnataka. Private schools have also been badly hit by government schools switching to English medium of instruction. “Students from private aided and unaided schools are migrating to these Kannada-English medium schools, especially if schools are located in close proximity to their homes,” Manjula said. However, Shree Athmananda Saraswathi Vidyalaya English Medium School Devaragudde in Belthangady decided very early to close for a year due to the pandemic. The school has been providing free education to 350 children from LKG to SSLC. Some children were accommodated on the premises. However, an education department official alleged closure of private aided schools in the district is aimed at promoting the institutes’ English medium schools, which are usually situated in the same campus because fees charged for aided schools are much lower. “When the aided school is shut down, there is a good chance that all the students will move to private unaided English medium schools in the same campus,” the official alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/pandemic-forces-closure-of-13-schools-in-dk-district/articleshow/79357244.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
November 23, 2020||Kolkata||Mercury drops to 19.5°C; slide likely to continue||Kolkata: Even as Kolkatans woke up to an early morning chill on Sunday, the mercury slid to 19.5°C — a 2.5 degree drop that might continue, said the Met officials. With the icy northwesterly wind flowing into the city, the mercury may plunge to 17-18 degrees on Monday. The chilly spell could continue till Wednesday when the northwesterly is due to lose its intensity, paving the way for moisture incursion from the sea. After a cloudy and rainy Saturday, the city welcomed the chilly morning. The nip in the air brought the feel of an early winter. The sharp temperature drop in north India has turned the northwesterly very cold, said weathermen. “The wind is flowing unobstructed that has led to the chill. The minimum temperature may slide to 17 degrees by Wednesday, after which the northwesterly will lose its strength,” said Regional Meteorological Centre director, G K Das. Meanwhile, a cyclone brewing over the southwest Bay of Bengal is set to hit the Tamil Nadu-Puducherry coast on November 25. It could start generating moisture that may float into south Bengal. But there will be no impact of the cyclone in our state,” said Das.  He added that the cyclone is now a well-marked low-pressure that will turn into a depression and finally, a cyclone before hitting the coast on Wednesday. “Cyclones that form after November 15 usually hit peninsular India,” said Das. While some south Bengal districts received thunderstorms and light rain during the course of the week, Kolkata had been dry till Saturday. The mercury can start climbing again by the end of the week. “With the northwesterly set to lose intensity, the chill will be missing. Also, we will have moisture incursion from the sea again due to the ‘easterly waves’ that get active in the Bay of Bengal during this time of the year. The moisture will pull the temperature up again,” added Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mercury-drops-to-19-5c-slide-likely-to-continue/articleshow/79358217.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Jaipur||Residents can apply for JDA work via e-mitra in Jaipur||JAIPUR: Online applications related to the Jaipur Development Authority’s (JDA) work will be accepted at the e-mitra centres in the city. The civic body has now authorise these centres for people’s convenience. The JDA had started online application facility for major services a long time ago. However, many people were not able to take advantage of this facility due to lack of necessary resources for online application. A senior official at JDA said, “The move was initiated a month ago. But now, we have integrated the services with e-mitra. The move will reduce corruption and bring transparency.” An official informed, residents who wants to procure lease deed of their plot can file an application at the e-Mitra centre. Similarly, they can also be applied for transfer of name of plot. “Online application can be filed to reconstitute or subdivision of the plot. Also, lease money can be deposited online,” he said. The JDA has also fixed the charges for scanning, uploading the documents, deposition of fee for works and list will be pasted at the centres. The e-mitra operator will also charge an amount for its services. “For uploading an entire application after scanning documents, the operator will charge Rs 50. Per print out Rs 10 will be charged. On deposition of Rs 2,000 fee, Rs 10 will be charged by the centre.” While the JDA online system is proving to be a boon in difficult times, residents whose plots fall under the Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) cannot do any such work sitting at home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/residents-can-apply-for-jda-work-via-e-mitra/articleshow/79358198.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Stepping out without mask? Cough up Rs 1000 fine now||BHOPAL: Get ready to pay fine up to Rs 1,000 for not wearing a face mask. The Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) has deployed personnel in all its 85 wards along with special staff in commercial markets to curb the spread of Covid-19. Those reluctant wear a face mask and adhere to social distancing norms will have to shell out anything between Rs 100 and Rs 1,000 for each violation, said a BMC official here on Sunday. Wearing face masks in public places, apart from other measures, such as following social distancing, is part of the state government guidelines to control the spread of coronavirus. As per the data provided by the BMC, there were 5,000 fines for violations over the weekend, which amounted to over Rs 1 lakh in spot fines. The amount includes fines enforced under the Swachh Bharat mission. Bhopal has reported more than 29,000 Covid-19 cases and the numbers have increased steadily in the last week. Given the sudden rise in cases after Diwali, the BMC decided to take up strict measures. Apart from increased testing, BMC along with the district administration is also reviewing measures in containment zones. Areas with more than 10% positivity rate are under the scanner. It includes Kolar, BHEL, Govindpura, Bairagarh, Habibganj and others parts of the state capital. BMC is also reaching out to people through IEC and other activities. People are being advised to wear a mask and adhere to social distancing at home, offices and commercial places to keep the infection at bay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/stepping-out-without-mask-cough-up-rs-1000-fine-now/articleshow/79358211.cms||Jamal Ayub
November 23, 2020||Kolkata||South 24 Parganas links to Kolkata snatchings||KOLKATA: Three incidents of robbery and snatching in the Bijoygarh-Baghajatin-Garia belt this month may have seen instant arrests due to police patrolling in bylanes for Diwali, but the cops of south suburban division (SSD) are not yet complacent. In all the three cases, the accused are from the Narendrapur-Sonarpur areas in South 24 Parganas. They have previous criminal history, including involvement in drug abuse. Besides, all the accused of these cases used stolen bikes without number plates for the crime. “What adds to worries is the arrest of two arms dealers from Kultali in South 24 Parganas in the Regent Park area around the same time. So, we need to tighten security at the borders. We successfully stopped the transportation of fire crackers in the city. We can prevent such crimes and clamp down on the local history sheeters, if we get help from the cops in Sonarpur and Narendrapur,” said a police officer. The SSD police division, in consultation with the Anti Rowdy Squad of detective department, are planning to carry out multiple raids with the help of Baruipur district police. DC (SSD) Rashid Munir Khan, who served as the SP of Baruipur in the recent past, has knowledge about the criminals from Narendrapur and Sonarpur. “So far, they have stayed out of Kolkata Police’s jurisdiction. It seems that the lockdown is forcing them to strike openly. Some gangs from Ghutiari Sharif are travelling by local trains to commit such crimes,” said a police officer. In addition to joint raids, cops will continue with their robust patrolling in the vulnerable areas, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/south-24-parganas-links-to-city-snatchings/articleshow/79358235.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Nuptials will not be allowed after 9pm: CP||AHMEDABAD: City police chief Sanjay Srivastava took a review of the curfew situation in the city on Sunday. While talking to reporters at Delhi Darwaja, he thanked the citizens for cooperation in implementing the curfew. At the same time he stressed that weddings won’t be allowed after 9pm as long as night curfew remains in place. Srivastava said, “For holding weddings in daytime, relevant permissions will be required — one from the city police commissioner’s office and the other from the collector’s office, as there are two curfew notifications. One is for the city, and the other for areas like Bopal which are currently under the jurisdiction of Ahmedabad district police. The notification issued by the district collector is applicable to city areas under district police.” Thanking health department officials for their tireless service, Srivastava said he couldn’t comment on how long the night curfew will be in place, and that was a decision for the government. He said proper bandobust has been made at micro-containment zones to prevent inessential movement. “For the curfew bandobust apart from the city police force they have deployed four companies of State Reserve Police Force,” he added. Police sources said Srivastava took a tour of areas under curfew and received updates from concerned senior police officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nuptials-will-not-be-allowed-after-9pm-cp/articleshow/79358225.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Nagpur||Search for new private partner to operate Nagpur airport soon||Nagpur: After GMR’s bid to take over Nagpur airport was cancelled, there are now plans to appoint a fresh private partner for the airport on per passenger revenue sharing model. This is in line with the method adopted by Airports Authority of India (AAI) for privatizing the airports in its possession. Earlier, a fixed share of total revenue was offered by the private partner for Nagpur airport. GMR Airports had emerged as the highest bidder, offering 14.49% of the total revenue in bulk for operating the Nagpur airport. The tender was cancelled in May this year. This was because Nagpur airport’s current earnings itself are more than what it would have got as revenue share from GMR as a private partner. “Now, the process of appointing a fresh transaction consultant for the airport privatization is expected to start from next month onwards,” said airport director Abid Ruhi of Mihan India Limited (MIL), the current operator. MIL is a joint venture between Airports Authority of India (AAI) and state government’s Maharashtra Airports Development Company (MADC). It plans to offload stake to a private partner, which in turn will invest for the airport development by bringing in new infrastructure. Ruhi told the transaction consultant will formulate the privatization process. Ernst & Young was the consultant in the earlier round. The new per-passenger model is different from the old plan. Under the new plan the revenue will be pegged on per passenger arrival and departure. The revenue to be received by MIL will increase in direct proportion to the passenger traffic, said Ruhi. Sources said under the per-passenger model, the private operator will have to pay a fixed charge on the basis of each passenger using the airport in a given period of time. “There may be fixed space for leasing out on rent. However, the number of passengers can always increase with time. With this, the per passenger share for MIL can always vary from period to period,” he explained. Appointing the transaction consultant will be the first step towards roping in the private partner, he said. Meanwhile, the passenger traffic at Nagpur airport remains around half of the pre-lockdown levels. The airport had shut on March 26 and reopened on May 23. Covid is expected to hit the airport’s total revenues in the current financial year, with chances of losses not being ruled out too, said sources. Prior to lockdown, as many as 8,000 to 8,500 passengers flew in and out of Nagpur airport. Six months after reopening, the figure is only 3,500 to 4,000 passengers daily. On the other hand, there has been no change in the cargo operations since lockdown, said Ruhi. Earlier, there used to be 32 to 34 flights, including arrivals and departure, which is now at 16 to 17 in a day. Even as connectivity to all the cities, except Kochi and Chennai, has been established, the frequency remains low due to fewer flights, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/search-for-new-private-partner-to-operate-nagpur-airport-soon/articleshow/79358222.cms||Shishir Arya
November 23, 2020||Ajmer||Phase 1 of panchayat samiti, zila parishad polls in Rajasthan today||JAIPUR: The first phase of elections for the members of panchayat samiti and zila parishad in 21 districts will be held on Monday. In the first phase, elections will be held for 1,310 posts in 65 panchayat samitis. Around 72.38 lakh voters will be exercising their franchise at 10,131 polling booths in this phase. State  commissioner P S Mehra informed that in the first phase elections will be held from 7:30am to 5pm. He informed that 25,000 EVMs will be used in the first phase and more than 50,000 officials will conduct the elections. Of the total voters (72.38 lakh), 37.47 lakh are males and 34.90 lakh are females and 23 belong to the third gender. Polls will be held in Ajmer, Banswara, Barmer, Bhilwara, Bikaner, Bundi, Chittorgarh, Churu, Dungarpur, Hanumangarh, Jaisalmer, Jalore, Jhalawar, Jhunjhunu, Nagaur, Pali, Pratapgarh, Rajsamand, Sikar, Tonk, and Udaipur. Mehra directed that Covid guidelines issued by the Centre, state, medical, local administration and state election commission should be strictly followed during the elections. He said the district collectors and police officers should keep a constant watch on law and order situation on the polling day. “Entry without a mask will not be allowed at the polling booths. The voters are required to sanitize their hands before entering the booths and wait for their turn, by maintaining physical distance, to cast their votes,” said Mehra. He also appealed to voters, candidates and their supporters not to stand in groups near the polling booths. Mehra said that all the information related to the polling stations can be obtained from the commission’s website sec.rajasthan.gov.in or through ‘Voter Assistance Service’. A voter can also get information by SMSing on mobile number 7065051222. One has to type SEC VOTER_ (after the space) epic no. The details will be received in a few seconds through SMS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/phase-1-of-panchayat-samiti-zila-parishad-polls-in-raj-today/articleshow/79361741.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Jaipur||Phase 1 of panchayat samiti, zila parishad polls in Rajasthan today||JAIPUR: The first phase of elections for the members of panchayat samiti and zila parishad in 21 districts will be held on Monday. In the first phase, elections will be held for 1,310 posts in 65 panchayat samitis. Around 72.38 lakh voters will be exercising their franchise at 10,131 polling booths in this phase. State  commissioner P S Mehra informed that in the first phase elections will be held from 7:30am to 5pm. He informed that 25,000 EVMs will be used in the first phase and more than 50,000 officials will conduct the elections. Of the total voters (72.38 lakh), 37.47 lakh are males and 34.90 lakh are females and 23 belong to the third gender. Polls will be held in Ajmer, Banswara, Barmer, Bhilwara, Bikaner, Bundi, Chittorgarh, Churu, Dungarpur, Hanumangarh, Jaisalmer, Jalore, Jhalawar, Jhunjhunu, Nagaur, Pali, Pratapgarh, Rajsamand, Sikar, Tonk, and Udaipur. Mehra directed that Covid guidelines issued by the Centre, state, medical, local administration and state election commission should be strictly followed during the elections. He said the district collectors and police officers should keep a constant watch on law and order situation on the polling day. “Entry without a mask will not be allowed at the polling booths. The voters are required to sanitize their hands before entering the booths and wait for their turn, by maintaining physical distance, to cast their votes,” said Mehra. He also appealed to voters, candidates and their supporters not to stand in groups near the polling booths. Mehra said that all the information related to the polling stations can be obtained from the commission’s website sec.rajasthan.gov.in or through ‘Voter Assistance Service’. A voter can also get information by SMSing on mobile number 7065051222. One has to type SEC VOTER_ (after the space) epic no. The details will be received in a few seconds through SMS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/phase-1-of-panchayat-samiti-zila-parishad-polls-in-raj-today/articleshow/79358223.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Aurangabad||Teachers test positive in different parts of M’wada||Aurangabad/Kolhapur: Several teaching and non-teaching employees across eight districts of Marathwada have tested positive for Covid-19 during the screening carried out by the district administrations.As schools are about to reopen, the district administrations are unwilling to take any chances and have decided to carry out the antigen as well as RT-PCR tests for the teachers who will be teaching the students of Classes IX to XII. The other major challenge for the schools is to obtain the no-objection certificate from parents of the students who will attend the schools.Parbhani and Hingoli district administrations were considering to start the schools sometime in December, while in Aurangabad, schools situated in urban areas will start from the first week of January, while schools in rural areas will start from Monday.However, none of the authorities were able to answer the query about their plan to keep a check on the possibility of infection through the students who may bring the infection to school or vice versa.Authorities are also keeping the options of screening the students open. Jalna ZP CEO Nima Arora said, “We are screening all the teachers, and if need be, we are open to screening the students as well.”Similar views were echoed by Latur ZP CEO Abhinav Goyal, who said, “Till the arrival of vaccine, we will have to learn living with the virus, while taking utmost precautions.”Schools won’t reopen in Kolhapur cityNone of the 112 schools in Kolhapur city will open from Monday onwards, clarified the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation mainly due the delay in getting swab test reports of teachers and non-teaching employees.While, few schools from rural parts of the district are going to open, but with the teachers who tested negative and students who have been given the consent by their parents. According to a civic official, only 30% of the total students have submitted the NOC from their parents. Administrator and civic chief Kadambari Balkawade said the schools can be opened by December 7 as per district collector Daulat Desai’s order issued on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/teachers-test-positive-in-different-parts-of-mwada/articleshow/79356267.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Jaipur||‘Rajasthan education minister’s order threat to Urdu language’||JAIPUR: Muslim organizations are up in arms with the state education minister Govind Singh Dotasra over his order affecting Urdu subject in government schools. These organizations have been protesting across the state. Ameen Kayamkhani, president of Rajasthan Teachers Association, who has been raising the issue, said that the state order allowing only one subject in classes IV to VIII was directed at removing Urdu, Punjabi, Gujrati and Sindhi from the schools. "Sanskrit is a default third language in government schools and allowing only one language would mean other languages would see a quick exit. This is also against the rule of having either of the four languages if there are10 students in a class or 60 students in the school," said Kayamkhani. He further added that by rule around 20,000 schools are eligible to have Urdu as a subject which will be reduced to barely a few after the order. Rajasthan Progressive Muslim Front has charged the government for bid to remove Urdu language from schools. Dotasra has held meetings with these groups but he is yet to give them a solution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-edu-mins-order-threat-to-urdu-language/articleshow/79358221.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Jodhpur||Phase 1 of panchayat samiti, zila parishad polls in Rajasthan today||JAIPUR: The first phase of elections for the members of panchayat samiti and zila parishad in 21 districts will be held on Monday. In the first phase, elections will be held for 1,310 posts in 65 panchayat samitis. Around 72.38 lakh voters will be exercising their franchise at 10,131 polling booths in this phase. State  commissioner P S Mehra informed that in the first phase elections will be held from 7:30am to 5pm. He informed that 25,000 EVMs will be used in the first phase and more than 50,000 officials will conduct the elections. Of the total voters (72.38 lakh), 37.47 lakh are males and 34.90 lakh are females and 23 belong to the third gender. Polls will be held in Ajmer, Banswara, Barmer, Bhilwara, Bikaner, Bundi, Chittorgarh, Churu, Dungarpur, Hanumangarh, Jaisalmer, Jalore, Jhalawar, Jhunjhunu, Nagaur, Pali, Pratapgarh, Rajsamand, Sikar, Tonk, and Udaipur. Mehra directed that Covid guidelines issued by the Centre, state, medical, local administration and state election commission should be strictly followed during the elections. He said the district collectors and police officers should keep a constant watch on law and order situation on the polling day. “Entry without a mask will not be allowed at the polling booths. The voters are required to sanitize their hands before entering the booths and wait for their turn, by maintaining physical distance, to cast their votes,” said Mehra. He also appealed to voters, candidates and their supporters not to stand in groups near the polling booths. Mehra said that all the information related to the polling stations can be obtained from the commission’s website sec.rajasthan.gov.in or through ‘Voter Assistance Service’. A voter can also get information by SMSing on mobile number 7065051222. One has to type SEC VOTER_ (after the space) epic no. The details will be received in a few seconds through SMS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/phase-1-of-panchayat-samiti-zila-parishad-polls-in-raj-today/articleshow/79361740.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Udaipur||Phase 1 of panchayat samiti, zila parishad polls in Rajasthan today||JAIPUR: The first phase of elections for the members of panchayat samiti and zila parishad in 21 districts will be held on Monday. In the first phase, elections will be held for 1,310 posts in 65 panchayat samitis. Around 72.38 lakh voters will be exercising their franchise at 10,131 polling booths in this phase. State  commissioner P S Mehra informed that in the first phase elections will be held from 7:30am to 5pm. He informed that 25,000 EVMs will be used in the first phase and more than 50,000 officials will conduct the elections. Of the total voters (72.38 lakh), 37.47 lakh are males and 34.90 lakh are females and 23 belong to the third gender. Polls will be held in Ajmer, Banswara, Barmer, Bhilwara, Bikaner, Bundi, Chittorgarh, Churu, Dungarpur, Hanumangarh, Jaisalmer, Jalore, Jhalawar, Jhunjhunu, Nagaur, Pali, Pratapgarh, Rajsamand, Sikar, Tonk, and Udaipur. Mehra directed that Covid guidelines issued by the Centre, state, medical, local administration and state election commission should be strictly followed during the elections. He said the district collectors and police officers should keep a constant watch on law and order situation on the polling day. “Entry without a mask will not be allowed at the polling booths. The voters are required to sanitize their hands before entering the booths and wait for their turn, by maintaining physical distance, to cast their votes,” said Mehra. He also appealed to voters, candidates and their supporters not to stand in groups near the polling booths. Mehra said that all the information related to the polling stations can be obtained from the commission’s website sec.rajasthan.gov.in or through ‘Voter Assistance Service’. A voter can also get information by SMSing on mobile number 7065051222. One has to type SEC VOTER_ (after the space) epic no. The details will be received in a few seconds through SMS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/phase-1-of-panchayat-samiti-zila-parishad-polls-in-raj-today/articleshow/79361739.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Pune||Big hospitals register small increase in Covid admissions in Pune||PUNE: There has been a slight increase in Covid hospitalizations in Pune. Doctors at some of the biggest facilities in the city said the uptick in hospitalisations started after November 12. “We have noticed an upward trend in Covid-19 hospital admissions. This gradual rise is similar to what we saw in March and April. We have started mobilizing our resources,” said Ruby Hall Clinic’s medical director Sanjay Pathare. Ruby Hall Clinic’s Covid bed occupancy had dipped below 50 just a month ago. “But that has slowly started to increase. Occupancy has been over 80 for the last few days,” Pathare said. Sassoon hospital’s Covid occupancy during the peak of the pandemic was 550 beds. “The lowest bed occupancy was 45. Currently, we have 60 patients undergoing treatment,” said the hospital’s medical superintendent, Ajay Taware. Another major hospital treating Covid in the city, Deenanath Mangeshkar, which had 97 patients at its lowest bed occupancy, now has over 100 people in care. “We have 113 coronavirus patients at our hospital. There has been no sharp increase, so far,” said the hospital’s medical director, Dhananjay Kelkar. There has been mounting concern about a possible second Covid wave world over. Countries in Europe — the second worst-hit region after Asia — started seeing a decline in caseloads, but infections rose again in October. Scientists said weather and swift easing of curbs had a role to play. In the Middle East, more than 60% of all new cases last week were reported from Iran, Jordan and Morocco. Cases are also up in Pakistan and Lebanon. But experts studying the spread here said social factors too play a role. Increased movement during unlocks and festivals may have seeded new infections, they said. “Entry of a large number of people, who had not yet encountered the virus, into Pune’s Covid-stabilized population is disturbing an equilibrium and causing small spikes. Some of these patients will need hospitalisation. But it would be premature to call this the ‘second wave’,” said epidemiologist Amitav Banerjee. Banerjee added that people who were at home through most of the lockdown phase had also started stepping out during the festivals. “This is causing a dilution in ‘herd immunity’ levels, he said, while adding that precautions must be maintained. “Respiratory infections spread more indoors. We see people wearing masks in the open (where there is low transmission risk). But once they enter a shop, for example, they pull down masks to speak, at close proximity,” Banerjee said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/big-hospitals-register-small-increase-in-ncov-admissions/articleshow/79358229.cms||Umesh Isalkar
November 23, 2020||Pune||Transparency in quality checks can allay vaccine hesitancy, say experts||PUNE: A recent online survey has found that India has the least hesitancy in accepting potential Covid-19 vaccines, compared to other countries. Of more than 18,000 adults surveyed in 15 countries, including India, 73% said they would get a vaccine if it were available now. This increases to around 80% when only Indians are considered. Vaccine hesitancy is a delay in acceptance or a reluctance to receive the recommended vaccine. Experts, however, said the findings may not be accurate as they were conducted online and most likely tapped affluent Indians whose views may differ from those less privileged. Compliance to safety standards, ensuring external audits and quality checks, and reporting every adverse event will go a long way in reducing hesitancy, said experts. “On one hand, the pandemic has increased awareness (about the) need for a vaccine, particularly among the affluent, while on the other hand, there are the less privileged who may be sceptical about the efficacy/safety and access/affordability,” said Pune-based social and preventive medicine expert Amitav Banerjee. Even among the affluent, the efficacy and side-effects are reasons for hesitancy. “Past research has shown that newer vaccines generate more uncertainty,” he added. Hyderabad-based senior public health expert Leo Vaz of Mediciti Institute of Medical Sciences, meanwhile, said complacency has set in. “This complacency is higher among the financially secure, rather than among those who suffered financial problems due to the pandemic,” Vaz told TOI. He said they would be no reason for any hesitancy if the government systematically introduces an effective vaccine for free and in adequate quantities. Global market research company Ipsos conducted the survey — in partnership with the World Economic Forum — between October 8 and 13. There was a drop of four percentage points in three months, underlining an increase in hesitancy. A third of the respondents cited concerns about side-effects and vaccine candidates moving through clinical trials too fast. “There is an undue haste and somewhat unhealthy competition between different manufacturers,” said Banerjee. Further, he said, even if a number of vaccines were to become available, their safety and efficacy profile may vary. “These uncertainties are the main reasons for any vaccine hesitancy,” he added. Another reason for the fluctuating hesitancy is the perceived risk from the disease. “In the initial phases of the pandemic, when the cases and deaths are high, the perceived need for a vaccine would be higher. This would drop later as both cases and deaths taper off and the focus shifts to side-effects rather than protection,” he explained. A senior ICMR official said open access to drug trial data was not possible — the trials are regulated by Drug Controller General of India and ethics committees, while Clinical Research Organisation conducts technical audits. “The regulatory bodies need to maintain data confidentiality as these are human trials,” the official said. Intensivist Mary Samuel, however, said, “The results of the clinical trials have so far been encouraging. Creating awareness on vaccine safety is key.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/transparency-in-quality-checks-can-allay-vaccine-hesitancy-say-experts/articleshow/79358232.cms||Umesh Isalkar
November 23, 2020||Aurangabad||No real-time update on bed availability in app||Aurangabad: The dedicated mobile application introduced by the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) to offer Covid-related services to the citizens still fails to show real-time updates related to bed availability in the hospitals, both government and private. The dysfunctional feature in the app ‘Mazi Health Mazya Hati’ (MHMH) has received sharp reactions from people, especially when there is surge in new cases and patients and their relatives are struggling to find beds in hospitals. Ulhas Beedkar, a professional from Garkheda who tested positive on November 21, said he had no clue where to go for Covid-19 treatment as his condition started deteriorating. “I had chest pain and was finding it difficult to breathe. All I needed was immediate medical attention, but I could not easily locate the reserved bed for Covid-19 patients at any hospital. The MHMH app was of no use as it was not showing any latest update. No one responded on the helpline number either as it was early in the morning,” he said. Released for public use in the midst of Covid-19 outbreak during the second half of May, the MHMH app was envisaged as the self-health monitoring app along with other key features, including sharing real-time updates of bed availability in hospitals located within the municipal limits and rural areas. After decline in number of cases being reported across Aurangabad, the number of fresh cases is again on the rise. In a surge observed post Diwali, the district reported 114 Covid cases on November 17, followed by 138 on November 18 and 170 on November 19. However, the number went down again on November 20 and 21 with 96 and 66 cases, respectively. The district added 113 cases on Sunday (November 22). When contacted, AMC administrator Astik Kumar Pandey did not respond as to why the MHMH app was not showing real-time updates of hospital beds since October 10. However, a senior civic official said the technical issues have affected some of the features of MHMH application. “Citizens can contact the Covid control room by dialing 8956306007 and ask for the desired help,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/no-real-time-update-on-bed-availability-in-app/articleshow/79356277.cms||Prasad Joshi
November 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Don’t create artificial bed scarcity: AMC to hospitals||AHMEDABAD: The curfew in the city and limited vehicle movement once again brought alive the memories of the first Covid lockdown when the city’s air quality index (AQI) went below 100. For the last two days, the curfew once again brought the AQI below 100 in the city and reached 98, considered ‘good and satisfactory’ level according to Safar data. The Safar data also forecast that the city AQI on Monday night would be about 92, better than Sunday’s AQI. However, officials said that the forecast was based on the two-day reading and had nothing to do with the curfew that will be imposed from 9pm to 6am in the night every day. AMC officials said that though the forecast was below 100, but from Monday the routine traffic movement will push up the AQI. Among the four cities monitored by Safar only Pune, with an AQI of 77, had a better AQI than Ahmedabad. Civic body officials said that even the local AQI of Pirana had also registered as good and satisfactory for the past two days since the bio-mining project was halted and vehicle movement was almost unnoticeable. But what came as a surprise for the officials was that the AQI in Satellite area was constantly above 110, which was moderate. “If vehicle movement was to blame, the what was the reason of high AQI in Satellite during curfew?” mused an officer. Civic body officials will now probe into the Satellite AQI phenomenon and try to ascertain whether vehicular movement on SG Road was the contributing factor, or something else. They also pointed out that the AQI of Bopal has shown remarkable improvement, probable because the dumping site in the area is being removed and soon a bio-diversity park will come up. The AQI of Bopal is usually near that of Pirana, but for the last one month Bopal’s AQI had dropped below 200, considered moderate, and on Saturday and Sunday, Bopal had the lowest AQI in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dont-create-artificial-bed-scarcity-amc-to-hospitals/articleshow/79358388.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: ‘Rapid, inexpensive tests the way to rein in pandemic’||PUNE: Inexpensive, rapid and accurate tests hold the key to bringing the pandemic under control, said experts. Over 12.65 crore samples have been tested in India — more than many other countries — and experts stressed on the need for tests to be easily available to the public. The experts — from the state and central government’s health departments — said the speed and accuracy of ICMR-approved Feluda paper tests or RT Lamp-based tests should be checked and rolled out in significant numbers. The RT-Lamp test is rapid, accurate, cost-effective. It needs minimal expertise and instrumentation, can be set up using indigenous components and gives results within 10 minutes. The Feluda paper test can produce results in 40 minutes. A health official said the RT Lamp technology makes it possible for laboratories in rural parts to conduct tests with minimum investment in infrastructure and logistics. “The equipment can be easily handled by lab personnel as it is simple and compact in nature,” the official said. ICMR officials told TOI that the country was constantly ramping up its testing infrastructure, including the indigenous development, validation and production of RT-PCR kits as well as alternative testing platforms. “The Feluda paper tests are expected to be launched in Delhi on Thursday and rolled out subsequently,” a health official in the know said. The state task force members had asked local authorities to use new ICMR-approved testing kits and reduce the pendency. Task force chairman Sanjay Oak said walk-in kiosks should be made available to ensure improved testing. Milind M Kulkarni, a pathologist associated with a city government-run hospital, said, “The new testing kits could help speed up testing and clear the backlog.” Officials pointed to other countries’ testing strategy. “On Wednesday, the United States’ Federal Drug Adminstration approved the world’s first at-home test for emergency use,” an ICMR official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rapid-inexpensive-tests-the-way-to-rein-in-pandemic/articleshow/79358237.cms||Nisha Nambiar
November 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Hospitalization norms issued in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: After the directive of the AMC on the hospitalization of Covid-19 patients, Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA) on Sunday issued a set of guidelines. AHNA officials said that henceforth only those meeting the designated criteria will be allotted non-requisitioned beds in 76 hospitals across the city. Dr Bharat Gadhvi, president of AHNA, said that of the total Covid-19 patients, only 15% require hospitalization. “Children and young ones generally improve without hospital admission,” he said. “The final decision on admission, however, will be with the doctors.” AHNA on Sunday also said that the standard protocol for treatment at home or day-care centres has been chalked out for administering antivirals or other medicines. AHNA officials said that they will have a meeting on Monday to discuss the inclusion of more city hospitals for Covid-19 treatment. It’s expected that about 100 to 400 beds will be added soon, they said. The members, however, did not agree with senior AMC officers’ view on hospitals. “Such statements by senior officers only fuel suspicion in the public about the treatment protocols,” said a senior AHNA official. “It’s unfortunate that such statements come at a time when the entire machinery of several hospitals is directed towards the well-being of Covid-19 patients.” The official added: “If officers or patients come across any malpractice, we welcome them to approach us with the specifics.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hospitalization-norms-issued/articleshow/79358340.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Pune||785 fresh Covid cases push Pune metropolitan region tally to more than 3.36 lakh||PUNE: More than 11,000 samples were tested in Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Sunday, yielding 785 fresh Covid-19 cases. In the same 24-hour window, 597 people recovered from the contagion, as per the daily report issued by the district health officer. Pune Mu)nicipal Corporation limits accounted for 330 of the new cases, while Pimpri Chinchwad (215), the rural areas (168), cantonments (14) and municipal councils (58) made up the rest. The progressive caseload for PMR, which is the total number of cases reported so far, stood at just over 3.36 lakh at 8pm on Sunday, while nearly 3.18 lakh people have recovered from the infection since the first case was reported early in March. Nine people succumbed to the virus on Sunday, pushing the regional death toll to 8,275. Five people died at hospitals across PMC limits, while one person breathed their last in the nagar panchayat areas combined. The rural areas reported three deaths, while Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits and cantonment areas reported zero casualties on Sunday. Meanwhile, there were just over 10,000 active cases in PMR — 4,068 patients were being treated in various hospitals, while 6,046 people were under home isolation. At 4,502, the PMC areas accounted for the largest share of home quarantine cases in the region, followed by Pimpri Chinchwad (1,077) at a distant second. Pune city also accounted for the highest number of discharges in the region after 245 people recovered on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/785-fresh-cases-push-pmr-tally-to-more-than-3-36l/articleshow/79358242.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
November 23, 2020||Aurangabad||MSRTC employees deputed to BEST take RT-PCR test||Aurangabad: The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) has carried out rigorous testing drive of MSRTC employees deputed to carry out duties of Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) in Mumbai, amid the growing complaints of these staffers being Covid carriers when they return from Mumbai. In the two-day drive, which ended on Sunday, drivers and conductors, who are deployed to perform BEST duties, had to undergo RT-PCR testing. A section of public representatives from Marathwada including Georai MLA Laxman Pawar and Ausa MLA Abhimanyu Pawar had made a strong objection to such shifting of duties even as the MSRTC justified it as a source of earning revenue during the current financial crisis. Abhijit Bhosale, the MSRTC public relations officer said “Around 4,500 MSRTC staffers were scheduled to get covered during the testing drive. A depot-wise record has been made of the staffers deputed for BEST and a continuous check will be kept on them for any health issues.” Talking about the cancellation of deputation services of staffers, he said no such proposal was under consideration before the top-brass of MSRTC. “We are offering every possible help to deputed staffers who hail from places other than Mumbai, like making staying arrangements and supply of food, besides providing incentives. While the railway services are partially shut down in Mumbai due to the outbreak of Covid, there is a huge demand for BEST buses. The BEST administration has hired buses from the MSRTC to cater to the demand,” Bhosale added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/msrtc-employees-deputed-to-best-take-rt-pcr-test/articleshow/79356333.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Nagpur||Schools across Vidarbha, except Nagpur district, to reopen today||Nagpur: Except Nagpur, all districts in Vidarbha region schools are set to reopen from Monday. In Nagpur, schools in rural areas will start from Thursday while those in city will be closed till December 13. Gadchiroli and Chandrapur districts were the first in Maharashtra to reopen schools in July itself but shut down a few days later to align with central government orders. Now, after getting the all clear from state government, both districts are looking forward to the reopening. Deepak Singla, Gadchiroli district collector, confirmed the Monday reopening saying, “We have given orders (to reopen) for Std IX to XII on the basis of state’s decision. We are in the process of testing teachers as well.” In Wardha, 75% of the 360 secondary schools shall remain closed, in view of opposition from parents to reopening. District collector Vivek Bhimanwar said, “Decision to reopen or not is to be taken by parents and school. We are waiting up to December 4 to rethink over the decision.” So far, 45 teachers have tested positive for coronavirus in Wardha. Chandrapur district collector Ajay Gulhane directed all schools to go ahead with reopening while taking all precautions. Parents agreeing to send their wards to schools have been asked to provide written consent to the school while those who have opted for online classes would continue with them. Schools are all set to reopen gradually from Monday in district. As per the education department, around 566 schools out of total 617 have opted for formal reopening and 550 of them would gradually reopen during next one week. The process of carrying out RTPCR tests of the over 8,000 teachers and non-teaching staff of 617 schools including aided, non-aided, private and ZP schools in district is underway. In all 4,337 teachers and non-teaching staff had tested themselves till Saturday and 34 of them from 16 schools were found positive. Amravati district collector Shailesh Naval told TOI orders had been issued on Saturday itself for reopening of schools. Naval reiterated students could join only after parents’ permission. Akola district too will go ahead with reopening of schools from Monday. District collector Jitendra Papalkar issued the order for starting schools, subject to compliance with all safety guidelines. Yavatmal district collector MD Singh held a meeting with education department officials and decided to go ahead with reopening of schools. As per reports, there are around 770 schools under government, zilla parishad, granted and non-granted management categories. Local authorities informed that there are almost 1.5 lakh students studying in Std IX-XII. Even the remaining districts of Vidarbha are all set for reopening of schools from Monday, confirmed deputy director of education Anil Pardhi. “All districts in Vidarbha are to open from Monday, except Nagpur. District education officers are in touch with schools and authorities. We have asked schools to ensure strict compliance of safety guidelines,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/schools-across-vidarbha-except-nagpur-district-to-reopen-today/articleshow/79358255.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Bareilly||On the run for 3 years after killing S-I, seasoned criminal caught from construction site||Bareilly: On an otherwise routine call to resolve a scuffle between a retired army officer and a labourer hired by him, police in Shahjahanpur stumbled on a seasoned criminal who was on run for over three years allegedly after killing a sub-inspector (SI) in the district. The accused, Ramrahis, who was working at an under-construction building owned by the former army officer, took up a fight with him on Sunday. Policemen, who rushed to the spot after getting a call from the retired officer, found a country-made pistol and nine live bullets after frisking the accused. A thorough questioning revealed that Ramrahis was a member of the notorious Kallu gang. After Kallu was killed in an encounter by police, Ramrahis and his brother Naresh Dheemar were running the gang, a police officer said. But, in 2008, Naresh was also killed in an encounter, leaving Ramrahis at the helm. The gang used to abduct the kin of rich people for ransom. Later, Ramrahis was arrested for his alleged role in the murder of the SI. But after coming out of jail, he changed his look and started working as a labourer. SHO of Cantonment police station, Dharmendra Singh, said, “We are trying to pull out criminal history of Rahrahis.” He was booked under section 3/25 of Arms Act and sent to jail on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/on-the-run-for-3-years-after-killing-s-i-seasoned-criminal-caught-from-construction-site/articleshow/79355555.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 23, 2020||Chennai||Biker, 58, tries to save dog, dies||Chennai: A 58-year-old motorist died in Tiruvallur on Saturday night after falling from his vehicle while trying to avoid hitting a stray dog. Police said, Kanniyappan, a resident of Kamarajapuram village near Periyakuppam, worked at a private firm near Ponneri. He was returning home on his two-wheeler when near Oil Mill Road the dog came in front of his two-wheeler. Kanniyappan pressed hard at the brakes and his two-wheeler skidded. The man was not wearing a helmet and bumped his head against the road suffering a grievous head injury. Passers-by rushed him to the Tiruvallur Government Hospital where he was declared dead on arrival. Besides the head injury, he had suffered multiple injuries. The Tiruvallur town police registered a case of rash and negligent driving and sent the body for postmortem. Polie said the road was dark due to which Kanniyappan could not spot the dog. Residents in the area said stray dogs have caused accidents on the stretch earlier. “We have advised motorists not to speed as there are chances of cattle and stray dogs darting across the road on this stretch,” said an investigating officer. “Stray dogs roam this place as local residents dispose garbage on either side of the roads,” he said. Last week, the officer said, cattle owners were fined and warned after stray cattle were found roaming on the road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/biker-58-tries-to-save-dog-dies/articleshow/79357311.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Chennai||Man, in hospital with Covid symptoms, leaps to death from 3rd floor in Chennai||CHENNAI: A 54-year-old man admitted at the Omandurar Government Hospital with symptoms of Covid-19 jumped from the third floor of the hospital building on Sunday morning. The deceased, S Chandrasekar of Alapakkam, was in the ward for suspected Covid patients. Although his latest test was negative, he was advised hospital stay for two more days since he had trouble breathing. Police said Chandrasekar was supposed to be discharged on Monday. But around 11.30am on Sunday, he was found lying dead in a pool of blood on the ground floor. He is suspected to have jumped from the third floor of the hospital’s second tower. Visitors alerted the hospital staff and on information the Triplicane police rushed to the spot. “He was living in a fear that all his symptoms were of Covid and he would test positive. He never mingled with other patients in the ward,” said a doctor at the hospital. The doctor said after a couple of Covid-positive patients escaped from the hospital, they sealed the entry and exit points of the wards and kept patients under strict vigil. The entry to terrace was also shut. Since Chandrasekar was a suspected case of Covid, he was allowed to walk along the corridor. Experts said nervousness, panic attacks, sleep disturbance, anxiety and feelings of helplessness may lead to depression among Covid patients. “We are seeing some degree of stress or anxiety due to coronavirus. The intensity and impact varies from person to person,” Lakshmi Subramanian, a psychiatrist from Kilpauk. Patients may have suicidal thoughts. On May 26, a 50-year-old Covid-19 patient committed suicide in the bathroom of Government Stanley Medical College and Hospital. On July 7, a 37-year-old man, who had tested positive for coronavirus, killed himself by jumping from the fifth floor of a private hospital building in Kelambakkam. Police had said that the man was dejected after six of his family members also tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/man-in-hospital-with-covid-symptoms-leaps-to-death-from-3rd-floor/articleshow/79357315.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Varanasi||PM Modi to launch rural drinking water supply projects today||VARANASI: Prime Modi Narendra Modi yesterday lay the foundation of rural drinking water supply projects worth Rs 5,555.38 crore under Har Ghar Jal scheme of Jal Jeevan Mission to ensure tap water supply for 45 lakh population in all rural households of 2,995 villages in Mirzapur and Sonbhadra districts of Vindhya region. The PM will lay the foundation through video conferencing, while CM Yogi Adityanath will attend the event with his cabinet colleagues and officials at Ghaghraul Dam in Sonbhadra. UP Jal Shakti minister Mahendra Singh, who is already camping at Sonbhadra, told reporters, “PM Narendra Modi will lay the foundation of projects through video conferencing and interact with people of Khamariya and Panari Khas villages. Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, chief minister Yogi Adityanath, other dignitaries and officials will be present at Ghaghraul Dam to attend the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/pm-modi-to-launch-rural-drinking-water-supply-projects-today/articleshow/79344702.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
November 23, 2020||Chennai||Techie tries to burn ant nest at home, dies in fire accident||Chennai: A software engineer died when she attempted to burn an ant nest in her room. The incident happened in Aminjikarai on Saturday night. Police said S Sangeetha, 27, was hospitalized with 90% burn injuries and died on Sunday morning while her mother suffered minor injuries. Sangeetha, of Perumal Koil Street, was employed at an IT firm in Sholinganallur and was the sole breadwinner of the family. Her father, Sathyamoorthy, a driver, has been out of job since the lockdown. Her mother is a homemaker and her brother a student. On Saturday night, while she was working, Sangeetha found ants in her bedroom. She decided to clean the room and after sweeping the floor found an ant nest. On the advice from her mother, she decided to burn it with kerosene, said police. After Sangeetha poured kerosene out of the can, her mother dipped a piece of paper in the fuel and lit the nest. When the fire spread, the ants scattered in different directions and crawled over Sangeetha’s legs, said an investigating officer. “While she tried to shake the ants off her legs, kerosene from the can spilled. She dropped the can but the fire engulfed her,” the officer said. Sathyamoorthy, who was outside the house, heard loud cries and rushed in. He tried to put out the fire with help from neighbours. They covered Sangeetha with a blanket. The two were rushed to the Kilpauk Medical College and Hospital. Police said Sangeetha was wearing a polyester dress which led to severe burn injuries. Police have registered a case of accidental fire and have sent the body for postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/techie-tries-to-burn-ant-nest-at-home-dies-in-fire-accident/articleshow/79357321.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Riders protest roll up of Harley’s India operations||JAIPUR: Owners of iconic Harley Davidson bikes took out a rally on Sunday morning to protest against the American company’s sudden plan to exit India operations without giving any prior information and offering a roadmap for spares and services. Dune Harley Davidson, the dealer in Jaipur, said it’s disappointing that the cult bike maker does not have any interest to retain customers or dealerships. Since the dealership opened in 2013 in Jaipur, the Dune Harley Davidson has sold 730 units in Rajasthan. Recently, it relocated its showroom to a bigger space on Jaipur- Ajmer Road spread over 14,000 sq-ft, factoring in the growth plans of the bike maker. “We relocated to the new state-of-the-art facility in December 2019, considering future projections given by Harley Davidson India. We have invested huge sums of money in the facility. The decision of Harley to exit was taken by the company without taking us into confidence and has left all of us in the lurch including the bike owners and employees,” said Aman Kalra, head, operations, Dunes Harley- Davidson. The Harley Owners Group in Jodhpur and Udaipur also took out similar rallies on Sunday to protest against the company’s decision. Vijay Batra, a Harley rider said, “I am deeply saddened to see Harley exiting India. Despite the riders of Street 750 bike felt let down by break issues, we took pride in the brand. But now, all HOG members and dealers feel cheated by the company,” said Vijay Batra, who bought his Street 750 in 2015. Kalra said they have not received any communication from HeroMoto Corp, the would-be new partners of the bike in India. “Despite the Covid-19 restrictions, many turned up for the rally today. The owners are passionate about their Harley bikes and had spent huge sums in buying them. Right now, they don’t have any clues where to source spares and get services,” said Kalra. Another rider and an official at HOG Jaipur Avinash Agrawal said, “I bought a Fatboy just two years back and with the company gone, the dealers will have to face issues with providing spare parts and servicing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/riders-protest-roll-up-of-harleys-india-ops/articleshow/79358437.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Goa||Poonam Pandey bail hearing on December 5||POINGUINIM: Margao sessions court adjourned the hearing in a petition seeking cancellation of bail granted to film actor and model Poonam Pandey and her husband Sam Bombay to December 5. The matter came up for hearing on Saturday wherein advocate D Vernekar, representing applicant Samrat Bhagat, prayed for more time to place on record the certified copies of the bail order, application and the say of the investigating police officer. Pandey had posted her alleged ‘pornographic’ videos, shot at Chapoli dam in Canacona on her social media accounts. The videos had gone viral and caused widespread outrage among locals. Following police complaints, Pandey and her husband were arrested and subsequently released on bail by JMFC, Canacona. Canacona resident Bhagat had moved the sessions court, seeking cancellation of the bail to the duo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/poonam-pandey-bail-hearing-on-dec-5/articleshow/79358446.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur officials told to ensure Covid compliance at poll meets||KOLHAPUR: District collector Daulat Desai has ordered the district election authorities to keep a close watch on the meetings taking place for election campaigns for graduates’ and teachers’ constituency to make sure Covid guidelines are followed. Political parties have started organising the meetings with the party workers. In many such meetings, social distancing is not maintained and people do wear masks.  District authorities said the guidelines for events held close doors or in open applies to such meetings as well. As per the guidelines, there should be at least six feet distance between two people in open spaces or there must be one seat vacant between the two if the event is held inside an auditorium. Desai said, “No meeting should be organised without our permission. Our staff will record all such meetings.” The voting for the election is going to take place on December 1. There are over 4 lakh registered voters in the Pune division constituency. Since big guns of the political parties are leading from the front to campaign for their candidates, the election has become an issue of prestige. Desai said all efforts are on to ensure the election is held in a free and fair manner at the voting booths. “The guidelines also apply for the election staff working at the booths. Social distancing will be ensured in the booths. It will be sanitised regularly before and during the voting day,” added Desai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-officials-told-to-ensure-covid-compliance-at-poll-meets/articleshow/79356363.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Nashik||Parents heave a sigh of relief||Nashik: Parents of students of Classes IX to XII across Nashik district welcomed the district administration’s decision to not reopen schools on November 23, as was planned earlier, and instead keep the schools closed till January 4, 2021. Many parents feared that there could be a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases after Diwali and, therefore, did not want to send their children to schools right after the festival. “We have been saying that the district administration should keep aside the government decision to reopen schools to safeguard the children’s health,” said Nilesh Salunkhe, president of the Nashik Parents’ Association, who had petitioned district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal against restarting of schools. “We thank the administration for taking a broader view on the safety of children,” Salunkhe added. “Reopening temples is one thing, and schools — where children sit for longer durations and inadvertently share infrastructure — is quite another,” said Sangeeta Patil, another parent. “I have one daughter in Class V. If my elder daughter, who is in Class X, catches the infection, she may pass it on to her sister. Also, how safe will our children be in hospitals (where no one is allowed to stay with the patients)? Even treatment-wise, there is no single effective medicine,” said Savita Bhandari, a parent. Practising doctor Ajinkya Kulkarni also welcomed the decision saying: “We have ensured the younger generation’s safety of lungs. This will reduce future health complications.” Balaji Nirbhavne, a Niphad resident, said, “There is no need to rush with school reopening. Focus should be on online classes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/parents-heave-a-sigh-of-relief/articleshow/79356382.cms||Abhilash Botekar
November 23, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: FIR against gangster for possession of phone, sim||JAIPUR: An FIR was registered in Lawrence Bishnoi’s case for possession of a mobile phone along with a charger, earphones and sim card which he had in his luggage while being transferred from Bharatpur jail to Ajmer’s high security prison. He was shifted from Bharatpur to Ajmer on Saturday as it was found that he was operating from inside the jail using mobile. Preeti Choudhary, superintendent, Ajmer Central Jail, said, “We have registered a case as Bishnoi was found with one mobile phone, a charger, four data cables and a sim card. These were found in his luggage and it is likely we will do his body search as well.” Bishnoi (35) lodged in Bharatpur jail was in the news for various reasons, including threatening actor Salman Khan through a social media post, and being in touch with contract killers through his subordinates. “As soon as he reached the prison, the first thing we did was get him changed into the clothes provided by us. He looked really demoralised after this and I figured that there was something amiss. The search revealed the mobile phone and Bishnoi claimed that he had gotten it from another inmate who had asked a visitor to get it,” added the official. Officials conceded that there was a lapse in security as his luggage was not checked properly before leaving Bharatpur jail and although the phone was found in Ajmer, cops claimed that there was a lack of equipment for searching the prisoners due to which at times they get away with possession of contrabands. Bishnoi is facing over 20 cases of attempt to murder, carjacking, extortion, snatching and under arms Act in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Rajasthan. According to officials, Bishnoi did not interact directly with the youths working for him outside, but would give them the task using various levels of subordinates. Access to a mobile phone allowed him to do so comfortably. He has been in Rajasthan prison since 2017 after he was brought from Punjab jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fir-against-gangster-for-possession-of-phone-sim/articleshow/79358457.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: FIR against gangster for possession of phone, sim||JAIPUR: An FIR was registered in Lawrence Bishnoi’s case for possession of a mobile phone along with a charger, earphones and sim card which he had in his luggage while being transferred from Bharatpur jail to Ajmer’s high security prison. He was shifted from Bharatpur to Ajmer on Saturday as it was found that he was operating from inside the jail using mobile. Preeti Choudhary, superintendent, Ajmer Central Jail, said, “We have registered a case as Bishnoi was found with one mobile phone, a charger, four data cables and a sim card. These were found in his luggage and it is likely we will do his body search as well.” Bishnoi (35) lodged in Bharatpur jail was in the news for various reasons, including threatening actor Salman Khan through a social media post, and being in touch with contract killers through his subordinates. “As soon as he reached the prison, the first thing we did was get him changed into the clothes provided by us. He looked really demoralised after this and I figured that there was something amiss. The search revealed the mobile phone and Bishnoi claimed that he had gotten it from another inmate who had asked a visitor to get it,” added the official. Officials conceded that there was a lapse in security as his luggage was not checked properly before leaving Bharatpur jail and although the phone was found in Ajmer, cops claimed that there was a lack of equipment for searching the prisoners due to which at times they get away with possession of contrabands. Bishnoi is facing over 20 cases of attempt to murder, carjacking, extortion, snatching and under arms Act in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Rajasthan. According to officials, Bishnoi did not interact directly with the youths working for him outside, but would give them the task using various levels of subordinates. Access to a mobile phone allowed him to do so comfortably. He has been in Rajasthan prison since 2017 after he was brought from Punjab jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/fir-against-gangster-for-possession-of-phone-sim/articleshow/79360811.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Mumbai||Burns rose after fake social media messages that steam kills coronavirus||MUMBAI: The misconception that steam inhalation can inhibit or kill the virus causing Covid-19 has led to a crisis of another kind: a significant increase in scald burns both in children and adults. Some hospitals have seen between three to ten-fold rise in scald burns since May. Accidental spillage of hot water while trying to take steam from an open vessel has been found to be the most common cause for such burns. In many cases, people have sustained up to 20% burns, at times requiring hospitalisation for dressing under anaesthesia, doctors say. In most cases, the burn victims were either themselves suffering from Covid-19 or someone in the family was. The recovery took a minimum of 14 days. Doctors at Bombay Hospital in Marine Lines have treated seven instances of scalds in the last three months. Plastic surgeon Dr Vinay Jacob said that the issue warrants urgent awareness as the burns may be superficial, but they do involve rushing to a hospital and repeated visits for dressing. The injured had sustained between 10%-12% burns. At the Byculla-based Masina Hospital, which opened its burns OPD only two months ago, head of the unit Dr Arvind Vartak said there have been three cases of scalds. “There is an increase no doubt, surprisingly in adults too,” he said. The rise has been noticeable at the Airoli-based National Burns Centre also. Head Dr Sunil Keswani said the numbers have doubled from 4-5 scald burns they treated in pre-Covid times. “Cases of scald burns started rising since May with the fake WhatsApp messages that it helps in killing the virus,” he said, adding that of the 10 cases that came to the hospital every month, at least five needed hospitalisations. “The burns would be in the abdomen, genital area and thighs,” he said. The common way to treat scald burns is by removing the burnt skin and applying a collagen-based (protein) dressing, all under anaesthesia. “For women with burns in the genital area, they have even required a catheter for urination,” said Dr Keswani, adding that the actual numbers of such burns would be much higher as many were treated over phone. Dr Keswani said scalding accounted for over 60% of burns in children under 5 year and during Covid steam inhalation has been a leading cause. Thane-based plastic surgeon Dr Medha Bhave treated 21 cases of burns at her 35-bed hospital out of which six were major burns. Of the six major burns, four were in children. “We found that the incidents happened when the children were made to inhale steam from a vessel. We tell families it’s safer to use steamers. The spillage mostly happened on chest and thighs,” said Dr Bhave. “In children particularly, the collagen dressing causes some burn, so we had to prescribe sleep medication as well,” she said. The burn incidents were not restricted to Mumbai. Pune-based plastic surgeon Dr Swapna Athavale attended ten such cases at the Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital in the past 90 days. Six of the ten were children in the age group of two to 10 years. Of the ten, two had come positive for Covid, leading to exposure of the staffers. “It has caused an extra surgical burden and occupancy of beds during Covid when there is no medical literature to support steam inhalation for prevention or treatment of coronavirus,” she said. Dr Shakuntala Prabhu, head of paediatrics at Wadia Hospital, said, “We don’t advocate steam inhalation for children at all, even though in adults it may be known to provide some symptom relief”. An article in Lancet had highlighted how the Burns Centre at Birmingham Children's Hospital, UK, had seen a 30-fold increase in the number of scalds directly resulting from steam inhalation. In many cases, the accidents happened when the children were left unsupervised.  Dr Keswani said there was an overall increase in incidence of scald burns as people are spending more time at home, which involves more cooking, eating all meals at home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/burns-cases-rise-due-to-covid-steaming-fad/articleshow/79359662.cms||Sumitra Debroy
November 23, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: 30-year-old man killed over land dispute||JAIPUR: A 30-year-old man identified as Mansingh Gurjar was killed at Malarna Dungar in Sawai Madhopur around 10am on Sunday after two families got involved in an altercation over land. Cops have detained three persons in this connection. This is the third incident within a week when people have been killed over family disputes. “The two groups got into an argument over land which they had been fighting over for the past few years. The argument got violent and they started hitting each other. A tractor was also used which hit the victim. The deceased sustained serious injuries and was taken to hospital but did not survive,” said an official of Malarna Dungar police station. Cops have registered a case of murder against the accused. During the scuffle, 10 persons were also injured out of which seven were from the victim’s family. After the case was registered, the family for a brief period demanded monetary compensation. “This is a case of murder and we have assured the victim’s family that all the accused will be caught soon. The body was handed over to them after post-mortem. Further investigation is underway.” Just a week ago, a teenager was killed when he was shot at by the accused because of a dispute which had been going on for years. The victim’s family and villagers had agitated for nearly 36 hours before finally taking the body. A 47-year-old woman was mowed down in Sawai Madhopur on Wednesday morning over a dispute of Rs 500. After the incident, villagers took the body to the local police station demanding the arrest of the accused. Police arrested the main accused and detained two persons in the case. In this case also, the two groups had clashed due to money issue and the accused killed the woman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/30-yr-old-man-killed-over-land-dispute/articleshow/79358449.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Jaipur||Teacher undertakes ‘Dandi March’ over pathetic condition of Urdu education in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Mahatma Gandhi’s non-violence principles inspired millions of people during the independence movement. Now, Thakur Shamsher Bhalu Khan has undertaken a march towards Dandi in Gujarat to protest against the pathetic condition of Urdu teaching in Rajasthan. Khan is a government Urdu teacher in Rajasthan. Years of neglect towards Urdu education and Madrasa teachers in state forced him to take this step to attract government’s attention. He started his journey from his hometown in Churu district on November 1, 2020 to walk more than 1000km on foot. He is at present in Udaipur. "Around 6,000 para teachers employed in around 3,500 registered Madrasas in state are working on minimum wages but haven’t been made permanent. Due to government neglect, only six schools of Urdu medium exist now. This is injustice towards linguistic minorities in the state," said Khan. He had earlier protested at the Churu district collector’s office last year from July to October 2019 as well. Getting no satisfactory solution, Khan finally decided to take up the non-violent path. Khan says, "When I decided to follow the path of Gandhi, people laughed at me. Except for my wife, everyone called me crazy and tried to persuade me to shun this idea. But, I had decided that this is the only option left to shake the government that has so far remained ignorant towards linguistic minorities issues". Khan’s wife Akhtar Bano is protesting at Churu collector’s office for the last ten days in support of her husband. A few kilometers from Udaipur, Khan was admitted to a hospital due to weakness and foot ulcer. After doctor’s advice, he decided to stay in Udaipur for a few days and then resume his journey. People from many villages joined the march enroute. Khan and his friend Asif Tipu Khan, who had left home on foot without any money, were welcomed at people’s homes who gave them food and lodging. Asif said, "People of different communities have welcomed us in their homes. Urdu is not a religious language and people understand its value". President of Rajasthan Urdu Teachers’ Association Ameen Kayamkhani said that Urdu medium schools are in pitiful condition. "Goverment has appointed general cadre teachers, who don’t know Urdu language, in two Urdu medium schools at Jaipur. For last many years, Urdu medium books haven’t been supplied to schools. Shamsher is forced by the government that is completely neglecting the issue of linguistic minorities," said Kayamkhani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/teacher-undertakes-dandi-march-over-pathetic-condition-of-urdu-edu-in-state/articleshow/79358475.cms||Parul Kulshrestha
November 23, 2020||Goa||Goa CM Pramod Sawant: Opposition is lying about environmental damage||SALIGAO/BICHOLIM: The opposition is trying to create an upheaval under the guise of agitating over environmental issues, said chief minister Pramod Sawant on Sunday at Aldona. “We will expose these lies by the opposition. At the 2022 assembly elections, BJP will win 30 of 40 seats,” he added. At another event in Bicholim, Sawant urged locals ‘not to fall prey to opposition propaganda’. Sawant said Goa is in need of the Tamnar high power transmission line and substation to meet the state’s electricity requirements in the near future. “Our government is not interested in carrying out any environmental destruction,” said Sawant, addressing BJP booth workers and supporters at a training camp in Aldona. He said that BJP is seriously working to strengthen the party. “We were able to get the BJP government at the Centre only because of the tireless efforts of all the booth party workers and supporters. Now we will have to try and bring BJP back to power in the upcoming assembly elections,” Sawant said. Speaking at Bicholim on Saturday, he said that BJP government in Goa is performing satisfactorily even in adverse conditions and hence people should not fall prey to rumours and propaganda of the opposition. “The opposition is doing it only because of its failure, ignore them,” said Sawant at an orientation camp for BJP workers at Sakhali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-opposition-is-lying-about-environmental-damage/articleshow/79358491.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Nagpur||Jinxed Surjagarh project hits roadblock with no mining since 2019||Nagpur: The much talked about Surjagarh mining project in Etapalli taluka of Maoist-affected south Gadchiroli seemed to be heading nowhere, with ore extraction at the site halted since beginning of 2019. The future too seems grim, with the mining company as well as the police department sounding unclear about each other’s role. The mining lease was allotted to Lloyds Metal and Energy Limited (LMEL) in 2007 for 348 hectares on the Wooria and adjoining hills. The work has been always disrupted here with a number of factors cropping up, ranging from Maoist violence to withdrawal of security and also various technical and environmental clearances required for the operations. The entire project, comprising the sponge iron plants at Ashti in Gadchiroli and Ghughus in Chandrapur, worth around Rs3,000-3,500 crore, was projected as the catalyst of change in the ill-developed region. But it has remained a hollow promise so far. After several lives were lost and substantial forest cleared, the mining work stands suspended as on today. Immediately after getting the lease, LMEL was stunned when Maoists abducted two of it’s executives in 2007, though they were later freed. In 2011, the Maoists held around 30-40 workers hostage at the site, threatening them to discontinue work. In 2013, Maoists shot dead the vice-president of LMEL and another two. In 2016, the Maoists torched around 75-80 vehicles at the mining site. Amid much turbulence, mining started only in 2016. The company extracted around 3.5 to 4 lakh tonnes ore till 2018. In 2019, an accident at Etapalli taluka de-railed the mining work once again, as an irate mob torched several vehicles. Later, the central and state elections led to suspension of the work as police department withdrew for the voting duties. Several police posts were erected in the region to increase footfall of security forces to facilitate mining here, but fears of Maoist could not be allayed till date. Another three police posts have been proposed, including one at the site. It’s learnt LMEL has entered into a joint venture with Thriveni Earthmovers Private Limited in May this year to carry out mining operation with it’s assistance. LMEL is also yet to start it’s sponge iron ore plant at Konsari in Ashti. After successful public hearing, LMEL is learnt to have applied for environmental clearance from the state government. LMEL would be required to take central government’s clearance for the second phase of work here. “Environmental impact study is underway for the second phase which would be submitted in January next year,” said a source. “As per the latest decision, the mined ore would be utilized in Chandrapur and Gadchiroli itself, and surplus would be sold elsewhere in Vidarbha,” said the source. It’s learnt the company is now left without police protection as there has been no clear instruction from the government to resume mining activities here. According to a reliable source, police department is unhappy with LMEL as the company did not keep several of it’s promises like promoting skill development, training for local workforce, spending Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds for the upliftment of tribal here, which has led to widespread discontentment. With no mining work and related activities taking off, the company is learnt to be facing problems economically.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/jinxed-surjagarh-project-hits-roadblock-with-no-mining-since-2019/articleshow/79358497.cms||Soumitra Bose
November 23, 2020||Nashik||Schools across Nashik district to remain shut till Jan 4, 2021: Chhagan Bhujbal||NASHIK: District guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal — citing the warning regarding the second wave of Covid-19 and the rising number of cases — on Sunday announced that schools across Nashik will not open till January 4. Bhujbal, who is also the state civic supply and consumer protection minister, reviewed the Covid situation in the district with the officials of the revenue, health and police departments and the local self-governing bodies. “We have decided not to open the schools in the district. We will continue to monitor the situation every 15 days, observe the spread of the infection and assess the impact of the second wave (if any) before reviewing the current decision,” he said. Health officials pointed out that cases of pneumonia and swine flu among children are also on the rise during winter. These children can thus fall in the comorbid category and if they get infected by Covid-19, it may lead to serious complications. Though schools will be opened only for students of Classes IX to XII, there is the risk of these students (if they get infected) passing on the viral disease to their younger siblings. “In such a scenario, the availability of paediatricians and children’s hospital to deal with Covid-19 could become a major challenge,” Bhujbal said. Bhujbal pointed out that parents in the urban areas were strictly against sending children to schools, while in rural areas, the reactions were mixed. “However, we have decided against experimenting with the health of the children,” he said. “Considering the Christmas holidays and the rule of alternate-day school to ensure 50% student attendance, effectively, there would only be 10 days of physical schooling possible anyway. Therefore, we have decided to keep the schools shut,” Bhujbal said. Rules out lockdown Bhujbal, however, ruled out imposition of lockdown in the district. The statement came after social media was being flooded with messages that the Nashik district administration has announced a lockdown in the district and night curfew to curb the spread of the infection. “We are assessing the situation daily. The number of cases is currently low and stable. The only restrictions in place are the closure of all shops and establishments by 10 pm, physical distancing, wearing of masks and use of sanitisers. Rest are rumours and people should only go by what the administration says,” Bhujbal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/schools-across-nashik-district-to-remain-shut-till-jan-4-2021-bhujbal/articleshow/79356404.cms||Abhilash Botekar
November 23, 2020||Nagpur||NMC top brass missing from scene even as 2nd Covid wave lurks||Nagpur: Even though the signs of second Covid wave are getting strong, the top brass of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has been conspicuous by its absence. Civic chief Radhakrishnan B was out of town for the last 10 days while additional municipal commissioner Jalaj Sharma, the other IAS cadre officer at the helm, too is away. Mayor Sandip Joshi too is busy with his campaigning for the upcoming graduates constituency polls. Unlike the first Covid wave, health officials see a clear lack of enthusiasm among elected representatives as well as senior administration officials. This had led to delay in decision making as well as planning for the coming week which is said to be ‘dangerous’ as far as Covid spread is concerned. The latest example is the decision to put off school reopening which dragged on for a couple of days despite concerns from stakeholders. On the administrative side, issues like unpaid ambulance drivers are still running from pillar to post though the civic chief had assured to clear their bills 15 days back. The NMC had also closed down Covid care centre at MLA hostel while contact tracing too hasn’t resumed. On Sunday, civic chief Radhakrishnan said he has returned and would convene a detailed Covid review meeting on Monday. “To start with, testing will be intensified and targeted. Along with that, more focused tracking, tracing methods will be adopted,” he said. Civic officials informed that the civic chief will deliberate over Covid19 status, data entry of cases, vehicles, vaccine, call centre. The meeting will be attended by chief medical officer Dr Narendra Bahirwar and other senior civic health officials. They will also assess infrastructure availability in light of resurgence of cases, tests, data on ICMR portal, Covid staff, availability of medical officers and paramedics, clinical requirements, testing kits, ambulances etc. Health officials feel the NMC need to take proactive measures and not simply wait for people to come to them for testing. “The civic body need to revise certain policies to ensure more citizens are benefited. Instead of waiting at urban primary health centres, medical teams must be deployed in mobile ambulances at crowded markets across the city, gardens and kirana shops etc,” they said. They also said that door-to-door drive to encourage people to get tested need to be undertaken by civic staff, elected representatives and NGOs. As Covid care centres are lying idle, NMC teams need to check and convince people to isolate themselves in institutional quarantine rather than staying at home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-top-brass-missing-from-scene-even-as-2nd-covid-wave-lurks/articleshow/79357371.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 23, 2020||Nashik||Dhule admin to take case-by-case decision on reopening of schools||Nashik: The Dhule district administration has decided to take case-by-case decision on reopening of schools in villages where there are no active Covid-19 cases and where testing of all teachers has been done. Online education across all five districts of Nashik division will continue.With 1.25 lakh students studying in 368 higher secondary schools in the district, which has had only four teachers testing positive for Covid-19, the district administration has decided to take calculated steps in reopening of schools. “The government has asked us to reopen schools any time after November 23. Considering the movement of people during Diwali and the prevailing Covid cases, we have decided to reopen schools in remote villages where there is no prevalence of the infection, but with caution,” said Dhule collector Sanjay Yadav. The collector said that only selected number of schools will be started. These schools will be observed closely and the problems faced will be resolved, after which the improvised system of reopening of a few more schools in rural areas will be carried out step-by-step, the officer said. Jalgaon district, on the other hand, has decided to postpone reopening of schools till December 7.Jalgaon district collector Abhijeet Raut said, “Considering the current situation after Diwali when coronavirus cases are on the rise, we believe that we should wait for some more time before we reopen our schools. We will wait and decide about the same on or after December 7.” Jalgaon district has 2.34 lakh students studying across 857 schools having 12,334 staffers involved in the education process. Meanwhile, Nandurbar district has decided to go ahead with reopening of schools from Monday. The district has recorded 20 teachers testing positive for Covid-19. There are a total of 5,800 teaching and non-teaching staff in 417 schools across Nandurbar district. “The prevalence of the disease is low and under control and, hence, we have decided to reopen schools as per the government orders,” a senior officer from the district collectorate said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/dhule-admin-to-take-case-by-case-decision-on-reopening-of-schools/articleshow/79356413.cms||Abhilash Botekar
November 23, 2020||Nashik||Covid situation stable in Nashik city after Diwali||NASHIK: Almost a week after Diwali, the number of fresh Covid-19 cases reported daily in the city is stable indicating no sudden spike. However, the civic administration is prepared for the second wave of Covid as projected by the state government. Currently, 150 to 200 new Covid cases are reported on average each day. The number of active patients has reduced from over 4,200 cases around one-and-a-half months ago to 1,513 active cases at present due to the drop in the number of new cases and rise in the number of patients recovering since October. NMC officials said the number of tests carried out per day has reduced from 3,000 tests in September to around 1,000 tests. In the last two days, the number of tests being conducted rose to 1,500 per day as school teachers were being tested for Covid. “We are using RT-PCR tests for testing throat swab samples. Antigen tests are conducted in case there is a rise in the number of cases or in an area where the number of cases is more,” said the officials. The officials said, “We have already given an order for around 25,000 antigen kits to the companies concerned and we will get the first lot of 10,000 antigen kits within a day or two.” “There was a spike in the number of Covid cases in September as around 868 cases were being reported per day on an average. But we don’t think the number of cases will again increase to that level even with the second wave,” said the NMC officials The number of cases will remain in the range of 300 to 400 cases per day in case of the second wave, the officials added. With the drops in the number of new cases, the number of containment zones in the city has reduced from 1,000 around a month ago to 432 containment zones at present. The recovery rate of Covid patients in the city is 96.20% while the death rate is 1.37%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/covid-situation-stable-in-nashik-city-after-diwali/articleshow/79356417.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 23, 2020||Mysuru||Pay property dues, MCC to UoM, govt depts||Mysuru: Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) has written to several government agencies and departments including University of Mysore (UoM), Maharaja’s College, Maharani’s colleges and Karnataka Exhibition Authority asking them to pay property tax dues pending for years. UoM authorities confirmed that they have received a tax notice for Rs 4 crore and they will discuss the issue with MCC. About 28 government buildings within MCC limits have been served notices. According to the notice issued to the Maharani’s Science College For Women on JLB Road, the college has defaulted payment of Rs 10,27,943 since 2003-04. The notice says if the college doesn’t pay the dues, MCC may be forced to cut drainage and water connection. MCC commissioner Gurudatta Hegde confirmed that letters have been sent to several government departments seeking early payment of dues. “We wish that these departments pay as much as possible. We will not initiate any action if they agree to take up the matter,” he said. He added that soon, a list of water bill defaulters will be prepared by Vani Vilas Water Works. UoM registrar R Shivappa told TOI they are holding a discussion with MCC authorities about the tax dues. “Many of the buildings which are shown as UoM are now being handed over to other departments and institutes. Breakup of unpaid tax is not given. We are in touch with MCC over the issue,” he said. Karnataka Exhibition Authority (KEA) CEO BR Girish confirmed that they have received a letter from MCC seeking property tax payment. “We will place this in the governing body meeting for decision and follow government directions in this regard,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/pay-property-dues-mcc-to-uom-govt-depts/articleshow/79356604.cms||Shrinivasa M
November 23, 2020||Mysuru||BJP wooing former minister N Mahesh to consolidate Dalit votebank?||Mysuru: The saffron surge in the southern districts of Karnataka, and more so in the Old Mysore region, was among the salient points one derived from the outcome of both the 2018 assembly and the ’19 Lok Sabha polls. What was even more revealing was the BJP’s performance in constituencies where the Dalits accounted for a sizeable chunk of the electorate. Now, in a bid to further strengthen its hold among the Dalits in the Old Mysore region, the party is reportedly trying to woo former minister and Kollegal MLA N Mahesh. Ahead of the polls to the gram panchayat in South Karnataka districts, the BJP is eager to add Mahesh to its rank of influential Dalit leaders. V Srinivasa Prasad’s joining the party more than three years ago helped the party make inroads in Chamarajanagar – Prasad is the incumbent MP for the Chamarajanagar Lok Sabha segment – and the BJP is now keen on expanding its base in the border district, and the induction of Mahesh, who is reportedly very popular among the young Dalit populace in the district, is likely to help achieve this objective. Chamarajanagar district in-charge minister S Suresh Kumar had, in the wake of BJP bagging the vice-president’s post in the Kollegal City Municipal Council, publicly thanked Mahesh for his help. In a tweet, Kumar had gone to the extent of claiming Mahesh to be a member of the BJP’s family. Mahesh said that he was not averse to the prospect of joining the party. “But I am yet to receive any formal invitation from the party. But I have learnt that the possibility is being discussed within the BJP. I have not discussed the possibility of joining the BJP with anyone so far,” said the former minister, who recently announced that he would not return to the BSP. Mahesh was expelled from the BSP after he abstained from voting during the ‘no-confidence motion’ against the HD Kumaraswamy-led coalition government. General secretary for BJP’s Karnataka unit MLC N Ravi Kumar said that the party would readily welcome Mahesh, who had been instrumental in the party coming to power in the state last year. Although the saffron party’s Chamarajanagar unit president R Sundar endorsed Ravi Kumar’s opinion, BJP’s Mysuru region organisation secretary Suresh Babu said that there were no proposals that the top brass was considering regarding Mahesh’s possible induction. ‘Decision will have to be taken by state party chief’ N Mahesh helped us stake claim in the Kollegal CMC. We share a cordial relationship. Mahesh will be welcomed to the BJP if he accepts our ideology. I will confer with the president of the Karnataka unit of the BJP about his joining the party. But since he is an MLA and the leader of another party, a decision in this regard will have to be taken by the party’s state president. -R Sundar | President, Chamarajanagar BJP||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/bjp-wooing-former-minister-n-mahesh-to-consolidate-dalit-votebank/articleshow/79356292.cms||Shrinivasa M
November 23, 2020||Bengaluru||Recoveries surge to 96 per cent from 93 per cent in October; Bengaluru Urban lags||BENGALURU: Even as Karnataka’s caseload nears the 9-lakh mark, recoveries continue to outpace fresh cases, with the number of patients under treatment accounting for less than 3% as on Saturday (November 21). At 96%, the state’s recovery rate is better than the country’s average, and is expected to help handle a second wave, which is anticipated in early 2021, better than the first surge. As of Saturday, only Bengaluru Urban district’s recovery rate (94%) was lower than the state average. Of the 24,714 patients still being treated, 17,812 were in Bengaluru Urban, which has reported 3.6 lakh of the 8.6 lakh total positive cases in Karnataka. Comparatively, the recovery rate was at 93% as on October 31, from where it improved to 94.8% by the first week of November. In the first three weeks of November, the state added only 47,930 new cases compared to 1.8 lakh cases during the same weeks in October, which ended with 2.2 lakh cases. Cases in October had dipped marginally compared to nearly 2.6 lakh the state added in September. Naturally, November also saw a lower number of discharges — 77,760 patients have been discharged in the first three weeks, compared to nearly 1.9 lakh during the same weeks in October. Total discharges topped 2.7 lakh in October, which was an improvement from 2.3 lakh in September. “The consistent fall in new cases has reduced the active cases burden significantly. If we manage the pandemic like this for another six to eight weeks, then we will be in a good position to handle the second wave, if there is one,” an official said. At 1.4%, the state’s case fatality rate has increased marginally, but is still under control and better than the national average. Multiple experts and government officials have, as reported by TOI earlier, have been reiterating that the government’s focus has been to bring down the CFR to below 1%. --------||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/recoveries-surge-to-96-from-93-in-october-bengaluru-urban-lags/articleshow/79357037.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara records 101 fresh coronavirus cases in 24 hours||VADODARA: Vadodara city and district continued to witness a steady rise in number of fresh Covid-10 cases on Sunday as well. After a gap of almost a month, the number of cases registered in a single day have again started crossing three digits. While the city and the district had witnessed an addition of 101 new cases in 24 hours ending on Saturday evening, this figure further increased to 105 in 24 hours ending Sunday evening. Within VMC limits, the fresh cases have been reported from Gokulnagarm VIP Road, Chhani, Akota, Subhanpura, Gorwa, Gotri, Makarpura, Nizampura, Siyabaug, Karelibaug, Vadsar, Tarsali, Ajwa Road, Kisanwadi, Nava Yard and Gajrawadi. Vadodara had registered highest cases in a single day in the month of September when the fresh cases within 24 hours had touched 135 mark. But later the number of cases had started falling below 100. With Vadodara rural alone registering 39 new cases, the total number of Covid-19 cases in rural areas of the district has reached 5,102. Both north and east zones of the covic body recorded 15 fresh cases of Covid-19 each while the south and west zones registered 19 and 17 fresh positive cases, respectively. In Vadodara rural, the new cases have been recorded from Padra, Waghodiya, Karodiya, Dabhoi, Savli, Por, Ranoli and Karjan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-records-101-fresh-coronavirus-cases-in-24-hours/articleshow/79356649.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Madurai||HC seeks state govt response on steps to ensure road quality||Madurai: Madras high court has sought the government’s response on the mechanism adopted to ensure the quality of the roads being laid as well as status report on compliance with the comprehensive directions issued by the principal seat in this regard.Petitioner S M Anthony Muthu had filed a public interest litigation seeking an expert committee for supervising rural road works in Kanyakumari district to ensure they are executed according to the estimates and after scrapping the existing roads. The committee must check the measurements and quality of the roads after completion of work before settling the bills, he said.A division bench of Justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi observed that it is common knowledge that indiscriminate repair and relaying of roads without scrapping the existing roads will lead to considerable increase in height of the roads. Consequently, buildings go down resulting in inundation during rain, flooding of houses and blocking drainage. Such is the condition for the past 25 years and the quality of the work is also not up to the mark, since the roads are relaid without scrapping the existing roads. Unless quality roads are laid, accidents and the consequent loss of lives cannot be prevented.Observing that this is an important issue to be dealt with elaborately, the judges suo-motu impleaded the secretaries to highways and minor ports department, municipal administration and water supply department, rural development and panchayat raj department, public works department, director of rural development and panchayat raj department and director of town panchayats as respondents in the case.The judges directed the state government to produce the GOs, circulars which govern the laying/relaying of roads and also details on the mechanism to ensure the quality of the roads laid /relaid, including the types of tests. The judges pointed out that interim orders were passed by the principal seat in February, in which comprehensive directions were given as to the scrapping of existing roads while laying / relaying of roads. The case was adjourned to November 30 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-seeks-state-govt-response-on-steps-to-ensure-road-quality/articleshow/79359293.cms||Kaushik Kannan
November 23, 2020||Mysuru||E-toilets in Mysuru in need of maintenance||Mysuru: As many as 24 e-toilets in Mysuru are not working because the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) has not renewed their annual maintenance contracts. Multiple complaints have been raised to the civic body, especially by women, regarding the poor state of the e-toilets that were installed at cost of about Rs 2 crore. According to the public, they are facing problems with regard to inserting coins, opening doors, indicator lights and cleanliness. In some of the toilets, miscreants have damaged the coin box to steal the money. Speaking to TOI, MCC commissioner Gurudatta Hegde said, “We have called the tender twice for the maintenance, but no agency has come forward to participate in the tender process. This has created problem for us to take up maintenance. There is no dearth of money in the corporation for the maintenance.” Hegde said the issues are related to electronic components and parts installed in the e-toilets which only a few agencies can resolve. “Such agencies are not participating in the tender process resulting in the problem. We are ensuring that electronic items are repaired or replaced twice a year to ensure that the facility is available for the public. For regular maintenance, tenders are being called. We have also installed CCTV cameras outside the e-toilets as some miscreants have damaged the coin boxes,” he said. He added that there are no sanctioned posts for hiring watchmen to be deployed at the toilets to prevent miscreants damaging the toilets. MCC health standing committee chairman J Gopi told TOI that tenders are floated inviting agencies to take up maintenance of the e-toilets. “We are taking the service of the existing agencies to continue the maintenance,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/e-toilets-in-mysuru-in-need-of-maintenance/articleshow/79356536.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Delhi||Timely implant saves 44-year-old woman with rare heart condition||NEW DELHI: Doctors at GB Pant Hospital recently implanted a bi-ventricular pacemaker — a device that paces both sides of the lower chambers of the heart — to save the life of a 44-year-old woman suffering from a rare heart disease. Asha Sharma, the patient, was born with congenitally corrected transposition of the great arteries (CCTGA), a condition in which the heart’s lower half is reversed. Sharma was referred to GB Pant Hospital after having multiple episodes of syncope or fainting on November 1. Dr Jamal Yusuf, professor of cardiology at the hospital, said when they did an electrocardiogram (ECG), it was found the patient had a complete heart blockage. “If she wasn’t treated in time, she would have suffered from cardiac arrest and died,” Dr Yusuf claimed. Normally, cardiologists implant a dual chamber pacemaker to treat complete heart blockage. However, because Sharma also suffered from CCTGA, doctors decided to implant a bi-ventricular pacemaker. Pacemakers that pace both the right atrium and right ventricle of the heart and require two pacing leads are called “dual-chamber” pacemakers. On the other hand, “bi-ventricular” pacemakers are those that pace the right atrium and right and left ventricles. Dr Yusuf said implantation of a dual-chamber pacemaker would have led to heart failure in a very short time. “Therefore, we decided to do a bi-ventricular pacemaker implantation. The process involves a third lead to be deployed through the coronary sinus into the systemic ventricle,” he added. The procedure was carried out by a team of doctors that included Dr Saibal Mukhopadhyay, Dr Sanjeev Kathuria and Dr Yusuf.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/timely-implant-saves-44-yr-old-woman-with-rare-heart-condition/articleshow/79359254.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Nashik||Nashik district reports 233 cases||Nashik: The district reported 233 fresh Covid-19 patients, including 153 from Nashik city, in the last 24 hours, taking the tally of positive cases to 98,629. A total of four patients succumbed to Covid in the district, including three from the city. The death toll has risen to 1,765 in the district, including 897 in the city. As many as 174 patients were discharged from across the district on Sunday, of them, 124 patients are from Nashik city. The district has 2,611 active cases, including 1,539 in the city and 964 in the rural parts. The recovery rate of the Nashik district was recorded at 95.56% on Sunday.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-district-reports-233-cases/articleshow/79356421.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Traffic challans for bike lead police to snatchers, three held||NEW DELHI: Two men suspected of committing back-to-back snatchings in southeast Delhi have been arrested after the police tracked the traffic challans issued to their motorcycle. Police said that the bike was used for several snatchings in Amar Colony, Lajpat Nagar and nearby areas. The accused have been identified as Alok Ranjan and Gufran. “A gold chain belonging to the retired top cop’s wife, a journalist’s melted gold chain/coin and its diamond pendant and two mobile phones have been seized from the accused. The bike used in crimes has been seized as well,” DCP (southeast) R P Meena said. Police have also arrested a third suspect named Vishwanath Das, who used to buy stolen items from the men. The duo had recently targeted a former DGP’s wife and a woman journalist, following which the cops were hot on their trail. The reporter was walking to Moolchand Metro Station from her house when the biker duo snatched her chain around 1.50pm. An FIR was registered and a team under SHO Daleep Kumar was formed to track the snatchers. The team followed the route of snatchers and analysed the footage of almost 50 CCTVs at different places. During the analysis of a clip, the motorcycle used for snatching was identified. It was found registered in the name of a man named Gufran, a resident of Amethi, UP. “The team obtained the challan details of the motorcycle from the traffic department and got the mobile number of the owner from the last challan of the motorcycle. The SIM was found registered in the name of one Tavrej Alam, a resident of Tughlaqabad Village. A raid was conducted but the address was non-existent. The cops used technical surveillance to obtain a second number, which was found registered in the name of one Gufran at the address of Valmiki Mohalla, Tughlaqabad. A raid was conducted and the accused men were subsequently arrested. On the instance of Gufran, one gold chain was seized from his house, but that chain was not the one snatched from the journalist. They confessed that the chain bad been snatched almost ten days ago from a woman at Ring Road, Lajpat Nagar. It turned out to be the one snatched from a former DGP’s wife. The men led the cops to their receiver Das from whom the gold in melted form was recovered along with the pendent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/traffic-challans-for-bike-lead-police-to-snatchers-three-held/articleshow/79359286.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Nagpur||566 schools ready to reopen in Chandrapur district||Chandrapur: Schools are all set to reopen gradually from Monday in the district. As per the education department, of the total 617 schools, 566 have opted for reopening and 550 would gradually reopen during the next one week. District collector Ajay Gulhane has already issued the guidelines for reopening of schools based on the GR issued by the state government. The process of carrying out RT-PCR tests of the over 8,000 teachers and non-teaching staff of 617 schools including aided, non-aided, private and ZP schools in the district is underway. Education officer of middle school, Narad, said 566 schools have given their nod for reopening so far. In all, 4,337 teachers and non-teaching staff have tested themselves till Saturday for Covid-19 and 34 of them from 16 schools have been found positive. “The schools observing all the precautionary measures will be allowed to reopen gradually. However, those having positive teachers or non-teaching staff and those who have not tested themselves so far will not be allowed to reopen,” EO Narad told TOI. He claimed that nearly 70% of the schools who have given consent to reopen would gradually reopen. Collector Gulhane has directed the schools to maintain all the preventive measures like thermal scanner, pulse oximeter and hand washing and sanitizing facility. The parents agreeing to send their wards to schools have been directed to provide written consent and those who have opted for online classes should continue with it. He asked schools to call 50% students from Std 1X to XII on alternate day and ensure that physical classes are not held for more than three to four hours. All the precautions of social distancing, sanitization and wearing mask throughout the time is mandatory on school premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/566-schools-ready-to-reopen-in-chandrapur-district/articleshow/79358510.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Dehradun||Nayar Valley adventure fest concludes, Nepalese athletes win mountain biking contests||DEHRADUN: The Nayar Valley Adventure festival in Pauri concluded on Sunday. The fest, the first of its kind organised by the Uttarakhand tourism department and Pauri district administration in collaboration with Himalayan Aero Sports Association, witnessed participants from 15 states of the country and also from Nepal. The fest was inaugurated by chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Thursday (November 19). The CM had also announced plans to open a paragliding training centre in Pauri during the inauguration. Dheeraj Garbyal, district magistrate Pauri, said, “We will have a similar fest next year as well, on a much bigger scale.” He added that participants from Nepal gave a tough competition to those from states like Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, among others. “Participants from hill states bagged most of the prizes,” added the DM. The women’s mountain biking contest was won by 27-year-old Usha Khanal from Nepal, and 22-year-old Anisha Gurung, also from Nepal, finished as the first runner-up. In the men’s category, Ashish Sherpa, Ramesh Bharti, and Akash Sherpa bagged the top three spots respectively. All three of them are also from Nepal. In the national-level paragliding competition, Chitr Singh, Ranjit Singh, and Amit Thakur secured the first, second, and third positions respectively. All three winners hail from Bir Billing area of Himachal Pradesh which is known as the paragliding hub of India. They received cash prizes of Rs 50,000, Rs 30,000, and Rs 20,000 respectively. “Under the women’s category in paragliding, the only participant — Alisha from Arunachal Pradesh — was awarded a cash prize of Rs 21,000,” said Garbyal. In the angling competition, Satpal from Himachal won the first prize.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nayar-valley-adventure-fest-concludes-nepalese-athletes-win-mountain-biking-contests/articleshow/79356432.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 23, 2020||Goa||Sarzora, Saulem among 5 lakes to get wetland tag||Panaji: After Bondvoll lake, five more waterbodies have inched closer to being declared as wetlands in Goa, under the Union environment ministry’s wetland rules. The Goa State Wetlands Authority, in a draft notification, has proposed to declare as wetland the Sarzora lake in Salcete, the Toyyar or Chimbel lake, the Dashi lake in Revora, the Saulem lake in Pilerne and the Xeldem lake in Quepem. The authority has called for any objections or suggestions within a period of 60 days to the draft notification of these five waterbodies being declared wetlands. After the five lakes are declared as wetlands, several activities will be prohibited in and around them as per the Wetlands (Conservation and Management) Rules, 2017 of the central government. The five waterbodies are proposed to be declared wetlands as they are ‘considered to be critically significant for its ecosystem services and biodiversity values for the local communities and society at large’. Of the five, Sarzora lake includes the largest area of over 1.69 lakh sqm, followed by Saulem lake with an area of more than One lakh sqm. While the Toyyar lake comprises of an area admeasuring 51,000 sqm, the Dashi lake includes an area of over 28,000 sqm. Similarly, the Xeldem lake is made up of 18,400 sqm of area. The lakes as well as their areas of influence will be protected. Once the areas are declared wetlands, the activities prohibited in the areas include its conversion for non-wetland, setting up of any industry and expansion of existing industries, disposal or handling of any construction waste, solid waste dumping, discharge of untreated wastes, among others. Encroachment or any construction of a permanent nature except for boat jetties will also be disallowed from notified wetlands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sarzora-saulem-among-5-lakes-to-get-wetland-tag/articleshow/79358504.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality is likely to be ‘very poor’ today||NEW DELHI: Delhi’s air quality, which has remained in the moderate to poor range post-Diwali due to western disturbance, is likely to deteriorate from Monday to very poor category. On Sunday, the Air Quality Index (AQI) reading of the capital was 274 in poor category, Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data showed. Track the pollution level in your cityAir Quality Early Warning System for Delhi, a body under the Union ministry of earth sciences, said, “Air quality is likely to deteriorate and remain in very poor category on Monday and Tuesday. The air quality is likely to deteriorate further and reach in upper end of very poor category on Wednesday and Thursday, owing to unfavourable meteorological conditions for dispersion of pollutants.” Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “The average wind speed recorded on Sunday was 10 kmph, but it is forecast to reduce to around 6 kmph for next three-four days, impacting the dispersion of pollutants. Besides, the minimum temperature is predicted to hover around 10 degrees Celsius, which is below the normal mark. The low temperature slows down the dispersion of pollutants.” The System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR), the forecasting body under the union ministry of earth sciences, said effective stubble fire counts with sufficient potential estimated from SAFAR-multi-satellite products decreased and 649 fire counts were observed in the northern plains. Stubble burning share in Delhi’s air was estimated as 12% for Sunday. “The overall air quality of Delhi was in the poor category on Sunday morning. Surface winds are southwesterly and moderate, and the boundary layer wind is high and in the northwesterly direction. Winds are forecast to slow down and low ventilation is forecast for Monday and Tuesday,” said SAFAR’s bulletin on Sunday. Delhi’s overall AQI was recorded as 435 on November 15, a day after Diwali, in severe category. However, due to rain and change in wind direction under the influence of western disturbance, the AQI improved to 221 on November 16 in poor category. Since November 16, AQI of Delhi has been hovering in the moderate to poor range.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhis-air-quality-is-likely-to-be-very-poor-today/articleshow/79359297.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Lucknow||Hathras case: CBI takes 4 to Gujarat for brain mapping||LUCKNOW: Four accused in Hathras case, who are lodged in Aligarh prison, were on Sunday taken to Gandhinagar (Gujarat) by a team of CBI officials for polygraph and brain mapping tests. On October 3, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had recommended a CBI probe into the alleged gang rape and murder of a 19-year-old girl after which the agency registered a case of murder, gang rape and prevention of atrocities against SC/ST on October 11. A resident of Boolgarhi village in Hathras, the girl had died at Delhi's Safdarjung hospital on September 29. Superintendent of Aligarh jail, Alok Singh, told TOI that the four accused were taken to Gandhinagar after obtaining permission from the court. “They left for Delhi at 1pm on Saturday from where they have been taken to Gandhinagar,” he said. Sources privy to the CBI investigation said the accused were currently lodged in Ahmedabad central jail. They will be taken to Gujarat Forensic Science University (FSU) in Gandhinagar for tests. Brain electrical oscillation signature (BEOS) is a test that measures individual brain-wave responses to relevant words, pictures, sounds and places presented by a computer. Measurements are recorded in fractions of a second after the stimulus is presented, before the subject is able to formulate or control a response. Polygraph test (also known as lie detector test) is conducted in a similar manner. “Responses emerging from the two tests would be matched with the statements given by the accused. CBI will verify the presence of the accused at the spot of crime on the fateful day,” an officer privy to the investigation said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/hathras-case-cbi-takes-4-to-gujarat-for-brain-mapping/articleshow/79359302.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand governor Baby Rani Maurya tests positive for Covid-19; 466 fresh cases in state, 9 deaths||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand governor Baby Rani Maurya tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. In a tweet, she wrote, “I am asymptomatic and have isolated myself. I request everyone who came in my contact in the last few days to get themselves tested.” Notably, she had held a meeting with Bhagat Singh Koshyari, Maharashtra governor, at the latter's Dehradun residence just a day earlier on Saturday. On Sunday, the state recorded 466 fresh cases of Covid-19. With this, the number of novel coronavirus cases in Uttarakhand rose to 71,256. “The state also reported deaths of nine Covid-19 positive patients on Sunday, pushing the death toll of the virus to 1,155 in the state,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. The official added that as many as 251 people recovered from Covid-19 infection on the day and the total number of cured cases, till Sunday, was 65,102 in the state. Among the fresh cases, the maximum of 181 were recorded in Dehradun, followed by 65 in Pauri, 53 in Haridwar, 40 in Nainital, 38 in Pithoragarh, 23 in Udham Singh Nagar, 16 in Chamoli, 15 in Uttarkashi, 14 in Tehri, seven in Champawat, five cases each in Almora and Bageshwar, and four in Rudraprayag. The state health department on Sunday tested 131 people for Covid-19 test in random sampling at the Asharodi check post. These people were entering Uttarakhand from other states. “During random sampling tests, five people were found Covid-19 positive. All those found infected were from the National Capital Region. They went back to their respective cities after we asked them to get admitted to a hospital in Uttarakhand,” said Dr Dinesh Chauhan, district surveillance officer. He added that around 550 people have been tested at the Asharodi check post in the last 3-4 days and among these, 15 people have tested positive for Covid-19. Meanwhile, health watchers in the state have said that despite an order by the health secretary to test at least 10,000 samples for novel coronavirus daily, the average daily testing figures have gone down in Uttarakhand in the month of November. Anoop Nautiyal, member of Social Development for Communities Foundation (an organisation closely tracking the Covid-19 scenario in the Himalayan state), said that the number of Covid-19 tests conducted in the state in November (so far) is 20,000 lesser than the number of samples tested last month. “In October, we conducted 85,000 Covid-19 tests but this month, we are down to 64,000 tests. The state government needs to focus on increasing tests. Not just Covid-19 cases but the infection rate, too, has been steadily climbing up. I would also like to request the state residents to acknowledge that the pandemic isn’t over yet and hence, it is their responsibility to abide by the government guidelines,” added Nautiyal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-governor-baby-rani-maurya-tests-positive-for-covid-19-466-fresh-cases-in-state-9-deaths/articleshow/79356452.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 23, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Staff fudge sale proceeds to keep records clean||CHENNAI: You can pay with your debit or credit card at Tasmac wine shops, but you’ll still be charged more than the maximum retail price. The staff at these shops have perfected a system to overcharge customers by tallying cash sales with those made using point of sale (PoS) machines. For instance, if a consumer buys a brandy bottle with an MRP of Rs 960, it billed as Rs 1,000 through the PoS machine. The payment through card goes directly to the official bank account. When another customer purchases the same bottle by cash, again paying Rs1,000, it is recorded as Rs. 920 in the ledger book, and the staff keep Rs. 80. At the end of the day Tasmac accounts will tally as it only looks at total revenue from liquor sold, not the revenue from each bottle. Had bills been issued and each verified separately, the scam would not work. But whether it is the elite shops or the neighbourhood vend, customers do not get bills. Those who ask for them are shooed away. A visit by TOI tot two elite shops at GN Chetty Road and Nungambakkam revealed that the outlets sold premium Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) and imported liquor at Rs20 to Rs100 more than the MRP, depending on the brands. Asked about the excess rates, an employee at one of the shops said that the MRP printed on the bottle cover was the older rate. Ironically, liquor prices were revised in May this year. Responding to a public interest writ petition filed in the Madras High Court to ensure that liquor is not sold above the MRP, Tasmac five months ago informed the court that it was not charging extra. N Periyasamy, state president of Tasmac Employees Union affiliated to AITUC, said that billing before buying liquor bottles, a system followed in Kerala, would prevent overcharging to a large extent. Commissioner of prohibition and excise, D. Mohan, who holds additional charge as Tasmac managing director, did not respond to TOI queries on MRP violations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/staff-fudge-sale-proceeds-to-keep-records-clean/articleshow/79357414.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
November 23, 2020||Nagpur||Cops turn firefighters in Chanda village, save paddy on 10-15 acres||Nagpur: Asst police inspector (API) Sushil Dhokte and his team from Dhaba police station of Gondpipri taluka in Chandrapur district last week fought a fire on the paddy field with the help of the villagers instead of waiting for the fire brigade to reach from Ballarshah, around 70 -km away. Dhokte’s initiative saved paddy crop on almost 10-15 acres from a fast spreading flame. State home minister Anil Deshmukh had taken to social media to extol the efforts of the police officer and his prompt decision that saved crop worth around Rs 6 to 7 lakh. Villagers from Dhaba were already in panic as there was substantial loss to the farmers of Kothari village after the paddy was damaged in similar fire. Dhokte and his team were out on Short Range Patrolling (SRP) when they had received information about a deranged woman having set paddy stock kept in the field on fire at Dabha village. When the API and around a dozen cops reached the field, the flames were engulfing the stacked paddy. Dhokte said his first reaction was to trace out a source of water before anything else. “After a pond was found, I recalled our training of forming human chains at Nashik police academy to relay any materials from a distance. Immediately, I asked my colleagues to form a human chain and asked the villagers to bring some buckets,” said Dhokte, an officer of 2011 batch. “Some villagers too joined in the human chain. We relayed buckets of water and started splashing them on the flames. This continued for almost two hours when a villager suggested a tractor be pressed into action to create a bund to direct water from the pond to the paddy field,” said the API. “The water was channelized from pond to affected paddy field until the flames were doused. The fire brigade also reached the place to wrap up the operation,” said Dhokte. The API said the villagers were relieved to see their paddy crop saved after much efforts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-turn-firefighters-in-chanda-village-save-paddy-on-10-15-acres/articleshow/79358509.cms||---
November 23, 2020||India||Marxist-Leninist tenets drive China quest: Report||NEW DELHI: The ideological driving force behind China's quest for global dominance flows from an authoritarian, "overarching sensibility" based on its take on Marxist-Leninist tenets and is central to understanding the communist giant's actions, a recent US state department report says. The state department report, which attracted attention here for its references to China's efforts to contain India, has dwelt at length on President Xi Jinping's commitment to spreading the influence of Chinese socialism around the globe, arguing that despite seeming contradictions, there is no conflict in the promotion of Chinese hyper-nationalism and communist thought. "That (Chinese) sensibility is authoritarian, collectivist and imperial. Two streams of ideas nourish it. Seminal CCP writings and speeches proclaim cardinal tenets of Marxism-Leninism as interpreted by successive Chinese communist leaders beginning with Mao Zedong... CCP writings and speeches also espouse an extreme interpretation of Chinese nationalism," the report states. The hybrid result is an ideological stance that is neither strictly communist nor purely nationalist, but which seeks dominance of a single party and thought. "The CCP reconciles the conflicting imperatives of Marxism-Leninism and its extreme interpretation of Chinese nationalism by assigning to China the dominant role in interpreting the ultimate configuration of, achieving, and administering international socialism," the report states. The report notes, as have several commentaries, that Xi, just like China's founding leader Mao Zedong, is completely dedicated to the goal of ensuring the supremacy of the communist party in the affairs of China. The model seeks to remodel the world order that the Chinese leadership tells its citizens is unjust and western-oriented, while side-stepping issues of human rights. Commentators have noted that in the view of the Chinese communists, party rule is fully "democratic" as it reflects the will of the people even in the absence of a democratic exercise. Though controls have become more subtle and discreet, they remain essentially modelled after 20th century Leninist methods where the party is in charge of all elements of national life. "Neither the communist authoritarianism the CCP has imposed on the people in China nor its hyper-nationalism are inevitable. Indeed, prominent alternatives have prospered in the region. No less steeped in Confucian traditions... the people of Hong Kong, Taiwan and South Korea embraced freedom and democracy," the US report says. The report notes that ideological indoctrination is among the party's paramount concerns and Xi is determined to put the power of the state to back a single point understanding of economics, politics and international relations. "We will work harder to study and develop Marxist theory," he vowed in 2017. "We will foster a Marxist-style of learning, and make it regular practice and an institutionalised requirement for all party members."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/marxist-leninist-tenets-drive-china-quest-report/articleshow/79360030.cms||Rajeev Deshpande
November 23, 2020||Meerut||Tractor runs over seven-year-old in Muzaffarnagar||MUZAFFARNAGAR: A seven-year-old was run over by a tractor on Sunday morning at Rohani-Harjipur village, under Charthawal police station area, after its driver lost control of the vehicle. A hunt is on to nab the driver, who abandoned the vehicle after the accident and fled from the spot. Witnesses said Ahil Ahmed was playing when a speeding tractor-trolley rammed into a bike and then, crushed the boy. The boy was rushed to hospital, where he was declared brought dead. Police have seized the tractor-trolley and identified the driver as Subham. He was returning home after delivering sugarcane. Dharmendra Singh, station house officer, Charthawal police station, said, “A case has been registered. The accused will be soon be nabbed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/tractor-runs-over-seven-year-old-in-muzaffarnagar/articleshow/79356463.cms||Mohd Dilshad
November 23, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand govt announces revocation of order declaring Har-ki-Pauri as an escape channel||HARIDWAR: Following years of protest from priests in Haridwar, the state government on Sunday eventually ordered revocation of the order which stated that Har-Ki-Pauri is on the banks of an “escape channel” of the Ganga canal and not on the banks of the Ganga river. The contentious order was issued by the erstwhile Harish Rawat government in 2016 after the National Green Tribunal (NGT) prohibited construction of buildings along the Ganga in Uttarakhand in 2015. The decision to revoke the order was announced after chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat held a meeting with the representatives of Ganga Sabha and Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad (ABAP) at his residence in Dehradun. The teerth purohit (priests) community in Haridwar started celebrations after the announcement by bursting firecrackers and pouring milk in the Ganga at Har-ki-Pauri. Ujjwal Pandit, a local priest, said, “We worship Ganga as our mother but the previous government took a decision against the people’s feelings. We are happy now.” Pradeep Jha, president of Ganga Sabha, told TOI, “To save builders and members of the land mafia, the previous government had declared Har-ki-Pauri stream as an escape channel. This hurt the feelings of all Ganga devotees across the world. We have been protesting against the order since then. We have finally won the battle.” Notably, ex-CM Harish Rawat had in July this year also termed the order issued by his government as a mistake and said the BJP government should correct the mistake.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-govt-announces-revocation-of-order-declaring-har-ki-pauri-as-an-escape-channel/articleshow/79356466.cms||MS Nawaz
November 23, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal governor’s tweet after arrest of ‘CA’||KOLKATA: The detective department arrested a person late on Saturday in connection with a 2017 Hare Street police station FIR which implicated him and an IRS officer for cheating and corruption. A city court on Sunday remanded Govind Agarwal in judicial custody till November 24 and directed that he be given medical help. A senior police officer said, “Agarwal was arrested after a long probe. He is one of the FIR-named accused in a Hare Street police station case.” Police sources said the 2017 FIR against Agarwal was lodged on the basis of a report by a detective department sub-inspector. In the complaint, it was alleged that the IRS officer, then posted in the income tax department in Kolkata, had “used” Agarwal as a “middleman” to park funds in various companies. One of these companies, it was claimed, was linked to a group which is being probed by CBI and Enforcement Directorate (ED). Sources said the ED had also inquired into this specific complaint. Alarmingly worrisome inputs from CA fraternity-politically inspired operation overzealousy afoot @KolkataPolice hea… https://t.co/7AOrlO5Qrg— Governor West Bengal Jagdeep Dhankhar (@jdhankhar1) 1606009923000Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar in several posts on Twitter after the arrest dubbed it as a “politically inspired operation.” He alleged that the arrest “targets CAs” to thwart probe by central agencies regarding coal and cattle mafia in Bengal. He said, “Beneficiaries in ‘uniform’ and power in preemptive mode to compromise team members (in) coal (and) cattle mafia raids to neutralise or impede actions against them. Those spearheading this extra legal antidotal operation are oblivious that these misadventures are often counterproductive.” Biplab Goswami, Agarwal’s lawyer, said, “He had attended the interrogation six times he was summoned. He cooperated with them fully. He has even responded to a Kolkata Police questionnaire in August. Also, if the FIR names a central government officer, do cops have the jurisdiction to probe it?” Sources said in addition to the complaint, police have also cited items seized from Agarwal’s possession before. This reportedly included Agarwal’s travel-related documents and also those of the central government officer. Some of these documents, police claimed, including those on the the usage of a car, are linked to the people being probed by CBI and ED in the ongoing Ponzi cases. The Bengal home department did not immediately respond to the Governor’s allegations. The state BJP leadership did not make any formal statement on the arrest. State parliamentary affairs minister Partha Chatterjee, responding to the Governor’s Twitter posts, said, “Instead of tweeting he can formally join a political party. He is bringing disgrace to his pride and honour.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/governors-tweet-after-arrest-of-ca/articleshow/79357422.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 23, 2020||Surat||‘Provide public transport to airport, station during curfew’||SURAT: Members of airport activists’ group have demanded public transportation for passengers to and from the railway station and airport during night curfew hours. Around 15 flights land at Surat Airport daily and a similar number of flights take off daily. Urging Surat civic chief Banchhanidhi Pani for immediate provision of transportation facilities, Sanjay Jain, one of the members of the group, ‘We work for Airport’, told TOI, “Sans cab or rickshaws available after 7pm, passengers to and from the railway station and airport are finding transportation a huge problem. We, therefore, urge the Surat Municipal Corporation to provide public transport facilities during the curfew hours.” SMC officials, however, said that it has reduced its fleet of city buses from 300 to 200 in the city in the last few days due to spread of Covid-19. On an average, around 60,000 people use city bus services daily right now. “City bus services reduced in the city owing to spread of Covid-19. Service within city have been stopped after 7 pm as night curfew comes into effect,’‘ said Kamlesh Naik, Deputy Municipal Commissioner, SMC. “In normal circumstances, public transport system operates till 9 pm but due to curfew restrictions, we now operate only till 7 pm,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/provide-public-transport-to-airport-station-during-curfew/articleshow/79356472.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Nagpur||Crorepatis with criminal cases in fray for grad constituency polls||Nagpur: The affidavits of the candidates for the graduates’ constituency reveal that there are quite a few with criminal records. However, a majority of them are lakhpatis and a few are crorepatis. So far, the district administration has uploaded affidavits of 18 candidates on its website. According to sources, who scrutinized affidavits of all the 19 contestants in fray, about 38% are crorepatis, including the favourites, while 27% have complaints registered against them at various police stations. Most of the crimes are related to minor offences like protests at public places and unlawful assembly registered under the Bombay Police Act and others. Two of them have over 16 criminal cases registered against them. Highly qualified individuals were expected to contest the graduate constituency polls. While 39% of them are graduates, 34% hold postgraduate degrees. Only one candidate is a PhD holder while one is an Ayurvedic doctor. Few of them are from law and engineering backgrounds. A majority of 19 candidates hail from business backgrounds and only 22% have academic credentials. About 17% have a legal background (LLB or higher degrees). The affidavits posted on the Maharashtra government’s website further indicate that out of all crorepati candidates, four are independents while three are from registered political parties. About 23% have an annual income in the range of Rs50 lakh and Rs1 crore while one candidate has filed his income below Rs1 lakh. About 38% have displayed their income below Rs5 lakh. The affidavits further reveal that maximum contestants in the fray are from Nagpur district (about 62%), while 17% are from Chandrapur, 12% Wardha, 6% Gondia and other districts. AT A GLANCE * About 38% contestants crorepatis, including favourites * Four independents & three from registered political parties * 27% have complaints against them at various police stations * Two have over 16 criminal cases registered against them * Most crimes are related to minor offences like protests at public places * 39% contestants are graduates while 34% hold postgraduate degrees * Only one candidate is a PhD holder, the other is an Ayurvedic doctor * Most candidates have business background, 22% academics * About 17% from legal background with LLB or higher degrees||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/crorepatis-with-criminal-cases-in-fray-for-grad-constituency-polls/articleshow/79358519.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
November 23, 2020||Madurai||HC for police protection to govt officials discharging duty||Madurai: Madras high court has observed that police officials should provide proper protection to the government officials who are discharging their duty in a lawful manner.The court was hearing the anticipatory bail petition filed by Senthil Kumar alias Senthil who apprehends arrest in a case registered by Thiruchuli police in Virudhunagar district.The government lawyer submitted that while conducting regular check-up by the jurisdictional deputy tahsildar, the vehicle belonging to the petitioner was intercepted. He submitted that the petitioner along with other accused criminally intimidated the officials and caused damage to the vehicle belonging to the revenue officials. They had threatened the revenue officials and prevented them from performing their duties. He submitted that the accused are yet to be arrested.Justice S M Subramaniam observed that the court is unable to understand that when a police officer is prevented by some accused, they immediately react and act sensitively. However when government officials are prevented by somebody, police are not acting properly.The government officials must be given protection, while discharging duty in a lawful manner and it is the duty of police to ensure that the government officials within their jurisdiction are given protection, the court observed.The action of police is a surprise in the present case. No action has been taken by the police inspector for the past three months. Observing this, the judge directed the inspector of Thiruchuli police station to appear before the court during the next hearing and directed to file an affidavit stating as to why no action has been taken against the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-for-police-protection-to-govt-officials-discharging-duty/articleshow/79359301.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Mumbai||Uniform development rules coming across Maharashtra||MUMBAI: After a delay of three years, the state is finally set to implement a unified development control rules policy for all municipal corporations, councils and nagar panchayats in Maharashtra, excluding Mumbai and a few surrounding areas. The standardised rules will leave little scope for misinterpretation by local town planning officials, said government sources. Thane, Navi Mumbai, Pune, Aurangabad, Nashik, Nagpur, Solapur and Kolhapur will come under the ambit of the new rules, which are likely to bring uniformity in width of roads, size of rooms, etc. Height of buildings would, however, vary depending on the plot size and its FSI potential. “The urban development department (UDD) has finalised the rules, to be formally notified now,” Bhushan Gagrani, UDD secretary, told TOI. At present, while construction activities are allowed in a designated zone of one city, they may not be permitted in a similar zone in another city. “These ambiguities will now be removed under the unified rules, bringing in transparency and efficiency,” said Gagrani. “Unified Development Control and Promotion Regulations is the single set of rules which will be applicable to the entire state except areas under the BMC, MIDC, Mumbai Port Trust, JNPT, eco-sensitive zones and the Navi Mumbai Airport Notified Area (NAINA),” said Gagrani. The state has 27 municipal corporations, 392 municipal councils, 42,700 villages and 28,000 gram panchayats. Nashik-based developer Rajan Daryani said the rules will remove incongruities. “In Pune, transfer of development rights (TDR) could be loaded on roads less than nine metres wide while in Nashik it was not permitted. In some cities, local authorities allowed 15% balcony areas while in some cities it was just 10%,” he said, adding that the unified rules must be put in “black and white” so that there is no scope for misinterpretation by local officials. Pune-based developer Rohit Gera said that currently each corporation has had its own rules and “these have been interpreted differently over time in different jurisdictions”. “I certainly believe that there are many issues that could be combined under a unified set of rules. However, there needs to be room for local nuances. Pune, for example, has air force restrictions. To the extent there are local issues and if they are addressed, I see no issues in having unified rules for the state,” he said. Gera cautioned that if too much construction activity is permitted under the unified rules, those towns which do not have the requisite civic infrastructure to support increased floor space index (FSI) could suffer. Atul Chordia, chairman of Panchshil Realty, which built Trump Towers in Pune, said, “For any developer who wants to do multi-city operations, he must refer on only one DCR. To a large extent, building impediments will be removed and the process will be simplified.” Prashant Saroday, a Nagpur builder, said construction activity in cities and towns across the state had been affected as builders and architects waited for the new rules. “They did not want to take their building permissions under the existing rules since they wanted to take advantage of the unified DCR,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/uniform-devpt-rules-coming-across-maha/articleshow/79359670.cms||Nauzer Bharucha
November 23, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Eight associates of Vinay Kulkarni grilled||DHARWAD: Eight persons, said to be close associates of ex-minister Vinay Kulkarni, were questioned by CBI officials at suburban police station here on Saturday. The investigating team questioned them for more than six hours in two shifts. Yousuf Hulgur, Hanumanth Koravar, Chandrashekar Indi from Vijayapura, Basavaraj Muttagi, Youth Congress leader Sourabh, rowdy-sheeter Muktum Sogalad, Somshekar Nyamgouda who was personal secretary to Vinay when the latter was the minister and Kulkarni’s younger brother Vijay Kulkarni were summoned by the CBI team and interrogated. Sources said all of them were questioned separately in the morning and together post-lunch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/eight-associates-of-vinay-kulkarni-grilled/articleshow/79356220.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Meerut||Girl, 8, resists rape bid, strangled to death by neighbour in UP’s Bijnor||BIJNOR: An eight-year-old girl was strangled to death allegedly by a youth, 16, after she resisted a rape attempt and threatened to reveal the assault to family, police said in Bijnor. The girl, who went missing on Friday evening, was on Saturday morning found dead near a sugarcane field in Bijnor’s Sherkot area during a search operation. And a day later, on Sunday afternoon, local police apprehended the youth, a neighbour of the girl, for the murder and claimed to have cracked the case. The youth, police claimed, has confessed to have killed the girl out of fear of being caught. Bijnor’s superintendent of police (SP) Dharamveer Singh said, “The girl’s grandfather had informed police about her disappearance. She was last seen playing outside her house on Friday evening. Police searched the area, but to no avail. On Saturday morning, when the search was resumed, her body was found lying in bushes near a sugarcane field.” The SP added, “After a probe and some tip-off, we apprehended a 16-year-old minor boy. He is a neighbour of the girl. During the interrogation, the accused confessed. He lured the girl into the sugarcane field on village outskirts. When the girl opposed the rape attempt, the accused thrashed him. “Meanwhile, concerned by the girl’s disappearance, her family members used a loudspeaker asking locals to assemble and help in the search. Fearing that he will be caught, the accused strangled the girl to death and returned to the village. He then joined the crowd and started searching for the girl to avoid suspicion.” The youth was booked under relevant sections of IPC and Posco Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/girl-8-resists-rape-bid-strangled-to-death-by-neighbour-in-ups-bijnor/articleshow/79356492.cms||Harveer Dabas
November 23, 2020||Goa||Stop borrowing spree, improve state finances, says Cong||Panaji: Congress on Sunday expressed alarm over the state government’s borrowing pattern, saying that the state’s fiscal deficit will breach the 5% mark and will lead to an unsustainable debt burden. State Congress president Girish Chodankar said that the government’s mismanagement will make Goa “completely bankrupt” and the debt will be passed on to taxpayers. “The current situation in the state is alarming and chief minister Pramod Sawant should stop adventurism and misleading the people,” Chodankar said. Citing the Reserve Bank of India’s state finances report published on September 30, Chodankar said that the increase in the state’s fiscal deficit indicates that Goa finds it difficult to strike a balance between total revenue and expenditure. “It is now clear that the gross fiscal deficit to gross state domestic product for 2020-21 is expected to be 5.3% and among the highest in the country,” Chodankar said. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Centre has enhanced the fiscal deficit cap from 3% to 5% of the gross state domestic product. Congress said that close to 52% of Goa’s outstanding loans will mature after seven years, against the national average of 45%, indicating that the burden of repaying the outstanding debt will be on the next government.  Congress also slammed the government for issuing state bonds worth Rs 100 crore every fortnight while also giving casino promoters a relaxation in paying annual licence fees. The party said that the pandemic has exposed the weak fiscal policies of the BJP government and has turned the state budget on its head.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/stop-borrowing-spree-improve-state-finances-says-cong/articleshow/79358537.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 23, 2020||Hubballi||There must be visible progress in development projects, says senior IAS officer||DHARWAD: Calling for visible progress in the projects undertaken in the district, Indian Administrative Services (IAS) officer Ravikumar Surpur, who chaired a meeting of the Dharwad district administration officials on Saturday, said that a meeting to review the status of various government initiatives was not meant merely for the disclosure of figures. Surpur instructed the officials to ensure that input subsidy for agriculture and horticulture crops were transferred to the beneficiaries, and highlighted the need to raise awareness among the farmers about the benefits of organic farming. “Farmers engaged in the cultivation of traditional crops must be educated about the rewards and profits they can earn by switching to horticulture. Funds disbursed for welfare schemes must reach the beneficiaries within the stipulated time. Officials cannot afford to be lax when it comes to the utilisation of funds earmarked for the welfare of Scheduled Castes/ Scheduled Tribes,” he said. Surpur asked the officials to take self-help groups and NGOs into confidence, and to encourage them to open outlets for horticulture outlets so farmers growing them could sell their produce directly to such enterprises. Officials of the Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation (HDMC) were instructed to conduct a survey of houses and buildings that had grown structurally weak, and to identify them as ‘danger zones’. “Neighbours must be informed of the presence and the condition of such buildings and officials must not wait till a mishap occurs,” Surpur said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/there-must-be-visible-progress-in-development-projects-says-senior-ias-officer/articleshow/79356185.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Meerut||Uttar Pradesh: Man, 47, found dead in farm, cops suspect suicide||BIJNOR: A 47-year-old man was found dead in a farm here on Sunday morning. Police said the victim ended his life by consuming pesticide. Further probe was going on to find the reason behind the victim’s taking the extreme step, said police. Police identified the victim as Ramendra Singh of Kutubpur village under Kiratpur police station area and sent the body to the district hospital for autopsy. Superintendent of police Dharamveer Singh said, “The body was found in a farm around 200 metres from the village. A pesticide wrapper was found close to the body, while the victim’s bike was parked nearby. It appears to be suicide by consuming pesticide. The body was sent to the district hospital for autopsy, and the victim’s family was informed about the matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-47-found-dead-in-farm-cops-suspect-suicide/articleshow/79356477.cms||Harveer Dabas
November 23, 2020||Nagpur||MVA can’t solve teachers’ issues, says Fadnavis||Amravati: The Maha Vikas Aghadi government is not competent enough to solve the problems of teachers, said former chief minister and leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis on Sunday. He was addressing a teachers’ rally at Bandhan Lawns here to campaign for BJP candidate Dr Nitin Dhande, who is contesting the Amravati division teachers’ constituency seat. BJP has fielded its candidate in this constituency for the first time. Fadnavis said that when BJP was in power, it solved the problems of teachers. “If a party MLC remains in teacher politics it lends credence to teachers’ problems, leading to their redressal,” he added. The former state chief minister urged teachers to elect Dr Dhande, who is highly educated. MLC Dr Ranjit Patil said that Dr Dhande is a competent person to solve teachers’ problems. Chainsukh Sancheti and Dhande also spoke during the rally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mva-cant-solve-teachers-issues-says-fadnavis/articleshow/79358523.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Surat||107 caught violating curfew in Surat||Surat: On the first night of curfew on Saturday a total of 107 offences were registered against people caught moving during curfew hours in different police stations of the city. Police also collected Rs 67,300 as fine from vehicle owners and nine vehicles were detained for violating curfew orders till Sunday morning. Police also intensified fine collection drive on mask violators and collected Rs 6.52 lakh fine from 1,51,599 violators on Saturday. Checking points at various locations in the city have been set up to enforce night curfew effectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/107-caught-violating-curfew-in-surat/articleshow/79356491.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Meerut||Meerut: Man sentenced to life imprisonment for 100-year-old woman's death after rape bid||MEERUT: Over three years after a youth, then 24, tried to force himself on a 100 years old woman-- an assault which led to the death of the feeble centenarian -- a court in UP’s Meerut district sentenced the accused to life imprisonment after finding him guilty of attempt to rape and murder. “Ankit Poonia has been convicted for the murder of the 100-year-old woman,” said special public prosecutor Nishant Kumar Garg. The ailing woman was rushed to a hospital soon after the rape bid on the night of October 30, 2017. But she couldn’t survive. Poonia was caught and handed over to police by the woman’s relative. It was said that he had committed the crime under the influence of alcohol. The grandson of the elderly woman had filed a police complaint on the basis of which an FIR was registered and a probe was started. The trial began in 2018. Winding up the case, the court found Poonia guilty of all the charges, except the rape. The court found that Poonia had tried to commit the rape. It the judgment, the court held him guilty for murder, attempt to rape and house trespass. During the trial, the defendants had claimed that Poonia was framed in the case after the complainant refused to return Rs1 lakh they had borrowed from him. But the court observed that the accused could not come up with any evidence to corroborate the claims. The ailing woman was rushed to a hospital soon after the rape bid on the night of October 30, 2017. But she couldn’t survive... Poonia was caught by the woman’s relative.(The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/death-of-100-yr-old-up-woman-after-rape-bid-accused-gets-life-in-jail/articleshow/79356483.cms||Piyush Rai
November 23, 2020||Dehradun||170 elephants died in Uttarakhand in five years, nearly two dozen this year||DEHRADUN: Even as the state government plans to denotify the Shivalik Elephant Reserve, where 10,000 trees are set to be chopped to make way for a new terminal of the Jolly Grant airport, Uttarakhand continues to record close to two dozen elephant deaths per year. According to data exclusively accessed by TOI from the Uttarakhand forest department, the Himalayan state has already lost 22 elephants till October 30 this year. The number was 24 last year. In the last five years, a total of 170 elephants — 104 male and 63 female among them — were killed. The gender of three could not be identified because of the condition of the corpses. Of these, a dozen deaths each were caused by train accidents and electrocution. The maximum deaths were reported from Rajaji Tiger Reserve (39), followed by Lansdowne forest division (32), Haridwar (21), Ramanagar (21) and Kalagarh (19). While the reason behind the most deaths (44) remains unknown, 43 jumbos died due to natural reasons. In a silver lining, only one case of poaching has been reported since 2015 – a pachyderm in the Thano forest range of Dehradun. Endangering the elephants has equally affected people living close to forest boundaries. Data available with the forest department reveals Uttarakhand lost 45 human lives to elephant attacks since 2015, of whom eight have been killed this year. Thirty men and 11 women died, while the gender of four bodies couldn’t be identified. Speaking on the issue, noted biologist and wildlife conservationist, Sanjay Gubbi, said, “Elephants are wide-ranging animals, requiring vast spaces for their survival and foraging. Hence, habitat conservation will not only help save elephant populations but also reduce human-elephant conflict (including retaliatory killing of elephants). We need to zone areas where elephants get priority - for instance, limit infrastructure development. It will not only protect their habitats but also bring down unnatural mortalities, such as train accidents. Finally, pro-active outreach activities with communities can bring about better co-operation from local villagers and farmers and ultimately reduce conflict.” Gubbi is an Whitley Award recipient, popularly known as a Green Oscar. As preventive measures, the forest department has started radio collaring rogue elephants close to human habitations and initiated installation of an intelligent elephant movement detection and alert system near Kansrao railway track in Rajaji Tiger Reserve. However, it is worth mentioning that the state has managed to maintain a steady sex ration of elephants and been able to ensure a 10% rise in their population in a span of barely two and a half years. From 1,839 in 2017, the population of jumbos has now increased to 2,026. Experts have raised a query – is the increase in the jumbos’ population being accompanied by an increase in their habitat too? Or are the forests actually diminishing. Meanwhile, the forest department may put forward the request to denotify the Shivalik Reserve in the State Board for Wildlife meeting scheduled this week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/170-elephants-died-in-uttarakhand-in-5-years-nearly-2-dozen-this-year/articleshow/79356500.cms||Shivani Azad
November 23, 2020||Meerut||SI's brother killed by tenants in Amroha||Bijnor: A man was arrested on Sunday for allegedly killing his house owner over some financial transaction and abandoning his body near a tube well in UP's Amroha district. Both he and his wife were booked, and the latter is still at large.The deceased man's elder sister, a sub-inspector [SI] in UP police, has filed a complaint and an FIR has been registered against the tenant couple."Akshay was a resident of Friends' colony in Amroha district. He went missing on Thursday. After a complaint, a manhunt ensued and Akshay's body was found in a deserted place," Amroha SP Vipin Tada told media persons.Police have arrested the accused, identified as one Arvind, while his wife is still at large, Tada said, adding that the accused has confessed to the crime.Arvind told the cops that he had a financial dispute with Akshay. He along with his wife lived in Akshay's house. "On Thursday night, he lured Akshay by promising him a drink. He took him to a deserted place and shot him dead," the SP further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/sis-brother-killed-by-tenants-in-amroha/articleshow/79356505.cms||Harveer Dabas
November 23, 2020||Kochi||Relatives lock horns in Alappuzha||ALAPPUZHA: The local body polls in Alappuzha are witnessing a couple of fights between relatives. When uncle and nephew are fighting as candidates of UDF and LDF, respectively, in same ward of Kanjikuzhy, two women of same family are fighting against each other in Aryad grama panchayat. In ward three of Kanjikuzhy grama panchayat, 36-year-old Aswin R and his 58-year-old uncle K Sukhalal are contesting as LDF and UDF candidates respectively. Aswin, DYFI Kanjikuzhy block joint secretary, said, “In our family, there is no politics and he is my respectful uncle. But in society, we are the representatives of two different political parties and family relationship does not have a role there.” His uncle K Sukhalal, a retired revenue department employee, said though only LDF candidates won from this ward in the local body polls, he will make it a thing of past. “The voters of my ward told me this time victory is with me. So, I am confident I will get a cakewalk in this poll,” said Sukhalal, Congress Kanjikuzhy North mandalam vice-president Sheeba Saju, 49, and her brother-in-law’s daughter 22-year-old K A Aswani are contesting for UDF and LDF respectively from the ward 17 of Aryad grama panchayat and both of their homes are in the same compound. “We are good friends in our family. But outside our homes, we are real politicians,” they said. Sheeba is a former vice-president of the panchayat and the member of the ward from 2015 to 2020. But for the LDF candidate Aswani, it is her maiden election as a candidate. Sheeba said she will retain the ward and she does not have any doubt over her victory. But Aswani said ‘Valiyamma’ will taste failure in this election as she will get sure victory in this poll. Aswani, an MSW student, is an active member of the social service activities of the CPM since her school time. At present, she is the DYFI Mararikulam block vice-president.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/relatives-lock-horns-in-alappuzha/articleshow/79357435.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Lucknow||Mulayam Singh Yadav turns 81, gets calls from PM Narendra Modi, Yogi Adityanath||LUCKOW: Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Yogi Adityanath spoke to Samajwadi Party patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav on his birthday on Sunday and greeted him on the occasion. The SP founder reached the party headquarters on Vikramaditya Marg in Lucknow where he was greeted by his son and party chief Akhilesh Yadav with a shawl. Senior party leaders also greeted and raised slogans in praise of the veteran politician who turned 81. After greeting Mulayam over the phone, PM Narendra Modi tweeted: “Spoke to Shri Mulayam Singh Yadav Ji and greeted him on his birthday. He is one of the senior-most and experienced leaders of our country who is passionate about agriculture and rural development. I pray for his long and healthy life.” Earlier in the day Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath called up Mulayam Singh Yadav to wish him on his birthday. At the party headquarters, Netaji (as Mulayam is fondly referred to) was greeted by senior SP leaders, including former UP Assembly Speaker Mata Prasad Pandey, leader of the Opposition in the Legislative, Council Ahmed Hasan, SP national general secretary Balram Yadav, party’s chief spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary and state president Naresh Uttam Patel. Mulayam’s unscheduled visit to the party headquarters left the party workers excited and they raised slogans wishing him good health and long life. The patriarch spent an hour interacting with SP workers in the lawns of the party HQ as enthusiastic workers kept chanting “Jiska jalwa qayam hai, uska naam Mulayam hai (Mulayam’s popularity reigns supreme).” Mulayam asked SP workers to raise issues like problems of farmers and youth. SP chief Akhilesh Yadav thanked the political leaders who wished Mulayam and met the party workers who had decorated the party office with banners of birthday greetings and organised blood donation camps, distributed fruits among the poor to mark the occasion. Mulayam’s younger brother and PSP-L chief Shivpal Yadav also appealed to his partymen to celebrate Mulayam’s birthday in a meaningful way and help the poor. Senior leaders cutting across party lines, including Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, Union ministers Nitin Gadkari, Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, RJD chief Tejashwi Yadav, NCP MP Supriya Sule and Congress leader Sachin Pilot were among those who extended birthday greetings to Mulayam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/msy-turns-81-gets-calls-from-pm-yogi/articleshow/79359304.cms||Pervez Siddiqui
November 23, 2020||Surat||Murderer of painter’s minor son is an alcoholic||SURAT: Investigation in to the kidnapping and murder of nine-year-old painter’s son has revealed that the accused is an alcoholic who sought to take revenge after being unable to recover Rs 7,000 he had loaned to the boy’s father. Police arrested Karan alias Aditya Chauhan and Barkat Ali alias Sonu on Saturday after detecting their involvement in the killing of Aakash Sahani. The accused were produced in court on Sunday which allowed questioning of the accused in jail custody. Chauhan and Barkat used to earn a living doing painting jobs like the father of the deceased boy, Kishan. In fact, Chauhan was their neighbour in Khodiyar Nagar. Police said that Chauhan was an alcoholic but had no money to buy liquor from lack of sufficient work. Chauhan had lent Kishan Rs 14,000 before lockdown as the latter’s relatives had died while he had gone to Gorakhpur, his native in Uttar Pradesh. As Kishan requested Chauhan to lend him the money over phone, Chauhan transferred Rs 14,000 in Kishan’s bank account. After lockdown, Chauhan demanded his money back after he started facing financial crisis due to unemployment. Kishan repaid half the amount and Chauhan kept asking for the remaining amount. Due to the repeated demands, Chauhan and Kishan also had several altercations recently. This spiked Chauhan to plot the kidnapping of Kishan’s son. Chauhan took Aakash along with him on motorcycle to Barkat’s home in Sayan village near the city. He didn’t tell Barkat about his nefarious plans but asked him to accompany them. Later Chauhan strangled the child to death in a sugarcane farm. Police said that Barkat saw the crime taking place but did not stop Chauhan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/murderer-of-painters-minor-son-is-an-alcoholic/articleshow/79356511.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Madurai||HC seeks TN govt report on temple trustee appointments||Madurai: The Madras high court has sought a report from the state government on the appointment of district committees and temple trustees in all the districts across the state. A division bench of Justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi sought the report while hearing a public interest litigation petition filed by Periyanambi Narasimha Gopalan who is working as an archaka in a temple in Tirunelveli district, seeking direction to make fresh appointments of district committee members and trustees of the temples.The petitioner stated that district committees were constituted by the state government for appointing temple trustees in temples across the state, but they are being appointed based on recommendations of ministers, bureaucrats and other political recommendations rather than their qualifications.He stated that the appointments of district committees should be done in a transparent manner and people who are scholars, philanthropists and religious minded persons should be appointed as per the qualification set out in the HR&CE Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-seeks-tn-govt-report-on-temple-trustee-appointments/articleshow/79359305.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 23, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Must ensure exhaustive safety measures, say stakeholders||BENGALURU: Most stakeholders TOI spoke with indicated that if the government decides to reopen schools, it must put in place exhaustive measures to ensure safety of students and faculty. Most were wary of holding regular classes. D Shashi Kumar, general secretary, Associated Management of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, said schools are in financially poor shape and the government must address those issues before reopening schools. “It should also ensure every student and teacher is safe,” Kumar said. “If a student is infected, she should be treated free. Proper guidelines should be laid before reopening.” Chandrashekar Nugli, president, Primary Teachers’ Association, said schools should be reopened gradually, if at all. “The education minister has not sought our opinion in this regard, but we hope he would take our advice too,” Nugli said. “As an association, we suggest shiftwise classes for children in grade 5, 6 and 7. If things go well, then they can think about reopening fully.” Mansoor Ali Khan, secretary, Management of Independent CBSE Schools’ Association, said an internal survey suggested 90% of parents were happy with online classes. “They say they would send their children to schools only when a vaccine is out,” he said. “We are sceptical about the situation as well.” However, Niranjan Aradhya VP, Centre for Child and Law, NLSIU, pointing to the successful conduct of SSLC, PUC, CET and NEET exams, said schools must reopen. “Only 6% of the total Covid-19 patients were below 20 years of age,” he said. “Taking all preventive measures, the government should reopen schools as many children are being deprived of nutrition in the absence of midday meals or are becoming victims of child marriage, child labour and other problems.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/stakeholders-wary-of-reopening-schools-say-time-is-not-right/articleshow/79357001.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Surat||SMC to ramp up testing to 15,000 per day||SURAT: As Covid-19 cases continued to surge in the city, the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) swung into action on Sunday and started closing public places where social distancing and face mask rules were being flouted. SMC teams fanned out across all the eight civic zones to detect crowded places and shut them. Malls in Athwa and Rander zones were closed for flouting social distancing rules. About 45 tea stalls and paan shops were also told to shut down on Sunday. Chauta Bazaar, the one-stop shopping place for people, was shut for a few hours after huge crowd was witnessed, making social distancing impossible. However, the market was allowed to operate after shopkeepers assured that they would follow all Covid-19 guidelines. Municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani visited various places in the city on Sunday and took stock of the situation related to Covid-19 spread. “We have focused on testing, contact tracing and treatment. At present, we are conducting 9,000 tests per day which will be increased to 15,000 in the coming days and we will take it to 20,000 per day as well. We are focusing on those people who are returning to the city from their native places and from vacations,’‘ he added. “We have asked our enforcement teams to crack down on Covid-19 spreading public venues’ if the guidelines are not being followed. Shops and malls will be shut on a case to case basis,’Pani told TOI. Pani assured that enough beds were available in Surat hospitals for patients but people need to take utmost precautions for their own good. Meanwhile, 213 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Surat city, the highest in the last few weeks, taking the total number of cases to 30,369 till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/smc-to-ramp-up-testing-to-15000-per-day/articleshow/79356525.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Lucknow||Follow all rules in appointment of inspectors: DGP||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh DGP issued a circular to additional director generals of police in zones, two police commissioners, inspector generals of police and district police chiefs to ensure that all the rules and regulations are followed in appointment of inspectors. DGP, HC Awasthy directed all the senior police officers in the district to ensure that in the two-thirds of the police stations which are exclusively meant to be headed by an officer of the rank of an inspector should be followed in letter and spirit. No sub-inspectors should be appointed on these posts, he said. However, in the other one-thirds of the police stations where police personnel of rank of sub-inspectors have been deployed as station house officers, efforts must be made to appoint inspectors now. However, if there are no inspectors available then those sub-inspectors with good-behaviour, self-reliance in working could be continued. The officer also said that in some of the police stations where more than one SHO has been made, it must be ensured that the senior most heads the police station. Police chief also said that it came to notice that personnel despite being promoted to the ranks of Inspectors are not being given charges in districts which shows gross irregularity. As per the government rules of 2007, it must be ensured that those belonging to ST/SC, and other backwards castes and minority community must be made police station house in charge. In case, police personnel belonging to such backward sections are lesser in number then personnel can be managed with the nearby police ranges. But even then if there are any issues in the assimilation of cops and coordination then DGP headquarters can be apprised about the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/follow-all-rules-in-appointment-of-inspectors-dgp/articleshow/79359306.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Lucknow||Sugar recovery plunge spikes production cost||LUCKNOW: Ahead of the state government’s announcement of state advisory price (SAP) for sugarcane, the data of cane department show that sugar recovery has dipped by around 0.4% which has increased the cost of sugar production. Sugar recovery, expressed in percentage, refers to sugar produced after processing of a definite weight of sugarcane. Data accessed by TOI reveal that sugar recovery percentage has plummeted from 9.54% in 2019-20 to 9.15% at the start of crushing season this year. Private sugar mills alone registered a decline from 9.57% in 2019-20 to 9.16% in the current season. Even cooperative sugar mills registered a dip from 9.06% to 8.82% during the said period. Data shows that sugar recovery in private mills has been dipping since 2018-19 when it was 9.6%. Industry sources said the decline in sugar recovery rate was due to damages incurred to the crop following untimely rains and occurrence of red rot disease mainly in east UP. Despite coronavirus crisis, sugar production in the current crushing season has registered an upswing in UP with the state recording production of 3.8 lakh tonnes of sugar by November 15 this year, which is around 30% more than in the corresponding period last year when 2.9 lakh tonnes of sugar was produced. Millers said this was because of increase in cane acreage and higher vegetative growth of cane after monsoon earlier this year. “In 2018-19, the state government gave financial assistance in view of the situation prevailing at that point of time. The 2019-20 season passed under due constraint but this year the situation has turned even worse,” a miller TOI on condition of anonymity. The cost of raw sugar at present is Rs 32 per kg amid the presence of carry forward stock resulting in sugar glut. “Under these conditions, neither the price of sugar is increasing nor the grant of Rs 2,800 crore from the Centre is coming through,” a miller said, pointing out that the state government is yet to pay Rs 1,000 crore for electricity produced by co-generation power plants installed in sugar mills. “The compounding impact on mills would adversely affect the timely payment of cane price,” he said. The development comes even as private sugar mills are defaulting on payment of around Rs 5,048 crore for 2019-20. The 22-odd cooperative mills in the state are also required to pay around Rs 546 crore to farmers. “Now, if sugar prices are increased, the situation would deteriorate further,” an industry expert said. The solution to this lies in increase in the cost of raw sugar, payment of funds from the Centre and compensation pending with UP Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sugar-recovery-plunge-spikes-production-cost/articleshow/79359309.cms||Pankaj Shah
November 23, 2020||Nagpur||No new films released, most cinemas yet to open||NAGPUR: Even though the state government had allowed single screen cinema theatres and multiplexes to open from November 5, most of them are yet to open in the absence of good new releases. The only exception is Inox multiplex in Jaswant Tuli Mall, which is screening three movies. Cinema hall owners say that producers are unwilling to release their films due to the 50% occupancy clause. “Nowadays, most movies are big budget and their cost can’t be recovered unless the occupancy is 100%. The producers are waiting for the government to do away with the 50% occupancy clause,” said a hall manager. Harish Hiranwar, manager of Buty Cineplex, said, “We are yet to open as no new good movie has been released. We had got an offer for a B grade movie but we refused. Some single screen cinemas had screened it, but had to pull down their shutters due to poor response. A good movie is expected to be released in late December and I think halls and multiplexes will open at that time.” A PVR multiplex official said that he was yet to receive any instructions from head office. “We may open the multiplexes next week but I can’t say for sure. There seems to be some problem with new releases. Some single screen cinemas had started but closed down again,” he told TOI. Praneet Singh of Sudama Theatre said that due to the 50% occupancy clause producers were reluctant to release their productions. “It is not possible for big budget productions to recover money with half occupancy. Secondly, many cinema owners feel that following the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) increases the operating cost a lot. According to my information, many cinemas that started have closed down,” he added. Venkat Rao of Inox, however, said, “Tuli Inox multiplex had started from November 14 and is getting satisfactory if not very good response. Eternity multiplex will start from November 27. The scene will improve tremendously in another six to eight weeks.” “We are running the theatres following the SOP and viewers are not at all at risk,” added Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-new-films-released-most-cinemas-yet-to-open/articleshow/79358535.cms||Ashish Roy
November 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Vijayashanti likely to join BJP tomorrow in Delhi||Hyderabad: After months of speculation, Congress star campaigner and former MP Vijayashanti will be travelling to Delhi on Monday and is most likely to join BJP on Tuesday in the presence of Union home minister Amit Shah. Her re-entry into the BJP will give a major boost to the party’s all out campaign in elections to 150 wards of GHMC on December 1. “She was supposed to join BJP long back but she was seeking one of the top posts at the national level in the party and also wanted to re-join in the presence of one of the top two in BJP government at the Centre,” a source close to Vijayashanti said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vijayashanti-likely-to-join-bjp-tomorrow-in-delhi/articleshow/79359307.cms||Roushan Ali
November 23, 2020||Kochi||Local polls: Remote areas bank on ham radios in Idukki||IDUKKI: During the local body polls, ham radio service will play a pivotal role in transmitting timely information and election updates from remote polling stations in the district, including from Edamalakkudy, the first tribal panchayat in the state, said Idukki district collector H Dineshan. Interestingly, four decades have passed since ham radio service began to be operated in Idukki, where other forms of communications often fail. “We have submitted a report to the district collector detailing our preparations for the elections in the remote areas. We will set-up control rooms in Rajamala and Edamalakkudy for transmitting information,” said Manoj Galaxy, president, Idukki ham radio disaster management communication society (IHRDMCS). “We will set-up a wireless repeater at Pullumedu near Pettimudy in Munnar for relaying information. As many as 30 ham operators will move to Edamalakkudy two days before the polls and make the necessary arrangements. Election updates will be shared with Idukki collectorate, Devikulam taluk office and the election centre in Munnar. Higher officials, including the collector, can directly talk with the polling officials at Edamalakkudy,” said Galaxy. “When the Pettymudy landslide occurred on August 6, ham radio was the main mode of communication that came to the rescue of the people. Our team of ham radio operators provided real-time information from the landslide site,” he said. The first and the only ham radio system in the district was set up at Cheruthoni in 1967 by one Raghavan K who came to Idukki from Ottapalam, said ham radio enthusiasts in the district. In 1980, C M Stephan, who served as the minister for information and broadcasting in the Indira Gandhi-led government, met Raghavan during a visit to Idukki. Impressed by his radio system, the minister provided assistance to set up a full-fledged communication network system in the district. Presently, there are as many as 40 licenced ham operators in the district, said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/local-polls-remote-areas-bank-on-ham-radios/articleshow/79357502.cms||Sandeep Thomas
November 23, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Metro, buses likely to accept common mobility card by June||BENGALURU: The city’s long-pending dream for a common mobility card that can be used in multiple transport modes like buses and Metro is likely to materialise by June 2021. Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) recently invited an expression of interest from banks and financial institutions for implementation of Automatic Fare Collection system in buses, which includes Electronic Ticketing Machines (ETMs) that will support National Common Mobility Card (NCMC). Prime Minister Narendra Modi had in March 2019 launched NCMC, also known as One Nation One Card, to facilitate single card usage across transport modes and also for payment of parking fees and toll. However, only a few cities like Kochi have implemented it so far. BMTC recently interacted with several firms regarding NCMC. Its managing director C Shikha said 28 banks and financial institutions have evinced interest in the project. “We are planning to introduce NCMC by the next financial year. Passengers will be able to use the same card in Metro and buses,” she said. K Santosh Babu, director (information & technology), BMTC, said: “We are planning to float a tender by December and finalise it by January-end. We will issue NCMCs by June.” He said banks and financial institutions will be the lead bidder and will have hardware and software partners to provide ETMs. “The selected consortium will have to provide NCMC as well as ETM to ensure better coordination. We are planning to issue student passes and other passes through BangaloreOne Centres,” added Babu. Another BMTC official said: “We have asked the firms to submit their proposals and solutions before November 25. We will prepare a request for proposal (RFP) and then float a tender. They will have to provide the machines and cards so they can no longer blame faulty ETMs for technical glitches during cashless travel. It will be an interoperable transport card that can be used to make payments in Metro, buses, trains and toll plazas and pay parking charges,” said the official. In 2016, BMTC along with Axis Bank had launched an open-loop transit card, which was later scrapped due to various reasons. Trimax IT Infrastructure & Services Limited, which faced a financial crisis, was unable to replace it with new machines with advanced features like QR code-based ticketing. Namma Metro ties up with RBL Bank In April, Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited had floated a tender to select a financial institution to issue the open-loop card. “RBL Bank has been selected for acquiring and issuing NCMC for Bengaluru Metro. The work order will be issued shortly. It will take about eight months to implement and test NCMC so commercial launch is expected by June. Passengers can use NCMC in other transport modes if the respective operators have introduced the facility in their fare collection system,” said BMRCL chief public relations officer BL Yeshwanth Chavan. While the gates at new Phase 2 stations will be NCMC and QR code-compliant from the date of their commissioning, actual usage will start from August 2021, when AFC gates at old stations get retrofitted. Namma Metro, which has been operational since 2011, uses closed loop smartcards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/you-may-be-able-to-use-common-mobility-card-in-buses-metro-by-june/articleshow/79357509.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
November 23, 2020||Delhi||24x7 supply? How DJB plans to ensure it doesn’t stay on paper||NEW DELHI: Supplying water 24x7 to all households in the city was one of the 10 key guarantees made by AAP in the run-up to the 2020 assembly elections. After chief minister Arvind Kejriwal recently asked for a time-bound roadmap and a monthly review report, senior Delhi Jal Board (DJB) officials have said work on several projects will be carried out parallelly to fulfil the promise by 2024. The major tasks include closing down the demand-supply gap, improving and maintaining water supply pipeline network, and extending the physical infrastructure across Delhi. With a peak water demand of 1,150-1,250 million gallon daily (MGD) as against the production of 930MGD, many parts of Delhi witness scarcity in summer. By 2031, the city is likely to need over 1,500MGD. “We are expecting that four projects will help us source extra water, reduce wastage and increase reutilisation of treated waste water, making us water-positive,” an official said. An MoU, signed with Himachal Pradesh last year for sourcing additional water after creating a upstream storage, has the potential of adding 170MGD, said DJB. Officials are also hopeful that a project based on the Singapore New Water model for using high-grade treated waste water from Coronation Plant and re-feeding the Yamuna in Palla will be cleared by Upper Yamuna River Board, despite Haryana trying to make “social acceptability” an issue. The project is to pump in another 150MGD. Other water-reutilisation projects include diverting treated waste water for groundwater recharge and further extraction, and maximising non-potable uses to keep drinkable water for home uses. “Three dams — Renuka, Kishau and Lakhwar Vyasi — are being constructed as per Yamuna Water Sharing Agreement, but these are at initial stages,” he added. DJB will have to reduce its non-revenue water (40%) and water leakages by using network of flow meters, a project that is on the verge of completion. The pilot supply project in Navjeevan Vihar and Geetanjali Enclave shows that the network will need to be leakage-proof to maintain a constant pressure in the system. Appointing seven-eight private contractors to manage and maintain the network will be helpful, an official said. While most of the city gets three-four-hour supply now, a significant part still does not have supply lines. Out of the 1,799 unauthorised colonies, lines have been laid in 1,622 and 1,571 currently have water supply, with notable deficiencies in South and West districts. A deadline of March 2022 has been fixed for the rest, with individual deadlines for each region. While the work in east Delhi will be completed within eight months of getting all nods, all South, Central and North district colonies will be covered by March 2022. The deadline for West district is October 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/24x7-supply-how-djb-plans-to-ensure-it-doesnt-stay-on-paper/articleshow/79359312.cms||Paras Singh
November 23, 2020||Agra||Sadhus drink ‘tea’, two die at Mathura ashram||AGRA: Two sadhus died under mysterious circumstances and another one was admitted to a hospital after they allegedly consumed “poisonous tea” at Giriraj Vatika Ashram, run by one of them, in Mathura’s Govardhan area on Saturday. Gulab Singh, 60, and Shyam Sundar Das, 61, died while Ram Babu, 60, was admitted to hospital. The deceased sadhus had come to the ashram just two days ago. The postmortem report mentioned the cause of death as “uncertain”, said police, adding that the viscera of the deceased has been preserved while the samples from the third sadhu have also been collected and will be sent to a forensic laboratory. Mathura SSP Gaurav Grover told TOI that an FIR under section 302 (murder) of IPC has been registered against an unidentified person on a complaint filed by a relative of Gopal Das, one of the two dead sadhus. According to police, survivor Ram Babu had claimed that no outsider had entered his ashram and the three of them fell sick after consuming tea, which was made there only. Asked about the utensils used for making the tea, Babu told police that he had cleaned them after they drank it. “Our investigation is on,” the SSP said. In 2020, several incidents of sadhus having been killed were reported across the nation, including four in UP’s Bulandshahr, Meerut, Gonda and Sultanpur districts. According to reports, on April 28, two priests – identified as Jagdish alias Rangi Das, 55 and Sher Singh alias Sewa Das, 45 – were found murdered inside a temple of Lord Shiva in Bulandshahr’s Pagona village. On July 13, the priest of a Shiv temple in Meerut was allegedly beaten to death after he protested against remarks on his saffron attire by a person. On July 23, another sadhu was found hanging from a tree in the temple premises in Sultanpur’s Chhatauna village. The 22-year-old, Balayogi Satyendra Anand Saraswati Maharaj Naga Baba, had come to Sultanpur from Himachal Pradesh. In Gonda, the priest of a Ram Janaki temple was shot dead over an old land dispute. Watch Uttar Pradesh: Two sadhus found dead under mysterious circumstances in Mathura||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/2-sadhus-die-under-suspicious-circumstances-at-mathura-ashram-another-in-hospital/articleshow/79355768.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Shabbir challenges KTR for debate on Metro spend||Hyderabad: Former minister Mohd Ali Shabbir of the Congress on Sunday charged TRS working president and municipal minister K T Rama Rao of misleading the people by making false claims on the development of Hyderabad, especially about the Hyderabad Metro Rail (HMR) project. Speaking to reporters, Shabbir Ali said the foundation stone for HMR was laid in October 2005 when he was Hyderabad district in-charge minister in Y S Rajasekhar Reddy’s cabinet. “KTR has made a false claim in the Hyderabad Development Report that the TRS has spent Rs 17,290 crore on the project,” he alleged. He threw a challenge at KTR for an open debate on HMR and offered to quit politics if KTR proves that the TRS government has spent Rs 17,290 crore on the project. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/shabbir-challenges-ktr-for-debate-on-metro-spend/articleshow/79359315.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 23, 2020||Nagpur||Ahead of grads poll, BJP activates medical front in Vidarbha||NAGPUR: Maiden meeting of newly inducted BJP-Vaidyakiya Aghadi (Medical front) Vidarbha office bearers was held in Nagpur on Saturday. BJP intiative to unite doctors under its banners gains importance ahead of the graduates constituency elections. The new team of BJP medical front was formed during the lockdown and leading doctors from private hospitals have joined it in Vidarbha. Right after the meeting, former CM and the leader of opposition in Maharashtra Assembly Devendra Fadnavis addressed a campaign meet of graduates constituency in which he especially highlighted issues of private doctors. “State government has failed to give justice to private healthcare sector and have bypassed norms to make them work under compelling circumstances without proper compensation or insurance,” Fadnavis said. He also criticized Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray for not having visited Vidarbha even during Covid crisis and asked whether the government was only for Mumbai and Pune. “Medical front of Bharatiya Janata Party is a novel undertaking to unite all pathy doctors, nurses, paramedical brethren and pharmacists so that mutual issues are understood and a common front is formed to raise the issues affecting all factions of healthcare,” said Dr Vinky Rughwani, Vidarbha coordinator for the front. “Usually it is noted that doctors of different pathies, dentists, nurses, paramedical and pharmacists have their separate groups and associations. But the medical front will be a unique undertaking,” said Dr Anup Marar, convener for East Vidarbha. Doctors also released a book on Devendra Fadnavis during the meeting. Dr Ajeet Gopchade, the state convener, lambasted the state government for not releasing the insurance amount to deceased Covid warriors from private healthcare sector. “Common people only hear about extortion and blackmailing by doctors. We are now working in a threatening atmosphere. We need public support for which BJP is the best platform,” he said. Rajya Sabha MP Dr Vikas Mahatme and Dr Uday Bodhankar, both state advisors of the front, Dr Kishore Malokar, west Vidarbha convener, Dr Ashutosh Gupta, president- Maharashtra Council of Indian Medicine, Sanjay Dhotre, convener- paramedical wing, Dr Rashmi Shukla and Dr Anil Kanojiya, co-conveners of homeopath wing, Dr Dnyanesh Dakhulkar, co-convener- east Vidarbha and Dr Dhananjay Kulkarni, co-convener of paramedical wing attended. Aloso present were Dr Sachin Bagadiya, convener- Marathvada, Dr Prashant Chakkarwar and Dr Amol Kelkar-west Vidarbha co-conveners, district presidents Dr Girish Charde- Nagpur City, Dr Priti Manmode- Nagpur rural, Dr Kishore Fale- Wardha, Dr Rajesh Saraf- Buldana, Dr Sandeep Khangar- Bhandara, Dr Chandan Pande- Yavatmal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ahead-of-grads-poll-bjp-activates-medical-front-in-vid/articleshow/79358538.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 23, 2020||Meerut||Meerut: Fear of Covid makes people to guard against dengue, malaria||MEERUT: The outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic, it seems, has created greater awareness among people about keeping mosquito-borne diseases like malaria and dengue at bay. In Meerut district, one dengue case was reported on Sunday, bringing the total tally to 35 this year. Two cases of malaria have so far been reported in the district. In 2019, as many as 215 dengue cases were recorded, thereby making the cases in 2020 extremely low, said Satya Prakash, Meerut district malaria officer. “The reason behind the low number of dengue cases is the awareness and fear associated with Covid-19. People are taking extra precautions by keeping their surroundings clean to ensure that they do not fall ill. This is why the cases are very low in number this year,” said Prakash. The malaria and dengue cases have been mainly found in Sabun Godam area and Transport Nagar area here. Drives are being conducted in these areas to spread awareness about mosquito borne diseases. Eight teams have been formed to conduct fogging and anti-larvae spray activities in various parts of the district. Also, 70 domestic breeder checkers have been given the task to conduct container surveys to keep a check on breeding of mosquitoes, he said. “The 70 domestic breeder checkers are conducting container surveys in various parts of the district and even issuing notices to those establishments where containers are found with stagnant water,” said Prakash. In Bareilly district, eight dengue cases have so far been recorded this year. Seven of these were reported from Majnupur village in Bhamora block earlier this month. But the situation was controlled by regular sanitization and fogging at the village. However, the total number of malaria cases -- 11,103 this year -- remains a cause of concern. Last year, Bareilly witnessed over 40,000 cases. In Agra district, a total of 16 dengue cases have so far been reported this year. Eleven of these cases were detected in urban areas. Chief medical officer of Agra district, Dr RC Pandey, said, “The ongoing weather condition increases risk of spreading dengue spread. The virus will become ineffective after a few days when the average temperature of the day goes down to 16 degrees Celsius or less.” District dengue and malaria officer, Dr RK Dixit, said, “A team of 60 staffers is conducting door-to-door survey to identify people having symptoms of dengue infection and spread awareness about the prevention of the disease. We are deliberately not doing extensive fogging in the city areas due to Covid-19 situation and high level of pollution. Fogging can result in respiratory problems among Covid-19 patients and elderly people. However, vulnerable spots are being identified and fogging is being done at these places in a controlled manner.” (With inputs from Kanwardeep Singh (Bareilly) and Deepak Lavania (Agra) ReplyReply allForward||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/fear-of-covid-makes-people-to-guard-against-dengue-malaria/articleshow/79356541.cms||Ishita Bhatia
November 23, 2020||Lucknow||UP produces record 177 lakh sanitizer, nets Rs 137 crore||LUCKNOW: The Uttar Pradesh government created a record of sorts not only in terms of production of sanitizers but also in income generation through its sale. According to excise department data, distilleries and small units which were entrusted the task of manufacturing sanitizer produced record 177 lakh litre of sanitizer from March 24 to November 15 generating a record revenue of Rs 137 crore through its sale. Records show that 78.3 lakh litre sanitizer has been sold outside UP. Additional chief secretary (excise) Sanjay Bhoosreddy said, “The department followed the mantra of finding opportunity in challenges to ensure that formalities of sanitizer production were completed in time and the product is also available in markets.” In terms of revenue generation during this period, the exchequer has made record revenue of Rs 137 crore. Of this, Rs 128.5 crore came though GST collection while licence fee added over Rs 7.9 crore. In addition, the revenue from denaturation fee of Rs 21.2 lakh was also registered by excise department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-produces-record-177l-sanitizer-nets-rs-137cr/articleshow/79359324.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi government lens on seniors, home-alone patients||NEW DELHI: Faced with the twin problems of growing mortality rate due to Covid-19 and patients under home isolation flouting norms, Delhi government has started strict monitoring of high-risk groups such as senior citizens and those recuperating at home. “We are giving pulse oximeters to not only those who have tested positive but also senior citizens and those at high risk,” South West district magistrate (DM) Naveen Aggarwal told TOI. Apart from surveillance of senior citizens and those with comorbidities, regular checks of heart rate and oxygen saturation can also help those in home isolation reach hospital in time, said Aggarwal. “Most of the deaths are happening because the patient is reaching hospital late,” he added. North West DM Cheshta Yadav said district surveillance officers were closely monitoring people above 50 years or those with comorbidities. “Those who need observation due to age and other factors are being monitored even if they have no symptoms,” Yadav said. This ensures that patients can be shifted to hospitals before symptoms become severe, which helps save lives, she added. “We have a good system in place and all residents above 55 years or those in the high-risk category are called by officials daily or every two days to enquire about their health,” said an East district official. Those in home isolation have been put under intense monitoring and are called by the district’s medical teams through local dispensaries to check their oxygen saturation level and other parameters, the official added. During a recent survey, it has been found that many patients recuperating at home are going out, flouting the social distancing norm. “We have deputed some staff for this monitoring and also got FIRs registered against a few of them for violating the home isolation norms and spreading the infection,” Aggarwal said. He said that through this initiative, the district administration was ensuring cooperation of those under home isolation. “We have full focus on this and have started inspecting afresh,” Yadav said. Divisional wardens of Civil Defence have been given lists of those under home isolation and civil defence volunteers are carrying out random checking. Subdivisional magistrates are also checking if people are following norms, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-lens-on-seniors-home-alone-patients/articleshow/79358554.cms||Sidharatha Roy
November 23, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS circulating rumours against me: Sanjay||Hyderabad: The BJP on Sunday alleged that due to fear of losing the GHMC polls, TRS is circulating incorrect information against their party president Bandi Sanjay Kumar. In a heated statement, BJP spokesperson Enugula Rakesh Reddy said that there is no truth in the social media news that states that BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar was denied the duty of campaigning. “KTR team is spending sleepless nights, so we can see such news around,” he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-circulating-rumours-against-me-sanjay/articleshow/79359323.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Agra||Agra district admin plans night curfew in wake of rising Covid cases||AGRA: Following increase in the number of Covid-19 cases, district administration is planning to impose night curfew in Agra. Officials are also considering an increase in fine from Rs 200 to Rs 500 for not wearing face mask. The implementation is being considered to prevent the rapid spread of infection. State government has given authority to the district magistrates to take the required steps for controlling the Covid-19 situation. According to the health department records, total 8,611 people have been tested Covid-19 positive in Agra district in the past 265 days. However, 91.91 percent people have been declared cured. The number of active cases in Agra district on Sunday was 536. On an average, at least one person tests Covd positive every 90 minutes and at least one Covid positive patient is dying every 40 hours. Out of the population of 45 lakhs, around 32.25 lakhs Covid-19 tests have been conducted in Agra district. Around 1,200 tests are being conducted on an average every day in Agra district. Additional district magistrate Prabhakant Awasthi said, “The number of Covid-19 cases is likely to increase with the drop in mercury level during winter. We are considering the need to implement night curfew to prevent the spread of infection. The final decision will be taken after consultation with the state government. People must wear a mask when they step out of the house and follow social distancing as much as possible.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-dist-admin-plans-night-curfew-in-wake-of-rising-covid-cases/articleshow/79355782.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Kozhikode||Wife of CPM candidate attacked in Kozhikode||KOZHIKODE: Wife of a CPM candidate from Mukkam municipality has been hospitalised after she was allegedly attacked by an unidentified assailant on Sunday morning. Police have registered a case on the complaint of Shanida, wife of Noufal Mallissery who is contesting the polls from Thottathin Kadavu division of Mukkam municipality. According to the complaint, an unidentified person wearing a face mask came to the private medical laboratory at Thiruvambadi where Shanida was working at 7.45am. The person attacked her by tightening the shawl around her neck. The attacker threatened her and said she should ask her husband Noufal to behave properly or else will have to face the consequences, Shanida said. She was admitted to a private hospital at Omassery. The victim and family suspect that the attack could be connected to a verbal duel Noufal had with some people during the scrutiny of nomination papers on Thursday. Thiruvambadi police said they have not been able to identify the attacker. Though police tried to secure CCTV footage from nearby shops, they have not been successful yet as the cameras were not working. Also the woman has not seen the face of the attacker and police said there was no eyewitness as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/wife-of-cpm-candidate-attacked-in-kozhikode/articleshow/79357602.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS govt revived 2,000 temples, says Kavitha||Hyderabad: A day after VHP lodged complaint against TRS leader K Kavitha, the MLC on Sunday said the party’s regime refurbished over 2,000 temples in the last six years at a cost of Rs 250 crore. As part of campaignning for the party in the GHMC election, she met Brahmin community voters in Adikemet division and said TRS regime has helped 14 vedic schools. “TRS regime is spending lot of funds on construction of Yadadri temple,” she said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-govt-revived-2000-temples-says-kavitha/articleshow/79359326.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Delhi||AAP MLAs distribute masks across the Delhi||NEW DELHI: Following the appeal of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, Aam Aadmi Party MLAs and councillors have started mask distribution campaigns in their constituencies and wards all over Delhi. Food and supplies minister and AAP MLA from Ballimaran Imran Hussain distributed masks at Sadar Thana Chowk in his constituency. Hussain said that instead of paying a fine of Rs 2,000, it is better to wear a mask of Rs 10 to protect one’s life and that of others. Rajendra Nagar MLA Raghav Chadha distributed masks along the Bada Bazaar Marg stretch and also launched Kejriwal government’s large-scale RT-PCR testing drive at Old Rajinder Nagar through Covid-19 mobile testing van. Chadha urged citizens to continue to get tested should there be any symptoms at all and wear their masks properly. “At the mobile van, a person is required to only share their name, phone number and address to register for the test. Within 24 hours, the result of the test will be sent to your mobile phone” Chadha said. In a four-hour duration, more than 170 people, including Chadha himself, got their RT-PCR tests done, adding that the noses must be covered by the mask. “Right now because there is no medicine for this disease yet, therefore, mask is the only protection,” MLA Saurabh Bharadwaj said at the drive at M-Block Market in Greater Kailash, his constituency. “If you want all of you and your family to be safe, wearing your masks the right way and following social distancing is the only way,” AAP MLA from Malviya Nagar Somnath Bharti said during a mask distribution drive. Leader of the Opposition from East Delhi Municipal Corporation of Aam Aadmi Party, Manoj Tyagi, also distributed masks in his Karawal Nagar Ward on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-mlas-distribute-masks-across-the-city/articleshow/79358565.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Hyderabad||India’s renowned surgeon Chalapathi Rao passes away||Hyderabad: Dr PV Chalapathi Rao, a doyen in the field of surgery and a prominent name in the country's medical fraternity, passed away on Sunday morning at the age of 92 due to sepsis. Apart from contributing to the medical profession, he had contributed much of his savings to develop a village— Ibrahimpur – the remotest village in Medak district, which has also been adopted by his family. A number of initiatives undertaken in the village have been recognised with local, regional and national awards including recognition from the Prime Minister’s Office. He was conferred the Dr BC Roy National Award in 1995 by the then-President of India, Late Shankar Dayal Sharma, for his contribution towards improving surgical education in the country. This is the highest honour that can be achieved by a doctor in India. Dr Rao is widely credited to have popularized in India ‘Highly Selective Vagotomy (HSV)’, an operation that used to be performed for ulcers in the stomach during his time in late 1970s and 1980s. He was also referred to as ‘HSV Rao’ for propagating this technique all over India. In addition to publishing several articles in peer reviewed journals, Dr Rao contributed eleven chapters in four textbooks of surgery. In 2009, Dr Rao achieved the unique distinction to become the first and only surgeon from Telugu states to have been conferred Fellowship Ad hominum, the highest recognition bestowed by the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh, for his outstanding contribution towards improving the art and science of surgery in India for well over five decades. He was one of the youngest professors of surgery appointed during to government service at the age of 38. He re-defined fashion and style through his trademark suits that he wore. Dr Chalapathi Rao is survived by a distinguished family of doctors, including his son Dr P Raghu Ram, a world renowned Surgeon, a Padma Shri awardee, Dr BC Roy national awardee and current President of the Association of Surgeons of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/indias-renowned-surgeon-chalapathi-rao-passes-away/articleshow/79358566.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Madurai||Decayed carcass of whale washed ashore||Ramanathapuram: The decayed carcass of a sub-adult whale washed ashore the coast of Atrangarai village about 25 km from the Ramanathapuram district on Sunday morning. The carcass measuring nine meters-long and circumference of six meters is suspected to be a male sperm whale aged about seven to nine-years-old. “The carcass was spotted in the sea by fishermen about three nautical miles (5.5 kms) off the shores of Atrangarai on Saturday evening. It could have died a week ago. Since the carcass was decayed, it made it difficult to identify the species and the cause of death. It could have died of injuries sustained after hitting rocks due to the rough seas,” forest range officer S Sathish told TOI. Veterinarian M Nijamudeen from Valantharavai veterinary clinic performed the autopsy in the presence of forest department team comprising assistant conservator of forest S Ganesalingam, forester J Chandru Raja, forest guards and anti-poaching watchers. A big pit was dug on the shore with the help of an earthmover and the carcass was buried after sprinkling acid and bleaching powder on it. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/decayed-carcass-of-whale-washed-ashore/articleshow/79359331.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 23, 2020||Lucknow||Sahbhagita Yojana: CM Yogi Adityanath gifts cows to 11||LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday gifted cows to 11 families who have malnourished children. This will serve a dual purpose — preserving cows and providing nourishment to under-nourished children. Under ‘Sahbhagita Yojana’ (co-participation scheme), the UP government has been giving Rs 900 every month to a person who volunteers to take care of stray cattle. As many as 66,257 cows have been given under the scheme, out of which 1,071 cows have been distributed among 1,069 families having malnourished children. “The festival of ‘Gopashtami’ has served as an inspiration to all of us towards our enhanced responsibility towards cows,” Yogi said at a programme at a cow shelter at Tanda Fall in Mirzapur district. He said that there were more than five lakh cows in various cow shelters at present and more than 65,000 cows have already been given to farmers. The CM also expressed his happiness on PM Narendra Modi laying the foundation stone for Rs 5,555 crore drinking water scheme for about 2,995 villages in two districts of Sonbhadra and Mirzapur in Vindhyachal region on the occasion of Gopashtami. Yogi said the rural women through Self Help Groups (SHGs) and voluntary organisations have done remarkable work in making school uniforms and distributing ration and nutritious food under various government schemes. “The government is committed to make women self-reliant because women empowerment is absolutely necessary to bring about positive change in society,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sahbhagita-yojana-cm-gifts-cows-to-11/articleshow/79359336.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Be prepared to fight second wave of Covid-19: KCR to officials||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Sunday instructed the officials to take all preventive measures to effectively deal with the coronavirus cases in the event of a second wave of Covid-19 in the state. The chief minister said that once a vaccine is available for Covid-19, it will first be given to the healthcare workers. He urged the people to be cautious and follow all self-protection guidelines. “Maintaining personal safety is the best medicine for Covid-19,” the CM said at a review meeting on Covid-19 here on Sunday. “There is a sudden surge of cases in Delhi, Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. Cases are slightly on the rise in Kerala and Karnataka too. It is estimated that with this, there is a chance of a second wave emerging. The state should be in a position to withstand even the second wave of Covid-19 and for this the officials should be on high alert and be prepared to deal with it,” the CM said. The state government will make all efforts and put in place measures to stop the spread of the virus. But this requires support from the people. Though there is an unlock process going on, people should be cautious and wear masks and follow all guidelines, the CM said. He said that the situation is returning to normalcy in the state as Covid-19 cases are decreasing. “Despite increase in the number of tests conducted, the positive cases are only 2.1 per cent while recovery rate is 94.03 per cent. Though people with Covid-19 are suffering a bit, the mortality rate is very low,” he said. The government is on high alert and taking all necessary precautions. As many as 10,000 oxygen beds have been kept ready across the state. “We can increase the number of beds with oxygen facilities. As on date, the situation is under control,” the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/be-prepared-to-fight-2nd-wave-of-covid-19-kcr-to-officials/articleshow/79358569.cms||Roushan Ali
November 23, 2020||Mysuru||Rangayana to stage play on Constitution||Mysuru: The city-based Rangayana, which is preparing to stage a play based on S L Bhyrappa’s novel ‘Parva,’ on the Hindu epic ‘Mahabharata’, has also decided to stage a play on the ‘Constitution of India’ for theatre lovers. The idea for a play on the Constitution was put forth by Bhageerathi Bai Kadam, when she served as the director of the repertory, but which could not be implemented due to various reasons. She was removed from the post by the BJP government, before the completion of her tenure. However, the idea once again cropped up during the recent meeting held by the department of Kannada and culture. Rangayana director Addanda C Cariappa, who liked the idea, decided to stage the play. While the department has earmarked Rs 10 lakh for the play, and already released Rs 2 lakh as the first instalment, more than 10 senior theatre artistes from Rangayana, who are being roped in, are busy in writing the script for the play. It is said that it will be a one-hour play, which will likely be staged on Republic Day next year, if everything goes as per plan. “Every government has to run the administration under the purview of the Constitution. Government cannot act outside of the Constitution. So we will try to explain why every aspect written in the Constitution is supreme and holy to the citizens,” said Addanda. “Currently, we are getting ready to stage the play ‘Parva’ by novelist S L Bhyrappa. After it is completed, we will start practising for the play on the Constitution. The play will showcase the welfare ideas of Dr B R Ambedkar for the people. The play will create awareness on the Constitution,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/rangayana-to-stage-play-on-constitution/articleshow/79356556.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Govt seeks legal opinion on filing appeal against Kerala HC order||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state government is learnt to have sought legal opinion on filing an appeal against the high court order to recast the reservation of the office of the president and chairpersons of local bodies. Government sources confirmed that the government is seriously examining the scope of an appeal since compliance with HC order would bring down the reservation percentage of 50% as per Municipality and Panchayati Raj Act. The state election commission has assessed in the wake of HC order that if reservation of head positions of local bodies is redone as per the court order it would bring down the reservation of head positions to women in local bodies to less than 50%. Around 100 president posts currently reserved for women in gram panchayats will cease to exist once SEC recasts the reservation in compliance with the court order. As per SEC notification, four municipalities in the state and a few panchayats will have chairperson/president posts reserved for women for the consecutive term bucking the practice of women reserved seats in one term becoming general in the following period. Palakkad, Thrikkakara, Thripunithara and Manjeri have got chairperson seats reserved for women in 2020. All these municipalities had woman heads in 2015 as well. Manjeri had woman head from SC community in 2005 and the municipality has had three women heads during four terms of municipal councils. In Thrikkakara, the chairperson post was reserved for SC woman in 2015 and in 2020 it has again been reserved for woman. Another municipality, Kalamassery, which had woman head in 2015 now has got chairperson post reserved for SC woman. It was expected that Kalamassery may go to SC general in 2020. The court while pronouncing the judgment made it clear that it had to balance the statutory provisions on one hand and the constitutional provision on the other hand. As per the constitutional norms, the prescription of reservation is not less than one-third of the total number of offices of chairpersons for women. SEC had told the court that if statutory provisions as per panchayati raj and municipality act are followed, it would result in reservation beyond 50% and as a rough estimate, the percentage of reservation for this election would be 67%. The court observed that adherence to statutory provisions made the reservation beyond 50% resulting in successive reservation. The court pointed out that nothing prevents SEC to reduce the number of the reservation to the offices of the presidents or chairpersons to ensure compliance of constitutional directives of rotation. The court stressed the need for EC to ensure compliance with the constitutional directives, to bring down the percentage of reservation in such a manner to ensure rotation. “SEC has to follow the law of the land and in that case the government notification on number of reserved posts becomes invalid. SEC will have to focus on avoiding successive reservation and if that has to happen, the percentage of reservation has to be reduced,” an official said. With the court holding the view that successive reservation to the offices of the chairpersons and president overlooking the constitutional directives was illegal and unsustainable, SEC has been forced to go by constitutional norms instead of provisions of Panchayati Raj and Municipality Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/gov-seeks-legal-opinion-on-filing-appeal-against-hc-order/articleshow/79357647.cms||Aswin J Kumar
November 23, 2020||Dehradun||CAU to start camp to select players for Ranji Trophy||Dehradun: The Cricket Association of Uttarakhand (CAU) is going to start a camp for cricketers from November 24. After this final trial, which will witness participation of 72 shortlisted players, the board will select cricketers for the state team which will represent Uttarakhand in the Ranji Trophy tournament, scheduled to start from January, 2021. All the 72 players will be divided into six teams that will play practice matches against each other in Dehradun. The top 15 players of these practice matches will make up Uttarakhand’s squad for the Ranji Trophy tournament. Notably, the list of 72 shortlisted players includes those cricketers who represented Uttarakhand in Ranji Trophy matches and in other domestic tournaments in previous seasons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cau-to-start-camp-to-select-players-for-ranji-trophy/articleshow/79356564.cms||Mohammad Anab
November 23, 2020||Delhi||2 Delhi government school kids string together rescue act at Rs 2||NEW DELHI: Even as the authorities have been stressing on the need of covering one’s face to safeguard themselves from Covid-19, two students of a Delhi government school have been working towards this ever since the lockdown started by providing people masks for just Rs 2. To begin the work, both of them used their savings from pocket money. Amaar Afzal and Radhey Shyam, both students of Class XI at Sarvodaya Vidyalaya No 1, Mori Gate, have been friends since Class VI. Afzal came up with the idea when the lockdown started and everyone rushed out to buy masks. Each surgical mask was being sold for Rs 20-25 at that time. “When I saw the three-layered mask, I realised even we could easily make it. I just needed someone to sew the cloth and put the strings,” Afzal, a science student, told TOI. His father’s friend, who had a small set up at Khajuri, put him in touch with women who could stitch. The set-up was ready within three days. “Surgical papers in different colours are easily available. Even I helped those making the masks,” added the boy, saying the entrepreneurship curriculum being run for students of classes IX to XII helped him understand how to start the business. At one time, they were making 10,000-20,000 masks. The process also helped the students provide employment to a few people. “I also needed someone to market the masks as just producing them was not enough. That is when I roped in Radhey Shyam,” said Afzal. Shyam said sales and marketing was not difficult for him as he grew up at Kashmere Gate, which is a business hub. “Bhagirath Palace market is close by, so I knew I could sell the masks there. We went to many shopkeepers and told them what we produced. Our main motive was to ensure that the masks costing Rs 2 masks reached everyone,” he added. So far, the duo has been able to distribute over 50,000 masks. They also set up a small cart at Bhagirath Palace market for selling them. The business idea also helped Afzal’s family tide over the hardships caused due to the lockdown. “My father’s shop had to be closed during the lockdown. My brother also lost his job. Thankfully, he has been employed again. More than earning money, my motive was to ensure that even the poorest of the poor could afford a mask,” said Afzal. He laughed and added, “Manish Sisodia sir should also take a mask from me.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2-govt-school-kids-string-together-rescue-act-at-rs-2/articleshow/79358574.cms||Shradha Chettri
November 23, 2020||Goa||Carambolim’s rising water levels a threat to 8 houses||PANAJI: The monsoon may have withdrawn, but this is hardly any relief to residents of low-lying areas of Carambolim. Some occupants of houses at Manxer face a daily nightmare daily as water in the river rises to the plinth level of their residences at every high tide. Manxer - a confluence point of water bodies in Carambolim with five sluice gates and a small ward - has about eight houses on the bundhs. The progressive decline of the intricate bundh network is a sign of approaching danger, residents say. The nearest bundh linked to Manxer, the Tollem-Sawat bundh, has a few breaches. This has raised the water level to dangerous heights in the backwaters. “During high tide, the water rises to the edge of our house. We are worried the house will get damaged, leaving us homeless,” said one resident, Domnic Vaz. His neighbour, Fatima Rodrigues, faced a crisis recently at high tide. “The water entered our room. We are concerned about our children,” Rodrigues said. The small ward, which is located towards the south-east is linked by the 1.5km Tollem-Sawat bundh - also used as a connecting pathway - to the western half of Carambolim divided by fields in the middle. “The breach is about 10-15m long. But the bundh may break at a few more spots, where water is overflowing,” a villager said. During October, a move to hold elections to the Dhado Tenants Association panel had caused some turmoil. “The court had directed mamlatdar to drain the fields and hold elections. The elections have already been held, but draining the water has been the last priority,” one villager said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-carambolims-manxer-area-8-houses-at-risk-due-to-rising-water-levels/articleshow/79358567.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Dehradun||DM cancels allotment of 14 liquor shops for not depositing taxes in US Nagar||RUDRAPUR: Udham Singh Nagar’s district magistrate Ranjana Rajguru has cancelled the allotment of 14 liquor shops across the district as they failed to deposit a cumulative revenue of Rs 9.46 crore to the state government despite several notices. Meanwhile, the liquor vendors have said that the slowdown in their businesses due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown deterred them from paying the surcharges. District excise officer (DEO) Kailash Binjola told TOI that 12 foreign liquor shops and two desi (homemade) liquor shops in the district have not paid a total surcharge of Rs 9.46 crore. “We issued notices to these vendors asking them to comply with the norms but despite several reminders, they did not respond to our calls. A letter was submitted with the DM's office recommending to cancel the concerned licenses. An order was issued by the DM to cancel the allotments and now these shops will be taken over by the excise department,” Binjola added. Earlier in May this year, the retail liquor vendors in the district had asked the administration to reduce the monthly minimum sales quotas on their shops, based on which their tax is calculated. The shop allottees even threatened to go on strike as they were suffering heavy losses due to the lockdown. The district liquor vendors’ association had also submitted a memorandum seeking exemption from taxes and surcharges to then Udham Singh Nagar DM Neeraj Kharwal. Dharam Pal Singh, district liquor vendors’ association member, said, “The retail dealers have faced a sales deficit of upto 40% in the past eight months due to the pandemic. Instead of cancelling licenses, the state government should have reduced the mandatory quota and bailed the vendors out. The affected liquor vendors are mulling to move court and seek justice,” he added. Meanwhile, Binjola said that the demands of the liquor vendors are a subject to state consideration. “The non-payment of taxes is hurting state revenues and we had already issued several notices to them to deposit their surcharges.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dm-cancels-allotment-of-14-liquor-shops-for-not-depositing-taxes-in-us-nagar/articleshow/79356576.cms||Aakash Ahuja
November 23, 2020||Bareilly||Pilibhit farmers face funds crunch as procurement agencies fail to clear dues on time||Pilibhit: A delay in payment for procured paddy by government agencies here this season has added to farmers’ woes as they are yet to receive last harvesting season’s dues, which is to the tune of Rs 100 crore. Farmers are now facing acute liquidity crisis and many do not even have funds to buy inputs for the forthcoming rabi season for sowing crops like wheat, mustard and lentil. According to norms, paddy payments must be transferred to a farmer’s bank account within 72 hours of procurement. However, this has not been followed either in the last harvesting season or now. The cash-strapped farmers and their leaders have slammed both state as and central governments for failing to ensure payment on time while talking about reforms in the guise of the three new agrarian bills passed by Parliament. “The BJP-led central and the state governments have grown completely apathetic towards safeguarding the interests of the farmers. The only solution lies then in protest by farmers. The government is using the coronavirus pandemic as an excuse to quell all protests,” said Manjit Singh, a farmer and state general secretary of the Rashtriya Lok Dal here. According to official records of the district food and marketing department, a total of 1.56 lakh metric tons (MT) of paddy was procured in Pilibhit district from 24,449 farmers till the closing of November 20 through a network of 165 procurement centres of 11 purchase agencies. The procured paddy was valued at Rs 291.11 crore of which the arrears totalled Rs 112.89 crore. Earlier, the procurement agencies had purchased 1.37 lakh MT of paddy till November 13, the last working day before Diwali holidays, valuing Rs 255.71 crore but owed farmers Rs 114.71 crore. On being asked about the reason behind the backlog in payments, Avinash Jha, district food and marketing officer, in raising bills against the processed rice supplied to the Food Corporation of India (FCI) by the rice mills. “The FCI releases the payment to procurement agencies only against the invoiced stock of rice and the agencies make payment to farmers for their procured paddy out of this money. As the billing process from the part of procurement agencies is slow, it in turn adversely affects the payment to farmers.” said Jha. The official records show that till the closing of November 20, the rice mills had been supplied 1.21 lakh MTs of paddy for custom milling. Of this, the mills delivered only 17,389 metric tons of CMR (custom milled rice) to FCI. Against this, the procurement agencies raised bills for merely 5,952 MTs of CMR and submitted them for payment to FCI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pilibhit-farmers-face-funds-crunch-as-procurement-agencies-fail-to-clear-dues-on-time/articleshow/79354379.cms||Keshav Agarwal
November 23, 2020||Madurai||ASI should take steps to publicize heritage sites, says Madras HC judge||Madurai: Madras high court judge N Kirubakaran has said that Archeological Survey of India (ASI) should take up measures to publicize historical structures to kindle the curiosity of people and to attract tourists. “There should be boards highlighting the historical importance of each structure at the sites. They can also be publicized at railway stations and bus terminals to inform people and to kindle their curiosity,” he said. Kirubakaran took part in the World Heritage Week celebration and inaugurated the photo exhibition organized by ASI at World Tamil Sangam Building along with Justice B Pugalendhi on Sunday. He insisted that all languages and traditions must be equally respected and protected. One should know English to communicate with the outside world, but everyone should learn their mother tongue first. He raised concern over people not giving importance to learning Tamil language. “Young generation should study archeology courses.” Justice Pugalendhi said that they were fascinated by the information provided on each archeological site. “Our rich heritage and culture are making us proud. Listening to experts talk on the sites was fascinating,” he said, adding, “If mere listening is so fascinating, how fascinating it would be to visit the places in person. ASI officials make use of technology to inform visitors the importance and historical aspects of each site.” V Vedachalam, noted epigraphist, urged ASI to announce the Jain beds in hillocks in Madurai as protected world heritage circuit in order to save them, where 2,000 years old Tamil inscriptions were found. ASI superintending archaeologist Arun Raj said that 3,692 sites are protected by ASI and another around 5,000 sites are protected by state governments in the country. There are an estimated 2 lakh unprotected sites. Everyone must play a role in protecting them, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/asi-should-take-steps-to-publicize-heritage-sites-says-madras-hc-judge/articleshow/79359348.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 23, 2020||Hyderabad||2 arrested for selling tobacco products||Hyderabad: Rachakonda police busted an illegal gutka selling racket at Bhongir and arrested two persons. Police seized Rs 6 lakh worth banned tobacco products from their possession. Acting on specific information, Bhongir special operations team (SOT) sleuths along with Bhongir town police raided Lakshmi kirana and general stores in Bhongir on Saturday night. Police arrested two offenders, M Dinesh, 28, and G Ravi, 38, grocery store owners from Bhongir for selling banned gutkha of various brands from their possession. During interrogation, Dinesh confessed that Ashok, as per Dinesh’s request, started supplying gutka to him. Dinesh, in turn, had been selling it to Ravi during the past few months. Police registered a case against the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-arrested-for-selling-tobacco-products/articleshow/79358571.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Lucknow||Centenary cheer spills onto Lucknow streets||LUCKNOW: The euphoria of LU centenary celebrations spilled onto city streets on Sunday as faculty members and university officials took out a centennial walk from the old campus to Raj Bhawan. Jubilation echoed in the city with slogans like ‘Lucknow Vishwavidyalaya zindabad’ and ‘100 saal bemisal’ as people gathered to see the teachers and LU staff marching with enthusiasm. With a sense of pride and happiness, LU vice-chancellor Prof Alok Kumar Rai and faculty members walked with banners and LU logo in their hands. Dressed in track suits and sports shoes, the faculty and staff made sure that the entire city gets to know that the historical university has turned 100. “Vishwavidyalaya ki shatabdi utsav ki dhamak ka gawah bana shehar hamare saath (With us, residents of Lucknow became a witness to the vibrant centenary celebrations of LU),” said Prof Puneet Misra, a faculty member at computer department. “We want the entire city to join the celebrations and the best way to inform people that LU has turned 100 was to reach out to city residents,” said Prof Kiranlata Dangwal, a faculty at education department. The walk culminated at Raj Bhawan where Governor Anandiben Patel, who is also the Chancellor of state universities, congratulated the teachers and asked them to make the journey a memorable one. “Incorporate fitness regime in your lifestyle and take out time for exercise. You have to be fit if the journey of LU has to be made big,” the Governor said. “Organize maximum co-curricular activities for students, take them to academic tours and help them develop the habit of exploring and learning new things and taking up attempting new assignments,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/centenary-cheer-spills-onto-city-streets/articleshow/79359345.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana records 870 new Covid cases, 4 deaths||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Sunday recorded four deaths and 873 new Covid-19 positive cases as the state reported below 1000 mark for the fourth consecutive day. The daily positive cases have been hovering around the 1000 mark for a while now and the positivity rate in the state has dropped to 3.8 percent now against 6 percent two months back, as per official information.Telangana has recorded a total of 2,63,526 Covid-19 cases since the beginning of the pandemic, while the total death toll is 1,430. On Sunday, 41,646 tests were conducted in the state taking the total testing in Telangana to 51.3 lakh The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits recorded 152 new cases on Sunday, which was the highest among districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-records-870-new-covid-cases-4-deaths/articleshow/79358577.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Dehradun||Minor girl raped in Haridwar||HARIDWAR: A seven-year-old girl was raped by the landlord of the house she was living in. The crime took place when her parents had gone out for work and had left the girl under the care of the accused. Police have registered a case against the accused, identified as Muneeshwar Das (in his fifties), under section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code and the POCSO Act. SHO city police station Amarjeet Singh told TOI, “The girl was threatened by the accused but she narrated her ordeal to her parents after which they approached the police.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/minor-girl-raped-in-haridwar/articleshow/79356585.cms||MS Nawaz
November 23, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS turned Hyderabad into sinking city: Prakash Javadekar||HYDERABAD: Union environment and information & broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar on Sunday said TRS made a promise to make Hyderabad a global city but turned it into a flood city, in an apparent reference to the recent deluge following unprecedented rains. Releasing the BJP’s ‘chargesheet’ on the alleged failures of TRS regime in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) at a star hotel, he asked if chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao would drink water of Hussain Sagar as he claimed in the past that he would make the water clean like coconut water. Exuding confidence of BJP’s win in the elections to the civic body, Javadekar said the party would do an encore of the Dubbak success. He alleged TRS failed to fulfil its poll promises and also accused the state government led by KCR of indulging in corruption. In the GHMC polls to be held on December 1, the fight was for who would be the city’s mayor, the BJP leader told reporters. “The question is whether an MIM mayor is needed or BJP's mayor. The elections are being contested on this question. Because a vote to KCR means a vote to the MIM,” he claimed. The minister said TRS and MIM would work together again after election results. “They are hand in glove, voters should not vote for TRS, it is like voting for MIM. BJP will strive for MIM-mukt Hyderabad,” he said. He said TRS regime failed on many fronts. “What happened to the Rs 67,000 crore spent on Hyderabad?” Javdekar brushed aside CM’s recent announcement of forming an anti-BJP front at the national level. “He (KCR) tried it earlier, nothing happened. Nothing will happen now,” he said. When asked about the allegations of unrest in BJP-ruled states, the minister said: “BJP is in power in over 100 corporations across the country and no blasts and communal riots happened in any of them.” The minister also objected to the state not implementing reservation for the economically weaker sections (EWS). He also alleged that TRS grossly failed on its biggest promise of providing 2-BHK (bedroom-hall-kitchen) units for the poor. “There is debt on state and assets in KCR’s name. The assets of KCR and his friends are growing while assets of state are declining and its debts are growing. And because of this, BJP brought out a charge sheet highlighting the 60 failures of TRS, which has run away from keeping its promises,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-turned-hyd-into-sinking-city-javadekar/articleshow/79358665.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 23, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru-M’luru flight to commence from Dec 10||Mysuru: In a big boost to tourism activities in the southern region of Karnataka, the much awaited Mysuru-Mangaluru air service will start from December 10. “It is the result of continuous efforts. There was a huge demand for this service. I thank all for realising this dream,” Mysuru MP Pratap Simha told STOI. “This flight will operate four days a week initially,” he said. According to sources, Alliance Air, a wholly owned subsidiary of Air India Limited, is commencing the direct flight from Mysuru to Mangaluru and in return direction. The flight will operate on Wednesday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday. The flight 9I 532 will depart from Mysuru at 11.15 am and arrive in Mangaluru at 12.15 pm. The flight 9I 533 will depart from Mangaluru at 12. 40 pm and arrive in Mysuru at 1.40 pm. “The airline has introduced this new flight on the route to add to the convenience of passengers who will be travelling to meet their family and friends in the festive season,” informed authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-mluru-flight-to-commence-from-dec-10/articleshow/79356580.cms||Shrinivasa M
November 23, 2020||Bareilly||Brick kiln labourer raped by manager||Pilibhit: A 21-year-old woman labourer at a brick kiln in a village under Seramau (North) police station was allegedly raped by the manager, 20, on Friday. The woman had gone to a nearby sugarcane field along with a co-worker to answer nature’s call when the accused raped her. Police said the crime was reported to them the next day, following which they booked the accused under IPC section 376 (rape) on Saturday night. Seramau (North) SHO Pushkar Singh said they arrested the accused and sent the woman for a medical examination at the district women hospital in Pilibhit. In her complaint, the woman’s mother alleged that the manager chased her daughter to the sugarcane field and raped her. Superintendent of police Jai Prakash Yadav said, “We will file a strong charge-sheet so that the accused cannot be granted an early bail and is given rigorous punishment.” ReplyReply to allForward||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/brick-kiln-labourer-raped-by-manager/articleshow/79354404.cms||Keshav Agarwal
November 23, 2020||Lucknow||Hundred saplings of Palash to mark Lucknow University centenary year||LUCKNOW: On the fourth day of centenary celebrations, hundred saplings of ‘Palash’ were planted on the second campus of Lucknow University on Sunday. Donated by the forest department to LU for centenary year, the plantation drive was initiated by vice chancellor Prof Alok Kumar Rai who planted the saplings in front of the Human Resource Development Centre. Students of ‘Prakriti’, the nature wing, of zoology department student club (Vitals), along with former students then completed the drive. “It will be the responsibility of students to make sure that these saplings flourish into full grown trees so that everyone on the campus can reap the economic and medicinal benefits of Palash trees,” said Geetanjali Mishra, associate professor, department of zoology. Ajay Varshney, an alumnus of 1999 batch and now a manager in a private firm, said: “The lawns were a very important part of our college days, as this is where we used to discuss everything from politics to emotions, hence it is our moral responsibility to make sure that the campus is always vibrant, clean and green.” Priyam Gambhir, another alumnus from 2005 batch of said: “As we walk through the campus, it’s evident that the lawns are perfectly manicured, much more than they were a decade ago and I’ve also been told that students don’t have the permission to few campus lawns where we spent some of our best times.” Palash or Tesu or Butea monosperma is the state plant of Uttar Pradesh and is known for its beautiful ochre red flowers that bloom around Holi festival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/hundred-saplings-of-palash-to-mark-lu-centenary-year/articleshow/79359354.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Goa||Wildlifers claim tigress, two cubs spotted at Borde||KERI: Wildlifers claimed that a local has spotted a tigress and her two cubs in the forest area of Ghodekond in Borde, Bicholim. Though forest officials said they are still in the process of verifying the information, the news has wildlifers awestruck, as the area near the Ghodekond forest was an active mining area until recently. “A person, while strolling at night saw a tigress with two cubs. On seeing the wildcats, he ran away from the site and later informed us. On earlier occasions, leopards have been trapped and rescued in Van, a village adjacent to Lakhere-Borde. However, sighting of a tigress with two cubs is indeed surprising for us,” Amrut Singh of Animal Rescue Squad, Bicholim, told TOI. The residents of Ghodekond area said that over the last fortnight there have been reports of cattle being attacked and killed there, raising worry about the news of the presence of the big cats. “Ghodekond is a forested area where perennial water sources as well as herbivores animals thrive. Five years ago there a tiger was sighted in the area,” Borde-resident Rohidas Pal said. Amrut Singh said increasing disturbances in their natural habitat in the Western Ghats areas could be a possible reason behind the tigress relocating. Before the onset of mining, Bicholim town and Borde had forested areas where tigers, leopards, bison and wild boars roamed freely. Lamgaon till date has a natural cave which the local residents believe is a tiger cave. Avachitwada in Bicholim has a stone idol of a tiger in front of the Laxmi Narayan temple. The idol is worshipped as the folk deity. Range Forest Officer, Keri, Vivek Gaonkar said, “We have not received any information about sighting of big cats. I will ask my officials to visit Ghodekond area and collect information.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/wildlifers-claim-tigress-two-cubs-spotted-at-borde/articleshow/79358607.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
November 23, 2020||Delhi||North Delhi corporation starts mask bank for free distribution, each ward to get one||NEW DELHI: North Delhi Municipal Corporation opened its first mask bank at the mayor’s official residence on Lancer Road in Civil Lines on Sunday. Mayor Jai Prakash said 104 banks would be opened — one in each ward — where people will get masks for free to fight novel coronavirus. Social and religious organisations, along with women’s self-help groups, are being approached to make the model feasible, the mayor said. “We are appealing to all capable organisations to step forward and help the society in this testing time. Anybody can donate masks in these banks,” he added. The civic body also plans to set up mask-dispensing automatic machines in selected commercial areas. On Sunday, around 500 people took masks from the 24x7 bank, which has got 5,000 masks in donation. “The mayor’s residence remains open all the time. A person can ring the bell and ask for a mask through a dedicated window,” Jai Prakash said. In view of the recent surge in Covid-19 cases, Delhi government on Thursday quadrupled its Rs 500 fine for not wearing masks in public areas. Anyone flouting this or other social distancing norms such as maintaining social distance or not spitting in the open will have to pay Rs 2,000 as fine. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had also called an all-party meeting in which he appealed to every organisation to start distributing masks through their volunteers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/n-corpn-starts-mask-bank-for-free-distribution-each-ward-to-get-one/articleshow/79358608.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Agra||Hathras victim’s family fear for their lives, claims report by civil rights body||AGRA: A civil rights body released a fact-finding report on Saturday claiming that members of the Hathras gang rape and murder victim's family were living in conditions akin to house arrest and they fear for their lives once the CRPF protection is withdrawn. A delegation of 11 members of the People's Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL) visited Hathras earlier this month. In it’s 16-page report, the organisation demanded proper security for the family and their rehabilitation through the Nirbhaya fund. They stated in the report that the state government and Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) should be directed to stop rumours of character assassination of the deceased girl and defaming the family. Action should be taken in the matter. The PUCL members also demanded that cases be lodged against officials for hurriedly cremating the victim. Action should be taken against the officials involved in it and for their statement that the deceased girl was not raped. In its report, the organisation members further demanded that cases be lodged for the alleged bid to incite violence under the garb of the incident and the same should be investigated by the CBI. At present, these cases are being probed by the state’s Special Task Force, they said. The PUCL members alleged that the name of the Popular Front of India (PFI) has been dragged into the controversy to create "Hindu-Muslim fissures" and divert attention from the actual crime. Four people, including a journalist, were arrested in Mathura while on their way to Hathras last month. The police had said that they have links with the PFI. PUCL member Kamal Singh said it is a democratic right of the people to question and oppose the government and the administration. It is very essential to protect democracy and the Constitution, Singh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/hathras-victims-family-fear-for-their-lives-claims-report-by-civil-rights-body/articleshow/79355823.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Agra||Young couple found hanging from a tree in Mathura||AGRA: A young couple, both 21 years old, were found hanging from a tree in Mathura’s Piprauli village on Sunday. They deceased were identified as Pankaj and Jyoti. Their bodies were found just 100 meters behind their houses. They lived in the same village and were from the same caste. Preliminary investigations revealed that they were in a relationship for the last few years and wanted to get married. However, the girl’s parents were not ready to accept their relationship as the duo was distantly related, police said. They fixed her wedding elsewhere and it was scheduled on November 26. Shireesh Chandra, SP (rural), said the bodies had been sent for post-mortem and the matter is being investigated. He said, “No FIR has not been registered so far as no complaint has been filed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/young-couple-found-hanging-from-a-tree-in-mathura/articleshow/79355838.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Choose between divisive politics, decisive policy: KT Rama Rao||TRS working president KT Rama Rao said the state government has taken up a combination of welfare schemes and development works over the past five years. He said the party is seeking votes based on the performance, and people have to decide whether they need ‘divisive politics or decisive policy’. In an exclusive interview with Koride Mahesh, the municipal minister said TRS will win the elections comfortably. Excerpts:Why should people vote for TRS in civic elections?On multiple counts. In the past six years, after TRS government came into power, over Rs 67,000 crore worth of developmental works were taken up. Our government has done tremendous work in power, water, sanitation, law and order, roads and infrastructure sectors. These are primary needs of the people. Earlier there were areas, which used to get water once in 14 days. After the TRS came to power, water supply was improved. For the city, a 10tmcft capacity reservoir at Keshavapur near Shamirpet is being constructed, with such an initiative coming after 100 years. The government is providing uninterrupted power supply to both domestic and industries. Law and order, has been a priority for the TRS government. Hyderabad has been peaceful and harmonious without any communal riots, curfews and other issues. Industries and investments are coming due to political stability and law and order apart from geographical advantages and talent. Of the total CCTVs in the country, 65% are in Hyderabad, which has five lakh cameras. Strategic road development and development of 137 link roads to decongest the main roads were taken up in a big way. Infrastructure development in the city remains our focus and an ongoing effort. On the sanitation front, Telangana is on top in solid waste management (SWM). Hyderabad city got 19th rank in Swachh Sarvekshan rankings. Don’t you think, the recent floods exposed the shortcomings in infrastructure?I admit, people in some colonies suffered due to the recent floods. But no government can anticipate and prepare for heavy rains of 140cm that happen once in 100 years. Now, the government wants to take up remodelling of nalas, strengthening of lakes and Musi revitalisation on a mission mode by allocating funds.  The government is even planning to bring a new GHMC Act to remove encroachments on water bodies and nalas without giving a notice. For removal of encroachments, people should also cooperate. When the last floods happened in 2016, some colonies were assured to cooperate with the state government for removal of encroachments on the lakes. After the floods receded, the people backtracked. Who is your main opponent in GHMC elections, Congress or BJP? TRS will win more than 100 seats and AIMIM will secure second position in terms of number of seats. People will decide third and fourth positions whether it will be Congress or BJP. In my opinion, BJP will get single digit seats and Congress two to three seats. BJP has taken up Hindutva issue and AIMIM in these polls. Is your party going to change the campaign strategy?In my opinion, campaign strategies change from election to election. But GHMC elections are being fought on local issues and conditions. Therefore, I would not give undue importance to campaign style. In cricket matches we have to face different kinds of bowlers. We have done focussed work both welfare and development. Instead of resorting to social media bulldozing and raising unnecessary issues, why can’t they (BJP) tell the people what they have done for Hyderabad in the past few years that deserve them votes. There has been a debate among the political circles that since TRS decimated Congress, it helped and created space for BJP to grow in the state. What do you say on this?It is up to Congress that has to introspect why they have become so weak and leaders are shifting loyalties. It is not confined to only Telangana, it has happened in other states also. However, it is an internal matter of the Congress party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/choose-between-divisive-politics-decisive-policy-ktr/articleshow/79358661.cms||Koride Mahesh
November 23, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Over 5,000 new Covid-19 cases reported; test positivity rate nears 11 per cent||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state on Sunday reported as many as 5,254 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the overall tally to 5,62,695. The test positivity rate has gone up to 10.94%. With 27 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, the death toll reached 2,050 in the state. As many as 48,015 samples were tested on Sunday, As many as 6,227 patients recovered from the disease, taking the total number of recovered patients to 4,94,664. Among the new cases reported, 5,160 got infected through local transmission while the source of infection remained unknown in 662 people. There were 53 health personnel among those who tested positive for the virus on Sunday. As many as 94 people who got infected had come from outside the state. A total of 58,57,241 samples have been sent for testing till now. While 875 infected people are admitted in the ICUs of different hospitals, 228 others are on ventilator support. Malappuram, reported 796 fresh cases, the highest in the state, followed by Kozhikode (612), Thrissur (543), Ernakulam (494), Palakkad (468), Alappuzha (433), Thiruvananthapuram (383), Kottayam (355), Kollam (314), Kannur (233), Idukki (220), Pathanamthitta (169), Wayanad (153) and Kasaragod (81). The number of contact cases from the districts are as follows: Malappuram (762), Kozhikode (565), Thrissur (522), Ernakulam (381), Palakkad (275), Alappuzha (409), Thiruvananthapuram (277), Kottayam (353), Kollam (308), Kannur (148), Idukki (199), Pathanamthitta (28), Wayanad (142) and Kasaragod (76). With 12 cases, Ernakulam led the districts with the most number of healthcare workers who got infected on Sunday, followed by Thiruvananthapuram (10), Kannur (6), Kozhikode (5), Thrissur and Wayanad (4 each), Palakkad and Malappuram (3 each), and Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Idukki (2 each0. As many as 543 people recovered from the disease in Thiruvananthapuram. The figures from other districts are as follows: Kollam (526), Pathanamthitta (198), Alappuzha (383), Kottayam (528), Idukki (77), Ernakulam (953), Thrissur (417), Palakkad (426), Malappuram (785), Kozhikode (828), Wayanad (121), Kannur (351) and Kasaragod (88). There are 3,21,297 persons under isolation across the state of which 3,04,891 are under home or institutional quarantine and 16,406 under hospital surveillance. As many as 1,829 people were admitted to the hospitals in the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/over-5k-new-cases-reported-test-positivity-rate-nears-11/articleshow/79365811.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Dehradun||Mussoorie: No new Covid-19 case reported from civil service academy||MUSSOORIE: After reporting 57 Covid-19 infections within two days, the Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration (LBSNAA) did not record any new case on Sunday. Speaking to TOI, Dr Sanjeev Chopra, director of LBSNAA, said that the situation was under control and that no Covid-19 positive case was reported on Sunday. “The 57 officer trainees (OTs) who had tested positive of the virus are being treated at the Covid-19 care centre set up within the campus and are being regularly monitored. We have also set up a 24X7 control room within the campus,” Chopra told TOI. The official added that Covid-19 protocols are being strictly followed to ensure social distancing in the campus. He further said that the additional health care staff has been deployed at the campus and all the necessary equipment have been arranged in sufficient quantities to deal with any emergency situation. “Only 33% of staff has been asked to come to the academy and the entire campus is being disinfected. Also, the strictest norms of quarantine are being followed,” Chopra said. It is worth mentioning that out of the 428 OTs who joined the academy for the 95th Foundation course on October 13, 33 tested Covid-19 positive on Friday while another 24 were found infected with the virus on Saturday. As the cases surfaced, the academy announced that the training of OTs would completely be conducted online till December 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/no-new-covid-19-case-reported-from-lbsnaa/articleshow/79356591.cms||Anmol Jain
November 23, 2020||Mysuru||In Mysuru, cops take the lead in creating awareness||Mysuru: Police in Mysuru, whose primary responsibility of ensuring law and order is a stressful enough, are not allowing fatigue to prevent them from serving what they believe is an equally important function: protecting the citizenry from the pandemic. Cops have been educating the public on the proper etiquette to be followed to stay safe from Covid-19. In addition to penalising those not wearing masks in public, police have been urging citizens to download the ‘Arogya Setu’ app. Mysuru deputy commissioner of police (law and order) AN Prakash Gowda told TOI, “As part of the ‘Jan Andolan’ initiative, we have launched awareness programmes at each station. We have directed cops to ensure people are disciplined. The response from the public has been overwhelmingly positive.” Gowda added that they were focussing primarily on crowded spaces such as markets, bus terminals, et al. One of the indicators of the success police have achieved is that in Metagalli, more than a 100 people within the jurisdiction of the station downloaded the ‘Arogya Setu’ app. “We held an awareness programme and explained the uses of the app. We have also roped in residents to function as volunteers, who are assisting us in organising awareness programmes regularly,” said Metagalli inspector Mallesh. Flipside: Tackling crime takes a backseat A police official pointed to some of the difficulties they were facing juggling these various responsibilities. “Although we are raising awareness about the pandemic, tackling crime has taken a backseat owing to the added responsibility. Personnel in other departments could have been tasked with this responsibility. Each police station has been set a target of educating 1,000 people within its jurisdiction about the protocol to be followed, in addition to drafting SOPs that public need to abide by during festivals and other gatherings,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/in-mysuru-cops-take-the-lead-in-creating-awareness/articleshow/79356596.cms||Lawrence Milton
November 23, 2020||Bareilly||Stray bulls claim third life in four months in Kheri district||Bareilly: A 52-year-old man, a farmer, grievously injured by a raging bull died on his way to a hospital in Bheera area of Lakhimpur Kheri district on Sunday morning, taking the number of casualties in bull attacks to three in four months. The victim, Om Prakash, was on his way to his field when a bull tossed him up in the air and then gored him repeatedly. After rescuing Om, locals informed his family and called an ambulance. Om, however, died due to excessive bleeding on his way to the nearest community health centre which is about an hour drive from the village. Doctors at the CHC proclaimed him dead upon arrival, said police.Bheera police station SHO Ajay Rai said, “The body was sent for autopsy, but no FIR can be registered in such cases. The responsibility of stray cattle lies with civic body officials. We have requested them to rescue the bull.”A 75-year-old farmer was killed by a stray bull in Mitauli on October 14, while a 45-year-old vegetable-vendor lost his life in a bull attack in Rudrapur village of Bheera area on August 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/stray-bulls-claim-third-life-in-four-months-in-kheri-district/articleshow/79354409.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 23, 2020||Nagpur||Another father, child separated across Pakistan border due to Covid||NAGPUR: Sagar Bajaj from Indore will leave behind his wife and 10-day-old daughter at Jacobabad in Sindh province of Pakistan, as he has to reach Lahore to cross over to the Indian side from Wagah-Attari border on Monday. This is another family that has to remain separated due to Covid and diplomatic red tape between India and Pakistan. Sagar had entered Pakistan on February 2 to reach Jacobabad for his marriage with Sandhya Kumari on February 22. The plan was to come back by March end, but the borders were closed due to Covid, leaving him stranded for 10 months. In the meantime, the couple had a child. Ten-day-old Laxmibai will not be able to come to India with her parents as she does not have a passport yet. This is the second such case reported by TOI. On Monday, the second batch of Pakistani citizens stranded due to Covid will cross over to India. Sagar and his wife’s names were on the list, but not their daughter’s name, as she does not have a passport yet. Sagar is a Pakistani citizen who has been living in India on a long-term-visa (LTV) since 2013, and hopes to get Indian citizenship. Like others, he had gone to Pakistan on a NORI visa, which allows return in three months, but was stranded. The first batch of stranded NORI holders was sent in September. The list had Sagar’s name too, but not of his wife due to a different technical problem. She had a fresh visit visa that had expired, and a list of only NORI holders was drawn up. Yet Sagar took his pregnant wife till Wagah, hoping that the authorities may relent. “I kept requesting but was stopped at the Pakistani side and was asked to go through the proper procedure. Some other newly-wed brides were also sent back that day. Both of us went back to Jacobabad,” he says. Had Sagar’s pleas been heard, it would perfectly matched his calculation. In that case, the child would have been born in India, making her an Indian citizen by birth. In the current list, names of newly-wed wives have been included by special arrangement. But by that time the couple had a child. Sagar’s problem could have been solved if the exit of NORI holders was scheduled a little later. It may take another two or three days to get a passport for the child. However, he preferred to leave to avoid any complication, said a kin. “I did not want to take any chances as I had already missed the first chance, so I decided to leave with a heavy heart,” says Sagar. The Pakistani authorities have assured that once his daughter’s passport is issued both mother and child will be sent to India. Sagar hopes that this happens at the earliest, as his wife has also made similar requests. Rajesh Jhambia of Sindhi Hindi Panchayat, an organization of immigrants, said the Indian government should allow spouses visas on an urgent basis so that they can reunite with their husbands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/another-father-child-separated-across-pak-border-due-to-covid/articleshow/79358603.cms||Shishir Arya
November 23, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka govt orders resumption of H1N1 tests||HAVERI: The state had halted testing for H1N1, commonly known as swine flu, ever since the pandemic hit, since laboratories were needed to conduct Covid-19 test. However, the department of health and family welfare’s Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) has now ordered resumption of H1N1 tests at Covid laboratories. Within a couple of days, 98 Covid-19 testing laboratories in the state are expected to test samples for H1N1. The move is aimed at checking the spread of swine flu in the state. The order issued by Parimala Maroor, planning director, IDSP, states influenza A-H1N1 tests must be conducted on all patients with symptoms of cold, cough, fever and acute respiratory infection. Health workers have been advised to form wardwise ILI clusters to weed out people with symptoms of the diseases and test them immediately. “All districts should conduct H1N1 tests on SARI (severe acute respiratory infection) cases even they test negative for Covid,” the order states. “Authorities are also instructed to conduct H1N1 tests on 5% of total Covid positive cases in the state.” Maroor’s order says patients with H1N1 should be given proper treatment and provided with Tamiflu tablets. Authorities have been advised to maintain a stock of Tamiflu and other medicine in all wards. “Ideally, medical staff like doctors, nurses and others, who are most exposed to the pandemic, must be vaccinated against H1N1,” Maroor states, who adds awareness programmes should be conducted at the district level. However, Dr Jagadish Patil, Haveri district surveillance officer of IDSP, said, “We have not yet received any order in this regard. We will start conducting tests once we receive the order. Testing for swine flu wouldn’t be a problem since all Covid testing laboratories are capable of conducting these tests too.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/halted-when-covid-hit-govt-orders-resumption-of-h1n1-tests/articleshow/79357094.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
November 23, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Over 5,000 new Covid-19 cases reported; test positivity rate nears 11 per cent||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state on Sunday reported as many as 5,254 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the overall tally to 5,62,695. The test positivity rate has gone up to 10.94%. With 27 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, the death toll reached 2,050 in the state. As many as 48,015 samples were tested on Sunday, As many as 6,227 patients recovered from the disease, taking the total number of recovered patients to 4,94,664. Among the new cases reported, 5,160 got infected through local transmission while the source of infection remained unknown in 662 people. There were 53 health personnel among those who tested positive for the virus on Sunday. As many as 94 people who got infected had come from outside the state. A total of 58,57,241 samples have been sent for testing till now. While 875 infected people are admitted in the ICUs of different hospitals, 228 others are on ventilator support. Malappuram, reported 796 fresh cases, the highest in the state, followed by Kozhikode (612), Thrissur (543), Ernakulam (494), Palakkad (468), Alappuzha (433), Thiruvananthapuram (383), Kottayam (355), Kollam (314), Kannur (233), Idukki (220), Pathanamthitta (169), Wayanad (153) and Kasaragod (81). The number of contact cases from the districts are as follows: Malappuram (762), Kozhikode (565), Thrissur (522), Ernakulam (381), Palakkad (275), Alappuzha (409), Thiruvananthapuram (277), Kottayam (353), Kollam (308), Kannur (148), Idukki (199), Pathanamthitta (28), Wayanad (142) and Kasaragod (76). With 12 cases, Ernakulam led the districts with the most number of healthcare workers who got infected on Sunday, followed by Thiruvananthapuram (10), Kannur (6), Kozhikode (5), Thrissur and Wayanad (4 each), Palakkad and Malappuram (3 each), and Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Idukki (2 each0. As many as 543 people recovered from the disease in Thiruvananthapuram. The figures from other districts are as follows: Kollam (526), Pathanamthitta (198), Alappuzha (383), Kottayam (528), Idukki (77), Ernakulam (953), Thrissur (417), Palakkad (426), Malappuram (785), Kozhikode (828), Wayanad (121), Kannur (351) and Kasaragod (88). There are 3,21,297 persons under isolation across the state of which 3,04,891 are under home or institutional quarantine and 16,406 under hospital surveillance. As many as 1,829 people were admitted to the hospitals in the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/over-5k-new-cases-reported-test-positivity-rate-nears-11/articleshow/79357680.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Lucknow||Awestruck by varsity’s beauty, Spanish tourist couple joins centennial walk||LUCKNOW: A couple from Spain, who had come to Lucknow to have a glimpse of the city’s rich culture and heritage, could not stop themselves from visiting Lucknow University when they came to know the institution is celebrating 100 years of its existence. Raul De La Rosa and his wife Natalia Ana Gomez hopped on to a Lakhnavi tonga (horse cart) to view the architectural beauty of the campus. They also joined LU’s centenary celebrations by participating in the heritage walk on Sunday. When they reached the campus, the Nawabi horse cart ride left them spellbound as they gasped in disbelief.  “I am excited to be a part of the centennial celebrations of the grand university and the heritage walk. I had come to see the beauty of Lucknow and being a witness to the historic moment of the university has been an enriching experience,” said Raul, adding that this was for the first time that he took Lucknow’s horse cart ride. “The rich architecture and history of the university is quite fascinating. I couldn’t stop taking pictures. The memories captured here will be ingrained in my mind forever. I will definitely tell my friends about this splendid university ,” said Natalia. Anupama Srivastava, a faculty at the Institute of Tourism Studies, said: “The moment we told them about Lucknow University centenary celebrations, they instantly decided to join it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/awestruck-by-varsitys-beauty-spanish-tourist-couple-joins-centennial-walk/articleshow/79359395.cms||Mohita Tewari
November 23, 2020||Ranchi||Wanted Maoist from Chatra gunned down in Bihar||CHATRA: Acting on a tip-off, Cobra, CRPF and Bihar police shot dead a Chatra-based wanted Maoist zonal commander, also active in Jharkhand and carrying Rs 10 lakh on his head, in a joint operation at a village in the neighbouring state on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday, Chatra SP Rishav Kumar Jha said. The deceased, identified as Alok (30), who hailed from Sikid village under Sadar police station of Chatra district, was wanted in several cases, including murder, extortion and kidnapping, lodged against him in the district and Gaya and Aurangabad (both in Bihar). The operation took place in Mahuari village under Barachatti block of Gaya district when Alok, along with a few other Naxals, opened fire at villagers who were attending a cultural programme there. The firing ended up killing two civilians, including a representative of the local mukhiya. The security personnel, who were present at the spot, also opened fire, resulting in Alok’s death on the spot. The police team seized Insas and AK-47 rifles from the spot. Alok, who was originally known as Santosh Yadav, was notorious in his village even before he joined the CPI(Maoist). At the age of 14, he was accused of killing a villager identified as Triloki Yadav, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/wanted-maoist-from-chatra-gunned-down-in-bihar/articleshow/79357346.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Ranchi||Ex-minister among 5 Covid-19 deaths, 137 cases in Jharkhand||RANCHI: Former minister and three-time Congress MLA of the erstwhile undivided Bihar, O P Lala, were among the five Covid-19 deaths reported in the state on Sunday. Jharkhand also reported 137 fresh cases and 272 recoveries. Among the deaths, two, including Lala at Rims, were from Ranchi and one each from Bokaro, Hazaribag and Dhanbad. The toll in the state is now 951 while the casualty rate stands at 0.88%. Meanwhile, nine districts — Chatra, Dhanbad, Gumla Khunti, Latehar, Lohardaga and Pakur — reported zero fresh cases and barring Ranchi and Bokaro, which reported fresh cases in two digits (77 and 12) other districts reported in single digits. The cumulative caseload in the state has touched 1,07,469 of which 1,04,229 have recovered, taking the recovery rate up at 96.98%. The seven-day growth rate of the virus in the also stands at 0.17% against the national average of 0.40%. The doubling rate of the virus in the state far ahead at 418.76 days against the national figure of 173.89 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ex-min-among-5-covid-deaths-137-cases-in-state/articleshow/79357324.cms||Gaurav Pandey
November 23, 2020||Jamshedpur||Ex-minister among 5 Covid-19 deaths, 137 cases in Jharkhand||RANCHI: Former minister and three-time Congress MLA of the erstwhile undivided Bihar, O P Lala, were among the five Covid-19 deaths reported in the state on Sunday. Jharkhand also reported 137 fresh cases and 272 recoveries. Among the deaths, two, including Lala at Rims, were from Ranchi and one each from Bokaro, Hazaribag and Dhanbad. The toll in the state is now 951 while the casualty rate stands at 0.88%. Meanwhile, nine districts — Chatra, Dhanbad, Gumla Khunti, Latehar, Lohardaga and Pakur — reported zero fresh cases and barring Ranchi and Bokaro, which reported fresh cases in two digits (77 and 12) other districts reported in single digits. The cumulative caseload in the state has touched 1,07,469 of which 1,04,229 have recovered, taking the recovery rate up at 96.98%. The seven-day growth rate of the virus in the also stands at 0.17% against the national average of 0.40%. The doubling rate of the virus in the state far ahead at 418.76 days against the national figure of 173.89 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/ex-min-among-5-covid-deaths-137-cases-in-state/articleshow/79361871.cms||Gaurav Pandey
November 23, 2020||Rajkot||Central team visits Mehsana, Prantij observes self curfew||PALANPUR: A central health team on Sunday reviewed measures undertaken by Mehsana district authorities to prevent spread of coronavirus. The team comprising of Dr P K Singh from the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Dr S K Jain, additional director, epidemiology logistic and Dr Kaushik from NCDC held a review meeting with district health officials. The team expressed satisfaction with various operations including house-to-house surveillance and made suggestions to utilize Asha workers and others for intensive surveillance and improving quality of testing. It also recommended setting up post-Covid clinic which can attend to physical, mental and medical problems faced by Covid recovered patients. Surveillance is being carried out in Mehsana district through 57 ‘dhanvantari’ chariots while testing is being conducted at RT-PCR centres and 145 rapid antigen teams. The team visited Sai Krishna Covid hospital, Radhe Exotica centre while it was apprised of status of facilities and testing facilities in presence of district collector H K Patel, district development officer M Y Dakshini by senior health officials. Meanwhile, Dinesh Patel, who heads agriculture produce market committee (APMC) at Unja said that there is no official order to close the APMC amidst concerns over rise in number of cases. Traders in Sabarkantha’s Prantij town on the other hand kept shutters of their shops down as the town is observing voluntary curfew for two days starting from Sunday till Nov 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/central-team-visits-mehsana-prantij-observes-self-curfew/articleshow/79356954.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi: New route for Rajdhani by May next year||RANCHI: Travel time between Ranchi and New Delhi is likely to be cut down by three hours from May next year when the Ranchi-Lohardaga-Tori railway route is opened for Rajdhani Express, among others, officials at the Ranchi railway division said on Sunday. While the division has completed the electrification of the 112-km-long route, the ongoing commissioning of two traction substations (TSS) along the route at Piska and Lohardaga stations will divert the New Delhi-bound express trains along the new route. At present, all New Delhi-bound trains from Ranchi ply along the Muri-Barkakana-Tori-Daltonganj route. “Once TSS is commissioned, it will help us provide uninterrupted power supply of 25,000 volts through the wires and we will be able to increase the frequency of railway movement along the route,” a senior railway official said. Once fully operational, the route will reduce distance by over 90 km for Delhi-bound trains, the official added. The new route was inaugurated by former chief minister Raghubar Das in 2017 and at present, trains between Ranchi and Sasaram and Ranchi and Lohardaga run on the route. Meanwhile, the pandemic provided a window of opportunity to the division for completing electrification along the route. “The electrification works were taken up in the current fiscal year as passenger train movement came to a grinding halt in the pandemic”, Ranchi divisional operations manager-cum-public relations officer Niraj Kumar said, adding, “It was planned in Hatia and Namkum yards and Jonha section and executed in two months.” He further said the electrification has cut down diesel consumption drastically. “There were six diesel engines in Hatia and Muri, now both the stations have one diesel engine each for shunting and for emergencies,” he added. One diesel engine consumes 450 litre a day. After complete electrification, diesel consumption of the division will reduce by 48,600 litres a year and will save the railways around Rs 36 lakh annually.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/new-route-for-rajdhani-by-may-next-year/articleshow/79357386.cms||Dhritiman Ray
November 23, 2020||Vadodara||IRCTC helps NGO set up two blood transfusion centres||VADODARA: The Wishing Factory (TWF) , a city-based NGO, is set to spread its care for thalassaemia, sickle cell anaemia and haemophilia patients even further. The NGO has received a funding of Rs 32 lakh from the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) to start two new centres in Dahod and Jaisalmer in Rajasthan. The IRCTC has donated the sum under its corporate social responsibility (CSR) scheme. “The two new centres will prove to be a big boon for these patients, as neither of the districts has any blood transfusion centre,” said TWF’s founder and chairperson, Partth Thakur. Dahod has around 50 thalassaemia patients and over 150 patients with sickle cell anaemia while Jaisalmer has around 85 thalassaemia patients and 120 patients suffering from sickle cell anaemia. Patients from Jodhpur and Bikaner districts too will benefit from the Jaisalmer centre. The centres will come up at Zydus Medical College and Hospital in Dahod and at Shree Jawahar Hospital in Jaisalmer. Until now, patients living in Dahod had to travel to Vadodara at least once every month for blood transfusion. “The transfusion process has to start by 10.30 am so that it ends in the evening and for that, patients have to start their journeys from home at 5.30 am,” Thakur said. Due to this cumbersome process, many a time patients would undergo transfusion only once in a month. “The Dahod centre will become functional in the last week of December and the one in Jaisalmer will start in the last week of January,” Thakur added. Both centres will be able to cater to eight patients in a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/irctc-helps-ngo-set-up-two-blood-transfusion-centres/articleshow/79356630.cms||Jay Pachchigar
November 23, 2020||Ranchi||CRPF sets up camp at wanted Maoist’s village in Giridih||BOKARO/RANCHI: The 7th battalion of the CRPF has set up a camp at a village in Pirtand block of Giridih district which hosts the residence of dreaded Maoist Ajay Mahato, a member of the Special Area Committee of the banned CPI(Maoists). The move was a part of measures undertaken by Jharkhand police and CRPF to build confidence among the villagers affected by Naxal activities across the state. Mahto is among the list of most wanted and carries prize money of Rs 25 lakh on his head. CRPF has opened a camp close to his house in Pandeydih last week, said police sources. Jharkhand police spokesman and inspector general, Saket Singh said, “The camp at Pandeydih is strategic for several reasons as the village is located near the foothills of the Parasnath Hills. Our presence there will prevent the extremists from coming down from the hills to the villages for fulfilling their requirements such as food. Similar camps have been opened in the forest areas of other sensitive districts like Latehar, Garhwa, Seraikela and Chaibasa.” At present, the camp has been set up at Pandeydih Middle School, but unconfirmed sources said there are plans to construct a separate building gradually. The village is a Maoist stronghold. Apart from Mahto, who is active in the corridor between Parasnath and West Bengal and Orissa border, other Maoists like Karamchand Manjhi and Dhiren Da also hail from this village. Earlier, Pirtand block was an impregnable fortress of the Maoists, which crumbled with CRPF’s growing dominance. A camp here will also help the security forces to penetrate deep into the areas held by the rebels. While security forces have been able to curb Naxal activities in this region by either arresting of gunning down members, Mahto remains elusive so far. Mahto is accused to have been involved in several incidents and currently, he is believed to be active in Chaibasa area of West Singhbhum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/crpf-sets-up-camp-at-wanted-maoists-village-in-giridih/articleshow/79357415.cms||Divy Khare
November 23, 2020||Ranchi||Extortionist held in Dumka, says he is close to Basant||DUMKA: Police on Sunday arrested dreaded gangster and extortionist Munna Rai along with two other accomplices from their hideout in an abandoned stone mine unit in Shikaripara. Rai was arrested for opening fire at Manoj Bhagat on November 12 over a demand of Rs 25 lakh-levy. After his arrest, Rai said he is a close aide of Dumka MLA and chief minister Hemant Soren’s brother Basant Soren. Rai, a native of Panchwahini village under Shikaripara police station, during an extortion call to trader Aditya Goswami had said that he works along with Basant. Basant however denied having any links with Rai. Bhagat, a stone trader near Sarasdangal, is currently undergoing treatment at Durgapur, police said, adding that the accused had created a reign of terror among stone traders for levy. Dumka SP Ambar Lakda said, “Rai and his accomplices were frequently shifting their hideouts, but finally got arrested with arms and ammunition from an abandoned stone mine unit near Gosaipahadi village under Shikaripara police station.” Two others arrested include Lalu Rai and Semen Hembrom of Harinsingha and Gosaipahadi villages, respectively. Police also seized a pistol, 16 cartridges, six mobile phones, 10 SIM cards and a looted swap machine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/extortionist-held-in-dumka-says-he-is-close-to-basant/articleshow/79357379.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Pune||May consider lockdown again after watching for 8-10 days: Maharashtra deputy CM||PUNE/MUMBAI: Both the chief minister and deputy CM of Maharashtra raised the spectre of a potential post-Diwali surge in Covid cases with the latter hinting at the possibility of reimposing a lockdown in case the situation warrants it. Ajit Pawar said government will review the situation over the next 8-10 days before weighing the need for re-introducing restrictions based on an assessment of positivity rate and spread. He referred to Delhi and Ahmedabad where curbs were brought back. "I do not wish to create panic...by making a statement about lockdown unless and until we understand the situation properly. There were huge crowds during Diwali," Pawar added. Meanwhile, Uddhav Thackeray, in an address, again warned that a second wave would be a tsunami and urged strict adherence to social distancing and masks. "Should we head towards a lockdown again?" he asked, rhetorically. No decision yet on night curfew, but we’re at a turning point: CMAjit Pawar said on Sunday that the resurgence seen in Covid-positive cases after the Ganesh festival may have a sequel in the post-Diwali period. “Most public programmes were cancelled (during Ganpati), but because of workers of a few mandals organising gatherings, it led to an increase in positive cases. Now review is being taken because people have ventured out for Diwali festival.” The rise in Covid-19 cases across Maharashtra, including Mumbai, over the last four days is far less steep. But all the same, a total of 5,760 cases and 62 deaths were reported on Saturday, taking the state’s caseload to 17,74,455 and toll to 46,573. Regarding reopening of schools, Pawar said various local government authorities are considering the situation in their own surroundings and taking the call accordingly. The state has issued standard operating procedures and guidelines for restarting schools, he added. The CM’s speech, on the other hand, primarily focused on the precautions to be taken like wearing a mask, avoid crowds, washing hands and adhering to social distancing norms. He said there have been suggestions to impose night curfew in Maharashtra, but a decision had not been taken. He said the Covid situation was at an inflexion point and it was up to citizens to choose the direction the state would take. CM Uddhav Thackeray pointed out that cases in the state have reduced with the help of frontline workers and cooperation from citizens. “But now we are at a turning point and we have to choose the direction (to take). Should we head towards a lockdown?” he asked. “Some people have been suggesting night curfew. But I feel everything cannot be solved by imposing a law… people in Maharashtra have cooperated with me during Diwali by not using firecrackers. In the same way, I am telling you all, do not step out unnecessarily and approach a clinic if any symptoms are observed.” About re-opening schools, Thackeray said it was still undecided. “Do not think that Covid is over because everything has reopened. We have decided to reopen schools but there is a question mark over it. Students or teachers should not catch infections.” Thackeray also indirectly taunted the BJP which had organised protests for reopening places of worship.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/may-consider-lockdown-again-after-watching-for-8-10-days-maharashtra-deputy-cm/articleshow/79360044.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Mumbai||May consider lockdown again after watching for 8-10 days: Maharashtra deputy CM||PUNE/MUMBAI: Both the chief minister and deputy CM of Maharashtra raised the spectre of a potential post-Diwali surge in Covid cases with the latter hinting at the possibility of reimposing a lockdown in case the situation warrants it. Ajit Pawar said government will review the situation over the next 8-10 days before weighing the need for re-introducing restrictions based on an assessment of positivity rate and spread. He referred to Delhi and Ahmedabad where curbs were brought back. "I do not wish to create panic...by making a statement about lockdown unless and until we understand the situation properly. There were huge crowds during Diwali," Pawar added. Meanwhile, Uddhav Thackeray, in an address, again warned that a second wave would be a tsunami and urged strict adherence to social distancing and masks. "Should we head towards a lockdown again?" he asked, rhetorically. No decision yet on night curfew, but we’re at a turning point: CMAjit Pawar said on Sunday that the resurgence seen in Covid-positive cases after the Ganesh festival may have a sequel in the post-Diwali period. “Most public programmes were cancelled (during Ganpati), but because of workers of a few mandals organising gatherings, it led to an increase in positive cases. Now review is being taken because people have ventured out for Diwali festival.” The rise in Covid-19 cases across Maharashtra, including Mumbai, over the last four days is far less steep. But all the same, a total of 5,760 cases and 62 deaths were reported on Saturday, taking the state’s caseload to 17,74,455 and toll to 46,573. Regarding reopening of schools, Pawar said various local government authorities are considering the situation in their own surroundings and taking the call accordingly. The state has issued standard operating procedures and guidelines for restarting schools, he added. The CM’s speech, on the other hand, primarily focused on the precautions to be taken like wearing a mask, avoid crowds, washing hands and adhering to social distancing norms. He said there have been suggestions to impose night curfew in Maharashtra, but a decision had not been taken. He said the Covid situation was at an inflexion point and it was up to citizens to choose the direction the state would take. CM Uddhav Thackeray pointed out that cases in the state have reduced with the help of frontline workers and cooperation from citizens. “But now we are at a turning point and we have to choose the direction (to take). Should we head towards a lockdown?” he asked. “Some people have been suggesting night curfew. But I feel everything cannot be solved by imposing a law… people in Maharashtra have cooperated with me during Diwali by not using firecrackers. In the same way, I am telling you all, do not step out unnecessarily and approach a clinic if any symptoms are observed.” About re-opening schools, Thackeray said it was still undecided. “Do not think that Covid is over because everything has reopened. We have decided to reopen schools but there is a question mark over it. Students or teachers should not catch infections.” Thackeray also indirectly taunted the BJP which had organised protests for reopening places of worship.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/may-consider-lockdown-again-after-watching-for-8-10-days-maharashtra-deputy-cm/articleshow/79360037.cms||---
November 23, 2020||World||Police arrest 15-year-old boy in Wisconsin mall shooting||WAUWATOSA: A 15-year-old boy was arrested in connection to a shooting at a suburban Milwaukee mall that injured eight people, authorities said Sunday. Wauwatosa Police Chief Barry Weber said the shooting happened during a dispute Friday afternoon between two groups. He said four 'innocent bystanders' suffered what were believed to be non-life threatening injuries. Investigators said the suspect ran out of the mall alongside other other people. "We do know there was some sort of altercation, and that's when the bullets started flying," Weber said during a press conference Sunday. The name of the suspect has not been released, and authorities didn't announce charges Sunday. Investigators say they have recovered a firearm. The mall was closed Saturday, and investigators were on scene overnight. Shoppers were allowed back on Sunday, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/police-arrest-15-year-old-boy-in-wisconsin-mall-shooting/articleshow/79360036.cms||---
November 23, 2020||World||Trump campaign parts ways with lawyer who made voter fraud claims||US President Donald Trump's election campaign issued a statement on Sunday distancing itself from Sidney Powell, a lawyer who made baseless allegations of voter fraud at a news conference on Thursday. "Sidney Powell is practicing law on her own," Trump campaign lawyers Rudy Giuliani and Jenna Ellis said in the statement. "She is not a member of the Trump Legal Team." The announcement was made a day after a judge dismissed the campaign's lawsuit seeking to halt President-elect Joe Biden's victory in Pennsylvania, dealing a major blow to Trump's flailing efforts to overturn his Nov. 3 election loss. Powell, a conservative activist and former federal prosecutor, did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Trump had referred to Powell as one of his lawyers in a Nov. 14 tweet. "Rudy Giuliani, Joseph diGenova, Victoria Toensing, Sidney Powell, and Jenna Ellis, a truly great team, added to our other wonderful lawyers and representatives," Trump said in the tweet. Powell, without providing evidence, said last week that electronic voting systems had switched millions of ballots to favor Biden. Tucker Carlson, an influential Fox News host, on Thursday criticized Powell for a lack of evidence to support her claims. "She never demonstrated that a single actual vote was moved illegitimately by software from one candidate to another. Not one," Carlson said. US Senator Joni Ernst, a Republican from Iowa who won reelection in this month's vote, told a Fox News radio program on Thursday that Powell's allegations were "offensive." Powell is currently representing Trump's former national security adviser Michael Flynn in his effort to end a long-running criminal case against him. Democrats and some Republicans have accused Trump of trying to undermine faith in the American electoral system and delegitimize Biden’s victory by promoting false claims of widespread voter fraud.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/trump-campaign-parts-ways-with-lawyer-who-made-voter-fraud-claims/articleshow/79360047.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Vadodara||Congress councillor ends life in Jhalod||VADODARA: A Congress councillor of Jhalod municipality allegedly committed suicide by consuming poison in a temple on Saturday afternoon. Before leaving for the temple, councillor Antim Agrawal had informed his office staff that he would spend the day there and that he should not be disturbed. After consuming poison, he called a fellow councillor and informed him that he had attempted to end his life. Agrawal’s colleague immediately called his maternal uncle and they rushed to the temple. They found Agrawal lying unconscious and took him to a private hospital in Jhalod. He was later referred to Vadodara, but the doctors declared him dead before admission. The reason for Agrawal taking the drastic step has not been ascertained. “We are checking his call detail records and questioning his family members and friends. They have all said that Agrawal never mentioned anything distressing to them,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/congress-councillor-ends-life-in-jhalod/articleshow/79356680.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Rajkot||Man killed as train rams into car at open crossing||RAJKOT: A factory owner was killed when his car was rammed by a speeding train at a railway crossing near Gondal in Rajkot district on Sunday afternoon. The railway staffer, who mans the railway crossing, was booked for gross negligence. Police said the deceased, Sanjay Tilada (31), was driving his car through the crossing when the speeding Somnath-Jabalpur Express Train arrived and sped away after ramming Tilada’s car. “Tilada’s car was dragged along the train for half a kilometre. Tilada was killed on the spot. It was gross negligence by the railway staffer, Ashok Savalia, who mans the railway crossing at Sandhiya Pull on the outskirts of Gondal. Savalia had apparently forgotten to close the railway crossing,” said S N Jadeja, inspector with Gondal city police station. The police detained Savalia after booking him. “We have handed over Savalia’s custody to the Railway Protection Force (RPF) which will conduct an inquiry into the incident, after which the RPF will transfer Savalia’s custody to us,” added Jadeja. Due to the accident, the Somnath-Jabalpur Express Train got delayed by one hour. Tilada’s family members were very angry with Savalia. They said they would not accept Tilada’s body. However, their anger subsided after Savalia was booked. Tilada was the owner of a ginning mill on Jetpur Road near Gondal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-killed-as-train-rams-into-car-at-open-crossing/articleshow/79356977.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Judicial custody for Bharti Singh ahead of bail plea hearing||MUMBAI: A magistrate's court on Sunday sent television comedian Bharti Singh and her scriptwriter-actor husband, Haarsh Limbachiyaa, to judicial custody till December 14. The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) had arrested Singh and Limbachiyaa on Saturday after raiding their production office and residence, where they said they found 86.5 grams of ganja. The hearing on the two's bail applications will take place on Monday. The couple, arrested under the provisions of the NDPS Act in a case of alleged possession and consumption of ganja, were produced before a holiday court on Sunday. In a press release issued on Saturday, the NCB had said Singh and Limbachiyaa had accepted the consumption of ganja. Special public prosecutor Atul Sarpande sought NCB custody since he said Limbachiyaa was found in possession of 86.5 grams of ganja, a prohibited substance under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS). The amount was recovered from searches in their residential and office premises. Limbachiyaa's lawyer Ayaz Khan argued that no NCB custody was required as it was at best a case of alleged personal consumption. The magistrate did not grant police custody. Their bail plea was filed and will be heard on Monday. Advocate Khan said bail ought to be given in the case. He argued that it was not even the case of the prosecution that they were peddling drugs. The court sent the husband and wife to judicial custody till December 14. The seized quantity was small and punishment was up to a year. The law defines up to 1 kg of ganja as small quantity, and 20 kg and above as commercial quantity. For small quantities, the punishment could be up to a year or fine of Rs 10,000, or both. If a person is found with commercial quantities, he can be jailed for 20 years if convicted. The central agency NCB has been arresting drug consumers and peddlers for the past two months. It has registered drug cases after the death of film actor Sushant Singh Rajput in June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-judicial-custody-for-bharti-singh-ahead-of-bail-plea-hearing/articleshow/79360052.cms||Mateen Hafeez
November 23, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: CBI arrests Roshan Baig in Rs 1,500-crore I-Monetary Advisory ponzi scheme||BENGALURU: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Sunday arrested former Karnataka minister and ex-MLA Roshan Baig in the Rs 1,500-crore I-Monetary Advisory (IMA) ponzi scam. While it said he was remanded in judicial custody, there was no confirmation on the number of days. A disqualified member of the Congress, Baig was initially summoned by the CBI for questioning based on evidence. According to sources in the CBI, Baig arrived at its office around 11.30am and was questioned for seven hours. He was then produced before a special court judge at his Koramangala residence. While the CBI did not reveal details of the evidence, Baig’s alleged links to the scam had been a matter of investigation. Mansoor Khan, founder-director, IMA Group, in his statement to state police and CBI, had alleged that Baig had taken about Rs 200 crore from him but didn’t return it. Baig had denied this and maintained he had no financial links with Khan. Baig’s arrest comes close on the heels of the CBI’s supplementary chargesheet filed in October this year. Before CBI took over the case, the special investigation team probing the scam had questioned Baig in July 2019 when he said he knew Khan for about five years but insisted he had no financial links. The SIT had questioned Baig on allegations that Khan had sponsored flights to ferry guests to his son’s wedding, which he had refuted. Gulf-returned Khan has duped over 30,000 people. While the returns on investment were paid out as promised initially, investors’ belief in Khan faded after 2017. The returns shrunk first from 9% to 5% to settle at a paltry 3% since mid-2018. It then reached 1% in early 2019 before dying out. IMA investors can file claims till December 24Khan is in judicial custody. Though he was granted bail in a money-laundering case filed by the directorate of enforcement, he is in jail in connection with the CBI case. Before the government constituted the SIT, the CID, in what later became a controversy, had given IMA and Khan a clean chit. Parallel to the probe by central agencies, the government has appointed a special officer to deal with claims relating to IMA and other scams. Special officer Harsh Gupta had said depositors can file claims online by visiting Bengaluru One, Karnataka One or Atalji Jan Snehi Kendra centres between November 25 and December 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-cbi-arrests-roshan-baig-in-rs-1500-crore-i-monetary-advisory-ponzi-scheme/articleshow/79360048.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Govt to float solar tenders to fuel state’s agri sector||Visakhapatnam: With the green signal from the judicial preview committee, the state government is planning to issue tenders for 10,000 MW capacity solar power plants in a phased manner. These plants, which would be developed under the build-operate-transfer (BoT) model, would come up in different parts of the state in order to ensure free power supply to the agriculture sector for the next 30 years. The scheme is expected to provide significant economic benefits as the cost of solar power is less than the average power purchase cost incurred by the state discoms. The subsidy expenditure incurred by the state government has almost tripled from Rs 3,186 crore in 2015-16 to Rs 8,354 crore in 2020-21. The average cost of supply has been increasing at the rate of 5.01% (compound annual growth rate) over the past five years. At the same time, the state government is sanctioning more than 50,000 new agricultural pump-set connections every year, resulting in increasing agricultural consumption over the coming years. The payments made to APGenco and APPDCL were increased from Rs 4,679 crore in 2014-15 to Rs 14,293.37 crore in 2019-20 by the state government. CMD, AP Solar Power Corporation Limited and chairman of APGenco, G Sai Prasad, said that the agriculture consumption accounts for nearly 30 per cent of total power consumed in the state. “An assurance needs to be provided to the farming community on reliable and quality free power supply to agriculture during daytime for the next three decades. Solar energy has the potential to fulfil these objectives as solar generation happens during the daytime and the cost of production is less than the average power purchase cost of Discoms,” said Prasad. According to officials, the average power purchase cost for AP Discoms is Rs 4.68/kWh as per the retail tariff order for 2020-21. On the other hand, the solar tariffs have been on a declining trend. The recent tariffs discovered in various states, including margin are in the range of Rs 2.43 – 3.02/kWh. Secretary for energy, Srikant Nagulapalli, said that the state government is contemplating to set up solar power plants in suitable locations in all districts in depending on technical parameters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/govt-to-float-solar-tenders-to-fuel-states-agri-sector/articleshow/79357019.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Fake input tax credit racket busted||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Visakhapatnam zone unit of GST intelligence wing busted a major fake input tax credit racket in the gold bullion market and arrested one person. The accused has been remanded to judicial custody. Joint director of GST intelligence wing Mayank Sharma said that various dummy and non-operating firms were created with fictitious addresses in and around Guntur. Simultaneous searches were carried out in various places in Andhra Pradesh. The searches revealed that racketeers have allegedly passed on fake credit of Rs 8 crore to various bullion trades in AP. The alleged kingpin, a 25-year-old man, was located and arrested. Officials of the GST intelligence wing have also attached gold and silver worth Rs 1.58 crore to protect government revenue. Further investigation is underway. GST officials have recently intensified efforts to curb fake input tax credit rackets which lead to tax evasion. Seven cases involving 32 dummy and non-existent GST registrations were booked in November alone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/fake-input-tax-credit-racket-busted/articleshow/79357030.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh reports 1,121 new Covid-19 cases, 11 deaths||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 1,121 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the cumulative case load to 8,62,213. The toll increased to 6,938 as 11 more people succumbed to the novel coronavirus disease. As many as 1,631 patients were declared cured on Sunday. There are currently 14,249 active cases with 8,41,026 cumulative recoveries. Krishna reported 167 new infections on Sunday, followed by Guntur (164), West Godavari (142), East Godavari (134) and Chittoor (130). The remaining eight districts recorded less than 100 cases. There are less than 1,000 active cases in eight districts, while two districts have fewer than 200 active infections. Other than Krishna, all other districts achieved at least 95 percent recovery rate. Of the 11 deaths registered on Sunday, two each are from Chittoor and Krishna, and one each from Anantapur, East Godavari, Guntur, Kadapa, Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram, and West Godavari. Andhra Pradesh so far conducted 96 lakh Covid-19 tests, including the 71,913 people tested for the virus on Sunday. While the overall case positivity rate decreased to below nine per cent, Sunday’s positivity rate stood at 1.5% - the lowest in the last several months. The average national positivity rate is about 7%. The state’s fatality rate remained stable at 0.8%. There are 396 Covid-19 hotspots in the state as of Sunday. Nellore district has 60 hotspots, the highest among all districts. While Srikakulam has only three hotspots, its neighbouring Vizianagaram has four disease hot spots. Rural parts of the state, which have been now outnumbering their urban counterparts in terms of daily Covid-19 cases, have 207 hotspots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/andhra-reports-1121-new-covid-19-cases-11-deaths/articleshow/79357042.cms||---
November 23, 2020||India||Punjab farmers stock up for 'Dilli Chalo'||BATHINDA: After agreeing to allow passenger and freight trains to run till December 10, farmer groups of Punjab have started preparations for mobilising people for their proposed protest in Delhi on November 26 and 27. Activists are approaching villagers to persuade them to join the protest and are also collecting ration door-to-door in the Malwa region of the state. Plans are being made to use every route in Punjab for 'Dilli Chalo' and district units being briefed on which route to take. Farmers have been asked to prepare tractor trolleys and get these filled with diesel to avoid last-minute rush at petrol stations and also to preempt any hike, if announced by the government, in diesel prices. "The district units have been asked to take along ration which may be enough for longer durations if they are stopped in the way and not allowed to enter Delhi," said farm organisation BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri. BKU (Ekta Dakonda) president Buta Singh Burjgill and general secretary Jagmohan Singh said, "It will be a historic march as over 2 lakh activists will head towards the national capital. If not allowed to move further, they will sit at places where they are stopped. For us, it is like a do-or-die battle as we feel the new farm laws are like a death warrant for farmers and we (farmers) will not leave anything to chance to oppose these." Sources said the Centre is deciding on providing a written guarantee to farmers of Punjab regarding the continuation of MSP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/punjab-farmers-stock-up-for-dilli-chalo/articleshow/79360061.cms||Neel Kamal
November 23, 2020||Vijayawada||Kartheeka Vanabhojanam festival celebrated in Seshachalam forest||Tirupati: It was the cynosure of all eyes when Lord Malayappa Swamy and his two divine consorts relaxed on the lap of nature as part of the annual festival of Kartheeka Vanabhojanam celebrated at Tirumala on Sunday. In adherence to ancient customs, Lord Malayappa and his two divine consorts were taken out of the temple in a splendid procession to Paruveta mandapam, located deep inside the Seshachalam forests. Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Jeeyar Swamis and temple priests, led by chief priest Venugopala Deekshitulu, ceremoniously carried out the ‘Snapana Tirumanjanam fete amidst chanting of Purusha, Narayana, Sri, Bhu and Neela Sooktams. Later artists of TTD’s Annamacharya project rendered some melodious Sankeerthanas penned by saint poet Sri Tallapaka Annamacharya. This was followed by an instrumental rendition of certain Annamayya Sankeerthanas and the Harikatha Parayanam on Garudadri Vaibhavam. Speaking to the media, TTD= additional EO AV Dharma Reddy said usually tens of thousands of devotees converge at the Paruveta Mandapam located in the dense Seshachalam forests every year to take part in the Kartheeka Vanabhojanam festival. “But this year we restricted crowd participation in this annual festival to just a couple of hundred people due to COVID-19 guidelines,” he said. After the religious formalities were completed, community dining was organized as part of the Kartheeka Vanabhojanam at the Paruveta mandapam. Later the processional deities were brought back to the Tirumala temple on Sunday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/kartheeka-vanabhojanam-festival-celebrated-in-seshachalam-forest/articleshow/79357059.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
November 23, 2020||Goa||Ensure 8 days for ZP poll campaigns: Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar||PONDA: MGP Marcaim MLA Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar has said that the Goa State Election Commission (GSEC) should ensure that the candidates get at least eight days to campaign once the zilla panchayat elections are announced. Alleging that the ruling party has been campaigning on the pretext of workers’ meets, Dhavalikar has demanded that all parties and independent candidates should get sufficient time to campaign for the election. Following an announcement by chief minister Pramod Sawant that the ZP elections are likely to be held in the state in December, Dhavalikar began campaigning for MGP’s Curti zilla panchayat candidate Priya Chari on Sunday. The  was scheduled on March 22, however, due to the sudden lockdown across the country as a result of the pandemic, the election process was stalled. The Goa State Election Commission is yet to decide whether it will hold only voting as the Janata Curfew was observed on the day of polling after almost the entire process pertaining to the polls were completed, or the state will begin the entire process afresh by scrapping the February-March election exercise. MGP Marcaim MLA and former PWD minister said that the election commission should give opportunity to all candidates irrespective of the party affiliations for conducting campaigns in their respective areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ensure-8-days-for-zp-poll-campaigns-dhavalikar/articleshow/79481192.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Goa||Hunt for ‘green power’ project locations starts||Panaji: Energy Efficiency Services Ltd (EESL), a joint venture of PSUs under the ministry of power, has started site inspection in the state to identify locations to generate green energy in Goa. A senior officer said that the survey to identify sites would be concluded this week. EESL will set up 1,000 mega watts of decentralized power in the state. India’s first convergence project to generate green energy for rural and agriculture consumption is set to come up in the state. Recently, EESL and the Goa government signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) to discuss the roll out of the affordable clean power project. In Goa, EESL will install solar projects in a first-of-its-kind large scale programme where vacant/unused land provided by village panchayats or the electricity board will be utilised. The solar power plant will be installed with capacities ranging from 500kW to 2MW, depending on the size of the land. This will enable power distribution companies to supply power during the day and reduce transmission losses. Under the MoU, EESL and the directorate of new and renewable energy (DNRE) will carry out feasibility studies and subsequent implement 100MW of decentralised solar energy projects that will contribute in reduction of peak energy demand by deploying energy-efficient agricultural pumping and rural lighting thus contributing to overall sustainability. Approximately 6,300 agricultural pumps will be replaced with bureau of energy efficiency (BEE) star-rated energy efficient pumps and approximately 16 lakh LED bulbs will be distributed to rural domestic households. The project is expected to accelerate the usage of renewable energy sources in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hunt-for-green-power-project-locations-starts/articleshow/79358128.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Vadodara||CISF, BSF men thrash Dahod cops||VADODARA: A constable of Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) and three persons including a constable of Border Security Force have been declared as wanted for beating up three cops at Khangel check-post in Dahod late on Saturday evening. CISF constable Surmal Sangadia, BSF constable Jaswant Meda, Raju Meda and another unidentified person were coming from Pitol and the cops from Katwara police station stopped their car during routine checking. All four accused got out of the car and started questioning the three cops as to why they had stopped the car. Before the cops could react, the four accused started beating them up with their batons. A gram rakshak dal personnel informed the police station about the attack. A few minutes later a PCR van arrived at the check-post and a constable managed to nab Sangadia only and took him to the police station where he revealed that he is a constable with CISF’s III battalion in Coimbatore. Jaswant is a BSF constable. An offence of causing hurt and obstructing a public servant from performing duty, assault and criminal intimidation was registered against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cisf-bsf-men-thrash-dahod-cops/articleshow/79356804.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: How entrepreneurs beat the odds to start their own firms||BENGALURU: Ten-hour bus commute for college education, unpaid internships, a teenage walkout with chump change of Rs 300 and two pairs of clothes, job rejections because of faulty English, and gnawing uncertainty about the next meal. These are brief snapshots of the early journeys of Chandana Rao, Sneha Rakesh and Chinu Kala, who overcame tremendous hardship to become entrepreneurs and professionals. Chandana grew up in Kolar district’s Narayanapura village, where flawed outlooks and poor transport options limited opportunities for women. She studied visual arts in Bengaluru and later bootstrapped brand design firm Heartists, engaging talent from rural pockets. Sneha was born in Hulenahalli village, Hassan district, and studied computer science. From struggling to get a job in the IT capital, she now leads software and web development firm Akarmaxs Tech, which has more than 200 employees. At the age of 15, Chinu had a bitter clash with her father and left the family home, taking charge of her life. After several struggles and work exposure in various sectors, she poured all her energy into a fashion accessories business in Bengaluru. Today, her brand, Rubans Accessories, has stores in three cities, an online retail presence and sales of Rs 13 crore. The threads of perseverance and continuous learning tie the three stories, which seek to inspire more women to chart their own course. “I had never dreamt of running a company. I started from zero,” says Sneha. It’s a rather modest statement from a 31-year-old CEO who spoke about rural entrepreneurship at a business forum in European Parliament in Belgium last year. Sneha’s journey began 10 years ago, when she got down at the Majestic bus stand. It was the first time she had seen a megapolis this closely, and all she had was a computer science diploma. “I come from a small village. My communication skills were poor back then; I didn’t know any English,” she recounts. She stayed in a PG and looked for employment. A small firm in Peenya hired her as a software developer, offering a salary of Rs 3,000. “It was a struggle: I earned less than what it cost to live in a city. I tried to get a better job, but was rejected because of my communication skills,” she says. Sneha joined a B-Tech course in an evening college while also working on her English. “I took up freelance projects and managed to pay the fee,” she says. As Sneha delivered projects on time, she got more work. “The clients were satisfied and started enlisting me more often. That’s when I thought about starting a company,” she says. “I was very aware of the consequences of failure, and I mentally prepared myself for it. I took a loan and used my savings to start the venture.” In 2012, Sneha launched Recreate Software Solutions with 25 employees. In 2015, she renamed the company as Akarmaxs and two years later, opened branches in Dubai and Singapore and a virtual office in London. “The experience taught me that you cannot expect fruits from a sapling you planted the other day. It takes time. My advice to young entrepreneurs is that don’t stop dreaming because you don’t have a backup. Prepare and take risks,” she says. Sneha doesn’t take her success for granted: “For meetings with international clients, I start preparing 10 to 15 days in advance for effective communication.” She shares her knowledge with youngsters, offering free, job-oriented courses through her support organisation, Samagraabhivrudhi Trust. The initiative has benefited more than 2,000 students and graduates, and she wants to encourage more rural talent. Sneha is also part of the Europe India Centre for Business and Industry. Chinu is a role model for women entrepreneurs. Her self-belief and drive have guided her in every step. “I grew up in a middle-class family, and I was a headstrong kid. Once, during an argument, my father told me: ‘If you don’t want to listen to me, leave my house’. I felt deeply hurt and left with just Rs 300, some clothes and a pair of slippers. From that point, I fended for myself,” she recalls. “At the time, I didn’t even know how to spell entrepreneurship, but I knew I wanted to be successful. The definition of success, though, kept changing. Initially, success meant three meals a day and a safe place to stay.” Chinu worked as a door-to-door salesperson, telecaller, make-up artist, waitress, receptionist and emcee before becoming a businesswoman. “When I got the sales gig, I thought: ‘How difficult would it be to sell items such as knives and coasters since every house uses them.’ On the first day, someone slammed the door on my face before I could speak. But I didn’t give up — it was a matter of survival for me,” she says. She adds: “I gave 100 per cent to every job that came my way. I understood management while doing different types of work, and this is what has helped me scale up my business to the current level.” Chinu’s first entrepreneurial venture specialised in corporate merchandising, but she was always drawn to fashion. In 2014, she opened a 36-sqft store of Rubans Accessories, which now caters to more than a million women across the country. “Adversity is part of life. What matters is how you overcome it. It’s easier said than done. At times, people spend time interpreting the magnitude of their difficulty instead of taking measures,” she says. “What has worked for me is being very focused and independent.” Chinu believes women are naturally good at multitasking and taking up the most complex tasks. “But our society has taught the woman to put everyone else’s needs and dreams before hers. This is changing, but we have a long way to go,” she says. Thirty-year-old Chandana, the daughter of a school teacher and a postman, also built a career on her own, ignoring her village’s opinions on women with ambition. “In rural communities, people expect you to join a teaching or a banking course, or settle for a commerce degree. Girls are not expected to go beyond a limit. Poor connectivity to cities is also a hurdle,” she says. “I wanted to study visual arts in Bengaluru, but my relatives thought I was bluffing and wanted to have fun in a big city. They wondered how my family would pay the fees, which was higher than our savings, or buy a computer. However, my parents, who are progressive, always supported me.” Chandana enrolled in a college in Malleshwaram in 2009, but couldn’t afford accommodation in the city. Undeterred, she commuted between her village in Kolar and Bengaluru, spending about 10 hours on the road daily. The exhausting travel required her to walk for a certain distance and change multiple buses. After completing the three-year visual arts course, her next challenge was securing a job in a city where she had no professional contacts. “I landed an internship at a small firm, which didn’t pay but promised daily meals. I still needed money to pay for the PG, so I also took up a part-time job, teaching the basics of computers to children,” she says. Chandana earned Rs 2,000 a month, out of which Rs 1,500 went towards rent. Later, she got a proper job as a graphic designer. “I didn’t slow down and continued to learn new things, such as digital marketing and corporate communication,” she says. After a rewarding corporate gig of four to five years, she searched for a new direction. The result was Heartists, which provided designing, communication and branding solutions. “I decided that all my employees, be it designers, developers, content writers or social media managers, would be from a rural background. I faced many difficulties when I started off, so I wanted to help youngsters from villages and small towns,” she says. Chandana has taken a break from Heartists to focus on a professional stint. But she has a message for young women from villages: “Ignore small-minded perceptions and pursue your goals.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/how-these-women-beat-the-odds-to-start-their-own-companies/articleshow/79360025.cms||Harsh Vora
November 23, 2020||Goa||Chapora boat owners seek crackdown on LED fishing||Panaji: Alleging rampant use of LED lights for fishing by large fishing vessels despite it being prohibited, boat owners from Chapora demanded immediate intervention of the government in the matter and strict implementation on the ban. “There is a clear rule imposed by the government banning LED fishing. Despite it, there are boat owners who are who are blatantly using these lights and overfishing in Goan waters,” fishermen alleged. They said that if overfishing continues, the sea will be empty of its marine resources in a matter of two years. “We have been made several promises that LED fishing will not be tolerated yet we see vessels leaving the jetties with the equipment. The government must strictly crack a whip on violators instead of merely giving assurances, including purse seine boat,” they said. “Night patrol is a must at the jetties if they wish to catch people red handed. Random checks must be done to confiscate the fish that was hauled by LED fishing,” he said. Vice chairman of the Xapora Boat Owners’ Association, Damodar Bhosale, said that fisheries operations have not fully taken off from the jetty due to the pandemic even months after the fisheries season commenced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/chapora-boat-owners-seek-crackdown-on-led-fishing/articleshow/79358139.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Three held for kidnap, robbery||Chinturu (East Godavari): Three persons were arrested for kidnapping and robbing a person near Tulasipaka village in Chinturu mandal in East Godavari. The accused have been identified as Shaik Waseem Akram from Telangana, Jayanta Debnath from Odisha and Thorat Kuldip Anilrao from Maharashtra. According to Chinturu DSP Sheik Khadar Basha, on November 6, one Thotapalli Pavan Kumar was travelling to Visakhapatnam from Mulugu district in Telangana. Pavan Kumar stopped the car near Tulasipaka village to relieve himself. At the same time, eight unidentified persons in another car kidnapped him and then forcibly robbed him off his ring, cash and ATM card and made him transfer Rs 40,000 through a mobile payment application.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/three-held-for-kidnap-robbery/articleshow/79357124.cms||Samson Raj
November 23, 2020||Goa||With no water, government’s efforts at afforestation along NH 4-A wither||PANAJI: Hundreds of trees planted during the monsoon along NH 4-A, especially along the Panaji-Old Goa stretch, as part of compensatory afforestation, are withering due to lack of irrigation. Chimbel residents were the first to raise an alert about the dying saplings. Activists of the Chimbel Gram Seva, Kala Ani Sanskrutik Manch had written to the forest department raising a concern. “The saplings planted along Panaji-Old Goa bypass on Kadamba plateau are now dying as they are not being watered,” an activist Tukaram Kunkolkar said. Around 1,300 saplings had been planted by the forest department. Chimbel Manch also petitioned the environment minister, Nilesh Cabral. “He has assured us that he would ensure watering of the saplings,” Kunkolkar said. Forest officials said that the trees' leaves are merely drooping and the trees themselves are not dying. "Sometimes they drop their leaves after the monsoon. We have informed Tukaram about the same,” a forest official said. A few decades ago, the plateau had patches of thick forests, which have been slowly cleared for development. Stripped of its tree cover, which included tall trees with good canopy — the sun now heats up the tarmac making the drive along the plateau during summer a hot experience.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-no-water-governments-efforts-at-afforestation-along-nh-4-a-wither/articleshow/79358159.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Umar Khalid, Sharjeel Imam to face riot conspiracy charge||NEW DELHI: Police on Sunday filed a 200-page supplementary chargesheet against three people, including two prime accused — Umar Khalid and “protege” Sharjeel Imam, both former JNU students — in a case of conspiracy behind the riots that had rocked northeast Delhi this February. Khalid “remotely controlled” the riots that had claimed 53 lives, according to the chargesheet. Khalid wanted the riots to be fuelled during US President Donald Trump’s visit to India and get extensive international media coverage and put pressure on the “anti-minority” Citizenship (Amendment) Act, the chargesheet says. Till now, 21 people have been arrested in this case. The first and main chargesheet filed in September charged 15 people for a range of offences. It detailed the planning and execution of the conspiracy that led to the riots. On October 28, the Delhi government gave its nod to prosecute Khalid and Imam under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act after which the second chargesheet was filed on Sunday. Khalid remote-controlled riots, say policeHe Operated From Secret Office: CopsThe supplementary chargesheet filed in the court of special judge Amitabh Rawat details the roles of Khalid and Sharjeel in the February riots. Their accomplice, Faizan Khan, has also been charged. Police are expected to file another supplementary chargesheet within a month against the three remaining accused. Khalid, a former students’ union leader, reportedly had a “secret office” in northeast Delhi’s Chand Bagh where he allegedly held late night meetings with other conspirators and executors, police claimed. Chand Bagh is where largescale violence took place in the initial phase of the riots and a large number of policemen were attacked. Head constable Ratan Lal was killed there too. Special Cell, in its report, had said that Khalid fostered “nationwide alliances with like-minded people” soon after CAA received the Union Cabinet’s assent for being placed before Parliament. He was “mentoring” the formation of a group called Muslim Students of JNU (MSJ) through Imam. “Khalid used MSJ to foment the violence in South East district in December 2019, which led to the Shaheen Bagh protests. He then coalesced a coalition of the current government haters that led to the formation of Delhi Protest Support Group on WhatsApp,” police claimed. Police further stated that Khalid was instrumental in replicating the Shaheen Bagh model at 24 other locations within a month and he “remotely controlled” the happenings on 23/24 February. “He was one of the key strategists who decided that the violence of December 2019 would be replicated with much greater ferocity when the US President landed in India. A speech given by him on February 17 in Maharashtra’s Amravati corroborated this,” the police report states. It added, “His theory was that the international media accompanying Trump would cover the riots leading to a huge embarrassment for the Centre. He was one of the top brains behind zeroing in upon Jafrabad and Chand Bagh to play the roles of hotspots when the riots would be precipitated.” Special Cell also claimed to have evidence about a key meeting of his chosen foot soldiers where he allegedly finalised the contours of the violence, which were to play out in the coming days. Khalid was arrested by Crime Branch in another case of violence in Khajuri Khas of northeast Delhi during the riots. The FIR for rioting and under sections of Arms Act was registered in February. He has been in Tihar Jail since his arrest on September 13. He had come under the scanner of intelligence agencies and Delhi Police after giving the provocative speech on February 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/umar-khalid-sharjeel-imam-to-face-riot-conspiracy-charge/articleshow/79360065.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid-19 in Karnataka: With one crore+ tests, govt to shift focus outside Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Karnataka, which took more than 200 days to test the first 48 lakh samples, saw its Covid-19 testing numbers leapfrog in the past 50 days to touch 1 crore. While the state is the fourth in India to cross the milestone, experts said shifting the focus away from a handful of districts, especially Bengaluru, should be the strategy. Bengaluru’s share in daily testing has risen in the past 50 days. Dr CN Manjunath, chairperson, state Covid-19 expert committee, said the focus will now shift to other districts, where the exposure has been low as per the sero survey. Focus now on Chikkaballapura, Gadag, Davanagere: DoctorDr CN Manjunath said the high number of tests in Bengaluru were continued keeping in mind the recently concluded bypolls in RR Nagar and the decision to reopen colleges. “The technical expert committee recommendation is to do this (increase testing), and we will reiterate this strategy to the government in the next meeting on November 24,” Manjunath said, adding the focus will now be on Davanagere, Chikkaballapura and Gadag. Experts’ argument that testing must shift to other districts is not unfounded. Data analysed by TOI shows while Bengaluru accounts for 39% of the 1-crore-plus samples tested up to November 21, the city’s share of the last 52 lakh tests done — after October 1 — is 45%. Also, Bengaluru’s cumulative positivity rate between March and September was 14%. Comparatively, in the past 50 days, it is only 5% and it’s under 3% in the three weeks of November. That the city was reporting more cases (in absolute numbers) when the number of tests was much lower than in the past 50 days supports the argument in favour of focusing more on other districts. One epidemiologist argued the picture that is not shown in the government’s description so far is when the tests were done. For instance, in Bengaluru, the number of tests was increased when the cases had begun to surge, and it made sense as the yield — tests-to-positive-cases ratio — was also good. But the doctor added it made no sense to test so many samples in the past few weeks. Dr Giridhara Babu, member, ICMR task force on research and surveillance, said the testing strategy has to accommodate transition of the pandemic from time to time, and from one geography to another. Experts reiterated the need to continue testing at least a lakh samples a day given the onset of winter and projected second wave in south India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/with-one-crore-tests-karnataka-to-shift-focus-outside-bengaluru/articleshow/79360068.cms||Chethan Kumar
November 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag civic body introduces sewer cleaning machines||VISAKHAPATNAM: In a gradual move towards ‘manhole to machine hole transformation’, the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) has introduced three manhole cleaning machines in the city. The vehicle-mounted jetting machines will help the civic body in mechanising sewer and septic tank cleaning operations to an extent. The GVMC introduced the vehicles as part of the Safaimitra Suraksha Challenge, which is being conducted across 243 cities and towns. Two 6,000-litre capacity vehicles and one 1,000-litre capacity vehicle have been procured for this purpose at a cost of around Rs 1.25 crore. The smaller vehicle will be deployed in the narrow lanes of the city. According to GVMC officials, the jetting machines will help in keeping the underground drainage (UGD) network free of clogging, silt and blockages. High pressure water jets from these machines can clear a choking point to a maximum point located four manholes away in the same UGD line. There are about 38,000 manholes within city limits, while the UGD network is spread out across 780 kilometres. GVMC commissioner G Srijana said the move is a humble step towards naming a manhole ‘machine hole’. “This is a more respectable and humanitarian way of cleaning drainage,” said Srijana. Meanwhile, the GVMC is planning to introduce a robotic manhole cleaning machine on a pilot basis within the next three months. Based on its success, more robotic machines will be inducted into the GVMC’s sanitation inventory. The civic body receives numerous complaints about UGD leakages and overflowing manholes on a regular basis. GVMC officials said the Safaimitra Suraksha Challenge will focus extensively on creating citizen awareness on a critical issue along with infrastructure creation for mechanised cleaning and capacity building of workforce.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vizag-civic-body-introduces-sewer-cleaning-machines/articleshow/79357153.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
November 23, 2020||Goa||Cong tie-up depends on seats: Alemao||Panaji: NCP MLA Churchill Alemao on Sunday said he is not in favour of an alliance with Congress if the seat-sharing arrangement leaves the NCP with just a handful to contest. Alemao blamed Congress for permitting railway double tracking, coal transportation and off-shore casinos. “I want to tell Congress one thing, and I ask Praful Patel not to fall into the trap of forming an alliance,” said Alemao. “If there is an alliance then we want 20 seats out of 40 seats. Not two seats, four seats, 10 seats.” The former Congressman appeared to be bitter with the grand old party for evicting him. Alemao also said that in 2017, Congress refused to have a seat sharing arrangement with the NCP. “Congress has destroyed Goa. They have brought in bad policies,” Alemao said. “Francisco Sardinha brought in the (casino) vessels and Parrikar brought in more vessels, but the roots were laid by Congress. Many are fighting for Mhadei today but who allowed Karnataka to touch the water? Pratapsingh Rane. Let him deny it. This is my open challenge,” said Alemao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-tie-up-depends-on-seats-alemao/articleshow/79358218.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Stipend delay makes PG doctors struggle||VISAKHAPATNAM: Postgraduate doctors in state-run hospitals have once again called for a solution to the decade-long problem of irregular and pending stipends. Despite the pandemic, these medicos have not received any incentives for Covid-19 duties and have got monthly stipends only till August. PG doctors point out that each time there is a delay or irregularity in payment of stipend, they have to coax the government or go on strike for their legitimate due. Many PG students in government medical colleges in Andhra Pradesh and working in teaching hospitals are from other states and pending stipends impact their financial conditions. “For every strike by medicos since 2010, stipend regularisation was a key issue but still it has not been done by any government. As per sources, the next stipend (for September and probably October 2020) will be credited in January 2021 and not prior to that,” said a PG doctor. An open letter by a postgraduate doctor addressed to senior members of the government states, “A delay of three months had become an unspoken, unwritten rule and every time, after having been deprived for three months, in the fourth month, when we would go on a strike or notify the authorities that we are planning to do so, they release a month or two’s stipend and the vicious cycle would continue. I had never imagined that after working so hard to become a doctor I would have to fret about a decent pay to support my family, to survive at a juncture where I am actually working to the best of my abilities,” the letter reads further. PG doctors, who received their August stipend mid-November, rued that despite carrying out a substantial portion of work in a teaching hospital, ranging from attending to patients, assisting senior doctors, attending classes, research works and training programmes, writing exams, attending medical camps, receiving critical patients at the casualty, to attending night duties and non-congenial working conditions, they are denied their monthly stipend.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/stipend-delay-makes-pg-doctors-struggle/articleshow/79357222.cms||Sulogna Mehta
November 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||ITDA plans roads for 93 tribal hamlets||Visakhapatnam: Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA), Parvathipuram officials have identified 93 villages that lack road connectivity in the hilly regions of Vizianagaram district and have developed a proposal to lay roads in these habitations. ITDA Parvathipuram project officer R Kurmanath told TOI the project has an estimated budget of Rs 120 crore. “As the forest department’s permission is mandatory for laying roads in hilly terrains, we will be holding meetings with forest department officials,” he added. The ITDA requires permission for around one hectare of land for laying a road. If the project moves as per plans, works will commence in December 2020 and be completed by March 2021, Kurmanath said. Tribal villages under Parvathipuram ITDA limits in the district came into the limelight after lack of road connectivity forced villagers to carry women, including those pregnant, in ‘doli’ or makeshift stretchers over hilly terrain to reach ambulances. “Road connectivity to hilly tribal hamlets is a basic need to mitigate incidents of pregnant women being carried on slings for kilometres to get ambulances. We have been appealing to officials for road connectivity and internet services to remote villages through fibernet,” said KS Murthy, an activist in the district. Officials, meanwhile, have already begun the exercise of procuring road-laying material and identifying contractors for the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/itda-plans-roads-for-93-tribal-hamlets/articleshow/79357264.cms||Nalla.Babu
November 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Driver, cleaner die as truck overturns in East Godavari||Rajahmundry: A truck cleaner burnt to death while the truck driver died on the way to the hospital as the truck they were travelling in overturned at the curve of the ghat road between Maredumilli and Chinturu near Tulasipaka village in East Godavari district on Saturday night. The cleaner got trapped in flames as the diesel tank exploded. According to Chinturu DSP Sheik Khadar Basha, the truck was on its way back after unloading rice at Mandapeta in East Godavari district when it met with the accident. The driver of the truck, identified as 40-year-old Bala, was from Illendu of Khammam district. The cleaner, 25-year-old Midium Krishna, was from Charla mandal of Bhadradri Kothagudem district in Telangana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/driver-cleaner-die-as-truck-overturns-in-east-godavari/articleshow/79357288.cms||Samson Raj
November 23, 2020||Mumbai||5,753 new patients in Maharashtra, active Covid cases grow to 81,512||MUMBAI: The state added 5,753 Covid-19 cases on Sunday, the fifth consecutive day of over 5,000 cases in a 24-hour period. The overall tally stood at 17,80,208. Active cases, which had dropped below 80,000 last week for the first time since July 4, rose again to touch 81,512. The city also saw an increase in daily detections and active cases, reporting more than 1,000 new cases for the third day in a row. An addition of 1,135 cases took the tally to 2,51,804, while active cases jumped to 12,448 from the previous day's 10,656. The BMC disagreed with the city figures provided by the state government, saying that at 9,770, the active cases had remained below 10,000. The doubling rate, which had touched 310 days, dropped to 258 days with the increase in daily detections. There was no surge in deaths, with the state reporting 50, a dozen fewer than Saturday's, and the city registering 19 in a 24-hour period. From the average of 200 deaths in October, deaths in the state have dropped to 100 in November. Sixteen deaths were from Pune circle and 12 from Nagpur circle. While the case fatality rate (CFR) of the state remained at 2.62%, the cumulative CFR for the city dropped under 3.9%. Of the 19 cases of death in the city, as many as 18 patients had co-morbidities, while 14 of them were above the age of 60 years. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, speaking to the media in Pune, hinted that a few restrictions might be imposed in the coming 8 to 10 days. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray also addressed the state, but did not mention new restrictions or a return to a stricter lockdown, but he appealed to people to follow social distancing, wear a mask and avoid crowding. The Mumbai circle accounted for the highest addition of 1,975 cases in the state, followed by Pune circle at 1,299 cases. Within the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Thane city saw 148 new cases, taking the tally to 49,917. Two deaths took the toll to 1,153. The recovery rate in Thane was 94.7% with 47,281 patients recovered so far. There were 1,483 active cases. In Kalyan-Dombivli, 152 new cases took the tally to 52,685, while the toll was 1,042. Discharges from various hospitals numbered 4,060, taking the total discharges to 16.5 lakh. Public health minister Rajesh Tope said the recovery rate in the state was 92.75%. Of the 1.02 crore samples tested, 17% were positive. A state official said that 5.15 lakh people were in home quarantine and 5,615 in institutional. Testing numbers across the state recovered in a big way as a total of 92,556 tests were carried done, the highest volume seen on any weekend so far. (Inputs by Manoj Badgeri)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/5753-new-patients-in-maharashtra-active-covid-cases-grow-to-81512/articleshow/79360100.cms||Sumitra Debroy
November 23, 2020||Goa||‘Some BJP MLAs may contest on NCP ticket’||Panaji: In the strongest possible hint that some of Goa’s 40 MLAs could join the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Rajya Sabha MP Praful Patel on Sunday said that the party could possibly field sitting MLAs as candidates in the 2022 state assembly elections. Amid speculation that a few BJP MLAs could join the NCP, Patel said that the party is in a position to contest seven to eight seats on its own in the next assembly polls. The party, presently has just one MLA, Churchil Alemao, who represents Benaulim constituency. “Many MLAs and many leaders of parties have been in touch with me in the last few weeks and we are very sure that even if it comes to fighting the election alone, we will have very good candidates, including some good sitting MLAs,” said Patel. “We will see on the basis of the person and on the basis of the larger public sentiment.” While in October Patel had said that NCP is looking at a non-Congress, non-BJP alliance, he softened his tone on Sunday. Patel, who inaugurated the party office in the capital, said that “all options are open” in order to ensure that secular votes are not split. “Bihar and results in other states are demonstrating very clearly that Congress and other parties must be broad minded and understand the ground reality, and take others along also. If you take others for granted, this problem of division of votes and not finding a proper alternative will always happen,” the MP said. He blamed Congress for NCP’s dismal performance in the last assembly elections and NCP’s weakened political presence. “In the next elections, in the coming 14-15 months, we will be among the principal parties in Goa. We are in a good position to contest 7-8 seats but we want to contest as many constituencies as possible,” Patel said. Patel accepted that he has been talking to Goa Forward Party president Vijai Sardesai and that the NCP is ready to work with regional parties in Goa. “If a proper secular alternative is to be created in Goa, then all parties will have to be open minded to take on the BJP,” said Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/some-bjp-mlas-may-contest-on-ncp-ticket/articleshow/79358238.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 23, 2020||India||4 Hathras accused taken to Guj for polygraph test, brain profiling||AGRA: The four accused in the alleged Hathras gang-rape and murder of the 19-year-old Dalit girl were taken to Gujarat for a polygraph and brain electrical oscillation signature (BEOS) profiling on Saturday. The BEOS profiling is a non-invasive EEG technique by which a suspect's participation in a crime is detected by eliciting electrophysiological impulses. Jailor of Aligarh district jail Pramod Kumar Singh said that all the four accused had been taken to Gujarat by the state police on the orders of a Hathras court after the CBI, which is probing the case, sought permission for conducting the tests. He said, "They were taken into custody by CBI and for monitoring them, one head warden from the jail was sent with them." According to senior officials, it will take around a week to complete both tests on the four accused- Sandeep, Ravi, Ramu and Lavkush, who were arrested before the death of the victim in Delhi's Safdarjung hospital on September 29. All four had been accused by the victim in her statement for assault and rape. The investigation was later handed over to the CBI following a recommendation from the UP government. The Allahabad HC is monitoring the probe under directions of the Supreme Court. The CBI registered a case and began its investigation on October 13. Since then, they have quizzed the victim's and accused's family members several times. The officials have visited the crime spot at least thrice and recreated the crime scene on two occasions. Besides, they have met local residents to inquire about the equation between the families of the victim and the accused and also questioned a local boy, who claims he was present in the field when the girl was found injured. During their investigation, the CBI also quizzed the accused in Aligarh district jail and also visited Aligarh's Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College where the victim was treated before she was shifted to Delhi, where she died later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/4-hathras-accused-taken-to-guj-for-polygraph-test-brain-profiling/articleshow/79360095.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
November 23, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa to chair meet today on reopening of schools||BENGALURU: With six months of the current academic year over and amid encouraging signs of Karnataka reporting a drop in the number of Covid-19 positive cases, CM BS Yediyurappa will hold a meeting with health and education ministers on Monday to discuss about when to reopen schools in the state. Sources said Yediyurappa will take into account the low response in colleges, which reopened recently, before considering options on reopening of schools. With neighbouring states taking their own call on resumption of classes 9 to 12, Karnataka may continue with online classes for those in primary schools. Will present all options to CM: Minith the Vidaygama fiasco cre- Wating serious concerns for the safety of students and teachers, the CM may defer reopening to the next academic year, sources said. Primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar said any decision, if made , will be based on the outcome of Monday’s meeting. “We will present all the options to the CM in presence of the health minister and his team. Our options are based on interactions with school development and monitoring committees across the state,” said Kumar. He said the education commissioner and principal secretary will make a presentation with statistics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-to-chair-meet-today-on-reopening-of-schools/articleshow/79360097.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Goa||A retreat that stamped a great change in Goa’s infrastructure||Panaji: Thirty-seven years ago on this date, the Goa Philately and Numismatics Society launched a stamp to commemorate the CHOGM (Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting) retreat that was hosted in the state that year. While most part of the official conference was held in Delhi, a retreat for all the attending world leaders was scheduled in Goa, which went on to change the state’s infrastructure and logistics. The stamp released on November 23, 1983, depicts a 19th century Goan couple. GPNS president Ramesh Kumar, who shared images of the stamp from his collection, said, “The infrastructure substantially improved, including the road to Dona Paula due to the planned visit of the British prime minister to the British cemetery and also for the lunch for the various dignitaries at the Governor’s residence at Dona Paula. The street lighting conditions also improved greatly.” The event pulled 39 world leaders and the Taj hotel in Sinquerim was chosen to house them. Since it would take a long time to travel by road, a new one was cut through Saligao to Calangute. Being built specifically for the event, it was named CHOGM road. With world delegates visiting various sites in the state, the potential for tourism received a major boost. It also benefited locals as besides roads, tele communication, street lights, even transport, including flights from other parts of the country, were put in place. Also, with the CHOGM road reducing travel time to the coastal belt of Baga, Calangute, Candolim and Sinquerim considerably, it provided impetus for many commercial establishments to begin operations in the area. The CHOGM currently addresses a lot of issues like climate change, global sustainability, rising sea levels of small island nations, decriminalisation of homosexuality and increasing cooperation among members to deal with violent extremism.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/a-retreat-that-stamped-a-great-change-in-goas-infrastructure/articleshow/79358295.cms||Nida Sayed
November 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Pets journey as pandemic sees families shift homes||Visakhapatnam: The business of pet transportation has seen a sudden spurt as the pandemic forces many families to temporarily relocate to save rent or work from home in a different city or town. It is not just the domestic sector that has seen a boom in pet transportation; there have been several instances of international pet relocations. After the lockdown was lifted, residents of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana have flown in and out of the country with their pets, especially to and from west Asian countries and the USA. Agencies handling pet relocation services said from March onwards, demand for their services was almost nil. In June, business picked up but airlines began accepting pets on June 23. “Although business resumed in end-June, it actually reached its peak in August. We have relocated around 30 to 35 pets per month since August till November. The trend of pet relocation is definitely on the higher side this year. Even on normal years we do not relocate more than 20 to 25 pets a month,” Prathaban, CEO of a pet relocation company, told TOI. About 90 per cent of the pets that were relocated were cats and dogs, while some hamsters, rabbits and guinea pigs have also been relocated. Airlines such as British Airways, Lufthansa and KLM undertook a bulk of pet relocations in this period. “Since the last three to four months we actually handled around 45 pets at Hyderabad. Many of them were headed for other towns and cities in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh,” added Prathaban. Agencies relocating pets said due to the pandemic, many individuals have temporarily moved homes. This might be because of a job cut, or choosing to return to one’s home town to work from home or changing homes within the city to save on rent. “Whatever might be the reason most pet families actually took the burden of relocating their pets as well and that’s why the number of pet relocations is quite high this year,” said Siva Balam, an experienced pet handler.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/pets-journey-as-pandemic-sees-families-shift-homes/articleshow/79357317.cms||Arpit Basu
November 23, 2020||Goa||Fish farming most sustainable source of income: PMMSY||PANAJI: The fisheries department has invited applications under the centrally-sponsored Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY) scheme. Interested applicants can avail subsidies on the unit cost of Rs5 lakh per cage. The general category can avail 40% subsidy while women and SC/ST can get 60%. Applicants have to submit a detailed project report along with the application form, available at the fisheries department website before December 15. Minister for fisheries Filipe Neri Rodrigues was speaking at the World Fisheries Day function at Sanskruti Bhavan, Patto recently. Calling sustainability the need of the hour on Saturday said, “Fish farming is one of the best means to become an entrepreneur as the department of fisheries offers many schemes and subsidies.” He encouraged people to take fish farming as a profession for progress and to contribute to the state’s economy. Rodrigues said that there is a lot of hard work, endurance and sacrifice involved in this occupation. “However, this is the most sustainable, natural and continuing source of income,” he said. Asking the fishing community to do business with honesty, the minister appealed to them to provide quality fish at a reasonable rate. “The department and the fishing community walk hand in hand. Officials will give their best to support the community in every possible way. India is the second largest country in fish production. Hence, the PMMSY scheme has been introduced. The eastern coast of our country beats the west in fish produce because it focuses a lot on culture farming. Farmers in Goa must try these new avenues in fishing to attain success,” he said. On the occasion, 18 beneficiaries were given sanction letters under PMMSY, seven were given Kisan credit cards and fish seller’s identity cards. Fishing motor bikes and a fishing van was also presented to beneficiaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fish-farming-most-sustainable-source-of-income-mantri/articleshow/79358438.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Delhi||At 6.9°C, Delhi records coldest November night in 17 years but temp set to rise||NEW DELHI: The city recorded its lowest minimum temperature for the month of November in 17 years as the mercury plummeted to 6.9°C, four notches below normal, in the early hours of Sunday. Some of its pockets even witnessed cold wave conditions. Though the Safdarjung’s base station recorded 6.9°C, the minimum fell to 6.4°C — five degrees below normal — at Lodhi Road station. A cold wave is declared when the temperature remains 5°C below normal for a period of 48 hours. Last time when the minimum temperature dropped lower than Sunday’s was on November 30, 2003, when the city shivered at 6.6°C. Met officials attributed the main reasons behind the current chill to cold wind blowing in from the snow-clad western Himalayan region and clear skies. However, both the minimum and maximum temperatures (24.2°C, two notches below normal) are likely to climb up to around 10 and 25°C, respectively, for the next seven days. Minimum Temp Below Normal On All Of Nov So Far, Except One DayCity Had Its Coldest Oct In 26 YearsDelhi is likely to have a colder November this year than in the recent past as the minimum temperature has steadily remained lower than the normal, except one day this month. Last month, the city had recorded the coldest October in 26 years. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD, and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “The effect of western disturbance on western Himalayan region has caused a fall in the minimum temperature. The western Himalayan region, including Jammu & Kashmir, Himanchal Pradesh and Uttarakhand, has received snowfall and the wind is blowing from there to Delhi. Besides, clear skies in the absence of cloud cover in the day cause heat quickly dissipating and make nights cooler than normal.” IMD data showed that except November 16 when the minimum temperature was recorded at 16 degrees Celsius, the minimum temperature dropped to at least one or two degrees below mark on all days this month. The city’s average minimum temperature for November stands at 12.9°C.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/at-6-9c-delhi-records-coldest-november-night-in-17-years-but-temp-set-to-rise/articleshow/79360059.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Goa||Saligao store gutted, loss of Rs 5 lakh||Saligao: A general store in Saligao was completely gutted early Sunday morning, leading to an estimated loss of around Rs 5 lakh to its owners. According to the shop owner, the incident occurred around midnight, shortly after he shut the shop for the day around 11.20pm. Some locals informed the owner that his shop had caught fire. The Pilerne fire station was alerted and the fire and emergency services personnel arrived on the spot and doused the fire. While part of the shop was saved, many items, mostly FMGC, were charred. The exact cause of the fire could not be ascertained as the owner said he had shut all electrical appliances before closing for the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/saligao-store-gutted-loss-of-rs-5-lakh/articleshow/79358494.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Business||Bus e-ticketing co sees jump in traffic in state||Kolkata: Cashing in on the suspension of train services for a long period of time, redBus — a leading international online bus ticketing platform — has clocked nearly 25% more jump in traffic in Bengal from inter-city commute by a large number of people in the festive season that began with Durga Puja. Following the documents of the online bus ticketing platform, reservations for 10 destinations from Kolkata are in high demand such as Digha, Siliguri, Asansol, Durgapur, Burdwan and return trips. Even the routes like Kolkata-Malda, Behrampore-Kolkata and Patna-Kolkata have witnessed a spike in bus travel due to the absence of regular train services during the last seven-eight months. Bookings for both state and private buses are done through the ticketing platform. Forty private bus operators are currently operational in the state. While the private operators are running about 500 daily services, 350 other services are being provided every day by the state operators like RTC. Last year the online ticketing platform raked in around Rs 25 crore from the inter-city bus travels in the festive season. “Despite the pandemic when we have raked in Rs 16 crore this year. Over 1.19 lakh commuters in Bengal availed themselves of the bus services through our platform during the week of Dussera and some top inter-state destinations included Patna, Bhubaneswar, Purnea, Ranchi and Muzaffarpur. We have received nearly 41,000 bookings for intercity travels for Diwali and our estimate is that the bookings will reach over two lakh,” Prakash Sangam, CEO, redBus, told TOI. Sangam added fares for bus travels have been lowered this time from last year. Maximum Diwali bookings were made before the state announced that train services would be resumed. So, many people have come under the fold of online bus ticket booking for the first time. “One out of every four transactions is being done by a first timer in Bengal this time,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bus-e-ticketing-co-sees-jump-in-traffic-in-state/articleshow/79359255.cms||Sarthak.G
November 23, 2020||Goa||Eight-day Dindi festival in Margao to skip traditional palanquin procession||MARGAO: The famous Dindi festival of Shree Vithal mandir, Margao, got underway on Sunday on a subdued note owing to the pandemic. As all public events have been cancelled, temple sources said that the main event of the festival, to be observed on November 28, will have no palanquin procession. This is the 111th year of the festival. The dindi with the palanquin of Shree Vithal Rakhumayee takes off from Shree Hari Mandir, Pajifond, on the penultimate day of the festival, and after paying the customary visit to Shree Damodar Sal well past midnight, culminates at Shree Vithal mandir at Comba in the pre-dawn hours and returns to Shree Hari mandir by noon the following day. The activities at the temple during the eight-day long festival will be limited to religious rituals and entry will be restricted to temple committee members, president of the temple committee Suhas Kamat said. Kamat said arrangements have been made to allow devotees to take darshan with Covid-19 restrictions .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/eight-day-dindi-festival-in-margao-to-skip-traditional-palanquin-procession/articleshow/79358498.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Delhi||Magistrate gets 5 years for taking bribe in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A special CBI court has awarded a five-year jail term and imposed a fine of Rs 75,000 on a former special metropolitan magistrate for criminal misconduct and bribery, reports Aamir Khan. “R P Bhatia, as a special metropolitan magistrate (littering), central zone, was 65 years old at the time of commission of offence in 2015,” said Special CBI judge Santosh Snehi Mann while pronouncing the quantum of sentence on November 19. Bhatia was convicted on November 6. “Considering the nature of the office the convict was holding, people will lose faith in the justice delivery system if adequate punishment is not awarded, ” the conviction judgment stated. Framed by traders in bribery case, says magistrateIt further noted: “Convict was a matured person while committing the offence and had served in an elite government institution like Planning Commission of India in the past... a high moral conduct is expected of him.” When Bhatia’s lawyers pleaded for leniency because of his age, the judge said, “The age and the background of the convict to my mind are actually aggravating circumstances in this case.” Any leniency in the punishment, it added, would be an act of “misplaced sympathy”, undermining the rule of law in the eyes of the common man. According to the CBI, the magistrate had challaned the complainant, a shop owner at Alaknanda market in south Delhi, during an inspection on August 10, 2015, and asked the complainant to appear before his court at Lajpat Nagar. When the complainant reached the court, the magistrate demanded Rs 60,000 for settling the case. The complainant negotiated the amount and settled for Rs 25,000. On August 18, 2015, the CBI had laid a trap on the complaint of the shop owner, caught Bhatia taking bribe and recovered Rs 25,000 from a bag kept inside his chamber adjoining the courtroom. A CD, containing recorded conversations between the complainant and the convict, was sent to a forensic lab for voice identification. “An expert report said that the specimen of the accused (R P Bhatia) matched with the voice (in question) in the recorded conversations,” the court noted. Bhatia claimed innocence and said he was framed as the shopkeepers of the area wanted to prevent him from carrying out his duties. The prosecution of a public servant under the Prevention of Corruption (PC) Act requires sanction from authorities concerned, but it came on record that Bhatia’s services had been terminated before he was chargesheeted in the case. Bhatia was convicted for the offence of “taking gratification other than legal remuneration in respect of an official act” under Section 7 and “criminal misconduct” under Section 13 (2) read with 13(1)(d) of the PC Act. The judgment highlighted that prosecution witnesses had been “consistent and reliable” in their deposition, proving that following a specific demand raised by the accused, “tainted money” was placed and recovered from his chamber.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/magistrate-gets-5-years-for-taking-bribe-in-delhi/articleshow/79360099.cms||Aamir Khan
November 23, 2020||Goa||‘Ensure no human waste dumped in Sal at Betul’||Panaji: The Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) has asked state authorities to ensure that no human waste is disposed into the Sal at Betul, Quepem. Water Resource Department applied to the GCZMA for a NOC to construct a flood retaining wall in Betul, along the nallah from the primary school at Betul, which subsequently joins the Sal at the mouth. The proposed length of the flood retaining wall is about one kilometre. Along the site of the proposed retaining wall, there are human settlements. “Authority allowed the construction of flood protection wall subject to proper prior arrangement by the residents living in the immediate vicinity to stop disposal of untreated human and solid waste directly into the river,” the GCZMA said. The existing retaining wall has developed cracks and it is feared that it can collapse due to heavy wave current. Therefore, the wall requires repair and reconstruction. The site inspection committee of the GCZMA has told the WRD that care must be taken that no damage to the estuarine ecology or to the property of the locals is caused during the construction phase. “There are few patches along the waterways, where the retaining wall is good, but needs only strengthening. The assistant engineer may identify such spots and carry out required procedure to strengthen it, instead of constructing a new one. This not only saves money, but also reduces ecological damage,” the GCZMA site inspection report recommended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ensure-no-human-waste-dumped-in-sal-at-betul/articleshow/79358513.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 23, 2020||Goa||Submit details of GTDC’s Calangute proj: Coastal body||Panaji: The Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) has asked for a detailed presentation from the Goa Tourism Development Corporation of its plans to reconstruct/redevelop the shopping complex at Calangute. The existing old structures fall within 200m of the High Tide Line (HTL). Similarly, the GCZMA has also asked the GTDC to state how its plans to dispose of the waste from a mobile toilet to be constructed in Arambol CRZ area. The GTDC had told the coastal authority that the shopping complex at Calangute will be constructed on an area of over 3,100 sq m. “The present proposal is to demolish the existing structures as they are old and in dilapidated conditions, and to reconstruct with new design for efficient use of area. It is proposed to combine the plinth of the existing structures into one structure, thereby freeing up of around 900 sq ms area for parking,” GTDC said, seeking permission for the redevelopment from the GCZMA. The GTDC said that the existing structures at the spot were constructed prior to 1991 and produced documents and photographs to prove its claim. “There are eight concrete structures with floor area of 816.07sqm. Among the eight, three structures are ground plus one, covering an area of 431sqm. The height of existing ground plus one structures is approximately 10m. The plan of the existing structures is attached. All these structures were reported by the representative of GTDC,” the corporation told GCZMA. Considering that the proposal is from a government agency to promote the tourism and that the existing structures are old and dilapidated, the GCZMA decided to call for presentation of the new plans from the corporation. “The proposal is for reconstruction and rationalisation of space. The new design will enable additional parking space, which is most crucial in most of the tourist spots and more particularly in most crowded place like Calangute beach. The FAR utilised for new structures is less than the combined FAR of existing structures,” the GCZMA noted. It, however, added that the proposal is recommended, subject to finalisation of GCZMA plan for Goa. The GTDC similarly sought permission for installation of a mobile toilet at Arambol. “In no condition, the facility should create hazard to the land and environment. The patch of Pendanous grove should not be disturbed,” the GCZMA said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/submit-details-of-gtdcs-calangute-proj-coastal-body/articleshow/79358521.cms||---
November 23, 2020||India||A 1st since Oct 1: Active cases rise for 2 days in a row||India's active cases of Covid-19 rose for the second successive day on Sunday, the first time since October 1 that the count had increased for more than a single day in a row. Active cases rise when the count of fresh infections is higher than the number of recoveries. Rising number of active cases over several days indicates a surge in the pandemic. On Sunday, active cases registered a net increase of more than 2,500, the highest rise since October 1. Since that date, apart from this Saturday and Sunday, active cases had logged a net increase only on November 14, as the pandemic showed a steady decline through the month of October. The count is likely to fall again on Monday, a day when daily cases invariably see a sharp decline due to lower testing over the weekend. Meanwhile, the country recorded 2,92,475 during the week (November 15-22), around the same number as was reported the previous week (2,92,549). Daily cases had remained low on the first two days of weeks because of lower testing and other disruptions due to festivals (Diwali and Bhai Dooj). Cases rose subsequently as a number of states in north and central India recorded a surge in the pandemic, along with a rise in Maharashtra and Gujarat. The week's death toll at 3,641 was marginally higher than the number recorded in the previous seven days, when 3,476 fatalities were recorded. On Sunday, 44,513 fresh cases were reported in the country, the first time in five days that the count had fallen below 45,000. The day's death toll from the virus was 513, slightly higher than Saturday's count of 500. Delhi continued to report the highest Covid cases as well as deaths in the country. The capital recorded 6,746 new cases and 121 fatalities, both higher than the previous day's numbers. This came even as Rajasthan registered 3,260 fresh infections on Sunday, its highest single-day count so far. Maharashtra added 5,753 new Covid-19 positive cases on Sunday, the fifth consecutive day that the state registered more than 5,000 cases in a 24-hour period. Maharashtra's overall Covid tally stood at 17,80,208. The active cases that had dropped under 80,000 last week for the first time since July 4 rose once again to touch 81,512 on Sunday. State capital Mumbai too saw an increase in daily detection and active cases. The city reported more than 1,000 daily cases for the third day in a row on Sunday. Meanwhile, Uttarakhand governor Baby Rani Maurya tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday as the hill state recorded 466 fresh cases. With this, the number of novel coronavirus cases in Uttarakhand rose to 71,256. "The state also reported deaths of nine Covid-19 patients, pushing the death toll of the virus to 1,155," a state official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/a-1st-since-oct-1-active-cases-rise-for-2-days-in-a-row/articleshow/79360130.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: PCMC may bear cost of RT-PCR test||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) may bear the cost of private teachers’ RT-PCR tests. Additional commissioner Santosh Patil told TOI that around 5,000 teachers for standards IX to XII need to be tested and most are from private schools. “ An order was received from the collectorate. Now, we will take a call, and issue our own order. Schools will reopen on November 30, so will complete testing all the teachers,” he said. An official from the PCMC’s education department said the collector’s guidelines are not clear about testing teachers from private schools. The Independent English Schools’ Association had demanded that the health department bear the sanitisation costs of the schools’ premises and tests for teachers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-may-bear-cost-of-rt-pcr-test/articleshow/79360138.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Goa||The Catch in Goa’s fishing Sector||PANAJI: Fish is an irreplaceable part of most Goans’ diet. Its importance is manifested in the thriving fishing industry, which contributes about 2.5% to the state’s GDP. Yet, Goans find that their beloved staple is becoming increasingly unaffordable. Read the entire story on TOI+Goa has a sea full of fish, but there's a catch||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/the-catch-in-goas-fishing-sector/articleshow/79358552.cms||Nida Sayed
November 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: How fear of Covid is taking a toll on other critically ill||NEW DELHI: Sneha Singh, 33, was operated upon for breast cancer in February, following which she had to undergo radiation therapy to ensure that the disease didn’t recur. But due to the lockdown and the fear of being exposed to Covid-19, Singh delayed her sessions for nearly six months. Finally, when she visited Indraprastha Apollo Hospital in August, doctors found that the disease had not only come back but it had also spread. “Though she is undergoing treatment, chances of her survival are bleak now. She now has advanced-stage breast cancer,” Dr Ramesh Sarin, senior consultant, Surgical Oncology, Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals, said. Cancer treatment, Dr Sarin added, has been worst-hit due to Covid crisis. “Early screenings, mammograms (low-energy xray to detect breast cancer) have dipped by 80%. Also, before the Covid-19 pandemic struck, we had a minimum of 200 monthly visits by women for postoperative follow-ups, which are vital to monitor their health and progress. This number has declined by nearly 70% since the lockdown,” Dr Sarin said. Apollo’s cancer unit has witnessed an increase in patients with stage-2 and stage-3 cancer in September-October which, the doctors said, implies that the cancer had progressed in the past six months from a treatable stage-1 phase to a complex, life-threatening stage-3 in many cases. But cancer isn’t the only area of medicine that is witnessing such a trend. Specialists in neurology, ophthalmology, liver diseases, orthopaedics and cardiac sciences, among others, say they have observed a similar trend of people coming with advanced-stage disease due to delayed diagnosis or poor follow-up of pre-existing illnesses. “A patient of mine needs urgent blood transfusion because his haemoglobin is dangerously low. But he refuses to come to hospital for the fear of contracting Covid-19. He insists that the transfusion should be done at home, which is not feasible. Blood transfusion can, at times, lead to serious allergic reactions that can be managed in hospital only,” Dr Subhash Gupta, chairman, Max Centre for Liver and Biliary Sciences, told TOI. He added that the patient, a 50-year-old living in Gurgaon, suffers from chronic liver disease, cirrhosis and portal hypertension, which causes bleeding in the small intestine. “Continued or excessive bleeding due to any cause can prove fatal for him,” Dr Gupta said. There are patients who resist coming to hospital to get an MRI done, which takes a few minutes, doctors say. Dr J D Mukherji, principal director and head of neurology at Max Super Speciality Hospital, says many patients suffering from neurological illnesses, such as multiple sclerosis, have stopped taking drugs that suppresses the immune system, fearing it may increase their chances of contracting Covid-19. “Non-Covid patients are silently suffering and, perhaps, even dying due to disease complications. Fear of Covid-19 and the lack of facilities where they can safely continue treatment is a major cause,” he added. “The number of patients undergoing elective surgery at our hospital has dropped significantly since October-end,” Dr H S Chhabra, medical director, Indian spinal Injuries Centre, said. “Patients have always been shifting their surgeries since the start of the pandemic. Nobody wants to visit a hospital until and unless it’s urgent. Most government hospitals, which have been converted into Covid facilities, have postponed their surgeries. Private hospitals also put off their surgeries initially, but now these have resumed. However, the number of patients opting for elective surgeries is low,” Dr Shuchin Bajaj, founder and director, Ujala Cygnus Group of Hospitals, said. Dr Mahipal Sachdev, chairman and MD of Centre for Sight, said eye surgeries had also come down significantly in the last few weeks. “Elderly people are scared of visiting even day-care facilities. Many people are living with blurred vision to avoid contracting Covid-19, such is the scare,” he said. “Two key messages are the need of the hour. First, non-Covid illnesses must not be ignored. And, second, those with established disease should avoid deferring critical therapeutic components. These simple measures would go a long way in saving many lives all around the world,” Dr Anusheel Munshi, head, department of radiation oncology at Manipal Hospitals, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-how-fear-of-covid-is-taking-a-toll-on-other-critically-ill/articleshow/79360141.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
November 23, 2020||Nagpur||75% schools in Wardha district to remain closed||WARDHA: Parents associations have opposed the decision of state government to allow reopening of schools from Monday. Of the 358 secondary schools in the district, 75% will remain closed. The parents and the management committee have taken this decision. So far, 45 teachers have tested positive for novel coronavirus. District collector Vivek Bhimanwar told TOI that they have not made it mandatory for all schools to reopen. “Decision to reopen or not is to be taken by parents and school. We are waiting up to December 4 to rethink over the decision,” he said. Parents’ committee meetings were held in many schools, in which various issues related to health and life were discussed. “Finally it was decided not to reopen schools,” said a member of parents’ committee, Anup Bhutada. “Priority must be given to cleaning and sanitizing the schools,” said Madhuri Bhoyar, a parent. A meeting was held at Kesarimal Kanya School in Wardha. “I think government should not reopen the schools at least for a month because we are seeing that cases are being detected in district everyday,” said Bhutada.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/75-schools-in-wardha-district-to-remain-closed/articleshow/79358576.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi at 121, second highest single-day deaths; November alone accounts for 22% of fatalities||NEW DELHI: The capital recorded 121 deaths due to Covid-19 on Sunday — the second highest single-day toll and the fifth time above the 100 mark in the past 11days. The number of daily fresh cases has also gone up to 6,746 from 5,879 on Saturday. The total number of people who have succumbed to Covid-19 now stands at 8,391, out of which 1,880 — 22.4% — were recorded in November. This month, Delhi has witnessed 85.4 deaths on average daily, which is much higher than the average of 75.6 recorded in June when the city witnessed its first wave of Covid cases and the highest number of deaths in a month at 2,269. The fresh cases pushed the positive-case count to nearly 5.3 lakh, out of which 1,43,157 have been reported in November, the highest for a month, till date. Of all Covid-19 cases recorded in Delhi since March 2, when the first case was detected, more than every fourth case has been recorded this month (27%). The number of active patients is 40,212, out of which 23,301 are in home isolation. The total number of tests carried out in the past 24 hours, according to Delhi government’s health bulletin, is 54,893, out of which 23,433 were RT-PCR, while 31,460 rapid antigen tests were carried out, with an overall positivity rate of 12.2%. On Thursday, 23,507 RT-PCR tests, the highest till date, were conducted. In all, 11,35,276 Covid tests have been carried out this month. Out of the 17,365 Covid beds in hospitals, 7,947 are vacant, according to the bulletin. Of the 1,397 ICU beds with ventilators, only 132 are vacant, while 430 of the 2,702 ICU beds without ventilators are still available, according to the Delhi Corona app. Health minister Satyendar Jain said on Sunday that over 400 ICU beds had been added over the past few days. He said the number would be increased further in the coming days as these 400 beds were part of a total of 1,650 ICU beds being set up in the city — 250 in private hospitals, 650 in Delhi government facilities and 750 in those run by the Centre. The number of containment zones went up to 4,697 as against 4,633 on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-at-121-second-highest-single-day-deaths-november-alone-accounts-for-22-of-fatalities/articleshow/79360152.cms||Sidharatha Roy
November 23, 2020||Jamshedpur||E Singhbhum, Bokaro to increase Covid testing rate||JAMSHEDPUR/BOKARO: Just like the state capital, districts like East Singhbhum and Bokaro have started preparing themselves for a possible second wave and are taking up measures to curb the rising graph. The East Singhbhum district on Sunday said it will launch a drive from Monday to conduct Covid tests and to make sure people comply with the pandemic norms. Meanwhile, the district health department said it will conduct 150 RT-PCRs and 50 TrueNat tests in each of the nine blocks till the end of November. Special camps will be held at Tatanagar railway station to conduct Covid tests of commuters entering the town. “People who travelled outside before the festivals are now returning home and therefore tests are compulsory,” said district surveillance officer Sahir Pal. Tests will be made mandatory even for those travelling in buses. Long-distance bus operators have been asked to maintain a register to keep a record of the name, address and contact number of passengers returning from Bihar, Odisha, Bengal and other districts of the state, for contact tracing, if required. Surprise checks will also be conducted to ensure compliance of the pandemic norms among the common people. Those found violating the norms will be taken to open jails and tested for the virus. Health teams at the 12 interstate and inter-district checkpoints have also been alerted to keep an eye on those entering the district. “With a recovery rate of 96% and mortality rate of 2.2%, our district is improving fast, but the spike in the number of fresh cases in a few states after the festival season necessitated us to be alert,” said Dr Harpreet Singh, a private medical practitioner. In Bokaro, the district health department said it will speed up the testing from Monday and have plans to set up camps at the railway station and bus stands to screen passengers returning from Bihar after celebrating Chhath Puja. Authorities have requested the state government to provide them with sufficient stock of rapid antigen testing (RAT) kits for the purpose. Civil surgeon Dr A K Pathak said, “We are preparing for the second wave. RAT kits would be received tomorrow (Monday) as we are going to intensify testing in the district. We have set a target to conduct 2,000 plus tests every day. At present, we are conducting 1,000 tests a day. For RT-PCR tests, we are sending samples to Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences in Ranchi from where we get reports within three days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/e-sbhum-bokaro-to-increase-cov-testing-rate/articleshow/79361977.cms||B Sridhar
November 23, 2020||Ranchi||Crime graph goes north after unlock phase in Jharkhand||RANCHI: Jharkhand has registered a sharp increase in the number of thefts, robberies and dacoity ever since the unlock process began in June. According to official figures, theft tops the list of crimes in September with 1,069 cases registered across police stations of the state. During the lockdown period in April and May, the figure was 370 and 482 respectively. The number shot up by around 47% when the unlock began in June and a total 724 theft cases were reported. It also showed a steady rise with 746 cases registered in July and 971 cases in August. In terms of the total number of crimes too, there was a significant rise during the unlock period though no substantial increase is visible when compared with last year’s figure. The total crime registered in the state this year was 4,326 in April and 5,015 in May. June recorded a total of 5,458 cases while July witnessed 5,630 cases followed by August at 5,538 and September with 5,635. In 2019, the figure stood at 5,225 cases in April, 5,781 in May, 6,110 in June, 6,136 in July, 6,156 in August and 5,115 in September. When asked whether the rise in thefts and burglary is linked to the financial distress among a large section of society, state director general of police M V Rao said , “Police will first analyse the figures and the reasons before reaching at a conclusion. Thefts and burglary often rise due to lack of livelihood but there are several other reasons behind the crimes.” He said crime figures may have risen after the lockdown but termed the phenomenon as not abnormal. A senior police officer, however, said ever since the unlock process began, the police were gearing up to face rise in the crimegraph. He said, “Due to the pandemic and the lockdown, a large number of people have been rendered unemployed. Many of them resorted to petty crimes like snatching to meet their basics requirements. With most people staying inside their homes, thefts and burglary cases dipped during the lockdown and most of the crimes took place on the roads.” It may be noted that robberies on road have a large share of the total figure on robberies. In May, out of 37 cases of robberies, 35 were road robberies. The case of robberies, which increased to 52 in June comprised 49 road robberies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/crime-graph-goes-north-after-unlock-phase-in-jkhand/articleshow/79356825.cms||Sanjay Sahay
November 23, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi: 1 million winter garments to be distributed among needy||RANCHI: In a unique initiative, the Ranchi administration has decided to tie up with a few social outfits in order to distribute winter garments among the needy across the district. Titled ‘#RanchiCares — Mission One Million Smiles’, the campaign is expected to be launched this week as part of which one million garments will be distributed. “As the pandemic continues to rage and hospitals are flooded with Covid patients, the campaign will help in minimising the patient load. Many a times those living in the streets fall sick during winter since they cannot afford warm clothes and they end up making a beeline for hospitals. The drive can help them in keeping illnesses at bay,” a district official said. A few days ago, deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan held a preliminary meeting with several NGOs to chalk out the modalities for the drive. He will meet them again on Monday for another round of talks to fine-tune the process before kicking off the drive. Atul Agarwal of ‘Doranda Old Xaverians’ — the alumni association of St Xavier’s School which is one of the partners for the mission — said around 20 points have been set up, mostly near retail shops and malls, across the city for collecting the garments. “So far, the response has been good as we have collected more than 2,000 garments, including sweaters, shawls and socks. As the awareness grows, we can hope to achieve our target of one million,” he added. “We are planning to kick off the drive from Tuesday after finalising everything at the meeting tomorrow. Distribution camps will be set up at the block development offices,” he said, adding, “All the clothes will be washed and sanitised before being given to the poor.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/1-million-winter-garments-to-be-distributed-among-needy/articleshow/79356809.cms||ASRP Mukesh
November 23, 2020||Ranchi||E Singhbhum, Bokaro to increase Covid testing rate||JAMSHEDPUR/BOKARO: Just like the state capital, districts like East Singhbhum and Bokaro have started preparing themselves for a possible second wave and are taking up measures to curb the rising graph. The East Singhbhum district on Sunday said it will launch a drive from Monday to conduct Covid tests and to make sure people comply with the pandemic norms. Meanwhile, the district health department said it will conduct 150 RT-PCRs and 50 TrueNat tests in each of the nine blocks till the end of November. Special camps will be held at Tatanagar railway station to conduct Covid tests of commuters entering the town. “People who travelled outside before the festivals are now returning home and therefore tests are compulsory,” said district surveillance officer Sahir Pal. Tests will be made mandatory even for those travelling in buses. Long-distance bus operators have been asked to maintain a register to keep a record of the name, address and contact number of passengers returning from Bihar, Odisha, Bengal and other districts of the state, for contact tracing, if required. Surprise checks will also be conducted to ensure compliance of the pandemic norms among the common people. Those found violating the norms will be taken to open jails and tested for the virus. Health teams at the 12 interstate and inter-district checkpoints have also been alerted to keep an eye on those entering the district. “With a recovery rate of 96% and mortality rate of 2.2%, our district is improving fast, but the spike in the number of fresh cases in a few states after the festival season necessitated us to be alert,” said Dr Harpreet Singh, a private medical practitioner. In Bokaro, the district health department said it will speed up the testing from Monday and have plans to set up camps at the railway station and bus stands to screen passengers returning from Bihar after celebrating Chhath Puja. Authorities have requested the state government to provide them with sufficient stock of rapid antigen testing (RAT) kits for the purpose. Civil surgeon Dr A K Pathak said, “We are preparing for the second wave. RAT kits would be received tomorrow (Monday) as we are going to intensify testing in the district. We have set a target to conduct 2,000 plus tests every day. At present, we are conducting 1,000 tests a day. For RT-PCR tests, we are sending samples to Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences in Ranchi from where we get reports within three days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/e-sbhum-bokaro-to-increase-cov-testing-rate/articleshow/79356795.cms||B Sridhar
November 23, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand govt builds Covid test wall after festive slip||RANCHI: After the culmination of the major festivals, including Chhath, the state health department issued a detailed guideline on Sunday to the deputy commissioners of all the districts in anticipation of a spike in the number of cases. This comes in the backdrop of several states seeing a surge in the number of fresh cases after the festivals, when intermingling among people was at its peak since the lockdown, ended. Although the numbers have dipped in Jharkhand, the government wants to ensure preparedness before a possible second wave hits the state. The state recorded just 175 fresh cases between Friday and Saturday and clocked six more deaths in the same period. The guidelines asked the districts to be prepared with medicines and keep ready adequate beds to treat Covid patients. Going by the earlier figures and assessing the vulnerability, each district has been asked to keep ready a certain number of beds with and without oxygen support, besides ICU facilities with ventilators. Talking to TOI, state health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said, “As many states across the country saw a rise in the number of cases after the festivities, we thought the need to keep ourselves prepared. We had successfully handled the first wave, but if a second wave comes, we should be ready to tackle it.” Kulkarni said, “We are also reviewing the stock of essential medicines as well as availability of ventilators at all districts. All the districts have been asked to co-ordinate with the state unit of the National Health Mission (NHM) in order to make necessary demand for medicines and other essentials.” A detailed annexure along with the order was issued which directed respective districts to plan for the number of beds with oxygen, without oxygen support, ICU beds and ventilators. As per the order, a total of 11 districts were asked to keep ready more than 1,000 beds without oxygen. Ranchi has been asked to ready 5,500 beds and Deoghar has to keep ready 1,000 beds. The rest 13 districts were asked to add bed capacity between 400 and 1,000 depending on the requirement. The order also directed all covid-19 testing sites to be compliant with the latest guidelines of bio-medical waste management and directed the civil surgeons of the districts to ensure its proper disposal. The district administrations were also asked to ensure sufficient availability of PPEs, gloves N-95 masks and testing kits, including viral transport media kits for sample collection. In order to ensure availability of trained healthcare workers, the districts were asked to conduct sufficient training sessions for doctors and nurses identified for critical Covid care and to follow proper roster system as per the guidelines. The order also directed the authorities to ensure proper contact tracing and testing as per the state guidelines and to strictly follow testing of all probable suspects if there is a spike reported from a specific area. In order to keep track of recovered patients, the order directed the districts who have post covid care and counselling centres to ensure its proper functioning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/govt-builds-cov-test-wall-after-festive-slip/articleshow/79356778.cms||Gaurav Pandey
November 23, 2020||Rajkot||Rice for PDS sold in black market||RAJKOT: A racket of illegally selling rice meant for fair price shops was busted in Rajkot on Saturday night. A total of 47 gunny bags (2,350 kg) worth Rs 94,000 were seized from an MUV at Aji GIDC in Rajkot. The driver of the MUV was detained. “During patrolling, we stopped the vehicle and asked about the gunny bags. Driver Ravi Dholakia (26) said that a fair price shop owner, Badruddin Virani, had loaded the bags and had asked him to sell them in Gondal market yard,” said V K Gadhvi, inspector with Rajkot crime branch. “We have seized the rice bags and kept them at a government’s godown. We have informed the district supply officer, who will carry out the further investigation against Dholakia and Virani,” said Gadhvi. The police said that the seized gunny bags had no government seals. “It appears that the accused had put the rice supply in different gunny bags,” added Gadhvi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rice-for-pds-sold-in-black-market/articleshow/79357024.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Kolkata||CM arrives in Bankura, to address public meet||Bankura: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday reached Bankura’s Mukutmanipur — a day ahead of schedule — and started a series of meetings with the party’s district leadership at the state irrigation guest house. Banerjee will attend a public meeting at Khatra’s Sidhu Kanu stadium on Monday. The CM is likely to attend a video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday from Bankura. She is also expected to attend an administrative meeting later on Tuesday. The CM may attend another public meeting before returning to Kolkata possibly on Wednesday, a source said. This will be the chief minister’s first public meeting after the nationwide lockdown was announced in March. Party leaders said they have informed the CM in the meetings that they will set aside their differences and fight unitedly against the opposition. Trinamool Congress had ceded both Lok Sabha seats in Bankura — Bankura and Bishnupur — to BJP. It also coincided with party’s Bishnupur MP Saumitra Khan defecting to BJP and retaining the seat in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. BJP’s Subhas Sarkar won from Bankura Lok Sabha. State minister Shyamal Santra said: “The CM’s arrival in Bankura has energised party workers and leaders. BJP, since the November 5 visit of the Union home minister to Bankura, has been spreading misinformation and lies. This needs to be countered. People want to hear the CM and the development works she has spearheaded.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cm-arrives-in-bankura-to-address-public-meet/articleshow/79359136.cms||Falguni Banerjee
November 23, 2020||Kolkata||TMC returns ‘bhaipo’ fire, says BJP is scared of ‘youth leader’||Kolkata: Trinamool Congress on Sunday questioned BJP’s “bhaipo” (nephew) barbs, saying even sons of BJP leaders were MLAs, suggesting the saffron party was scared of the “youth leader”. BJP’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya on Saturday alleged Trinamool’s reins had gone to “bhaipo”, prompting Bengal’s ruling party to question why Vijayvargiya was being evasive, refusing to either name the person or specify his allegations. Trinamool spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said: “We dare him (Vijayvargiya) to take his name and speak precisely about any allegation against him. A doctor’s or engineer’s son can choose to follow the profession of his parent. Is it wrong if he chooses to join politics after he starts taking interest in that? He is an important youth leader and a member of the Trinamool Congress family.” Claiming BJP leaders were making such veiled criticism, Ghosh said: “Some of the BJP leaders are using the word “bhaipo”; let them come out with the name. They seem to be afraid of the youth leader.” Taking a dig at Vijayvargiya’s son Akash, who had been arrested after allegedly stopping public servants from carrying out their duty, Ghosh said: “We are against any kind of character assassination, but we will oppose if anyone tries to malign party workers. Akash Vijayvargiya, who is an MLA of Madhya Pradesh and son of Kailash Vijayvargiya, was arrested after he stopped government officials from performing their duties. Subhrangshu Roy is Mukul Roy’s son. The same BJP is now talking about dynastic politics.” Ghosh added: “They do not have anything to counter Trinamool with on development issues. That is why they have stooped low to character assassination.” Immediately after Ghosh’s press conference, BJP’s Bengal co-minder Amit Malviya took to Twitter to share a September 2014 video that showed Ghosh speaking on Saradha media. Ghosh had claimed that his pleas to CBI to be questioned along with a senior BJP leader had gone unheeded. Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh said: “It is immaterial whose name is being dragged here. They should clarify if the allegations are false. We don’t need to take names since people are aware of that. If they are so confident of the developments in the state, they should allow people to cast their votes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tmc-returns-bhaipo-fire-says-bjp-is-scared-of-youth-leader/articleshow/79359103.cms||Rohit Khanna
November 23, 2020||Vadodara||New geese species seen in Wadhwana||VADODARA: There is a good news for bird lovers. A new flock of migratory birds has recently been spotted at Wadhwana Lake in Dabhoi located about 35 kilometres from the city. Two bird watchers from the city have spotted greater white fronted geese at the sprawling lake that sees an influx of thousands of migratory birds in winters every year. “This is for the first time that these birds have been seen and photographed at Wadhwana Lake. It was an exciting experience to see them mingle among other birds,” said Rahul Bhatt, one of the bird watchers who photographed the bird along with Ravi Patel. He added that these birds had been spotted at Thol Lake, Nalsarovar and Little Rann of Kutch about three years ago. “I inquired with the forest department and also asked other bird watchers. They confirmed that the greater white fronted geese have been seen and photographed at Wadhwana Lake for the first time,” Bhatt told TOI. This bird got its name from the white feathers on the border of its beak. These birds are mainly found in North America and their diet includes seeds and waste grain in fields along with aquatic insects. “They were spotted in the shallow waters on the backside of Wadhwana Lake in a group of four. They usually fly in smaller groups,” Bhatt added. These geese are difficult to spot among the thousands of other migratory birds that camp in the lake for about two to three months in winters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/new-geese-species-seen-in-wadhwana/articleshow/79356712.cms||Tushar Tere
November 23, 2020||Kolkata||Sovan, Baisakhi skip BJP’s Bijoya event||Kolkata: Despite an invitation to attend the Bijoya Sammilani, Sovan Chatterjee and Baisakhi Banerjee stayed away from BJP’s post-Puja celebrations at Salt Lake on Sunday. Banerjee, who was inducted in the party’s extended committee two months ago, decided not to attend after she received “a WhatsApp invitation at the final hour”. Bengal BJP leaders, who were hopeful that issues had been sorted out after the duo met Union home minister Amit Shah in New Town two weeks back, expected their presence. “It was an open invitation to everyone. It is up to the individual if he wants to attend a party programme,” Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh said. Bengal BJP co-minder Arvind Menon had gone to meet Chatterjee and Banerjee at the former’s Golpark residence on Friday night. “They were not present at the Bijoya Sammilani. It is time they clarify their position. We were hopeful that they would become active after they met Amitji. It seems the efforts of BJP seniors are not yielding any result,” said Anupam Hazra, the party’s national secretary. For Banerjee, the decision was clear after “a mess was created” over not inviting her to the programme. “I was not invited primarily and that created some controversies. A WhatsApp message was sent to me at the final hour after the mess was created. I am a small leader, but I cannot be made to feel smaller,” she said. Chatterjee also decided not to attend after the misgivings. Ghosh called up Banerjee late on Sunday. According to sources, they spoke on how Banerjee will take part in the campaign in the run-up to the assembly polls. Upbeat about their meeting with Shah, Banerjee said that they had a “very positive vibe” from him. “I never expected such humility from a person of his stature,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sovan-baisakhi-skip-bjps-bijoya-event/articleshow/79359182.cms||Rohit Khanna
November 23, 2020||Rajkot||Hundreds gather at energy minister’s get-together in Botad||RAJKOT: Despite spiralling coronavirus cases across Gujarat, hundreds of BJP workers gathered at the Botad circuit house for ‘sneh milan’ programme presided by state energy minister Saurabh Patel. Social distancing was clearly not visible at the event held on Sunday. When asked about the crowd, Patel told reporters: “If people are wearing masks and maintaining social distancing, then there is no risk of infection. However, the onus to adhere to safety norms is on the people after all.” The get-together was organized by Patel for his party workers in Botad, the constituency which he represents in the state legislative assembly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/hundreds-gather-at-energy-ministers-get-together-in-botad/articleshow/79357107.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Kolkata||Co-morbidity: Diabetes now number 2, high BP remains on top for elderly in West Bengal||KOLKATA: A fall in the number of elderly cardiac patients — the most-at-risk group — to die of Covid-19 has pushed diabetes to the second-most common co-morbid condition in Bengal, even as hypertension continues to be the number one co-morbidity. This has coincided with an overall drop in the Covid case fatality rate (CFR) in the state’s elderly population. An analysis of Bengal’s Covid fatalities among the elderly population (those aged 60 and up) reveals a 10% drop in CFR from June to November. In descending order of prevalence, most of the Covid deaths had hypertension, diabetes and cardiac disease as co-morbidities. Chronic kidney disease (CKD) has replaced chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) as the fourth most common co-morbidity among the elderly. The Covid fatality analysis, which has been in the public domain since June 8, shows that for the two highest-risk age groups — 60 to 75 years and 75 years and above — the primary co-morbidities in Covid deaths initially remained hypertension, cardiac ailments and diabetes. A high proportion of elderly patients who died with Covid also had COPD. The trend has shifted now, according to the November data. Cardiac ailments in Bengal’s Covid fatalities have dropped from 19% to 10.9% in males and from 18% to 8.6% in females in the last five months. Death among Covid patients with diabetes, on the other hand, has increased from 19% to 23.8% in males and from 20% to 25% in females. Hypertension as a co-morbid condition has remained stable at 27% of deaths in male patients and 29% among female patients. CKD has remained stable, while COPD has shown a marginal decline among males. In Bengal, 83.6% of the Covid fatalities had co-morbidities. Even as doctors acknowledged that diabetes weakens organs and makes patients more susceptible to any viral attack, they pointed out that there was, as yet, no specific evidence that a diabetes patient turns more prone to Covid just because s/he has diabetes. “However, if a patient with diabetes contracts Covid, the resulting complications could be more threatening than in a patient without diabetes,” said CMRI Hospital endocrinologist Kalyan Kumar Gangopadhyay. In the long run, diabetes could even turn out to be the most common co-morbidity in Covid patients, said Rahul Jain, Belle Vue Clinic internal medicine consultant. “Being a vascular ailment, diabetes leads to a stiffening of the cardiac and cerebral arteries, making a patient prone to heart attacks or brain strokes. So, an elderly Covid patient with diabetes will always figure in the group with the highest risk,” he said. The Covid fatality analysis indicated that the 75-plus age group was the most at risk. The second most at-risk was the 60-75 age group. Targeted interventions, the state health department report indicated, have been able to bring down the CFR in the 75-plus age group from 21% in June to 11.6% in November; the CFR in the 60-75 age group has dropped from 15% in June to 5% in November. Bengal’s CFR remains around 1.7% — male CFR at 2%, female CFR at 1.3%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/co-morbidity-diabetes-now-no-2-high-bp-remains-on-top-for-elderly-in-bengal/articleshow/79359582.cms||Saibal Sen
November 23, 2020||Kolkata||Three Kolkata institutes queue up for corona vaccine trials||KOLKATA: The first lot of Covaxin, the indigenous Covid vaccine candidate, is expected to reach a city hospital — National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases (NICED) — in about a week for phase III clinical trials that could, if all goes well, start as early as next month. NICED is one of three Kolkata hospitals in the vanguard of the vaccine trials being conducted across the country, the other two being School of Tropical Medicine (STM) and College of Medicine & Sagore Dutta Hospital, where different vaccine candidates are scheduled to be tested shortly. At NICED, as a part of the pan-India phase III trials of Covaxin being conducted across multiple centres, 1,000 volunteers will be part of the study, said Shanta Dutta, director, ICMR-NICED. “If all goes well, we should be able to kick of the trials by the first week of December,” she added. As many as 28,500 volunteers across the country will be part of the third phase of the trial for Covaxin, developed by Bharat Biotech and ICMR. The trial at NICED will be placebo-controlled: half the participants will receive inert placebos; the rest will be administered the vaccine candidate. “Many have shown interest in volunteering for the study,” Dutta said. “We will soon start screening the volunteers to select those who fit our criteria.” STM will be part of the phase III trial of Covovax, another Covid-19 vaccine candidate. The institute’s ethics committee is expected to meet on Tuesday to clear the decks for the trial. Here, 100 volunteers will be part of the trial. Many, including doctors, have expressed interest in becoming volunteers, said insiders. Originally developed by US-based vaccine manufacturer Novavax, Covovax is the Indian version of the original vaccine formulated at Serum Institute of India (SII) in collaboration with Novavax. In addition to SII and Novavax, ICMR will be sponsoring the trial at STM. Unlike other vaccine trials, no placebo will be given to volunteers at the STM study. Sources at the hospital said this would be a ‘two-arm trial’, where all volunteers will be given active vaccines: either SII’s Covovax or NVX-CoV2373 by Novavax. “While the trials at NICED and STM have been finalized, we are open to any good proposal for Covid vaccine trials,” said Narayan Swaroop Nigam, the state health secretary. The trial at Sagar Dutta hospital — of the Russian Sputnik V — will be part of a pan-India clinical trial being conducted by Indian pharma company Dr Reddy’s. Dr Reddy’s Lab has joined hands with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) to conduct clinical trials of Sputnik V, as well as its distribution. “An expert team has been asked to look into the proposal of conducting stage III trials at the hospital,” said a senior health department official. “Of the more than 150 Covid-19 candidate vaccines that are at various pre-clinical or clinical development stages, nine are either undergoing, awaiting or just completing phase III trials. These belong to four broad categories, based on their mode of discovery. Covovax is a protein-based nanoparticle (virus-like protein) vaccine. It is likely to be a safer vaccine as it contains a synthetic protein component and not a whole virus nor a carrier (vehicle) virus,” said Santanu Kumar Tripathy, who heads the department of clinical and experimental pharmacology at STM. Covaxin is an inactivated whole-virus vaccine which uses a fully destroyed virus. Sputnik V falls into the category of viral vector vaccine, in which another virus is used to carry the DNA encoding of the needed immune response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/3-kol-institutes-queue-up-for-corona-vaccine-trials/articleshow/79359532.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
November 23, 2020||Jamshedpur||Crime graph goes north after unlock phase in Jharkhand||RANCHI: Jharkhand has registered a sharp increase in the number of thefts, robberies and dacoity ever since the unlock process began in June. According to official figures, theft tops the list of crimes in September with 1,069 cases registered across police stations of the state. During the lockdown period in April and May, the figure was 370 and 482 respectively. The number shot up by around 47% when the unlock began in June and a total 724 theft cases were reported. It also showed a steady rise with 746 cases registered in July and 971 cases in August. In terms of the total number of crimes too, there was a significant rise during the unlock period though no substantial increase is visible when compared with last year’s figure. The total crime registered in the state this year was 4,326 in April and 5,015 in May. June recorded a total of 5,458 cases while July witnessed 5,630 cases followed by August at 5,538 and September with 5,635. In 2019, the figure stood at 5,225 cases in April, 5,781 in May, 6,110 in June, 6,136 in July, 6,156 in August and 5,115 in September. When asked whether the rise in thefts and burglary is linked to the financial distress among a large section of society, state director general of police M V Rao said , “Police will first analyse the figures and the reasons before reaching at a conclusion. Thefts and burglary often rise due to lack of livelihood but there are several other reasons behind the crimes.” He said crime figures may have risen after the lockdown but termed the phenomenon as not abnormal. A senior police officer, however, said ever since the unlock process began, the police were gearing up to face rise in the crimegraph. He said, “Due to the pandemic and the lockdown, a large number of people have been rendered unemployed. Many of them resorted to petty crimes like snatching to meet their basics requirements. With most people staying inside their homes, thefts and burglary cases dipped during the lockdown and most of the crimes took place on the roads.” It may be noted that robberies on road have a large share of the total figure on robberies. In May, out of 37 cases of robberies, 35 were road robberies. The case of robberies, which increased to 52 in June comprised 49 road robberies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/crime-graph-goes-north-after-unlock-phase-in-jkhand/articleshow/79361934.cms||Sanjay Sahay
November 23, 2020||India||Post-Bihar, Cong should be realistic in Bengal: CPI(ML)||KOLKATA: Describing the Congress as a "big letdown" for the Grand Alliance, which failed to form government in Bihar, CPI(ML) Liberation general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya hoped the party would adopt a "more realistic" approach during its seat-sharing talks with the Left Front in West Bengal. Bhattacharya said he was sure that the grand old party, too, would be reviewing its poor show in Bihar and be reasonable while sealing a seat-sharing deal in politically sensitive Bengal, where the saffron brigade is making all efforts to clinch power. Citing the poll results in Bihar, where Congress, as a partner of the Grand Alliance, fared poorly, Bhattacharya said in an interview, "The party shouldn't be in the driver's seat in the CPM-Congress alliance in West Bengal". As part of the seat-sharing deal in the Mahagathbandhan in theBihar elections, Congress fielded its candidates in 70 out of 243 seats in the state and managed to bag 19. It isn't just in Bihar that the performance of Congress has dipped, the grand old party scored low in Lok Sabha elections since 2014, as well as in many state polls in the recent years. In UP, where Rahul Gandhi and Akhilesh Yadav came together in 2017 to fight BJP, Congress could win only seven seats, while Samajwadi Party emerged victorious in 47 segments. In Assam, where elections are due in March-April next year, Congress, which had been ruling the state since 2001, lost power in 2016 when its strength slipped to 26 in the 126-member House. CPI(ML) (Liberation), on the other hand, has performed well in Bihar, winning 12 out of the 19 assembly constituencies it contested. Even CPI and CPM bagged two seats each. The NDA, due to the stupendous results of BJP, triumphed in 125 assembly segments, three more than the magic figure of 122 in the 243-member Bihar House. "The Congress was a big letdown for the Grand Alliance in Bihar. The seat-sharing arrangement should have been a more realistic one. The success rate of the Congress is the lowest. I am sure the party, too, would be reviewing its performance," Bhattacharya said. Buoyed by its performance in Bihar, the radical left- wing outfit is preparing to enter the fray in Bengal again, this time with more vigour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/post-bihar-cong-should-be-realistic-in-bengal-cpiml/articleshow/79360151.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Hindu Mahasabha secretary hacked to death||COIMBATORE: A functionary of the Tamil Nadu Hindu Mahasabha was killed by a six-member gang near his house at Hosur in Krishnagiri district on Sunday. Nagaraj, 45, the state secretary of the outfit, was also a realtor and a money lender. Police suspect that the murder could have been a fallout of a professional enmity. Police said Nagaraj was out for his morning walk on Sunday around 8.30am near Hanumanth Nagar when a six-member gang stopped their car near him and attacked him. He tried to escape but the gang members chased him and hacked him to death in full public view, before fleeing from the spot. A preliminary inquiry revealed that there was no religious or political motive behind the murder. "We suspect Nagaraj had a rivalry in his real estate and money-lending business," said a police officer. A few months ago, when he had petitioned police officials seeking protection as he sensed a threat to his life, police denied him protection. Nagaraj, who suffered severe cut injuries on his head and abdomen, died on the spot. Eye-witnesses informed Hudco police station in Hosur, following which a team of police rushed to the spot and retrieved the body. SP Bandi Gangadhar said six special teams have been formed to nab the killers. "The reason behind the murder is not yet known." The deceased is survived by his wife, a son and three daughters. His body was sent to Krishnagiri Government Hospital for postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/hindu-mahasabha-state-secretary-hacked-to-death/articleshow/79360184.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: More RT-PCR tests than rapid antigen for first time, says Centre||NEW DELHI: For the first time, the number of RT-PCR tests in the capital exceeded that of rapid antigen tests, while over 3.7 lakh people were covered until November 20 by the houseto-house survey being conducted across the capital as part of measures initiated following Union home minister Amit Shah’s intervention to check the spike in Covid-19 cases. Following a review meeting chaired by Shah, medical infrastructure is being ramped up and a new strategy has been formulated to combat the Covid-19 surge in the capital, Union home ministry claimed on Sunday Meanwhile, 250 ventilators have been delivered to DRDO Hospital. Also, AIIMS has started recruitment of additional 207 junior residents to enhance the medical manpower. According to a report by news agency PTI, the number of real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests in the city surpassed the number of RAT on Friday. RTPCR tests are considered the “gold standard” in Covid-19 detection, unlike RAT that are sometimes not that accurate in detecting the infection. The spurt in Covid cases in Delhi has been witnessed since October 28 when the daily rise breached the 5,000-mark for the first time and it crossed the 8,000-mark on November 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/more-rt-pcr-tests-than-rapid-antigen-for-first-time-says-centre/articleshow/79360168.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh CM mulls cow cess after first ‘gau cabinet’ meet||BHOPAL/UJJAIN: Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan held the first cow cabinet meeting on Sunday in Bhopal, and said he was mulling a cess to rake in funds for cow welfare. Malnourished children will be given milk, not eggs, in midday meals, he said. Chouhan visited the country’s first cow sanctuary in Agar-Malwa’s Salaria village, some 220km from Bhopal, later in the day, and said it would be turned into a model for the country. Chouhan said, “I am thinking of imposing a minor tax on the public to raise money that can be used for the upkeep of gaushalas (cowsheds).” He recalled how it was practice earlier to “take out the first roti for cows and half a roti for dogs”. “But this culture is vanishing... So we are thinking of levying a small cess on the public to use the money for maintaining cow sheds.” The government will draft a policy for cow protection and welfare. A ‘cow tourism’ policy will be rolled out to connect today’s generation with gau seva. Watch Madhya Pradesh govt plans to impose cess to fund cow welfare: CM Shivraj Singh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-cm-mulls-cow-cess-after-first-gau-cabinet-meet/articleshow/79360208.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Lucknow||Wind chill sweeps Lucknow, temperature plunges||LUCKNOW: The winter is knocking at the door. As cold winds from snowfed mountains swept the city on Sunday, the minimum temperature dropped below 10 degrees for the first time in the pre-winter season. The weatherman has asked the people to brace for chill and fog in the first week of December. State Met director JP Gupta said that the recent western disturbance (WD) that caused rains in the city and state also led to snowfall in hill areas of north India. As soon as the WD fizzled out, dry and cold northwesterly winds coming from the snowfed mountains started lashing the state, including Lucknow, he added. As a result, the mercury plunged below normal both during the day and night in the city. While the maximum temperature dropped to 24.4 degrees Celsius, three units below normal, on Sunday, the minimum temperature dipped to 9.5 degrees Celsius, two notches below normal. Winds measuring upto 5km per hour also brought a ‘chill effect’ in the air. The minimum temperature was the lowest, not only in the pre-winter season so far, but also in the past three years in November. Earlier, on November 24, 2017, the lowest minimum temperature had dropped to 8 degrees Celsius. The Met director said that another western disturbance is approaching the hill states, which will cause more rains and snow in the mountains for the next 6-7 days. During this period, temperatures will increase by a couple of degrees in the plains, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/wind-chill-sweeps-lucknow-temperature-plunges/articleshow/79360215.cms||---
November 23, 2020||India||Covid steaming fad leads to rise in cases of burns||MUMBAI: The misconception that steam inhalation can inhibit or kill the virus causing Covid-19 has led to a crisis of another kind: a significant increase in steam inhalation related scald burns both in children and adults. Some hospitals have seen between three to ten-fold rise in scald burns since May. Accidental spillage of hot water while trying to take steam from an open vessel has been found to be the most common cause for such burns. In many cases, people have sustained up to 20% burns, at times requiring hospitalization for dressing under anaesthesia, according to doctors. In most cases, the burn victims were either themselves suffering from Covid-19 or someone in the family was. The recovery took a minimum of 14 days. Doctors at the Bombay Hospital in Marine Lines have treated seven instances of scalds in the last three months. Plastic surgeon Dr Vinay Jacob said the issue warrants urgent awareness as the burns may be superficial, but they do involve rushing to a hospital and repeated visits for dressing. The injured had sustained between 10%-12% burns. At the Masina Hospital in Byculla, head of the unit Dr Arvind Vartak said there have been three cases of scalds. "There is an increase no doubt, surprisingly in adults too," he said. The rise has been noticeable at the National Burns Centre in Airoli also. Head Dr Sunil Keswani said the numbers have doubled from 4-5 scald burns they treated in pre-Covid times. "Cases of scald burns started rising since May with the fake WhatsApp messages that it helps in killing the virus," he said, adding that of the 10 cases that came to the hospital every month. "The burns would be in the abdomen, genital area and thighs," he said. The common way to treat scald burns is by removing the burnt skin and applying a collagen-based (protein) dressing, all under anaesthesia. "For women with burns in the genital area, they have even required a catheter," said Dr Keswani, adding that the actual numbers of such burns would be much higher as many were treated over phone. Dr Keswani said scalding accounted for over 60% of burns in children under 5 year and during Covid steam inhalation has been a leading cause. Thane-based plastic surgeon Dr Medha Bhave treated 21 cases of burns at her hospital out of which six were major burns. Of the six major burns, four were in children. Pune-based plastic surgeon Dr Swapna Athavale attended 10 such cases at the Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital in the past 90 days. Six of the 10 were children in the age group of two to 10 years. Of the 10, two had come positive for Covid. An article in Lancet had highlighted how the burns centre at Birmingham Children's Hospital, UK, had seen a 30-fold increase in the number of scalds directly resulting from steam inhalation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-steaming-fad-leads-to-rise-in-cases-of-burns/articleshow/79360241.cms||Sumitra Debroy
November 23, 2020||Bhopal||Covid hospital fire: Protest erupts after patient’s death||BHOPAL: The death of a Covid-19 patient after a fire broke out in the ICU of a Gwalior hospital on Saturday led to a protest by the victim’s family, who blocked a road with the PPE-covered body. District collector Kaushlendra Vikram Singh had told TOI that the patient died of a heart attack. His family members, however, accuse the hospital of mishandling the situation and hold the authorities responsible for his death. The victim is survived by four children. The protesters demand compensation and a government job for a member of the family. They called off the protest after senior administrative officials spoke to them and assured all help. The fire had broken out in the Covid ward of Jayarogya Hospital on Friday afternoon. Two women doctors led a brave rescue operation, not even waiting to put on PPEs, and rescued all nine patients. One of them, a resident of Gaeth of New Road, died. His family members alleged that there were injuries on his body, and he died of suffocation. A relative told mediapersons that he was talking to the patient on the phone when the fire broke out. He appeared healthy, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-hospital-fire-protest-erupts-after-patients-death/articleshow/79360213.cms||---
November 23, 2020||India||IIT, AIIMS join hands for lab-on-chip devices||NEW DELHI: In a rare instance of engineering and medical scholars teaming up to boost research in healthcare, Indian Institute of Technology Dhanbad and AIIMS Deoghar in Jharkhand have signed a 10-year MoU to undertake joint research on drug designing and lab-on-a-chip devices that can conduct several analyses usually done in a laboratory. The move comes at a time when Covid-19 outbreak has put the focus on R&D in healthcare as a priority for educational institutes in many countries. The MoU between the two institutes signed on November 16 stated that the initiative will facilitate exchange on health sciences among the staff and joint programmes on biotechnology, biophysics, computer science engineering will be developed. "We are hiring new faculty for this initiative," said Rajiv Shekhar, director, IIT-Dhanbad. He said many other IITs are taking similar initiatives to collaborate on diagnostics, vaccines and therapeutics and using bio-pharma to tackle the pandemic. Godda MP Nishikant Dubey, a member of the governing council and board of AIIMS Deoghar, said such MoUs will help unite scholars to find cheap and affordable healthcare solutions to tackle future pandemics. "Recently, IIIT Bhagalpur developed an X-ray device to track Covid-19 symptoms. Our institute is just a year-old and such an MoU will add impetus to young medicos in rural hinterland to actively undertake research to handle and treat deadly diseases with a hands-on approach," said Dubey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/iit-aiims-join-hands-for-lab-on-chip-devices/articleshow/79360254.cms||Rohan Dua
November 23, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh orders probe into kissing scenes in Maheshwar||KHARGONE/BHOPAL: A complaint has been filed in Madhya Pradesh against the makers of the Netflix series ‘A Suitable Boy’ over three kissing scenes allegedly shot in a temple in Maheshwar, one of the holiest sites in the country. Home minister Narottam Mishra tweeted a video of his condemnation: “A Suitable Boy, being screened on an OTT platform, shows a man kissing a girl inside a temple while bhajans play in the background. There are twothree such scenes. I find it objectionable. I feel it hurts sentiments.” Mishra said he has asked his officers to examine it. “I have told them to find out what is the intention behind this, and what action can be taken against the producer and director,” the home minister said, tagging the DGP and other officials. एक #ओटीटी_मीडिया_प्लेटफॉर्म पर "A Suitable Boy" नामक फ़िल्म जारी की गई है। इसमें बेहद आपत्तिजनक दृश्य दिखाए गए हैं… https://t.co/uW99ISdmx4— Dr Narottam Mishra (@drnarottammisra) 1606024636000Khargone collector Anugraha P told TOI that they too have started a probe. “We are trying to ascertain which scenes were filmed in Maheshwar,” she said. The police complaint in Rewa was filed by a BJP youth leader, Gaurav Tiwari, who said it hurts religious sentiments and propagates ‘love jihad’. The December 2019 shoot was inaugurated by then minister for culture, Vijaylakshmi Sadho at Kashi Vishwanath Ghat on the banks of River Narmada. After the controversy erupted, Sadho condemned the filming of kissing scenes in a temple. “The producers and directors of the web series were given permission to shoot as part of a campaign to encourage tourism and employment in Maheshwar. The scenes shot in the temple are not at all fair and against the culture and ideology of our country,” she said. “Religious places are centres of faith and such activities will not be tolerated,” the former minister said, saying she was unaware of the content and script when she inaugurated the shooting. Picturesque Maheshwar, which dates back to the Epics, has long been a favourite with Bollywood, with Padman, Dabanng-3 and Bajirao Mastani being the most recent to be shot here. It’s about 90km from Indore. Many locals get to work in these shoots. During the ‘Suitable Boy’ shoot, for instance, over 250 local people were part of the production. Tiwari, who filed his complaint with the Rewa SP, says the makers crossed the line this time, and demands an FIR against senior Netflix officials Monica Shergill, vicepresident content, and Ambika Khurana, director-public policies. “Those scenes should be immediately removed. The makers of the show have hurt our religious sentiments,” Tiwari told TOI. Rewa SP Rakesh Singh said, “We are examining the complaint following the home minister’s instructions. Based on the findings, an FIR will be registered.” Khargone SP Shailendra Singh Chauhan said they will take action if someone in Maheshwar or the district takes objection to the scenes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-orders-probe-into-kissing-scenes-in-maheshwar/articleshow/79360225.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Bhopal||Six held for killing tiger, burying it in Madhya Pradesh's Shahdol||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh special tiger strike force on Sunday arrested six persons in connection with the killing of a tiger that was found buried in sand in Shahdol district a week ago. “They are poachers, who sell game meat for around Rs 50 a kilo. They had buried the carcass away from their territory of operation to implicate other poacher gangs. Their intention was to kill a wild boar and they got scared when a tiger was killed,” said an officer of the strike force. Forest officials said the tiger was probably electrocuted by a trap set by poachers for wild boars. It had decomposed into a skeleton by the time it was detected by a forest patrol last Sunday near Jamunia village, bordering the Panapatha buffer zone of Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/six-held-for-killing-tiger-burying-it-in-madhya-pradeshs-shahdol/articleshow/79360274.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Erode||Tamil Nadu reports 1,655 fresh Covid cases, 19 fatalities||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 1,655 cases on Sunday to its Covid-19 case tally taking the total number of positive cases recorded in the state to 7,69,995. The state also recorded 19 deaths on Sunday, one more than the previous day. So far, 11,605 deaths have been recorded in the state. The number of active cases as on date, including those in isolation, is 12,542. Chennai reported 489 cases on Saturday and eight deaths, while the three neighbouring districts, Tiruvallur (92), Chengalpet (108), and Kancheepuram (82), together reported 282 cases and two deaths. As on date, the capital city has recorded 2,12,014 cases – 27 % of the total positive cases in the state. Chennai recorded the maximum number of deaths on Sunday -- eight. In the western region, Coimbatore accounted for 154 cases, followed by Tirupur (72) and Salem (67). Coimbatore also has the third most number of active cases (720) in the state, behind Chennai and Chengalpet. The number of fresh Covid-19 cases in the10 southern districts of Tamil Nadu climbed for the second day in succession on Sunday -- from 145 on Saturday to 151. The lone death in the region was in Theni district. Madurai (33) recorded the highest number of fresh cases in the region, followed by Tenkasi (23) and Virudhunagar (20). Tenkasi is recording more than 10 cases for the first time in more than two weeks. The number of active cases in the region continued to drop marginally to 1,015 from 1,033 on Saturday. But for Madurai (264) the other districts have less than 150 active cases each. One in every 10 people in Tamil Nadu has undergone a Covid-19 test since March. As on date, the state has tested over 1.12 crore samples by the RT-PCR method.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/tamil-nadu-reports-1655-fresh-covid-cases-19-fatalities/articleshow/79362121.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu reports 1,655 fresh Covid cases, 19 fatalities||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 1,655 cases on Sunday to its Covid-19 case tally taking the total number of positive cases recorded in the state to 7,69,995. The state also recorded 19 deaths on Sunday, one more than the previous day. So far, 11,605 deaths have been recorded in the state. The number of active cases as on date, including those in isolation, is 12,542. Chennai reported 489 cases on Saturday and eight deaths, while the three neighbouring districts, Tiruvallur (92), Chengalpet (108), and Kancheepuram (82), together reported 282 cases and two deaths. As on date, the capital city has recorded 2,12,014 cases – 27 % of the total positive cases in the state. Chennai recorded the maximum number of deaths on Sunday -- eight. In the western region, Coimbatore accounted for 154 cases, followed by Tirupur (72) and Salem (67). Coimbatore also has the third most number of active cases (720) in the state, behind Chennai and Chengalpet. The number of fresh Covid-19 cases in the10 southern districts of Tamil Nadu climbed for the second day in succession on Sunday -- from 145 on Saturday to 151. The lone death in the region was in Theni district. Madurai (33) recorded the highest number of fresh cases in the region, followed by Tenkasi (23) and Virudhunagar (20). Tenkasi is recording more than 10 cases for the first time in more than two weeks. The number of active cases in the region continued to drop marginally to 1,015 from 1,033 on Saturday. But for Madurai (264) the other districts have less than 150 active cases each. One in every 10 people in Tamil Nadu has undergone a Covid-19 test since March. As on date, the state has tested over 1.12 crore samples by the RT-PCR method.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tamil-nadu-reports-1655-fresh-covid-cases-19-fatalities/articleshow/79362120.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu reports 1,655 fresh Covid cases, 19 fatalities||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 1,655 cases on Sunday to its Covid-19 case tally taking the total number of positive cases recorded in the state to 7,69,995. The state also recorded 19 deaths on Sunday, one more than the previous day. So far, 11,605 deaths have been recorded in the state. The number of active cases as on date, including those in isolation, is 12,542. Chennai reported 489 cases on Saturday and eight deaths, while the three neighbouring districts, Tiruvallur (92), Chengalpet (108), and Kancheepuram (82), together reported 282 cases and two deaths. As on date, the capital city has recorded 2,12,014 cases – 27 % of the total positive cases in the state. Chennai recorded the maximum number of deaths on Sunday -- eight. In the western region, Coimbatore accounted for 154 cases, followed by Tirupur (72) and Salem (67). Coimbatore also has the third most number of active cases (720) in the state, behind Chennai and Chengalpet. The number of fresh Covid-19 cases in the10 southern districts of Tamil Nadu climbed for the second day in succession on Sunday -- from 145 on Saturday to 151. The lone death in the region was in Theni district. Madurai (33) recorded the highest number of fresh cases in the region, followed by Tenkasi (23) and Virudhunagar (20). Tenkasi is recording more than 10 cases for the first time in more than two weeks. The number of active cases in the region continued to drop marginally to 1,015 from 1,033 on Saturday. But for Madurai (264) the other districts have less than 150 active cases each. One in every 10 people in Tamil Nadu has undergone a Covid-19 test since March. As on date, the state has tested over 1.12 crore samples by the RT-PCR method.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tamil-nadu-reports-1655-fresh-covid-cases-19-fatalities/articleshow/79362122.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu reports 1,655 fresh Covid cases, 19 fatalities||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 1,655 cases on Sunday to its Covid-19 case tally taking the total number of positive cases recorded in the state to 7,69,995. The state also recorded 19 deaths on Sunday, one more than the previous day. So far, 11,605 deaths have been recorded in the state. The number of active cases as on date, including those in isolation, is 12,542. Chennai reported 489 cases on Saturday and eight deaths, while the three neighbouring districts, Tiruvallur (92), Chengalpet (108), and Kancheepuram (82), together reported 282 cases and two deaths. As on date, the capital city has recorded 2,12,014 cases – 27 % of the total positive cases in the state. Chennai recorded the maximum number of deaths on Sunday -- eight. In the western region, Coimbatore accounted for 154 cases, followed by Tirupur (72) and Salem (67). Coimbatore also has the third most number of active cases (720) in the state, behind Chennai and Chengalpet. The number of fresh Covid-19 cases in the10 southern districts of Tamil Nadu climbed for the second day in succession on Sunday -- from 145 on Saturday to 151. The lone death in the region was in Theni district. Madurai (33) recorded the highest number of fresh cases in the region, followed by Tenkasi (23) and Virudhunagar (20). Tenkasi is recording more than 10 cases for the first time in more than two weeks. The number of active cases in the region continued to drop marginally to 1,015 from 1,033 on Saturday. But for Madurai (264) the other districts have less than 150 active cases each. One in every 10 people in Tamil Nadu has undergone a Covid-19 test since March. As on date, the state has tested over 1.12 crore samples by the RT-PCR method.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/tamil-nadu-reports-1655-fresh-covid-cases-19-fatalities/articleshow/79362124.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu reports 1,655 fresh Covid cases, 19 fatalities||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 1,655 cases on Sunday to its Covid-19 case tally taking the total number of positive cases recorded in the state to 7,69,995. The state also recorded 19 deaths on Sunday, one more than the previous day. So far, 11,605 deaths have been recorded in the state. The number of active cases as on date, including those in isolation, is 12,542. Chennai reported 489 cases on Saturday and eight deaths, while the three neighbouring districts, Tiruvallur (92), Chengalpet (108), and Kancheepuram (82), together reported 282 cases and two deaths. As on date, the capital city has recorded 2,12,014 cases – 27 % of the total positive cases in the state. Chennai recorded the maximum number of deaths on Sunday -- eight. In the western region, Coimbatore accounted for 154 cases, followed by Tirupur (72) and Salem (67). Coimbatore also has the third most number of active cases (720) in the state, behind Chennai and Chengalpet. The number of fresh Covid-19 cases in the10 southern districts of Tamil Nadu climbed for the second day in succession on Sunday -- from 145 on Saturday to 151. The lone death in the region was in Theni district. Madurai (33) recorded the highest number of fresh cases in the region, followed by Tenkasi (23) and Virudhunagar (20). Tenkasi is recording more than 10 cases for the first time in more than two weeks. The number of active cases in the region continued to drop marginally to 1,015 from 1,033 on Saturday. But for Madurai (264) the other districts have less than 150 active cases each. One in every 10 people in Tamil Nadu has undergone a Covid-19 test since March. As on date, the state has tested over 1.12 crore samples by the RT-PCR method.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tamil-nadu-reports-1655-fresh-covid-cases-19-fatalities/articleshow/79362118.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu reports 1,655 fresh Covid cases, 19 fatalities||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 1,655 cases on Sunday to its Covid-19 case tally taking the total number of positive cases recorded in the state to 7,69,995. The state also recorded 19 deaths on Sunday, one more than the previous day. So far, 11,605 deaths have been recorded in the state. The number of active cases as on date, including those in isolation, is 12,542. Chennai reported 489 cases on Saturday and eight deaths, while the three neighbouring districts, Tiruvallur (92), Chengalpet (108), and Kancheepuram (82), together reported 282 cases and two deaths. As on date, the capital city has recorded 2,12,014 cases – 27 % of the total positive cases in the state. Chennai recorded the maximum number of deaths on Sunday -- eight. In the western region, Coimbatore accounted for 154 cases, followed by Tirupur (72) and Salem (67). Coimbatore also has the third most number of active cases (720) in the state, behind Chennai and Chengalpet. The number of fresh Covid-19 cases in the10 southern districts of Tamil Nadu climbed for the second day in succession on Sunday -- from 145 on Saturday to 151. The lone death in the region was in Theni district. Madurai (33) recorded the highest number of fresh cases in the region, followed by Tenkasi (23) and Virudhunagar (20). Tenkasi is recording more than 10 cases for the first time in more than two weeks. The number of active cases in the region continued to drop marginally to 1,015 from 1,033 on Saturday. But for Madurai (264) the other districts have less than 150 active cases each. One in every 10 people in Tamil Nadu has undergone a Covid-19 test since March. As on date, the state has tested over 1.12 crore samples by the RT-PCR method.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-reports-1655-fresh-covid-cases-19-fatalities/articleshow/79360286.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Bhopal||Covid surge continues: Over 1700 cases for second day, Indore & Bhopal top chart||BHOPAL: Covid-19 surge in Madhya Pradesh continuedas for the second consecutive day, more than 1,700 new positive cases of Covid-19 were reported in a single day in the state on Sunday. A total of 1,798 people tested positive taking the count of total positive cases reported so far to 1,93,044. It was after 44 days that 1,700 new Covid-19 positive patients were found in a single day in the state on Saturday and now on Sunday too, more than 1700 cases were reported. Earlier on October 8 , a total 1,715 new cases were reported in the state and lesser number of cases were reported since then. Apart from the fresh cases, 13 deaths were also reported as per the state health bulletin, released by directorate of health services. The districts were these deaths were reported includes Indore where 3 patients died, Gwalior and Jabalpur districts – two each, and one death each in Bhopal, Sagar, Hoshangabad, Damoh, Dewas and Harda districts. A total of 32,371 samples were tested on Sunday out of which 1,798 people tested positive. Thus, the positivity rate— number of people testing positive out of every 100 samples tested— for Sunday stood at 5.5%. The cumulative positivity rate in the state on November 22 was 5.51%. Positivity rate above 5% is considered high and it is advised that the state must increase number of tests. On Sunday, fresh cases were reported from 51 of the 52 districts of the state. It was only Alirajpur district where no fresh cases were reported. And new cases were reported in double figures from 35 districts of the state. The districts where maximum cases were reported include Indore where 546 fresh cases were reported followed by Bhopal where 301, Gwalior – 88 and Jabalpur where 77. On the brighter side, 1,212 people who were admitted at hospitals recovered and were discharged during the day. With these new patients recovering from the disease, count of people who have recovered so far from the disease reached 1,78,117. Cumulative recovery rate of Covid-19 in the state as on November 22, was 92.2%. As on November 22, there were 11,765 active cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-surge-continues-over-1700-cases-for-2nd-day-indore-bhopal-top-chart/articleshow/79360287.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Indore||Covid surge continues: Over 1700 cases for second day, Indore & Bhopal top chart||BHOPAL: Covid-19 surge in Madhya Pradesh continuedas for the second consecutive day, more than 1,700 new positive cases of Covid-19 were reported in a single day in the state on Sunday. A total of 1,798 people tested positive taking the count of total positive cases reported so far to 1,93,044. It was after 44 days that 1,700 new Covid-19 positive patients were found in a single day in the state on Saturday and now on Sunday too, more than 1700 cases were reported. Earlier on October 8 , a total 1,715 new cases were reported in the state and lesser number of cases were reported since then. Apart from the fresh cases, 13 deaths were also reported as per the state health bulletin, released by directorate of health services. The districts were these deaths were reported includes Indore where 3 patients died, Gwalior and Jabalpur districts – two each, and one death each in Bhopal, Sagar, Hoshangabad, Damoh, Dewas and Harda districts. A total of 32,371 samples were tested on Sunday out of which 1,798 people tested positive. Thus, the positivity rate— number of people testing positive out of every 100 samples tested— for Sunday stood at 5.5%. The cumulative positivity rate in the state on November 22 was 5.51%. Positivity rate above 5% is considered high and it is advised that the state must increase number of tests. On Sunday, fresh cases were reported from 51 of the 52 districts of the state. It was only Alirajpur district where no fresh cases were reported. And new cases were reported in double figures from 35 districts of the state. The districts where maximum cases were reported include Indore where 546 fresh cases were reported followed by Bhopal where 301, Gwalior – 88 and Jabalpur where 77. On the brighter side, 1,212 people who were admitted at hospitals recovered and were discharged during the day. With these new patients recovering from the disease, count of people who have recovered so far from the disease reached 1,78,117. Cumulative recovery rate of Covid-19 in the state as on November 22, was 92.2%. As on November 22, there were 11,765 active cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/covid-surge-continues-over-1700-cases-for-2nd-day-indore-bhopal-top-chart/articleshow/79360297.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Constable arrested for impersonating candidate||BENGALURU: West division police arrested two persons, including a police constable, on charges of impersonation as they appeared on behalf of other candidates in a police constable recruitment examination held on Sunday. The accused are Nagappa Pavedappa Tukkannanavar, a constable attached with Sringeri police station, Chikkamagaluru and Mallikarjun Babalannanavar from Belagavi. Sanjeev M Patil, deputy commissioner of police (west), said a police recruitment examination was conducted to select constables for Karnataka State Reserve Police (KSRP) on Sunday and there were eight examination centres in west division. “Invigilators found two candidates suspicious and alerted police. We questioned them and found they were appearing for others,” said Patil. Police said Tukkannanavar appeared on behalf of Halappa Narayana Halluru from Belagavi. He was caught at JSS College in Channasandra, near Kengeri. Babalannanavar was caught writing the test for Hanumantha Vaggannanavar at SJRC women’s college, Rajajinagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-constable-arrested-for-impersonating-candidate/articleshow/79360308.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Encroachers get new homes close to work, schools||CHENNAI: A section of squatters along the Cooum in Padi Kuppam, Rail Nagar, is happy. They have been allocated slum board tenements at Athippattu, just 4km away from the existing location. A Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB) official said 221 squatters were enumerated in Padi Kuppam. These people were originally allotted tenements in Navalur near Padappai on the Chennai-–Kancheepuram highway. However, they did not want to go there as it was very far. Going to a location so far would have affected their livelihood and the education of their children, the official said. The residents asked corporation officials to allocate tenements at Athippattu. D Jaghadeeswaran, an activist who was running a library at Padi Kuppam, said most of the residents wanted homes at Athippattu. A representation was given to the corporation and slum board, he said. When the rehabilitation process began a week ago, the corporation and the TNSCB authorities demolished the structures and sent the families to Navalur. The process continued for nearly five days and about 100 families were moved to the Navalur tenements. Subsequently, following a request from the residents, authorities changed the allocation to Athippattu for the remaining 121families. A Kalaivani, one of the beneficiaries and who works as a nurse, said her sons studied at a nearby school. “I can continue to work as a nurse and my children will go to the same school.” Many residents in Padi Kuppam work in and around the Koyambedu market and Athipattu is not too far, she said. Sources in the Chennai River Restoration Trust said both the corporation and TNSCB authorities agreed to allocate tenements according to the choice of the squatters almost immediately and it made the process of rehabilitation easier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-encroachers-get-new-homes-close-to-work-schools/articleshow/79360312.cms||---
November 23, 2020||India||Maharashtra governor & CM on collision course over upper House picks||MUMBAI: Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray appear to be on a collision course over the nominations to the legislative council by Raj Bhavan. Cabinet members Anil Parab of Shiv Sena, Amit Deshmukh of Congress and Nawab Malik of NCP had called on Koshyari to submit a list of 12 persons from different walks of life for appointment to the legislative council as nominees of the governor. They urged him to nominate the 12 persons within 15 days, as there had already been a delay. The 15 days got over on Saturday. The Constitution provides no scope to set a deadline for the governor; it is purely his discretion. "We are hopeful that the governor will appoint the 12 persons as per our list," Malik said. Article 171 of the Constitution provides for the appointment of persons who have special knowledge or practical experience in the field of literature, science, art, cooperative movement and social service. The state cabinet on October 29 considered at length all the names received by the chief minister and submitted the list of 12: Eknath Khadse, Raju Shetti, Yashpal Bhinge and Anand Shinde of NCP; Rajani Patil, Sachin Sawant, Muzafar Hussain and Anirudha Wankar of Congress; Nitin Wangude Patil, Vijay Karanjkar, Chandrakant Raghuwanshi and Urmila Matondkar of Shiv Sena. The minutes of the cabinet meeting held on October 29 say that their appointment will help other members of the legislative council gain knowledge of different fields. The cabinet note said: "The appointments have already been delayed, now the winter session is a few days away."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/maharashtra-governor-cm-on-collision-course-over-upper-house-picks/articleshow/79360317.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
November 23, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Rise of reinfections after recovery worries experts||BHOPAL: Cases of Covid-19 reinfection are being reported in the state capital, according to top medical experts at Gandhi Medical College (GMC) and AIIMS Bhopal. The number of such cases is about seven in GMC and a dozen in other hospitals. Furthermore, the muchtalked about ‘herd immunity’ could be waning. Areas which were hotspots are once again reporting a spurt in new Covid cases. Covid-19 cases in Bhopal city have significantly increased in the last week. Sero-survey released in early October has indicated that main Bhopal city had healthy herd immunity compared to township areas. “There have been around seven patients who have retested positive for Covid. They were first diagnosed with the infection around the monsoon season. Covid-19 is behaving very differently,” said a senior consultant at Gandhi Medical College (GMC), seeking anonymity. Patients who have been once again been diagnosed with Covid-19 after recovery, include senior citizens and healthcare workers. It includes cases who are reported reinfection in just over two months after the first infection. “When herd immunity is developed the spread of infection slows down. A surge in infection is controlled. Given the weather conditions, symptomatic patients are being tested as virus is already circulating in the community,” said GMC professor and leading pulmonologist, Dr Lokendra Dave. “Complacency against Covid-19 is our worst enemy. The much anticipated vaccine is far off,” said AIIMS Bhopal director, Dr Sarman Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-rise-of-reinfections-after-recovery-worries-experts/articleshow/79360313.cms||Jamal Ayub
November 23, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: HD Kumaraswamy demands Vokkaliga development board||BENGALURU: Former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy on Sunday demanded a development board for the Vokkaliga community. Speaking at a JD(S) event in Dasarahalli, Kumaraswamy countered the BJP government’s decision to set up a Maratha Development Corporation by demanding one for Vokkaligas. “If the government plans to set up a development board for every community, it needs to do so for Vokkaligas first. They have sacrificed their land for industrial development in Bengaluru, which is the highest revenue generator for the government. By giving up their land, many of them are working as watchmen and maids and need assistance,” he said. Kumaraswamy said the government must also clarify the reasons for setting up the Maratha corporation. Earlier, he hinted at JD(S) not wanting to field its candidates for the bypolls to Maski and Basavakalyan. “Considering the way in which BJP is using its power as the ruling party, it is futile to field our candidates. However, a final decision will be taken after discussing it with our cadre in both segments,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-hd-kumaraswamy-demands-vokkaliga-development-board/articleshow/79360330.cms||---
November 23, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Copycats force universities to cancel online exams||VADODARA/AHMEDABAD: Historically, average result of Bachelor of Chemistry in Vallabh Vidyanagar’s Sardar Patel University (SPU) remains around 20-25 %. But this year, many students turned ‘smart’ and for the first time, passing percentage was a stunning 83%. A back-end check revealed that a WhatsApp group having around 300 students and some college teacher was doing the wonders! “The group was created two hours before the exam. When we caught the group creator, he claimed to have made the group to circulate study material. It was actually being used to share answers posted by a teacher,” a SPU official told TOI. Even as online exams become the new norm in Covid, many colleges and universities are battling to keep check on tech-savvy cheaters and many are shifting to conventional pen-and-paper model. In absence of regulations dealing with online exam cheating, the university has not taken action for now. SPU vice-chancellor Shirish Kulkarni said, “We have decided not to take any exam online.” SPU is not the only university witnessing malpractice during online exams. Earlier, this month,around 151 students got distinction in final result of LLB at Gujarat University and 33 bagged a first class! These stellar results were the first in five years and in stark contrast to earlier exams when not a single student scored a distinction. “In fact, Bar Council of India has issued directives prohibiting online exams from next year,” said dean of law faculty, Rushikesh Mehta.  Gujarat Technological University (GTU) which too experimented with ‘cheating-proof’ online system is returning to pen-and-paper mode. “Online exams have limitations. You cannot ask questions related to graphics, drawings and questions seeking descriptive answers. So, we decided to conduct future exams in offline mode,” said GTU vice-chancellor Navin Sheth. GTU’s offline exams will be held in second week of December. In online mode, the university registered nine cheating cases where students were appearing for the test from home. MS University too has witnessed unfair means cases where the students either receive help from a ‘prompter’ sitting nearby or purposely create an obstacle to block web cameras. “But we have developed a system for online proctoring to prevent all methods of cheating. There is thorough authentication, multiple logins cannot be done, and candidates cannot browse the internet while they are appearing for their online exams,” claimed MSU’s officiating registrar K M Chudasama. Surat’s Veer Narmad South Gujarat University (VNSGU) never went for online exams knowing there was no fool-proof system to keep check. All UG and PG Exams were held offline only "If the system is not foolproof, there are chances of irregularities along with limitations of infrastructure at both ends," said Hemali Desai, in-charge vice chancellor of VNSGU. (with inputs by Yagnesh Mehta)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/copycats-force-univs-to-cancel-online-exams/articleshow/79356820.cms||Prashant Rupera
November 23, 2020||Ludhiana||No takers for posts of super-specialist doctors in Punjab depite ad in October||PATIALA: There are no takers for the post of super-specialist doctors in Punjab as no one has applied for the vacancies advertised by the state health department in late October. Last date of submission of applications was November 19. The department of medical education and research (DMER) had advertised six posts of assistant professors, including five converted from the promotion quota (PQ) to direct quota (DQ) and one under DQ for government medical colleges in Patiala and Amritsar. These posts were advertised on October 29 and the last date of filing application was November 19. The DMER had advertised the posts of assistant professors that were converted into DQ category, including one each in neurology, endocrinology and cardiology as reserved for scheduled castes and two posts of nephrology, including one reserved. One DC post of nephrology, which was lying vacant, was also advertised. Under the selection criteria, 10 marks were supposed to be given for MBBS and 10 for MD/MS, DM/M.Ch with deduction of two marks for each failure attempt to be given in the remarks to each candidate. Also, 20 marks were earmarked for international and national publications; 10 for additional qualification, including fellowship or membership of Royal colleges and others besides 50 marks for interview by the selection committee. To meet eligibility criteria, minimum of 25% academic marks and 50% interview marks were required. For SC candidates, 5% relaxation for academics and interview marks was made. The super-specialty branch at Government Rajindra hospital, Patiala, which was inaugurated over one year ago, is yet to be fully operational. A number of departments, including cardiology, neurology, endocrinology, nephrology, oncology, neurosurgery, gastroenterology, and others do not have any super-specialist doctor. Director, medical education and research Dr Avinash said he would check but did not respond later. DMER joint director Akashdeep Aggarwal said, “So far, no applications have been received for the posts.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/no-takers-for-posts-of-super-specialist-doctors-in-punjab-depite-ad-in-october/articleshow/79358703.cms||Bharat Khanna
