November 24, 2020||Business||India smartphone exports could cross $1.5 billion in 2020: techARC||NEW DELHI: India is expected to export smartphones worth $1.5 billion (over Rs 11,113 crore) this year to various countries, including the UAE, the US and Russia, according to a report by research firm techARC. techARC, in its India Mobile Phone Exports Market Scan Report, pegged the total exports of smartphones to cross $1.5 billion by value in 2020, with smartphones accounting for over 98 per cent of the total mobile phones exported from the country. "India has been exporting mobiles to destinations like UAE and neighbouring SAARC countries for quite some time. However, 'Make in India' initiative has made India a truly global exporter of mobile phones," techARC founder and Chief Analyst Faisal Kawoosa said. He added that India currently exports to 24 countries, some of which are further re-exporting, like UAE, to other markets, making India-made phones available to millions of users. He further stated that the recently announced production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme will further strengthen India's positioning in the global mobile market and complement manufacturers' goal of making India a global hub of mobile production. PLI scheme extends an incentive of 4 to 6 per cent on incremental sales (over the base year) of goods under target segments that are manufactured in India to eligible companies, for a period of five years subsequent to the base year (2019-20). Last month, the government had cleared 16 proposals from domestic and international companies entailing an investment of Rs 11,000 crore under the PLI scheme to manufacture mobile phones worth Rs 10.5 lakh crore over the next five years. The techARC report said a total of 12.8 million mobile phones were exported from India between January and September this year. Of this, 10.9 million were smartphones. "COVID-19 had a severe impact on the exports with volume sharply falling to 1.2 million in April-June quarter from 7.4 million in January-March period. For July-September quarter, the exports were at 4.2 million units indicating recovery due to restoration of supply chain and logistics as well as resumption of work in Indian factories," the report added. Samsung leads the exports significantly with 11.6 million units of phones, distantly followed by Xiaomi at 0.6 million shipments, the report noted. Samsung exported 9.8 million units of smartphones, followed by Xiaomi at 0.6 million and Lava at 0.2 million smartphones. The other smartphone exporters in top 5 are Vivo and OnePlus. "Lava has emerged as the 'torchbearer' Indian brand which is not only the lone domestic brand exporting mobiles but also pecks in top 5 brands," the report said. It added that while 21 brands are exporting mobile phones from India, 17 brands are exporting smartphones. Seven brands are exporting mobile phones from India to the US. Also, Samsung A51 is the most exported smartphone from India, while the top 10 smartphones exported from India are from Samsung.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/india-smartphone-exports-could-cross-1-5-billion-in-2020-techarc/articleshow/79376914.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Business||IATO urges government to announce dates for restoration of e-visa, tourist visas||NEW DELHI: The Indian Association of Tour Operators (IATO) on Monday said it has urged the government to announce the dates for restoration of e-visas and tourist visas and normalisation of international flights. Such a move will not just send a positive signal to the international tourists about India being ready and prepared to receive them but will also allow inbound tour operators to plan ahead for 2021, IATO said in a statement. This will also give some encouragement to the pandemic-hit industry, which has had almost zero earnings and no meaningful help from the government, it added. "To save the tourism jobs and the industry, it is imperative that the plan for inbound tourism should start as early as possible for which the ministry of tourism and the stakeholders should start international marketing," IATO president Pronab Sarkar said. This can only be possible if the industry stakeholders know of the government's plans of opening e-visas and tourist visas and resumption of international flights, so that accordingly it can inform foreign tour operators and clients and they can promote India as a safe destination well in advance, he added. This is very important because international tourists take at least three-six months to commence their journey for their holiday travel to any destination, Sarkar said. "If no timely action is taken by us, foreign tour operators / tourists will look for other destinations and India may lose the chance for the rest of the winter and summer season of 2021," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/iato-urges-government-to-announce-dates-for-restoration-of-e-visa-tourist-visas/articleshow/79376981.cms||---
November 24, 2020||India||BSF foils infiltration bid in Samba, BAT attack in Kupwara||JAMMU/SRINAGAR: Alert BSF troops foiled an infiltration bid and killed a Pakistani intruder from across the International Border (IB) in J&K’s Samba district on Monday. In north Kashmir’s Kupwara district, BSF thwarted an attack by Pakistan’s Border Action Team (BAT) along the Line of Control (LoC) in Machhil sector late Sunday, officials said. This came a day after security forces unearthed a 150m-long cross-border underground tunnel lined with sandbags bearing “Karachi markings” on the IB in Samba district, which four Jaish-e-Mohammad terrorists — killed in an encounter in Nagrota on November 19 — allegedly used to enter India. Around 5.45pm, BSF personnel manning the border noticed suspicious movement along the IB near Chaman Khurd and Chak Faqeera border outposts of Pakistan. “Keeping a close watch, the troops fired some rounds with a warning to halt. In the firing, an intruder died near the fence and his body was found lying near the zero line,” said a source. Late Sunday, a BSF sentry observed suspicious movement close to the border fence at the Tower Post in Machhil sector and fired some gunshots that reported late retaliation. Forces deployed along the LoC opened fire, repelling the BAT attack, BSF DIG (north Kashmir) R Mathur Krishna said. Searches were launched in the area but none was found and the operation was subsequently called off. Krishna said the BAT team had retreated because of inclement weather.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bsf-foils-infiltration-bid-in-samba-bat-attack-in-kupwara/articleshow/79377453.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
November 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Marital dispute: Four of family die in suicide pact||RAJAHMUNDRY: A woman committed suicide along with her mother after administering poison to her two children following disputes with her husband, in Rajahmundry on Monday. Bhupathi Siva Pavani (27) and Bhupathi Nagendra Kumar from Vijayawada were married for 12 years. Pavani had been living with her mother, Sanghireddi Krishnaveni (57), in Rajahmundry for the last three years due to disputes with her husband. After their families failed to resolve their problems, Pavani lodged a complaint at the Disha police station in Rajahmundry. After hearing complaints from both sides, police suggested Nagendra to take his wife back with him to Vijayawada, to which he agreed, and said he would take her in November. After he failed to keep his word, Pavani went to Vijayawada with her mother and children on Sunday where they saw Nagendra living with another woman. Nagendra told Pavani to leave him as he was married to another woman. His family also allegedly attacked Pavani and her mother. After returning to Rajahmundry, Pavani and Krishnaveni committed suicide by hanging themselves from two ceiling fans. Unable to reach Pavani on phone, her brother Durga Prasad went to her home on Monday afternoon and found their bodies. Pavani’s children, Nishant (9) and Ritika (7), were found lying on a bed, frothing. Noticing that Ritika was still alive, Durga Prasad took her to the government hospital but she died on the way. Additional SP Latha Madhuri and central zone DSP Santosh rushed to the spot. Further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/marital-dispute-four-of-family-die-in-suicide-pact/articleshow/79377575.cms||Samson Raj
November 24, 2020||India||NIA questions PDP youth chief in connection with former DSP Devinder Singh case||SRINAGAR: The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Monday questioned PDP’s youth wing president, Waheed ur Rehman Para, in New Delhi in a case related to the arrest of former DSP, Devinder Singh, and Hizbul Mujahideen commander, Naveed Babu. Para is to be questioned on Tuesday as well, a top NIA officer said. On January 19 this year, DSP Devinder Singh, Hizbul Mujahideen commander Naveed, besides a lawyer were arrested while travelling in a vehicle from Srinagar to Jammu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nia-questions-pdp-youth-chief-in-connection-with-former-dsp-devinder-singh-case/articleshow/79377778.cms||M Saleem Pandit
November 24, 2020||India||Adequate security deployed for DDC polls: J&K EC||SRINAGAR: The J&K state election commissioner KK Sharma on Monday said the security is adequate with additional forces deployed to ensure free, fair, and smooth DDC elections. The first ever district development council (DDC) polls in the UT are scheduled to commence from November 26 and results will be announced on December 22. Addressing a press conference here, Sharma said the additional forces have come from outside and they are being deployed in districts while a few more are on way to Kashmir. “There will be a very comfortable security environment for the smooth conduct of polls in J&K, especially Kashmir,” Sharma said. He said candidates lodged in cluster accommodation are not barred from campaigning. “Those who claim they are not being allowed to go for campaign should write to me and at the same time to the SSPs and deputy commissioners of the districts concerned, as every candidate will get security cover for their campaign,” he said. Sharma said he received a letter from the PAGD chairman, Farooq Abdullah, in this regard. “The issue was taken up with the divisional administration and will be sorted out. I reiterate that no candidate is barred from campaigning,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/adequate-security-deployed-for-ddc-polls-jk-ec/articleshow/79377788.cms||M Saleem Pandit
November 24, 2020||India||All passengers coming to J&K by train to be tested on arrival||JAMMU: In view of the expected resumption of railways services, the Jammu & Kashmir administration has decided to conduct rapid antigen test on all incoming passengers. Directions have been issued to ramp up testing capacities at all arrival points, including railway stations at Kathua, Samba, Jammu, Udhampur and Katra. These directions were passed during a meeting held under the chairmanship of chief secretary B V R Subrahmanyam on Monday, in which he took stock of Covid-19 pandemic related standard operating procedures (SOPs) and policies. The chief secretary also took stock of the manpower requirement at railway stations to ensure universal testing of all the passengers. The administration has also finalized various SOPs and policies for providing assistance to passengers once they get tested, which include providing medical assistance to symptomatic positives, sending asymptomatic positives to home isolation after providing them with oximeters, and their registration on the Arogya Setu app. “As per past practice, efforts should be made to prevent unchecked mixing of infected travellers with the local populace and a subsequent spread of the disease”, Subrahmanyam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/all-passengers-coming-to-jk-by-train-to-be-tested-on-arrival/articleshow/79377809.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
November 24, 2020||India||Pakistan edu institutes to shut from Nov 26||ISLAMABAD: Amid surging Covid-19 cases across Pakistan, the Imran Khan-led government on Monday announced to shut all academic institutions — including schools, colleges, universities, tuition centres and other places of learning — in the country from November 26 (Thursday). Federal minister for education Shafqat Mahmood confirmed the move, adding, “Students will continue online education at home while those without online facilities will be given homework. The mechanism of delivering homework to the students would be decided by the provincial governments.” Home learning will continue from November 26 to December 24, followed by winter holidays from December 25 to January 10, 2021, Mahmood said at a press conference in Islamabad. A meeting will be held in January first week to review the coronavirus situation and decisions regarding the reopening of educational institutes would be made accordingly, he said. According to National Command and Operation Centre (NCOC) — a body mandated to implement the government’s decisions on Covid-19 — there had also been an increase in the number of infections reported at educational institutions across the country, with 19% of total Covid-19 cases being recorded among students. The positivity ratio in educational institutions rose from 1.8-3.3% during the past week — an increase of 82%. Meanwhile, the All Pakistan Private Schools’ Federation rejected the government’s decision, claiming in a statement that it would not allow schools to be closed again. Terming online learning a “flop”, it said that schools would remain open and all standard operating procedures would be followed to curb the spread of Covid-19. Pakistan reported 34 deaths and 2,756 Covid-19 infections in the past 24 hours. Since the beginning of the pandemic in February, the country has reported 7,679 deaths and 376,929 confirmed Covid-19 cases. So far, 330,885 people have recovered from the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pakistan-edu-institutes-to-shut-from-nov-26/articleshow/79377825.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
November 24, 2020||India||Need ‘right to be forgotten’ to fight revenge porn: HC||NEW DELHI: For the first time, a constitutional court talked about social media users’ right to be forgotten and said that at present, the law was silent on the remedy for victims of sexually explicit videos/pictures often posted on social media platforms by spurned lovers to intimidate and harass women. “No person, much less a woman, would want to create and display grey shades of her character. In most of the cases, like the present one, women are the victims. It is their right to enforce the right to be forgotten as a right ‘in rem’. Capturing images and videos with consent of the woman cannot justify the misuse of such content once the relation between the victim and the accused gets strained as it happened in the present case,” said Justice S K Panigrahi of Orissa High Court on Monday, underscoring the need for a legal bulwark against the growing menace of “revenge porn”. Times ViewMost of us inhabit the digital world to a greater or lesser degree. It is a reality we can neither run nor hide from. The “right to be forgotten” online has been part of a raging debate for years. It is good news that the judiciary is engaging with the subject. Legislatures also need to grapple with it. We need new laws to face these new challenges that concern all of us.The man, who had stealthily recorded sexual acts with his partner and posted them on social media after she spurned him, was seeking bail. Denying him bail, Justice Panigrahi said, “If the right to be forgotten is not recognised in matters like the present one, any accused will surreptitiously outrage the modesty of a woman and misuse the same in cyber space unhindered.” Justice Panigrahi added, “Undoubtedly, such an act will be contrary to the larger interest of protection of the woman against exploitation and blackmailing, as has happened in the present case. The sloganeering of ‘beti bachao’ and women’s safety concerns will be trampled.” The ‘right to be forgotten’, requiring erasure of data when it is not needed or following revocation of consent by the subject, is recognised under the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), Europe’s digital privacy law. However, the concept is yet to be recognised under Indian law. The HC said given the nature of the beast, posts on social media got shared by numerous users and even after offensive videos/pictures on the handle from which it was uploaded was disabled, the objectionable content continued to circulate in social media much to the chagrin and harassment of women. Justice Panigrahi said there was no law which recognised the right to be forgotten even though it was in sync with the right to privacy, which the Supreme Court in the K Puttaswamy case had ruled to be intrinsic to right to life guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution. Terming the Indian criminal justice system to be sentence-oriented with little emphasis of ameliorating the victims’ sufferings, which in case of objectionable social media posts by spurned lovers could be long-lasting, the HC said, “Many do not know where to turn for help. As in the instant case, the rights of the victim to get those uploaded photos/videos erased from Facebook server still remain unaddressed for want of appropriate legislation.” “Allowing such objectionable photos and videos to remain on a social media platform, without the consent of a woman, is a direct affront on a woman’s modesty and, more importantly, her right to privacy. In such cases, either the victim herself or the prosecution may, if so advised, seek appropriate orders to protect the victim’s fundamental right to privacy, by seeking appropriate orders to have such offensive posts erased from the public platform, irrespective of the ongoing criminal process.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hc-bats-for-victims-right-to-be-forgotten/articleshow/79378100.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
November 24, 2020||Business||Proposal to allow corporates into banking a bombshell: Rajan, Acharya||MUMBAI: Former Reserve Bank of India governor Raghuram Rajan and deputy governor Viral Acharya has strongly criticized the proposal to open up bank licences for corporates describing the proposal as a `bombshell’ that is `best left on the shelf’. The warning came even as other central bankers and S&P Global ratings cautioned against the move stating that it is fraught with risks. Although all but one of the five-member internal working group were of the view that large corporate/industrial houses should not be allowed to promote a bank. Opening up bank licencing for corporates forms crux of the recommendations as the group was ok with corporate-owned finance companies turning into banks. Ironically, the group had opposed corporate promoters as ‘prevailing corporate governance culture in corporate houses is not up to the international standard’. Rajan and Acharya in a note have questioned the timing of the move stating that nothing has changed to warrant a change in the stance of the RBI to deny bank licences to corporate houses. They also cited the Yes Bank crisis as a limitation of the central bank to gather information on loans. “How can the bank make good loans when it is owned by the borrower? Even an independent committed regulator, with all the information in the world, finds it difficult to be in every nook and corner of the financial system to stop poor lending. Information on loan performance is rarely timely or accurate,” they said in a note. According to the former central bankers, if sound regulation and supervision could be addressed through legislation, India would not be having the bad loan problem that it is facing today. They also said that allowing corporates into banking to increase the bidders for public sector banks was a bad idea. “It would be a mistake, as we have said in an earlier paper, to sell a public sector bank to an untested industrial house. Far better to professionalize public sector bank governance, and sell stakes to the broader public,” the note said. Rajan and Acharya have also come down hard on the third route proposed for allowing corporates to enter banking – through the small finance bank route. “A second possibility is that an industrial house holding a payment bank license wants to transform into a bank. One recommendation of the IWG that is equally hard to understand is to shorten the time for such transformation from five to three years, so perhaps the surprising recommendations have to be read together,” the note said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/proposal-to-allow-corporates-into-banking-a-bombshell-rajan-acharya/articleshow/79378308.cms||---
November 24, 2020||India||Outcry forces Kerala U-turn on new law||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Following widespread condemnation from civil society and the media, as well as constituencies traditionally associated with the Left, the LDF government on Monday decided to withdraw 118A amendment of the Kerala Police Act that, in effect, gave police arbitrary powers to muzzle free speech across any medium. It is unclear if the government will promulgate a new ordinance to withdraw the 118A amendment — which was virtually smuggled in without any real consultation within the ruling LDF or even the cabinet, let alone put to test on the floor of the assembly — or present a new bill in the next session. "The amendment evoked varied responses from several corners. Apprehensions were aired by those who support the LDF and profess to defend democracy. In these circumstances, the government of Kerala will not go ahead with implementing the amendment. A detailed discussion will be held in the assembly regarding this, and the future course of action will be decided upon after duly considering the opinions coming up from all quarters," chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said in a statement. Earlier in the day, CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury had announced in New Delhi that the 118A amendment would be reconsidered following which the party’s state leadership here met and decided to put the ordinance on hold. The state government had announced the ordinance on October 21 and the CPM central leadership remained indifferent to it till it was officially notified on November 21 and all hell broke loose. The media had duly written on the ordinance, highlighting the dangers in the amendment which was brought in under the guise of protecting women against cyberbullying. TOI in its edition on November 23 had reported that the new law may not pass muster as the Supreme Court had struck down in 2015 a similar one — Section 118(d) of the Kerala Police Act — terming it to be in breach of right to free speech. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala termed the CM’s statement on Monday that his government was not intending to implement the act a hoax and demanded that it should be repealed at the earliest. Congress organised protests against the ordinance while the media and civil society joined hands in condemning it. The newly added clause 118A envisages imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years or with fine which may extend to Rs 10,000 or with both to anyone who "makes, expresses, publishes or disseminates through any kind of mode of communication, any matter or subject for threatening, abusing, humiliating or defaming a person or class of persons, knowing it to be false and that causes injury to the mind, reputation or property of such person or class of persons or any other person in whom they have interest".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/outcry-forces-kerala-u-turn-on-new-law/articleshow/79378671.cms||---
November 24, 2020||India||J&K names & shames Roshni beneficiaries; big names on list||NEW DELHI: Over a month after Jammu & Kashmir High Court nullified the Roshni Act of 2001, J&K government has begun publishing on its website the list of beneficiaries – including top politicians, bureaucrats, businessmen, etc - who had influenced illegal vesting of state lands to regularize the plots they themselves had encroached or illegally occupied. The first set of beneficiaries of the Rs 25,000-crore Roshni scam in Srinagar “exposed” by J&K administration include former finance minister and ex-PDP leader Haseeb Draboo and three of his family members (each got one kanal of land); Congress leader and owner of Broadway Hotel in Srinagar K K Amla (over 11 kanal went to Amla and around one canal each to his three family members); retired IAS officer Mohd Shafi Pandit and his wife; and hotelier Mushtaq Ahmad Chaya and his son. Given that the beneficiaries of the land allocation under the Roshni Act include the rich and famous of J&K , the implementation of High Court's order will mark arguably the biggest drive to reclaim prize public real estate from the elite. A source indicated that names of some political heavyweights may soon be uploaded as part of the list of Roshni scam beneficiaries. In Jammu, the Roshni cases cited on the official J&K government website are that of ex-legislator Satpal Lakhotra and his three relatives; and government employees and businessmen Naru Ram, Beli Ram, Shallo Ram, Ram Dass and Ram Lal. Those who were vested ownership of encroached state land in Jammu other than under Roshni (physically encroached but not shown in revenue records) are National Conference leader Syed Akhoon and Haroon Choudhary and ex-minister from NC Sujjad Kichloo; J&K Bank ex-chairman M Y Khan and ex-NC leader Aslam Goni. Roshni Act , enacted in 2001 by the then NC government which argued that it would not be possible to recover encroached public land from the occupants, allowed grant of proprietary rights to persons holding state land unauthorizedly till 1990 on payment of the cost equivalent to prevailing market rate of that year. In 2005, the cut off year was relaxed by then chief minister Mufti Mohammad Sayeed from 1990 to 2005 and in 2007, then Congress government further changed the cut-off date to 2007. In 2007 rules were framed under the Act, allowing agricultural land to be given free of cost, grant of urban land at huge discount in name of rewards, rebates and incentives and change of use of even agricultural land and forest land to commercial use. A 2014 CAG report later found that only Rs 76 crore had been realized from transfer of encroached land between 2007 and 2013, as against the target of Rs 25,000 crore. The Roshni Act was repealed by state administrative council in November 2018. Later, ruling on a plea challenging validity of the Act and rules, High Court held the Act as unconstitutional and even declared the rules as illegal and void. It also ordered recovery of land given away under the Act, by the State, and directed CBI to inquire into the Roshni scam. Following this, the J&K government has cancelled the mutation orders under Roshni and government land is being recovered. Also, details are being posted on the government website such as state land in illegal occupation with full identity of encroachers; applications received under Roshni Act, valuation of the land, amounts paid by beneficiary, the persons in whose favour vesting was done; and complete identities of all influential persons (including ministers, legislators, bureaucrats, government officials, police officers, businessmen, etc) their relatives or persons holding benami for them, who have derived benefit under the Roshni Act and rules. Such information is also to be shared by J&K revenue secretary with the CBI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jk-names-shames-roshni-beneficiaries-big-names-on-list/articleshow/79378935.cms||Bharti Jain
November 24, 2020||India||Oxford vaccine ‘70% effective’, may get India nod by year-end||MUMBAI: Armed with interim findings of the AstraZeneca-Oxford Covid-19 vaccine trials — which showed 70% effectiveness in preventing people from getting infected — Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) is set to seek emergency regulatory approval and hopes to get a go-ahead by the year-end. The ‘positive’ data raises hopes for a faster rollout of the vaccine in India, as the AstraZeneca data exceeds the 50% primary efficacy endpoint set by the Indian drug regulator DCGI as part of its draft guidelines for Covid-19 vaccines. “We will be applying for the emergency licensure very soon and hope to get it in a month or so. The final approval depends on DCGI’s decision,” SII CEO Adar Poonawalla told TOI. He added that the company has so far stockpiled around 4 crore doses, and will have around 10 crore doses by January. A majority of these will be marked as priority for India. Covishield will be available in the market at Rs 500-600 per dose, and at Rs 220-300 ($3-4) for the government, he added. Two doses of the vaccine will be required. Competing vaccines from Pfizer and Moderna are expected to be priced higher. The Moderna vaccine may cost up to $37 or Rs 2,775 per dose, while Pfizer could price its offering around $20 or Rs 1,500. “At this point, I am delighted that Covishield, a low-cost, logistically manageable and soon to be widely available, Covid-19 vaccine, will offer protection up to 90% in one type of dosage regime and 62% in the other dosage regime,” he said. Globally, the clinical trials on ‘AZD1222’, which evaluated participants over 18 years, showed one dosing regimen with a vaccine efficacy of 90% when half a dose, followed by a full dose at least one month apart, was given. The other dosing regimen showed 62% efficacy when two full doses of the vaccine were given, with a gap of at least a month. The combined analysis from both dosing regimens resulted in an average efficacy of 70%. Though the efficacy of the vaccine is much lower than the around 95% achieved by both Pfizer and Moderna, the vaccine holds more promise for India because of its price, simpler supply chain and scalable platform. The vaccine can be stored in normal refrigerated temperature (2-8°C), and does not require the build-up of a sub-zero cooling chain, which makes it easier to transport, store and distribute even in remote areas, unlike the other two. The Phase-III clinical trials of Covishield on 1,600 participants are ongoing across India and are expected to be completed by mid-December. The interim data of trials—running since October—is promising, Poonawalla said. Positive high-level results from an interim analysis of clinical trials of AZD1222 in the UK and Brazil showed the vaccine was highly effective in preventing Covid-19, the primary endpoint, and no hospitalisations or severe cases of the disease were reported in participants receiving the vaccine. There were a total of 131 Covid-19 cases in the interim analysis. “This vaccine’s efficacy and safety confirm that it will be highly effective against Covid-19 and will have an immediate impact on this public health emergency. Also, the vaccine’s simple supply chain and our no-profit pledge and commitment to broad, equitable and timely access mean it will be affordable and globally available, supplying hundreds of millions of doses on approval,” AstraZeneca’s CEO Pascal Soriot said. AstraZeneca will now immediately prepare regulatory submission of the data to authorities globally that have a framework in place for conditional or early approval. The company will seek an emergency use listing from the World Health Organisation for an accelerated pathway to vaccine availability in low-income countries, a statement added. Over 23,000 participants are being assessed following two doses of either a half-dose/full-dose regimen or a regimen of two full doses of AZD1222 or a comparator, meningococcal conjugate vaccine or saline. Watch Covid-19: AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine ‘70% effective’, may get India nod by year-end||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/oxford-vaccine-70-effective-may-get-india-nod-by-year-end/articleshow/79379193.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
November 24, 2020||India||Raja acquittal: HC upholds govt nod for CBI’s 2G appeal||NEW DELHI: The CBI and ED won a partial victory on Monday before the Delhi high court when it rejected several petitions challenging the Central government’s sanction to the CBI to appeal against the acquittal of former telecom minister A Raja and others in connection with the 2G spectrum allocation case. However, the plea for early hearings filed by the probe agency to fast-track the decision to get its appeal admitted before the retirement of Justice Brijesh Sethi became infructuous after the judge transferred the case to another bench and listed it for December 1. Justice Sethi retires on November 30 this year. The HC, while rejecting the plea of Raja and others, including ex-telecom secretary Siddharth Behura, also held that amendments to the anti-corruption law made later would not apply to cases registered before, therefore the 2018 amendment to the Prevention of Corruption Act relating to Section 13(1)(d) would not come to the rescue of the acquitted accused in this appeal. Raja, through advocate Manu Sharma, argued that the CBI’s appeal against the acquittals in the 2G case had become infructuous with the coming of the new anti-corruption law. He told the court that the graft charges levelled against him and others in the case have been omitted in the new Prevention of Corruption Act of 2018 and, therefore, prosecution in the instant matter cannot go on. Apart from Raja and Behura, Raja’s then private secretary, R K Chandolia and Bollywood film producer Karim Morani had also raised the issue in separate applications. The CBI and ED have challenged the acquittal by a trial court of all individuals and companies in the 2G scam corruption and money-laundering cases. It had also filed an appeal challenging the acquittal of Essar Group promoters Ravi Kant Ruia and Anshuman Ruia, and six others in a separate case arising out of the 2G scam probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/raja-acquittal-hc-upholds-govt-nod-for-cbis-2g-appeal/articleshow/79379236.cms||Abhinav Garg
November 24, 2020||India||Travel firm peddles ‘vaccine tourism’||MUMBAI: Calling it their attempt to develop “vaccine tourism”, a Mumbai-based travel company has offered to fly those who want to get a dose to the US for a four-day stay for a cost of Rs 1.75 lakh. “Be among the first to get Corona vaccine,” said the teaser message, which has been doing the rounds on WhtasApp this week. “As soon as the Pfizer vaccine is officially published to sell in America (tentative date December 11), we are ready to get done for a select few VVIP clients,” it says. The cost will include to-and-fro airfare from Mumbai to New York, a stay for three nights and four days with breakfast and one vaccine dose. The contact number listed in the message was busy for most part of Monday. TOI received a text from the travel company, putting out disclaimers. “We are developing vaccine tourism,” the message said and then listed out the manner in which the US might offer access to it, like beginning with healthcare workers, those who are suffering from lifestyle conditions, those aged over 65, and so on, and finally it would be commercially available in hospitals. “We are not holding or procuring any vaccine. Everything we will arrange will be within laws of the US. We will only process your requirements. Right now, no time frame can be committed. We do not collect any advance or deposits now. We just need your registration with us with your name, email, cell, age, any one of physical complications and passport copy. Rest everything will be done as per official permissions of health department there. Unless they announce official sales to people other than Americans citizens, we cannot get you the vaccine,” the message said. TOI could not get in touch with the travel company despite repeated attempts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/travel-firm-peddles-vaccine-tourism/articleshow/79379266.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Business||Sold 2 houses to invest in new one? You can get tax benefits||MUMBAI: The Mumbai bench of the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT), in its recent order, has clarified that when a taxpayer sells two residential properties and re-invests in one residential house, he or she is entitled to tax benefit under section 54. This ruling will be very helpful to several individuals. With work from home here to stay for longer than initially anticipated, several families are in search of larger flats. Investment professionals explain that several salaried employees had invested in a second house. Many are now selling the flat in which they currently reside and their second house, to finance a larger apartment. Read AlsoBuy home at 20% below circle rateIt is now possible to buy a residential unit from a developer at 20% lower than the value arrived at according to the circle rate — also known as the ready reckoner rate of the area — without attracting penal income tax. The developer will also not attract income tax for such a deal.In this case heard by ITAT, Sabir Mazhar Ali had sold two flats in Mumbai’s Bandra area (one of which was jointly owned with his wife) and purchased another residential flat in Bandra. During the financial year 2010-11, he had claimed deduction under section 54 of the Income Tax (I-T) Act, as he had purchased a new house, within the time period specified. Under this section, if the long-term capital gains arising on sale of a house are reinvested in another house in India, within the stipulated period of time, then to the extent of such investment, the taxable component of capital gains is reduced. This results in a lower tax outgo. Thus, if the entire amount of long-term capital gains is reinvested, there is no tax payable. This section requires that within a period of one year before or two years after the date of transfer of the old house, the taxpayer should acquire another residential house. Or the taxpayer should construct a residential house within a period of three years from the date of transfer of the old house. Read AlsoCentre announces income tax relief on sale of housing unitsUnion finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday announced relaxations in income tax rules to allow sale of primary residential units of up to Rs 2 crore value below the circle rate.However, as Ali had sold two residential properties and reinvested in one residential house, the Income Tax officer had concluded that he was not eligible for claiming the benefit under section 54. In the course of litigation, as the Commissioner (Appeals) ruled in favour of the taxpayer, the I-T department filed an appeal with the ITAT. In its order, the ITAT states that the provisions of section 54 do not prohibit the taxpayer from selling more than one residential house and reinvesting in a residential property. Thus, it set aside the grounds of appeal raised by the tax department and ruled in favour of the taxpayer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sold-2-houses-to-invest-in-new-one-you-can-get-tax-benefits/articleshow/79379343.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Hubballi||Taluks formed in 2017 yet to get full-fledged administrative infrastructure||Belagavi: The chief minister’s provisional nod to the creation of Vijayanagar district, to be carved out of Ballari, has raised many questions among those who have been waiting for the state government to develop administrative infrastructure in those taluks that were created in 2017. Of the 49 new taluks that came into being during the then Siddaramaiah-led Congress government, 30 are in North Karnataka. Residents of these new taluks, who had hoped that their localities turning into administrative hubs may save them the hassle of having to travel long distances in order for government businesses, have been left bitterly disappointed with most of these new taluks in North Karnataka yet to house any of the primary buildings or offices that discharge government duties. Venkatesh Patel Vatgal, a political analyst in North Karnataka, opined that it might take a decade before the new taluks get a full-fledged administrative set-up. He cited the case of Nagareddy Buddinni, a farmer in the newly created Maski taluk in Raichur, who had to travel to Lingasugur for any official work. “It could be the revenue or the agriculture department, he has to go all the way to Lingasugur even now. The villages now under Maski taluk were earlier under the purview of Lingasugur, Manvi and Sindhanur taluks,” said Vatgal, adding that the plight of the citizens in the new Siravara taluk was not too different. North Karnataka-based activist Ashok Chandaragi alighted upon a more logistical problem: Funds. “Taluks were carved out for political gains, and not to ease administration. The agenda of the politicians is to keep people happy temporarily so they can garner political mileage. None of the new taluks has offices of key government departments, and there is a proposal for the creation of the 31st district. When the state does not have sufficient funds to compensate flood victims, where will it get funds to develop infrastructure for the new district?” he asked. In the 16 new taluks in Kalaburagi, Bidar, Ballari, Koppal and Yadgir districts, there are no offices for agriculture, traffic police, health, education, labour and social welfare departments. MLA for Chittapur, parts of which were carved out to form Kalagi and Shahabad taluks, said that the lack of government offices in these new taluks were creating many problems for the people. “Yadgir district was created many years ago and it is still awaiting full-fledged administrative facilities. This is an indication of what we can expect in Vijayanagar district,” Priyank said. Kalaburagi regional commissioner NV Prasad told TOI that this was not confined to a specific region, but was a problem faced across the state. “Infrastructure for effective administration will be developed eventually. The process, which was halted owing to Covid-19, has been expedited. In some taluks, offices have been set up temporarily in some buildings, and new structures will be built soon,” Prasad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/taluks-formed-in-2017-yet-to-get-full-fledged-administrative-infrastructure/articleshow/79375119.cms||Shreyas HS
November 24, 2020||Kanpur||At 10 C, Saturday records coldest night temperature||KANPUR: For the first time in the season, night temperature on Saturday dipped to just 10 degree Celsius. This was the lowest night temperature of the winter season so far. According to the Met department of CSA University, Saturday’s minimum temperature was 1.2 degrees below the normal value. The day temperature on Sunday was recorded 23.4 degree Celcius, which was 3.4 degrees below the normal value. On Saturday, the day temperature was 24 degree Celsius, three degrees below the normal index. Friday night’s temperature was recorded as 12.4 degree Celcius. The day temperature on Friday was three degrees below the normal value. Since November 16, day temperature has stayed below the normal value. The dip in the night temperature was witnessed only from Friday night onwards. This sharp decline in the day and night temperatures was due to snowfall in the hill stations. Icy winds were blowing throughout the day which left commuters shivering. The wind speed was recorded around seven km/hour. Met stated that the cloud cover would prevail. If the clouds envelope the city skies during the night, the night temperature is expected to increase. On Saturday and Sunday nights, security guards were seen huddled around bonfire to fight the chilly winds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/at-10-c-sat-records-coldest-night-temperature/articleshow/79358526.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Business||Banking plan for biz houses a bombshell: Rajan, Acharya||TNN Mumbai: Former RBI governor Raghuram Rajan and deputy governor Viral Acharya have criticised the proposal to open up bank licences for corporates. In a note, they described the proposal as a “bombshell” that is “best left on the shelf”. The warning came even as other central bankers and S&P Global Ratings cautioned against the move, stating that it is fraught with risks. Interestingly, as many as four of the five-member internal working group, or IWG, were of the view that large corporate/industrial houses should not be allowed to promote a bank. Opening up bank licensing for corporates forms the crux of the recommendations as the group was all right with corporate-owned finance companies turning into banks. Ironically, the group had opposed corporate promoters as “prevailing corporate governance culture in corporate houses is not up to the international standard”. In the note, Rajan and Acharya have questioned the timing of the move, stating that nothing has changed to warrant a fresh stance of the RBI to grant bank licences to corporate houses. They also cited the Yes Bank crisis as a limitation of the central bank to gather information on loans. “How can the bank make good loans when it is owned by the borrower? Even an independent committed regulator, with all the information in the world, finds it difficult to be in every nook and corner of the financial system to stop poor lending. Information on loan performance is rarely timely or accurate,” they said in the note. According to the former central bankers, if sound regulation and supervision could be addressed through legislation, India would not be having the bad loan problem that it is facing today. They also said that allowing corporates into banking to increase the bidders for public sector banks was a bad idea. “It would be a mistake, as we have said in an earlier paper, to sell a public sector bank to an untested industrial house. Far better to professionalise public sector bank governance, and sell stakes to the broader public,” the note said. Rajan and Acharya have also come down hard on the third route proposed for allowing corporates to enter banking — through small finance banks. “A second possibility is that an industrial house holding a payment bank licence wants to transform into a bank. One recommendation of the IWG that is equally hard to understand is to shorten the time for such transformation from five to three years, so perhaps the surprising recommendations have to be read together,” the note said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/banking-plan-for-biz-houses-a-bombshell-rajan-acharya/articleshow/79377233.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Surat||Surat cops’ selfies light up senior citizens’ Diwali||Surat: Personnel in khaki spread delight this Diwali by not only paying visits to senior citizens living alone and inquiring about their health and wellness, but brightening up their smiles with selfies too.The city police’s novel initiative to take care of 1,624 senior citizens regularly will not remain confined to festivities alone, but continue with monthly visits and of course, another selfie! The drive is likely to gain popularity especially when city confronts another lockdown-like situation. The department has asked its personnel to carry out the agenda diligently and cause the elderlies minimum discomfort with prior appointments. Cops will arrange for supply of medicines besides offering their help to solve any other issues they may face. Police inspectors will hold a meeting with all the senior citizens in their respective areas once in three months. “Cops are playing the role of family members in the real sense and this initiative has greater value during lockdown,” said Ashok Mistry, 69, who is assisting police in the initiative. Before starting the programme, cops prepared a fresh list of senior citizens living alone in the city. “In most cases senior citizens do not have problems but they want someone to talk to. Looking at the photos I can say that the senior citizens were incredibly happy to see cops,” city police commissioner Ajay Tomar told TOI. “Neighbours were initially surprised to see the police at the senior citizen’s home and inquired if anything went wrong. After knowing about the gesture neighbours assured police officers that they will take care of the elders regularly,” Tomar added. Many senior citizens did not believe initially that police could actually do something like this.”I was initially shocked to see police and thought that some fraud had come. But the visit turned out to be a pleasant surprise,” said Bharti Mandlewala, 73, a resident of the Rupam Talkies area. “I am very happy that the police have come to my home and asked if we needed anything. I offered them tea in return for their gesture,” smiles H R Shukla, a retired customs and excise superintendent. BOX Areas having highest senior citizens Area - No. of elderlies Adajan 344 Athwalines 166 Salabatpura 147 Mahidharpura 139 Khatodara 137 Rander 98||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-cops-selfies-light-up-senior-citizens-diwali/articleshow/79376405.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
November 24, 2020||Business||WhiteHat Jr sues critics, gets partial relief||Bengaluru: WhiteHat Jr, a code-learning startup for kids owned by Byju’s, has filed lawsuits in the Delhi HC against two critics. The startup has got a partial interim relief from the court in the case against Pradeep Poonia, who has accused WhiteHat Jr and its CEO Karan Bajaj of various malpractices, including misleading advertisements to get kids to join its programmes. WhiteHat Jr’s second case is against Aniruddha Malpani, who runs an angel investment platform, and has criticised the company in several posts. This matter is expected to be heard on Tuesday. WhiteHat Jr, which was sold for $300 million to Byju’s this year, has sued Poonia and Malpani for close to $3 million and $2 million, respectively, citing defamation. After its limited interim injunction, The court has listed the Poonia matter for January 6. The court has directed Poonia, a former Cisco employee, to take down certain defamatory tweets and YouTube clips, and not to distribute WhiteHat Jr content obtained directly or indirectly, and not access the company’s internal communication on Slack platform. WhiteHat Jr has alleged that Poonia obtained company content by illegally breaching its systems and assisting others in doing so. “The injunction bars Poonia from hacking or unauthorisedly accessing the company’s internal communication on the communication platform Slack and displaying communication and chats between WhiteHat Jr and its employees on his YouTube channel or unauthorisedly accessing our curriculum or study material through his own channel or third-party channels. He is also not permitted to use the name WhiteHat Sr for his channel,” a spokesperson of WhiteHat Jr said. P oonia’s legal counsel said he can still air his views on WhiteHat Jr barring the things directed by the court as it has not granted a “full gag order”. Times Internet and BCCL, part of the group that publishes TOI, are shareholders in Byju’s. Both Poonia and Malpani, over the past couple of months, have accused WhiteHat Jr of intentionally misleading parents of children and cheating them. On Monday evening, Malpani tweeted that the lawsuit “just hardens my resolve to fight back, so I can make them stop cheating children by lying to them in their ads”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/whitehat-jr-sues-critics-gets-partial-relief/articleshow/79377495.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Kolkata||At 15.5°C, city records second lowest Nov temp in six years||Kolkata: The mercury on Monday slipped to the lowest point so far this winter in Kolkata — 15.5°C — making it the second lowest November temperature in the past six years. The Met office expects a further dip on Tuesday before it starts rising again. However, it may stay below the normal mark. With the mercury sliding three notches below normal on Monday, Kolkata woke up to a nip in the air. It was a fall of four degrees from the previous day’s 19.5°C and it could dip to 15°C on Tuesday, the Met office said. “Currently there is no weather system to block the northwesterly wind. The continuous flow of this chill-bearing system has dragged the mercury down. We expect the temperature to remain below the normal mark and the weather to remain pleasant for about three days,” said G K Das, director (weather) at Regional Meteorological Centre, Kolkata. The Met office, however, has spied a cyclone developing over the sea that is likely to play spoilsport and push the mercury up again from Friday. But that would only be for two days, after which, the temperature will begin to drop again. “We are expecting the cyclone to come close to the Tamil Nadu coast. In that case, we will get the easterly wind blowing in from the sea. Due to the moisture incursion, there will be clouding and the mercury could go up slightly on Friday and Saturday. But once the indirect impact of the cyclone weans off in about two days, we can expect a dip in temperature again,” added Das. The only time the mercury had dipped lower than that of Monday in November in the past six years was in 2017 when the city recorded a minimum temperature of 14.6°C. The lowest November temperature last year was 21.3°C. However, the Met office said that Kolkatans will have to wait till the second week of December to pull out their woollens, as, under normal conditions, the chill factor starts coming in around that time. “Right now, people might need some warm clothes only if they are going out early in the morning. But we have to wait till mid-December for the winter chill to arrive,” said Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/at-15-5c-city-records-second-lowest-nov-temp-in-six-years/articleshow/79376418.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
November 24, 2020||Surat||Beds in private hospitals to be increased four-fold||Surat: The bed availability in private hospitals dedicated for Covid-19 treatment in the city will be increased from present 129 to 560, municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani said on Monday.In a bid to increase testing, the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has ordered all medical store owners to paste stickers displaying the nearest rapid antigen testing centres in their respective areas. At present, there are 19 private hospitals dedicated for Covid treatment.Talking to TOI, Pani said, “Early testing is the only solution in the current pandemic situation.” The SMC on Monday set up 13 antigen testing centres in the textile market areas and five in the diamond markets, taking the total number of centres to 200. Meanwhile, out of the 120 people who arrived from different destinations at the Surat airport, five tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday.SMC has beefed up surveillance in the textile and diamond industries to trace suspected cases and conduct their on-the-spot testing. Also, the regional transport office (RTO) authorities have been instructed that the private buses entering the city must ensure that all the passengers coming from other cities and states are tested. Pani also led a surprise check in the textile markets on the Ring Road and found brazen violation of guidelines with people roaming around without masks.It is also becoming a challenge for the health teams to conduct rapid antigen tests as people are reluctant.A health officer posted at the testing centre at Millennium textile market said, “People carry face masks in their pocket but don’t wear them. When we approach such people for test, they run away from the spot.”Meanwhile, a meeting was held between the SMC and the industry leaders from the textile, diamond and textile markets on Monday, where the SMC chief gave clear instructions to ensure strict implementation of the Covid-19 guidelines in the units.Federation Of Surat Textile Traders Association (FOSTTA) has issued a circular directing all markets to strictly check those entering without masks and not maintaining social distance.TOURIST PLACES IN VALSAD, DANG CLOSED The tourist hotspots in Valsad districts that attract huge gatherings of people have been shut due to the pandemic and the rise in the Covid-19 cases in Gujarat on Monday. Official sources said that all the tourist destinations in Valsad including the beaches, Wilson hill etc. have been shut for the tourists. The police and the local administration have been asked to beef up security at all the beaches including Nargol and Tithal to stop people from entering. Valsad collector RR Raval told TOI, “The tourist spots will remain shut till further orders in wake of mounting cases.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/beds-in-private-hospitals-to-be-increased-four-fold/articleshow/79376136.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Patna||155 new Covid-19 cases in Patna||PATNA: Altogether 412 new Covid-19 cases were registered in Bihar on Monday, taking the tally to 2,31,044. Officially, six deaths were reported, which took the toll to 1,227 in the state. However, the state has 97.25% recovery rate as there were only 5,114 active cases in Bihar. As per the health department’s data, two deaths each were reported from Patna and Madhubani, followed by one each from Muzaffarpur and Nalanda. Of the new cases, 155 were from Patna, taking its tally to 40,627. However, with 38,632 recoveries and 314 deaths, there were only 1,681 active cases in the district. The other districts with new cases in double digits were Aurangabad (31), Begusarai (19), Saharsa (18), Bhagalpur (16), Gaya (13), Saran (11), Nalanda (11) and Nawada (11). Apart from the state government’s figures, AIIMS-Patna reported two more deaths on Sunday. One was a 53-year-old male from Kasba village in Purnia and another 70-year-old man from Bajipur in Barh of Patna district. AIIMS-Patna’s nodal incharge for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar said 12 new patients were admitted and 15 got discharged on Monday. There were 160 Covid patients in the hospital. Among those admitted was a 48-year-old man from Pirmohani in Patna. Nalanda Medical College and Hospital neither reported any Covid death nor any new admission. There were eight Covid patients in the hospital. State health minister Mangal Pandey tweeted that 480 people had recovered in the past 24 hours while 1,06,055 samples were tested in the same period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/155-new-covid-19-cases-in-patna/articleshow/79374831.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 24, 2020||Patna||Patna records lowest November temperature since 2008||PATNA: The minimum temperature in Patna on Monday plunged below 10 degrees C for the first time in the month of November since 2008, Patna Meteorological Centre official Shailendra Kumar Patel said. Gaya remained the coldest at 7.4 degrees C while the morning temperature in Patna was 9.4 degrees C. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD) figures, the minimum temperature in Patna plunged up to 10 degrees C in 2014, which was lowest in the last 10 years. In terms of departure, the minimum temperature in Patna was recorded four notches lower than the corresponding normal on Monday, while that in Gaya was five notches lower than the corresponding normal. The Patna weather office says the temperature conditions will remain in similar range over the next two days, including fog in the early morning hours on Tuesday. A slight northward movement in mercury column is, however, expected on Wednesday onwards. The minimum temperature is expected to remain 10 degrees C in Patna from Wednesday till November 29. “Cold northwesterly winds and clear skies are the reasons behind fall in temperature. The wind direction has changed in the region from Monday,” Patel said. He predicted slight surge in temperature and partly cloudy skies at a few places in north Bihar over the next 48 hours. As per the Patna centre’s bulletin, the maximum temperature in north Bihar is expected to be in the range of 24-28 degrees C till November 28, while the minimum temperature is likely to hover in the range of 11-13 degrees C till Wednesday and 12-14 degrees C over the next two days. The maximum temperature in south Bihar is also expected to be in the range of 24-27 degrees C. Minimum temperature is, however, expected to be in the range of 9-11 degrees C in south-central parts of the state till Wednesday and 10-12 degrees C over the next two days. The plunging mercury has led to deterioration of air quality in Patna. As per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) bulletin, the air quality index (AQI) of Patna plunged to 252, putting it in ‘poor’ category, which can lead to breathing discomfort to most people on prolonged exposure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-records-lowest-nov-temp-since-2008/articleshow/79374858.cms||Piyush Tripathi
November 24, 2020||Patna||‘Prabhat pheri’ to set off from Patna Sahib gurdwara today||PATNA: A ‘prabhat pheri’ will mark the beginning of a seven-day religious event, which will be organized from Tuesday, to mark the 551st birth anniversary celebrations (Prakashotsava) of the founder of Sikhism, Guru Nanak Dev. The procession will set off from the Takhat Sri Harimandir Ji Patna Sahib Gurdwara in Patna City at 4.30am and pass through different localities before reaching the Gurdwara Bal Leela Maini Sangat where ‘kirtan’ and ‘katha path’ will be organized. The ‘prabhat pheri’ will culminate at the Patna Sahib gurdwara at 7.30am. Takhat Sri Harmandir Ji Prabandhak Committee superintendent Daljeet Singh told this newspaper on Monday, “We have restricted the number of devotees taking part in the five-day procession till November 28 in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. All the participants as well as the ‘panj pyares’ have been told to wear masks, gloves and carry sanitizers.” He added, “Carrying the ‘Nishan Sahib’ (Sikh flag), the devotees will reach the Gurdwara Handi Sahib on the second day and Gurdwara Gai Ghat on Day 3.” The 48-hour ‘akhand path’, non-stop recital of the Guru Granth Sahib, will begin from November 28 and end on November 30 at the Patna Sahib gurdwara. ‘Kirtan’ will also be performed on the occasion. According to prabandhak committee’s secretary Mahinder Singh Chhabra, ‘langar’ will be organized on the gurdwara premises after the procession. “We will take all safety measures and carry out a ‘nagar kirtan’ on November 29 if the district administration allows us to,” Chhabra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/prabhat-pheri-to-set-off-from-patna-sahib-gurdwara-today/articleshow/79374943.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 24, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Congress leadership yet to decide on Shaktisinh Gohil, Madan Mohan Jha’s resignations||PATNA: The Congress’s central leadership is yet to take any decision on the party’s incharge for Bihar Shaktisinh Gohil and state president Madan Mohan Jha, who had sent their resignation letters while taking moral responsibility for the abysmal performance of the party in the assembly polls held recently. Congress won only 19 of the 70 seats it had contested in the 243-member state assembly. “The focus has now shifted to Delhi for the party national president’s election. Assembly elections are also due in many states, including West Bengal, next year. So, the central party leadership is likely to put the Bihar matter under wraps for quite sometime,” a senior Congress leader said on Monday. He also said Gohil and Jha resigned on moral grounds, but every important decision on the assembly elections was taken at the central level. It has been the Congress’s tradition that its leaders tender resignation on moral grounds after the poor performance of the party in elections. The then state president Mehboob Ali Kaiser had also resigned from the post after the 2010 assembly elections in which Congress had won four seats only, he said, preferring anonymity. “There is nothing new in sending resignations to the party high command,” he asserted. He, however, admitted strong dissension in the party following the poor performance this year. Gohil was called to Delhi last week but the Bihar elections issue was not discussed. A section in Congress, including general secretary Tariq Anwar, wants a review of its state assembly poll performance. Sources said chaotic situation was created in Congress during seat allotment and the central leadership had removed the state chief from the poll panel. After ticket distribution in the first phase, former state chiefs Chandan Bagchi and Anil Sharma had accused Gohil, Jha and party’s campaign committee chairman Akhilesh Singh of favouring ‘incompetent’ candidates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/congress-leadership-yet-to-decide-on-gohil-jhas-resignations/articleshow/79375468.cms||Ramashankar
November 24, 2020||Patna||Fulfil 19 lakh jobs promise or face protests, MGB leader warns Bihar CM||PATNA: Mahagatbandhan leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Monday gave an ultimatum that he will hit the streets if the government does not work to provide 19 lakh jobs in a month, as promised by the NDA. “I challenge Nitish Ji and the NDA government that if they don’t give employment to 19 lakh people in a month, we will come on the road. We had fought this election on the issue of employment and 1.24 crore people had voted for us,” Tejashwi said at an interaction with media persons soon after the first day of the Vidhan Sabha ended. He was accompanied by his elder brother Tej Pratap Yadav. Tejashwi added, “While I had promised 10 lakh government jobs in my first cabinet, BJP had not set any time limit. Bihar has become the centre of unemployment and I challenge that we will start a mass movement in a month and the public will come on the roads.” He lashed out at chief minister Nitish Kumar, dubbing him as the “Bhishma Pitamah” of corruption. “He knows how he has formed the government and people also know about it. In the past 15 years, 60 big scams have taken place and he is in the habit of giving protection to the corrupt,” Tejashwi said. He criticized the government for picking Mewalal Choudhary as education minister, who is accused in a recruitment scam and several other charges are levelled against him. He also disapproved of the government’s decision to pick Ashok Choudhary for the education minister’s post and said there were fraud charges against his family. Tejashwi then mocked the ruling party leaders’ demand for his resignation. “This is funny. They were asking for my resignation even before I took the oath and for the first time, the ruling party is asking for the resignation of an opposition member. For 18 months I had served as deputy CM of the state with three departments under me. I challenge if they can prove any corruption in that tenure.” Both the Yadav scions were earlier spotted together entering the House and were welcomed by their party MLAs. In response to Tejashwi’s charges, JD (U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan said CM Nitish had worked for the development of the state and fulfilled all his promises. “Tejashwi is not aware that 68 industrial areas are ready and one thousand units have got stage one clearance from the state investment promotion board, which will provide jobs to lakhs of people. As far as his 10 lakh government jobs promise is concerned, not a single cabinet across the state had done so in one go. Tejashwi was trying to fool people and he knows the result,” said Ranjan. He further said none from RJD should talk about corruption as their party boss is a convict and several charges have been levelled on Tejashwi too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/fulfil-19l-jobs-promise-or-face-protests-tejas-warns-cm/articleshow/79375334.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 24, 2020||Aurangabad||BJP will form govt in Maharashtra in 2-3 months, says Raosaheb Danve||AURANGABAD: Union minister Raosaheb Danve on Monday said the BJP would form a government in Maharashtra in the next two-three months and it had made preparations for it. Speaking at an election rally in Parbhani district, Danve said there is discord among the three alliance partners in power in Maharashtra. “The MVA (MahaVikas Aghadi) government is slated to collapse in the next couple of months... BJP workers should not think that our government will not come in Maharashtra. We will form a government in the next two-three months. We have worked out the mathematics. We are waiting for the ongoing elections to get over” he said. BJP leaders are campaigning for party candidate Shirish Boralkar for the upcoming election to the Aurangabad graduates’ constituency. Speaking in Aurangabad on Monday, leader of the opposition Devendra Fadnavis said that there was nothing to remember from the same date last year when he took oath as the chief minister of Maharashtra and NCP’s Ajit Pawar took oath as the deputy. Their bid to form the government failed as Pawar withdrew his support. Asked how he looked back on that oath-taking ceremony, Fadnavis said he was past it. “I am writing a book on what transpired during those two-and-a-half days,” he added . Interestingly, former minister Pankaja Munde Palawe, who was reportedly upset with Boralkar’s nomination, shared the dais with Fadnavis. Pankaja appealed to BJP workers to ensure a win in the election. “I would like to assert here that all these (speculations) are baseless. Being a senior party functionary, my stand cannot be different from that of BJP,” she said. Gaikwad to join NCP Former Union minister Jaising Gaikwad, who recently quit BJP, is scheduled to join NCP on Tuesday, said NCP state secretary Ulhas Udhan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bjp-will-form-govt-in-maha-in-2-3-months-says-danve/articleshow/79375753.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka Digital Public Library emerges ‘alter ego’ of bibliophiles||UDUPI: The website of Karnataka Digital Public Library (www.karnatakadigitalpubliclibrary.org) is fast emerging as the alter ego of bibliophiles globally. This can be gauged from the fact that this page of department of public libraries in Karnataka is the most searched for public digital library with 31.51 crore hits worldwide leaving behind Digital Public Library of America (www.dp.la) and National Digital Library of India (www.ndl.iitkgp.ac.in). Launched on February 26, a month ahead of the nationwide lockdown, the portal became a major source of information for students, teachers and researchers alike once physical access to libraries were shut down. With 4.30 lakh titles already included for users to browse, the department has drawn up an ambitious plan to increase this number to 10 lakh and the process of selection of titles to be included will be completed in the next three months. Outlining this roadmap, Satish Kumar Hosamani, director, department of public libraries, told TOI that it is a thrust given by Suresh Kumar, minister for primary and secondary education and S R Umashakar, principal secretary to the department that has brought about this transformation. The ‘e-Sarvajanika Granthalaya’ app that the department launched to go with the portal too has become a huge hit with the book lovers with 7 lakh plus users, he said. Links to NDLI, Kanaja, the online encyclopaedia that Karnataka Knowledge Commission has developed, Shodhganga, reservoir of Indian theses in digital repository, archival access to the recordings of Akashvani makes this website a one-stop solution for any digitally inclined book lover, he said. Digital content in multiple languages, offering self-learning facilities to readers and access to e-content makes this portal and app unique, he said. The KDPL portal as on November 19 had 6.76 lakh registered users including 1.21 lakh from Bengaluru Urban, followed by Raichur (69,563) and Yadagir (37,550). It is heartening that the aspirational districts of the state are in number two and three positions respectively in terms of registered users for the portal, said Umashankar. Students who logged in as such numbered in excess of 1 lakh and other users not identifying with any district were 98,961. The app and the portal have content for students, those appearing for competitive exams, books and titles from reputed journals and authors. Karnataka has more than 7000 libraries and 272 of them have gone digital in the last six months. In all, 100 out of 205 public libraries in Bengaluru will be digitised in the next four months. Process of expanding list of titles on the app and portal to 10-lakh content source will be done shortly, Suresh Kumar noted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/karnataka-digital-public-library-emerges-alter-ego-of-bibliophiles/articleshow/79375463.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
November 24, 2020||Mysuru||Public works department to reconstruct temple in Talakadu||MYSURU: Sri Bramarambha and Mallikarjunaswamy Temples Development Authority has said that the government has taken up the works to reconstruct Mudukuthore Mallikarjuna Swamy Temple, the Hindu pilgrimage centre, near Talakadu. Authority general secretary Nandish Hanche on Sunday told reporters that by leaving the idols (moola vigraha) of the deities, the entire temple building structure will be removed. Retaining the Chola-Chalukya architecture design, a new structure will be built at a cost of Rs 30 crore. “The government has released Rs 5 crore for the project. The work has been initiated as the century-old temple structure is in a dilapidated condition,” he said. Nandish said that in the first stage, the reconstruction work of the Bramarambha Temple in black granite and Mallikarjuna Temple in while granite will be taken up at a cost of Rs 16 crore. “In the second stage, construction of Chandra Shaale, and in the third stage, Rajagopura will be built. Later, the works on the raja beedhi and sidewalls to the hill will be taken up at a cost of Rs 10 crore. The committee will also use Rs 11 crore from the donation received from devotees,” he said. Committee president S P Manjunath said that the work has been taken up by PWD. Chief minister B S Yediyurappa will lay the foundation stone for the works on November 25 in the presence of DCM Govind Kharjol, district minister S T Somashekar and muzrai minister Kota Srinivas Poojary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/public-works-department-to-reconstruct-temple-in-talakadu/articleshow/79376095.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Surat||Surat: School students develop apps to assist corona warriors||SURAT: When these 30 school students of six different schools started learning coding during lockdown they did not know that by the end of the first phase of Covid-19 they will end up developing websites and applications that can assist corona warriors to fight the pandemic better. The students have developed Covid patient tracking app, a web platform for hospital management and online medical shop among many other projects. The three and a half month coding course was designed by academicians and IT professionals to spend their lockdown period more productively. The focus was also to help students learn during the period when they are locked inside their homes. The project was offered free of cost to school students of Sharda Vidhya Mandir, Country Side, Bhulka Vihar, Sanskar Bharti, Deep Darshan and Madhavbaug. “With a plan to make coding a fun activity and making students learn it from the basics we planned the course. I and a few of my computer expert friends were working from home during lockdown hence we planned to utilise the time by sharing knowledge,” said Jayesh Chaudhari, a graduate from IIIT Allahabad. The course was offered to students from Class VII to IX. “In the new education policy, the teaching of coding is included. It was not pre-planned but while pondering over some ideas we decided to run the course on a trial basis for free,” said Sanjay Desai, founder of the Country Side School. Learning web development 12-year-old Himanshi Dayaramani has developed a website that provides Covid-19 related news and information on one platform sourced from different locations. “Since there is a lot of information and news available about Covid I planned to create a single platform where a chatbot can assist individuals to gather the information,” said Himanshi, a student of Class VII. “My father runs a medical shop and during Covid time it is a challenging job. Keeping the idea of social distancing, lockdown and facilitating needy patients I developed the medical shop,” said 13-year-old Class VII student, Dhrovya Vithalani, who developed an online medical shop in just one week’s time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/school-students-develop-apps-to-assist-corona-warriors/articleshow/79376591.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
November 24, 2020||Kolkata||Jheel clean-up brings in thrice as many birds||Kolkata: If early trends are any indication, the bird count at Santragachhi jheel could record a six-year high this January. This month, more than three times the number have flocked to the water body compared to last November. According to local bird watchers, around 2,200 birds — including 2,000-plus lesser whistling ducks, purple herons, cormorants, common moorhens, egrets and one gadwal — have settled down at the 11-hectare water body so far this year, a big jump from the 700-800 birds that usually arrive at the jheel by the end of the third week. The reason for so many birds flocking to Santragachhi jheel, said West Bengal Biodiversity Board chairman A K Sanyal, is a concerted effort to scientifically manage the jheel vegetation this year unlike in the past when clean-ups were hastily done at the eleventh-hour. “There is dense hyacinth generation at Santragachhi jheel that covers the entire water body during monsoon, camouflaging the water body. Migratory birds that arrive early are unable to sight the water and fly elsewhere. The clean-up used to be carried out in November or December after hastily arranging for funds. This is the first time that work had begun right after lockdown ended and was carried out in three phases,” explained avian habitat restoration expert Arjan Basu Roy. The first phase began in June and included removal of hyacinth. In the second phase, carried out in August-September, five small floating islands created by the hyacinth were prepared for the birds. The third phase, in which nine bigger islands were created, began after Durga Puja and was completed on Sunday. “We plan to carry out a fourth-phase of clean-up after the migratory season ends in February-March. That will be a clean-up for the local birds. This way, we will try to ensure that the water in the jheel is exposed and its quality improves through increase in oxygen content,” Basu Roy explained. West Bengal Biodiversity Board that had funded the clean-up last year as well as this year and is keen to make the year-round maintenance a regular feature. “We are reaping rich dividends from the early clean-up. Though Railways and the Howrah Municipal Corporation haven’t responded in the manner we would have liked, we will carry on supporting the initiative,” said Sanyal. The bird count had been steadily declining each winter since 2014 when 6,984 birds had been recorded. It hit a low of 800 in December 2017 after an over-zealous clean-up drive by HMC led to the removal of all hyacinth, robbing birds of places to rest. It was only last year that the trend was successfully reversed with the clean-up being carried out slightly earlier. This year, birders expect the count to not only surpass last year’s count of 5,694 but also cross the 2014 figure to breach the 7,000-mark.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/jheel-clean-up-brings-in-thrice-as-many-birds/articleshow/79376463.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Coimbatore||BJP performs bhoomi puja for party office||Coimbatore: Union minister of state for external affairs and parliamentary affairs V Muraleedharan and BJP state president L Murugan performed the bhoomi puja for the party’s office in the city on Monday. Murugan said that BJP has decided to build party offices in all the districts of Tamil Nadu. Construction work has begun in few districts like Tirupur and Vaniyambadi. Those buildings would be ready by Pongal next year while the one in Coimbatore would be built in six months, he said. “BJP president J P Nadda would inaugurate the building in Coimbatore,’’ he said. Muraleedharan told reporters that Congress was protesting the farm acts brought by centre for ‘ulterior, political motives.’ These laws were brought by the Centre for the benefit of farmers and there was no opposition from farmers, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bjp-performs-bhoomi-puja-for-party-office/articleshow/79378269.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 24, 2020||Jaipur||Groom penalised for not wearing face mask||Jaipur: A groom was penalised for not wearing a mask on Monday night while he was on the mare during the wedding procession. The procession was apparently heading to a temple for prayers before the wedding in Harmara.The groom identified as Avinash Jain was fined Rs 500 as he was not wearing a mask. Even the child sitting with him on the mare was not wearing a mask. Mahindra Singh, assistant sub inspector, Vishwakarma police station told TOI, “The wedding party was crossing through a busy market area where we had set up check points to penalise people for not wearing masks. When few people noticed that the groom was not wearing a mask, they informed us and we fined him for the same. After the penalty, Jain immediately put on the mask.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/groom-penalised-for-not-wearing-face-mask/articleshow/79378253.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 2 major roads set to open for traffic next month||PATNA: The state government’s two ambitious road projects in the state capital are set to be completed in the coming weeks. While trial run has started on AIIMS-Digha semi elevated road, the R Block-Digha road is likely to be completed by December 15. Both the projects have been executed by Bihar State Road Development Corporation Limited (BSRDCL). BSRDCL’s managing director Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said the trial run of vehicles on AIIMS-Digha road has been successful and vehicular movement will start after completion of some remaining works near Khagaul railway overbridge. “It is the longest span over the railway track and casting work has been completed on both lanes. In fact, vehicular movement has also started on one lane under the trial run,” Agarwal told TOI on Monday. He said empty trucks coming from Sonepur side via JP Setu are also running on the AIIMS-Digha semi-elevated road. Sources said the district administration has recently introduced several measures to decongest vehicular movement on Mahatma Gandhi Setu (MGS) following regular snarls due to traffic ban on its eastern flank, which is getting rehabilitated. The first 2km of the 11.9km stretch from AIIMS-Patna is a two-lane semi-elevated structure. The remaining stretch till Digha is a four-lane road. CM Nitish Kumar had laid the foundation for the project on November 2, 2013 and it was targeted to be complete by May or June this year, as per revised deadline. However, the project got further delayed owing to Covid-19 pandemic. Commuters will also get respite from frequent snarls once the R Block-Digha road is opened for traffic. The project comprises three flyovers, including at Hartali Mor. “The structure has been made ready at Hartali Mor flyover and work on its approach road is in the final stages,” Agarwal said. He said work has also started on phase-two of the project from Ashok Rajpath to JP Setu at Digha. “A unique feature of this project is installation of noise barriers at all three flyovers,” Agarwal said. The R Block-Digha road is passing through Hartali Mor, Punaichak, Shivpuri, Mahesh Nagar, New Patliputra Colony, Rajiv Nagar and Patliputra industrial area. Two lanes have also been constructed on both sides as service lanes. The four-lane road will act as north-south corridor in the city. AIIMS-Digha semi-elevated highway will allow vehicles coming from Sonepur and other places north of Ganga via JP Setu to directly go towards Phulwarisharif and beyond without facing city traffic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/2-major-roads-set-to-open-for-traffic-next-month/articleshow/79374920.cms||Piyush Tripathi
November 24, 2020||Patna||MLAs seek justice for Vaishali girl||PATNA: Congress MLAs on Monday staged a protest outside the legislative assembly building against the killing of a 20-year-old girl for opposing sexual harassment bid on her by the accused. The Congress MLAs demanded justice for the victim and action against the officials who had suppressed the matter for a fortnight after the incident, which took place at Rasulpur Habib under Chandpura police outpost of Desari police station area of Vaishali district on October 30 night. She died at PMCH on November 15. Though an FIR was lodged by the victim’s family on November 2, it took a fortnight for the police to make the first arrest in the case. “The girl was burned alive by sprinkling kerosene on her. She had sustained nearly 75% burn injuries and died in hospital after 15 days of the incident. But the matter was suppressed,” Congress MLA Shakeel Ahmad Khan alleged. Congress legislature party leader Ajit Sharma said the matter was intentionally suppressed because of the state assembly elections at that time. “Shame on the present government which talks about law and order and women’s rights. The victim’s family has yet not been given compensation and we will fight for their rights,” he said. Another party MLA, Pratima Kumari, said Congress were trying to make the “deaf and dumb government” listen to the shriek of the victim who died in immense pain. CPI(ML) MLA Mahboob Alam said his party will fight to get justice for the victim and her family. “Kidney scam is also surfacing in the state capital and we want the government to probe it,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mlas-seek-justice-for-vaishali-girl/articleshow/79375405.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 24, 2020||Patna||Bihar CM likely to expand cabinet after winter session||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar is likely to expand his cabinet soon after the ongoing five-day winter session of the state assembly, which will conclude on November 27. Sources in the NDA said top leaders of BJP and JD(U) are in talks over cabinet expansion and the names of possible ministers are being discussed between both the parties. As per constitutional provisions, Nitish can have a maximum of 35 ministers in his cabinet. Altogether 14 ministers took oath on November 16, but education minister Mewalal Choudhary had to resign on charges of corruption on November 19, leaving 13 ministers in the cabinet. The CM can now appoint 22 more ministers. In his previous government, Nitish had 32 cabinet ministers. Ten of them, however, lost the recently concluded assembly election. Of the 13 existing ministers, seven are from BJP, four from JD(U) and one each from the smaller allies HAM(S) and the VIP. “As BJP has the maximum 74 MLAs among the four NDA allies, the most number of ministers will be inducted from the saffron party in the next cabinet expansion,” a senior JD(U) leader told TOI on Monday. Speculation about the cabinet expansion got credence on Saturday after ruling JD(U)’s state working president and minister Ashok Choudhary while responding to a media query said cabinet expansion could take place after the end of the current session of the assembly. “Since several ministers in the current cabinet are holding charges of multiple departments, they are not able to give adequate attention to all departments. Hence, there is a requirement of cabinet expansion,” Choudhary, who himself holds the charges of five departments, said. Choudhary got four departments— building construction, science and technology, social welfare and minority welfare— on November 17 when the CM distributed portfolios among his ministers. But when Mewalal resigned as education minister on November 19, the charge of education department too was handed over to Ashok. Political circles are abuzz with the names of likely ministers in the next cabinet expansion. “Cabinet expansion is the prerogative of the chief minister. He will decide on the cabinet expansion at an appropriate time,” JD(U) state president and Rajya Sabha member Bashishtha Narayan Singh told TOI in response to a query on the likely cabinet expansion after the winter session.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cm-likely-to-expand-cabinet-after-winter-session/articleshow/79375433.cms||Madan Kumar
November 24, 2020||Patna||Bihar has no regular DGP since September||PATNA: Bihar has no regular director general of police (DGP) for the last two months. The post fell vacant after Gupteshwar Pandey, a 1987-batch IPS officer, opted for VRS on September 22 ahead of the state assembly polls. Subsequently, S K Singhal, a 1988-batch IPS officer posted as DG-cum-commandant general of home guards, was given additional charge of the state police chief. Sources in the home department said a panel of DG-rank officers was sent to the UPSC for its approval in September. However, the matter is still pending. The panel includes the names of senior IPS officers Rajesh Ranjan (1984-batch), Shobha Ohatker (1990-batch), Dinesh Singh Bist, Kumar Rajesh Chandra, Alok Raj, A S Rajan, Arvind Pandey, Sheel Vardhan Singh, S K Singhal and R S Bhatti. Sources in the home department said the UPSC had sought the list of all the DG-rank IPS officers of the state. “There is no any fresh development on this front,” a senior official in the home department said. A retired DGP said the post has not remained vacant for so long in the last two decades. “Even the state assembly polls were conducted under the supervision of an officer holding the additional charge,” he said. The officer, preferring anonymity, said Bihar seems to have adopted the ‘Gujarat model’ in the appointment of DGP. In Gujarat, the post of the state police chief has remained vacant for more than six months due to the internal fighting among top cops for the coveted post, he pointed out. Several senior police officers in the state express surprise over the delay. “The absence of a regular DGP has ‘crippled’ the police machinery and the quality of state police, particularly of the IPS officers,” said an ADG-rank officer. Gupteshwar had opted for the VRS under the provisions of the All India Service (death-cum-retirement benefits) Rules 1958 almost five months before his retirement, which was due on February 28 next year. His VRS was immediately accepted by the governor. He was also exempted from mandatory three months prior information for taking VRS. According to authoritative sources in the home department, the DGP could have been directly appointed by the state government earlier, but it was changed in 2019. Under the new rules, a panel of DG-rank officers has to be sent to the UPSC. After considering all the names, the UPSC will send the names of three of them back to the state government. And there is a provision to appoint one of these three officers as DGP. ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar, who is also the official spokesperson of the state police, couldn’t be contacted for his comments despite repeated attempts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-has-no-regular-dgp-since-september/articleshow/79376507.cms||Ramashankar
November 24, 2020||Business||NBFC, small finance bank stocks rally on RBI proposals||MUMBAI: Stocks of several NBFCs, small finance banks and a select few private banks rallied up to 20% on Monday. The gains came on the back of the RBI panel’s report on holding structure in private banks and also allowing several other financial entities to enter the banking space. Some analysts, however, are skeptical if corporates could get a banking licence and whether other recommendations could be implemented. In Monday’s market, stocks of Equitas Small Finance Bank, Ujjivan Small Finance Bank, Equitas Holding and Ujjivan Financial Services rallied smartly to close between 18% and 20% higher. Analysts feel that the recommendations, if implemented in total, could be positive for non-operating financial holding companies like Equitas Holding and Ujjivan Financial Services. Among others that closed with smart gains were Aditya Birla Capital, L&T Finance Holding and Indiabulls Housing Finance. Aditya Birla Capital closed 3.8% higher, L&T Finance Holding ended with a 2.8% gain while Indiabulls Housing Finance closed 1.7% higher. Among the private banks, IndusInd Bank, which may also benefit if the RBI panel’s report is accepted, rallied 4% too. Currently, its promoters hold just below 15% and if the recommendations are made into rules, they would be allowed to hike their combined stake by a little over 11% to 26%. A report by leading foreign brokerage Macquarie Capital Securities, however, noted that while the recommendations were bold, it believes the possibility of them being granted is very remote. According to analysts at Macquarie, the ultimate power of fit & proper criteria and due diligence rests with the RBI. “Irrespective of these guidelines, the RBI is the final deciding authority. A corporate house like L&T was not given a banking licence by the RBI. While Uday Kotak has been allowed to hold a 26% stake in KMB, the promoter Hindujas’ plea for raising its stake in IndusInd Bank (applied in March 2020) has yet to be decided by the RBI. While the RBI has reservations about a single entity owning more than a 10% stake in a private sector bank, Prem Watsa’s Fairfax was allowed to hold more than a 50% stake in Catholic Syrian Bank. The message here is that the RBI is the sole deciding authority, regardless of the internal working group recommendations. While rules can be black & white, fit & proper criteria and due diligence will remain a grey area, in our view,” the analysts noted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nbfc-small-finance-bank-stocks-rally-on-rbi-proposals/articleshow/79377121.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Business||Half of NBFCs which qualify for bank licence are corporate-owned||MUMBAI: Around half of the finance companies with assets of over Rs 50,000 crore that meet the RBI’s size criteria to get a bank licence are part of corporate groups, while two are already part of banking groups. Not many standalone non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) are likely to qualify for the bank licence norms. The RBI’s internal working group in its report had said that well-run NBFCs, with an asset size of above Rs 50,000 crore, including those which are owned by a corporate house, may be considered for conversion into banks. Among the top 10 finance companies in terms of assets under management, Aditya Birla Capital, Bajaj Finance, L&T Finance Holdings, Mahindra Finance, Piramal, and Tata Capital are part of a corporate group. Of the remaining NBFCs, HDFC is already a promoter of a bank, while the Life Insurance Corporation, promoter of LIC Housing Finance, owns IDBI Bank. PNB Housing Finance, another large NBFC, is owned by Punjab National Bank. The RBI has said that companies have to wait till laws are changed to give the central bank powers to supervise corporate groups before giving them a bank licence. However, it has left the door open for NBFCs that are owned by corporates if they have been around for 10 years. The other standalone NBFCs that have a balance sheet size of over Rs 50,000 crore are Shriram Group finance companies, Indiabulls Housing, Cholamandalam Finance, Muthoot Finance, and Edelweiss Finance. IIFL and Sundaram Finance, although large established lenders, are likely to fall short of the target. For Shriram Transport Finance, transferring its vehicle finance business into a bank would reduce efficiency. “A bank has to provide a very wide range of services, maintain SLR (statutory liquidity ratio) & CRR (cash reserve ratio) requirements and operates at a much higher cost structure compared to NBFCs. So, an NBFC will have to weigh the pros and cons after the final guidelines, and understand the impact for stakeholders (shareholders, employees, customers) before considering conversion into a bank,” said Shriram Transport Finance MD & CEO Umesh Revankar. Another disincentive for Shriram is that the RBI has said that, upon conversion into a bank, any lending activity that can be undertaken within a bank has to be transferred to the bank. However, many lenders have NBFC arms. Indiabulls had made unsuccessful attempts to acquire a bank licence earlier. The last time was when it proposed to merge with Lakshmi Vilas Bank, which was rejected by the RBI. The group is likely to try again. A big challenge for the NBFCs to convert into banks will be the cost of investment in technology and setting up a retail branch network. They will also have to face additional costs in complying with the SLR of 18% and the CRR of 4% and not all NBFCs can meet this cost of compliance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/half-of-nbfcs-which-qualify-for-bank-licence-are-corporate-owned/articleshow/79376986.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Surat||Govt negligence responsible for Takshashila fire: NHRC||SURAT: The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) sought a report from the Gujarat chief secretary on Monday about compensation paid to kin of deceased and injured in Takshashila Arcade fire on May 2019 in which 22 students had lost their lives. In its letter, NHRC held the state and its officials responsible for negligence that led to the incident. Multiple complaints related to the incident were filed with NHRC by RTI activist Sanjay Ezhava. Ezhavam had submitted an application on May 28, 2019 to NHRC demanding a high-level investigation following which the commission sought inquiry and investigation reports from Gujarat government, Surat’s district magistrate, Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) and Surat police commissioner. NHRC held the state and its officials responsible for the incident based on the inquiry reports submitted to it. The letter by NHRC to chief secretary states, “As the report clearly suggests negligence on the part of officials of the state government, the state is vicariously liable for the act of its officials. Since the report is silent as regards monetary compensation if any is provided to the victims injured or deceased, let further report be submitted by the state government on the said aspect.” “Registry is therefore directed to issue notice to the Chief Secretary State of Gujarat to furnish details of compensation if any remitted to injured or the next of kin of the deceased,” the letter states. NHRC sought a report related to compensation paid to the victims within four weeks. “The government has paid Rs 4 lakh each to the deceased while we are demanding Rs 50 lakh to each victim’s family. We have also filed a PIL in the Gujarat high court raising various issues related to the fire,” Ezhava told TOI. NHRC also stated in its letter that SMC and police have taken swift actions in steps to be taken after the incident. “The municipal corporation has taken all possible steps to control the fire and rescue operation. The police action and administrative action were taken swiftly,” states the NHRC letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/nhrc-holds-state-responsible-for-takshashila-fire-that-killed-22/articleshow/79376539.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
November 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Rates of premium basmati varieties rise in Haryana mandis||KARNAL: With the harvesting is the last leg, prices of the basmati paddy have gone up following a rise in demand. The premium basmati variety CSR-30 is fetching good returns this year as compared to last year. It is being sold for around Rs 4,200-4,400 per quintal in the Karnal grain market. In 2019, the same variety fetched Rs 3,600-4,000 per quintal. Even prices of evolved basmati variety, Pusa 1121, have also increased these days. The Pusa 1121 variety is being sold in the range of Rs 2,700-2,800 per quintal as compared to Rs 2,100-2,300 per quintal earlier. Holding on to their stock of Pusa 1121 for more than a month after hoping to get a remunerative price, farmers of the paddy-rich belt have started to bring their stock to the mandi to sell it to private traders. Rakesh, a farmer of Assandh block, said, “The CSR-30 variety has witnessed good returns this year. I sold my produce of four acres for Rs 4,200 a quintal.” “The opening price for Pusa 1121 had led to worries among us. Hence, we had to hold it and now I brought 1121 variety of three acres and was able to sell it for Rs 2,750 per quintal,” said Dharambir, a farmer of Ardana. Karnal deputy director of agriculture (DDA) Aditya Dabas said paddy was cultivated on 1.70 lakh hectares in the current season in Karnal district, of which around 25% is of basmati crop, while the remaining of Pusa 1509, Muchhal, and PR varieties. Rajneesh Choudhary, president of Karnal Arhtiyas Association, said the CSR-30 variety is being sold at between Rs 4,200 per quintal and Rs 4,400 per quintal and the prices of Pusa 1121 have improved to Rs 2,700-2800 per quintal while Muchhal has recorded Rs 3,000 a quintal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rates-of-premium-basmati-varieties-rise-in-haryana-mandis/articleshow/79378266.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Patna||AIMIM MLA uses ‘Bharat’ in place of ‘Hindustan’ in oath||PATNA: The newly elected AIMIM member of the Bihar legislative assembly, Akhtarul Iman, on Monday courted controversy when he asked pro-tem Speaker Jitan Ram Manjhi if the word ‘Hindustan’ written in the text for taking oath in Urdu could be replaced by ‘Bharat’, that is otherwise mentioned in the Preamble of the country’s Constitution. Iman is also the AIMIM state president. The query surprised Manjhi, who said the text had become a part of convention. He also turned to the assembly secretariat secretary for clarification on the matter. Consultation done in whispers, Manjhi allowed Iman to take oath in Urdu language and also replace the word ‘Hindustan’ in the text with ‘Bharat’. After taking oath, Iman told the mediapersons that he, in fact, had not made any “objection” to the use of the word “Hindustan” in the Urdu text for oath. “Whatever query I made was before I took the oath. It was merely a suggestion from my side, not any objection,” Iman said, adding: “I had only made a point that the Preamble of the Constitution did not mention the word Hindustan. Instead, it is ‘Bharat’ that has been mentioned there. Accordingly, I thought that since we were taking oath in the name of the Constitution, it would be proper to use the word Bharat, instead of Hindustan.” Iman also explained that he, in fact, had no problem with the word Hindustan, as people have grown up listening to the cherished song of poet Iqbal: ‘Saare jahaan se achchha, Hindustan hamara’. However, the Amour MLA had stirred up a controversy with his intervention before taking the oath. “Those who have any problem with the use of Hindustan should better go to Pakistan, or any other country,” BJP MLA Neeraj Kumar Singh Babloo said. Former minister and JD(U) MLA Madan Sahani sounded more circumspect. “Hindustan is a very common word that is used by people. Some people like to look different or try to get instant limelight. What he said was really unnecessary,” Sahani said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/aimim-state-chief-creates-row-over-word-hindustan/articleshow/79375353.cms||Abhay Singh
November 24, 2020||Patna||Fog effect: Airlines asked to reduce flights at Patna airport||PATNA: The number of flights at Jayaprakash Narayan International Airport is likely to be reduced next month in view of foggy conditions likely to prevail in the coming weeks. Airports Authority India (AAI) officials at Patna, after a meeting with city airport director Bhupesh CH Negi, other stakeholders, airlines executives and the officials of local weather office on Monday, requested the airlines to withdraw some of the flights in view of prediction of shallow foggy conditions in the city during the morning and night time in the coming weeks. The revised winter schedule would be released next month. “Operating late night and early flights would not be possible in December,” said an AAI (Patna) official, adding that another meeting would be held next week. Patna airport is presently operating 50 flights per day, including 20 of IndiGo, 16 of SpiceJet, eight of GoAir, four of Air India and two of Vistara. The airport is working on the extension of approach light up to 720m from present 420m on the eastern side of the runway. But it is likely to be ready by next winter. The AAI team would visit the airport on Tuesday to see the areas where the lights will be installed. The Airport Environment Management Committee (AEMC) will also hold its meeting next week to see the preparedness of Patna airport to tackle the flow of passengers in winter by following the safety protocols amid Covid-19 pandemic. AEMC chairperson and Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said it is important to ensure that social distancing norms should be maintained on the airport premises owing to rise in passenger flow. “Discussion would also be held about the preparedness of various stakeholders to ensure less inconvenience caused to the passengers in case of delays in flight operations owing to foggy conditions,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/fog-effect-airlines-asked-to-reduce-flights-at-patna-airport/articleshow/79374891.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 24, 2020||Patna||Man, nephew shot in Saran||CHHAPRA: Five bike-borne criminals gunned down a man and his nephew in Motirajpur village under Garkha police station in Saran district late Sunday evening. The deceased were identified as Nagendra Singh (45) and Sanjai Singh (22). Nagendra’s brother Nitynand Singh also received gunshot injuries and is undergoing treatment in PMCH. The family members were making preparations for the marriage of Nagendra’s daughter scheduled on November 30. The agitated villagers caught hold of one of the criminals, Parshuram Rai (55), and thrashed him mercilessly. He succumbed to his injuries while on way to Patna for treatment. “Personal rivalry with neighbours seems to be the prima facie reason behind the crime. The criminals were hired by the rivals,” Saran SP Dhurat Sayali Savlaram said on Monday. She said four accused were arrested from different places within a few hours of the incident and two bikes, two countrymade pistols and nine live cartridges were recovered from their possession. According to locals, the miscreants came on bikes and called Sanjai out. As soon as Sanjai came out of his house, he was shot dead. Hearing the gunshots, his uncle Nagendra came out and was also shot dead. Nityanand sustained bullet injury when he rushed to rescue them, eyewitnesses claimed. DIG (Saran Range) B K Verma also visited the village on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/man-nephew-shot-in-saran/articleshow/79375490.cms||H K Verma
November 24, 2020||Patna||From Mithila ‘paag’ to oath in Sanskrit & Urdu, MLAs showcase diversity||PATNA: On the first day of 17th Vidhan Sabha, several legislators drew attention as they entered the House, some for the first time, showcasing their unique individual style or the region they represent. From putting on the beautifully adorned ‘Mithila phag’, the colourful ethnic headgear from the region, to arriving in a vintage car, and newly-elected legislators taking oath in various languages and dialects, including Sanskrit, Urdu and Maithili, showcased the cultural diversity of the state. While a majority of the legislators opted for Hindi, Urdu and Maithili to take the oath, the Congress MLA from Kadwa, Shakeel Ahmad Khan, stunned everyone by taking oath in Sanskrit. His move was appreciated by other MLAs who applauded him by patting their desks. Ratnesh Sada who had been elected from Sonbarsa and Mithilesh Kumar from Sitamarhi also opted for Sanskrit. Talking to TOI, Shakeel said India has different shades and all shades should be celebrated. “Let us celebrate the diversity of our country and let us shower love on one another. By opting for Sanskrit, I wanted to give the message of the need for celebrating this diversity. In the last few years, I am witnessing that hatred is being promoted in politics, which is dangerous,” Shakeel added. MLC Devesh Chandra Thakur accompanied by another MLC Sanjay Jha came in a vintage car and became an attraction for the lensmen. While Devesh was driving the car, Sanjay accompanied him. One of the MLAs from Mithila who wore the traditional headgear was BJP MLA Hari Bhushan Thakur. “Mithila region is culturally advanced, but a lot of development work needs to be done. Through this phag, I want to bring attention to Mithila,” Thakur said. The first-time MLAs were all excited to enter inside the House and take the oath. These newly elected MLAs were also carrying their winning certificates to be shown before entering the assembly. Ace shooter and debutant BJP MLA Shreyasi Singh arrived clad in red and black salwar suit. Talking to a TV channel, she said, “I am excited and a bit nervous, but have come with energy to work. I will fulfil the promises I have made to people of Jamui and work for the development of all castes and religions. I will see that the NDA government’s policies are implemented. We have a big fight against illiteracy and unemployment.” First-time Congress MLA from Rajapakar, Pratima Kumari said, “I am very happy and am thankful to the people of Rajapakar for choosing me. I will fulfil my duty with responsibility.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/from-mithila-paag-to-oath-in-sanskrit-urdu-mlas-showcase-diversity/articleshow/79375383.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 24, 2020||Business||Sebi eyes easier rules to reclassify promoters||MUMBAI: Markets regulator Sebi on Monday proposed to make it easier for promoters of listed entities to re-classify themselves to become public shareholders by hiking the minimum threshold voting rights to 15% from 10% currently. It also said that for such re-classification, the company can reduce the waiting period between passing the resolution in a board meeting and permission from shareholders to one month from three months now. Additionally, the proposals intend to incorporate rules that govern promoter holding under the IBC, Sebi said. Under the new proposals, the re-classification condition on shareholding should be amended in such a way that the total holding of all promoter entities seeking re-classification should not hold 15% or more of the total voting rights in the company. The regulator received feedback from market participants to review the current threshold of 10% so that the persons who may have been promoters but are no longer in day-to-day control, having shareholding of less than 15%, may “opt out” from being classified as promoters, without having to reduce their shareholding. The consultation paper from Sebi said that it had received feedback regarding cases where promoters were willing to re-classify themselves as public shareholders but were finding it difficult under the existing regulations. In some cases, Sebi had given relaxations from the existing rules, but a change in the rules could make the process smoother. Under the new proposals exemption from the procedure for re-classification should be granted to existing promoters in cases where such re-classification is pursuant to an open offer. Sebi has sought comments from public till December 24 on these proposals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sebi-eyes-easier-rules-to-reclassify-promoters/articleshow/79377082.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Business||Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund moves SC over closure of 6 schemes||MUMBAI: Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund has moved the Supreme Court, challenging the Karnataka high court order to take permission from investors to close down six of its debt schemes. On April 23, Franklin MF had decided to close these schemes with funds worth about Rs 26,000 crore at that time. On October 24, the Karnataka HC upheld the decision taken by the trustee of the fund to wind-up the schemes. It also upheld the constitutional validity of some of the Sebi regulations relating to winding up of MF schemes. However, the HC had said that consent of the unitholders would be required to wind up the schemes. On Monday, a letter from the fund house’s president Sanjay Sapre to its investors said that after detailed deliberations, the management had decided that it would be necessary to seek judicial intervention from the SC “to ensure an appropriate implementation of the law in the best interest of unitholders”. The decision by the fund house took some time because “these steps needed to be carefully and thoughtfully taken to ensure that (it could) return unitholder monies at the earliest in an equitable manner, without distress sale of securities (at steep discounts) that would occur if there is a rush of redemptions”, the letter said. The judgment by the Karnataka HC came after the SC had transferred cases across several HCs relating to the closure of the schemes to a neutral court. On April 24, the fund house had decided to close these schemes because, after the nationwide lockdown was imposed in late March, the debt market had become illiquid. At the same time, the fund house faced severe redemption pressure from investors, which it was finding increasingly difficult to meet without going for a fire sale that could have further hurt the interests of these investors by a severe fall in net asset values.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/franklin-mf-moves-sc-over-closure-of-6-schemes/articleshow/79376820.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Kolkata||24 trafficking victims to share their stories of grit on calendar||Kolkata: Twenty-four women who had been victims of trafficking and are now rehabilitated have come forward to be a part of a new year’s calendar that will carry stories of their resilience. Among these 24 is Nasima, an activist who takes the message of anti-trafficking to schools where underprivileged girls study, and Sadhna, who now works at a cafe in the city. The calendar has been brought out by the International Justice Mission (IJM), an NGO with a presence in 16 countries. IJM has been working closely with the state police administration to bring back trafficked girls either to their families — if that is a safe option — or arrange for shelter. Each girl is put through education, given vocational training and then hand-held into finding jobs or setting up small businesses. These 24 girls came forward to get themselves photographed and tell their stories to celebrate their victory. “We feel this will inspire other rescued girls not to give up and also encourage successful women to help such girls. We hope the calendar reaches as many thinking minds as possible in the new year,” said Kashi, who is now working in a garments design firm after completing school and vocational training in tailoring. Every page on the calendar tells a different story, with accompanying photographs. “It takes courage to come out on the pages of a calendar with a message like this. It is also a vindication of the effort that we put in to stitch their futures,” said Saji Philip, spokesperson of IJM in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/24-trafficking-victims-to-share-their-stories-of-grit-on-calendar/articleshow/79376481.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
November 24, 2020||Varanasi||Education min inaugurates BHU’s faculty devpt prog||Varanasi: The Union Education Minister, Ramesh Pokhariyal Nishank inaugurated the Faculty Development Programme of Institute of Management Studies, Banaras Hindu University, on Social Enterprise Management including other 46 AICTE-ATAL sponsored Online Faculty development programmes through an online session from New Delhi on Monday. Through a video message, Nishank highlighted his vision towards bringing a substantial improvement in higher education in the country. He emphasised on the ability of teachers to shape leaders of the future in the best way for society to build positive and inspired future generations. He also shed light on how the National Education Policy-2020 is going to revamp the education system in India. He also encouraged teachers to train themselves in order to make subjects more interesting and applicable in real life, for the students. He appreciated the role of BHU in grooming teachers of high technical intellect. He stressed on building Industry-Academia linkages for enhancement of employability of students and suggested that more Faculty Development Programmes should be organised based upon the current industry requirements. This will be beneficial for students to develop the necessary skills. According to the university spokesperson, the Faculty Development Programme is scheduled through online mode from November 23 to 27. The programme is being attended by 200 participants from various reputed institutes of the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/education-min-inaugurates-bhus-faculty-devpt-prog/articleshow/79376533.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Shatabdi train service to be suspended||Coimbatore: Southern Railway has decided to suspend operation of Coimbatore-Chennai Shatabdi service in December. After train services were stopped in the wake of Covid lockdown, Shatabdi express between Coimbatore and Chennai was resumed on October 19. The train which leaves Chennai at 7.10am everyday would reach Coimbatore around 2.15pm. In the return direction, the train would leave Coimbatore junction at 3.05pm and reach Chennai around 10.15pm. However, due to poor patronage, the train service would be stopped on November 30, southern railway officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/shatabdi-train-service-to-be-suspended/articleshow/79378218.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 24, 2020||Surat||SMC sanitary inspector succumbs after battling Covid for 25 days||Surat: A 51-year-old sanitary inspector at the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) succumbed to Covid-19 infections after battling for the last 25 days at a private hospital in Adajan in the city.According to SMC officials, Kiran Desai, a resident of Shubham Society in Adajan, breathed his last on Monday. He is survived by his wife, son and a daughter.Desai was posted as a sanitary inspector at the Vector Borne Disease Control department of the SMC’s Varachha (A) zone. “He was admitted to a private hospital in Adajan for the last 25 days. He complained of breathlessness and could not recover from the infection,” said an SMC official.According to the SMC officials, over 16 employees have so far succumbed to Covid-19 infections which includes sanitary inspectors, sanitary sub inspectors and clerks among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/smc-sanitary-inspector-succumbs-after-battling-covid-for-25-days/articleshow/79376382.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Varanasi||Uttar Pradesh: Gram pradhan booked for ‘beating’ women||VARANASI: A gram pradhan and his brother were on Monday booked in a criminal case in Gambirpur area of Azamgarh district for allegedly beating some Dalit women, who had opposed the construction of a panchayat building without land measurement on Sunday. The police were yet to arrest the accused. According to reports, the gram pradhan of Singhda village, Santosh went to the construction site of the panchayat building on Sunday afternoon. Scores of Dalit women also reached the site and started opposing the construction. They wanted the measurement of land to be done before starting the construction work. Following an altercation, the gram pradhan and his brother Ashutosh allegedly started beating the women. Someone shot a video of the incident and uploaded it on social media. On the basis of the video, police lodged an FIR against the gram pradhan and his brother. Azamgarh SP Sudhir Kumar Singh said that a case against the two has been lodged and a manhunt has been launched to nab them.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/gram-pradhan-booked-for-beating-women/articleshow/79376520.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Mangaluru||Industrial township authority for Baikampady awaits govt nod||MANGALURU: An industrial township on the lines of the one functioning in Electronics City, Bengaluru, will soon be a reality in Baikampady Industrial Estate in Mangaluru too, if government amends the Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act. Kanara Industries Association president Ajith Kamath told TOI there are over 400 industrial units in Baikampady Industrial Estate. “We have plans to develop Baikampady Industrial Township Authority involving the units. The government has been insisting that industrial townships should be set up in all industrial estates in the state. As per the government policy, such townships should be run by the industrial associations.” “Accordingly, we must carve out areas of Baikampady Industrial Estate from the city corporation and the respective gram panchayats to form the township. We have already submitted an application in this regard to the government. While the Electronics City was the first industrial estate to start the township authority in the state, applications of industrial estates in Baikampady and Peenya are pending before the government,” he said. The setting up of township authorities needs an amendment in the Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act, he said. “We are waiting for the government to amend the Act to facilitate the setting up of an industrial township for Baikampady. We have already submitted applications and the NOCs from gram panchayats and Mangaluru City Corporation also have been obtained. We have been waiting for a response from the government,” he added. “At present, waste collection and maintenance inside industrial areas is not efficient and not regular, though most of the industries pay property tax including solid waste management cess. If the industrial township is set up, then all maintenance and necessary infrastructure development work can be taken up through the authority,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/industrial-township-authority-for-baikampady-awaits-govt-nod/articleshow/79375834.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Nagpur||Illegal guns in Nagpur coming from UP||NAGPUR: The recovery of four illegal firearms by Sakkardara police seems to suggest that their source may be the dreaded underworld of Uttar Pradesh. Shaikh Nadeem, arrested by Sakkardara police, has named a UP-based arms supplier from whom he had received the country-made revolvers and pistols. Senior inspector Satyavan Mane of Sakkardara police said Nadeem was arrested following custodial interrogation of Shaikh Shakir who had shot dead one Umesh Dhoble over financial dispute last week. The gun used by Shakir was provided to him five months ago by Nadeem. It was also recovered by Sakkardara police during the course of investigation into the murder case under supervision of Zonal DCP Akshay Shinde. After recovering the gun, Sakkardara police team of PI Mane and sub-inspector Santosh Ingley nabbed Nadeem at NIT market at Ashirwad Nagar on November 21. Two guns were recovered from Nadeem, who has seven offences against him including one of Arms Act. During police custody remand, the police recovered yet another gun from Nadeem. Mane said Nadeem is claiming to have received the guns from a UP supplier. “The person named by Nadeem is a dreaded arms dealer having links with many other suppliers in city. He is shrewd and keeps on changing cellphone. City police have information of his activities for the last couple of years,” said Mane.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/illegal-guns-in-city-coming-from-up/articleshow/79378257.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana ex-ministers seek expulsion of Azad, Sharma from Congress||ROHTAK: Opening a front against their own party’s central senior leaders, Congress former state ministers Krishan Murti Hooda and Subhash Batra on Monday sought expulsion of party leaders Ghulam Nabi Azad and Anand Sharma. Holding a joint press conference in Rohtak, Batra and Hooda alleged that Azad and Anand were raising fingers against the Gandhi family at the behest of the ruling BJP Government. “Congress is united and strong under the leadership of Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi and Sonia Gandhi, but some leaders wanted to weaken the grand-old party. It will not be tolerated,” Krishan Murti said. He said party leaders like Azad that remained in charge of Haryana Congress and had never targeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi government on any front, but they were resorting to target party central leadership instead. “We will write to the party high command to take action against them and expel them. If Azad and leaders like him do not stop issuing statements against the Gandhi family, we will hold a strong demonstration against his Delhi-based residence”, the leaders said. Responding to a question on former chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Krishan Murti said they would not mind raising their voice against former if he tried to engage in anti-party activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-ex-ministers-seek-expulsion-of-azad-sharma-from-cong/articleshow/79378226.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Fresh Covid-19 cases continue to fall in dist||Coimbatore: Fresh Covid cases continued to fall and remained well below 150 per day in Coimbatore. On Monday, the district reported 140 new cases, lowest in the recent times while 163 people undergoing treatment were discharged from various hospitals bringing down the number of active cases to 698. In a relief, there were not even a single Covid death reported on Monday, according to the bulletin issued by the state health department. With 67 new cases, neighbouring Tirupur district too reported lesser cases than the past. As many as 79 people were discharged from Tirupur and the active cases remained at 623. There were no deaths reported from Tirupur either. Though the fresh cases are declining, health officials are still not ready to declare that festive crowding has not sparked another round of viral spread. Health officials said that only if the same trend of declining numbers continue for another week, they will able to tell for sure that the city had overcome the threat posed by festive crowding. In fact, health officials have chosen to wait for double incubation period of 28 days before heaving a sigh of relief. Until then, the health department would conduct fever camps and perform targeted testing in areas where new cases are being reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/fresh-covid-19-cases-continue-to-fall-in-dist/articleshow/79378275.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 24, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur admn forms teams for inspecting marriage venues||Jaipur: The local administration is confused on how to ensure that people follow Covid protocols for marriages to be held on November 25, which is considered to an auspicious day.The district collector’s office formed several teams on Monday who are calling on people who had submitted marriage applications before the revised guidelines which capped guests at 100 people kicked in. The office has been preparing a list of marriages and dividing them zone-wise for inspections on the marriage day.“Directions have been issued to SDMs, tehsildars and patwaris to ensure that marriage parties in their jurisdiction follow the revised guidelines strictly. Also, they have been told to videograph the marriages as part of evidence,” said district collector Antar Singh Nehra.The officials have been asked to inspect the venues and if required count the guests. They have also been instructed to ensure no processions are allowed other than at the main gate or inside the venue. CM Ashok Gehlot had issued fresh guidelines in view of rising cases and reduced the number of guests from 250 to 100. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-admn-forms-teams-for-inspecting-marriage-venues/articleshow/79378276.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Delhi||16 teams to bring homeless to Delhi govt shelters||NEW DELHI: With the mercury plummeting in the capital earlier than usual this winter, Delhi government has deployed 16 rescue teams to bring homeless people to its night shelters. The government is also setting up 250 temporary shelters, a four-fold increase compared with previous years, which will become operational from December 1. Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB), which manages night shelters in the capital, is in charge of both operations. DUSIB board member Bipin Rai said the teams were bringing homeless people to its permanent shelters, where they were not only being given two meals but also breakfast and tea in the morning this winter. The night shelters will also have medical teams for regular health check-ups. “The work for setting up 250 temporary shelters has already been awarded and these will become functional from December 1. At present, the homeless people are staying at our 212 permanent shelters,” he said. The 212 permanent and 70-odd temporary shelters set up every year are adequate to accommodate over 10,000 people; but this time, DUSIB has to ensure six-foot distance between every two individuals in the wake of Covid-19. Keeping the Covid safety norms in mind, Delhi government has decided to set up the 250 temporary shelters this winter. Every winter, DUSIB sets up 60-70 pagoda tents as temporary winter shelters but will set up 250 fire retardant and waterproof pagoda tents this time for four months, which will cost around Rs 5 crore. These tents will have beds and mattresses and will be set up at locations of homeless concentration. DUSIB has also requested people to download its ‘Rain Basera’ mobile application, on which they can upload photos of any area with homeless people they want to help. The 16 rescue teams of DUSIB will then bring these homeless people to the shelters. A DUSIB helpline number will also remain operational 24x7 during the winter season. Earlier this month, Delhi urban development minister Satyendar Jain convened a coordination meeting involving DUSIB, Delhi Jal Board, health department, Delhi Police, Revenue department, power and public works department, DDA, municipal corporations, NDMC, Delhi Metro and others to review the measures to be taken for providing proper shelter facility to the homeless. The revenue department was asked to instruct all district magistrates to take the precautionary measures related to Covid-19, apart from law and order, at these shelters. The health department was also instructed to carry out regular inspections of shelters and extend health facilities to the homeless people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/16-teams-to-bring-homeless-to-govt-shelters/articleshow/79378288.cms||Sidharatha Roy
November 24, 2020||Jaipur||Pink City markets miss wedding shoppers’ rush from small towns||Jaipur: Night curfew in view of rising Covid cases has failed to deter wedding parties in urban areas from shopping in key markets of the city. While the markets missed their buyers from small towns and rural areas, the auspicious two days for weddings beginning Tuesday has kept the markets Badi Chauper, Triploia Bazaar, Purohit Ji ka Katla, Raja Park, Lalji Sand Ka Rasta, Sikar House, Johri Bazaar and Bapu Bazaar, MI Road filled with buyers.Surendra Baj, who runs a wedding clothes store at Haldio Ka Rasta, said those living in the city came to out shop. “Our usual customers from nearby areas have stopped turning up since Sunday fearing curfew,” said Baj, who is expecting to incur 40% of losses this wedding season. Many buyers were seen flouting the protocols. Considering the grave situation, market associations have come forward and appealing buyers to follow the rules. “It is heartening to see that some strictly follow the protocol by using sanitisers before entering shops and not removing masks even for a second while some have disappointed us by making fun of these guidelines,” said Subhash Goyal, president of Jaipur Vypar Mahasangh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pink-city-markets-miss-wedding-shoppers-rush-from-small-towns/articleshow/79378271.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Prithviraj Chauhan’s statue unveiled in Ambala||AMBALA: Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on Monday unveiled a statue of Kshatriya emperor Prithviraj Chauhan in Ambala City. Speaking on the occasion, Shekhawat said, “Kshatriya emperor Prithviraj Chauhan was rich in personality, and was able to beat the lion at the age of 14 and was knowledgeable in six languages. He lived his life not for himself, but for strengthening, protecting and increasing the borders of the country… From his statue, our younger generations will get to know about his glorious history. We should take inspiration from such warriors and great personalities of history, who worked to strengthen the nation.” The Union minister further said Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has also done many things in the memory of brave warriors. Naming the horticulture university after Maharana Pratap and the announcement to name the research institute in Taraori after emperor Prithviraj Chauhan are great tributes to these heroes, he said. Since a large number of people had gathered at the event organised by local MLA Aseem Goel, there were gross violations of Covid-19 protocols as people could be seen moving around without masks and no social distancing was followed. Jal Shakti state minister Rattan Lal Kataria, Kurukshetra MP Nayab Singh Saini, MLA Goel and Akhil Kshatriya Bharatiya Mahasabha national president Mahender Singh Tanwar, among others, were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/prithviraj-chauhans-statue-unveiled-in-ambala/articleshow/79378274.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Mumbai||Oxford vaccine ‘70% effective’, may get India nod by year-end||Mumbai: Armed with interim findings of the AstraZeneca-Oxford Covid-19 vaccine trials—which showed 70% effectiveness in preventing people getting infected—Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) is set to seek emergency regulatory approval and hopes to get a go-ahead by the year-end. The ‘positive’ data raises hopes for a faster rollout of the vaccine in India, as the AstraZeneca data exceeds the 50% primary efficacy endpoint set by the Indian drug regulator DCGI as part of its draft guidelines for Covid-19 vaccines. “We will be applying for the emergency licensure very soon and hope to get it in a month or so. The final approval depends on the DCGI,” SII CEO Adar Poonawalla told TOI. He said the company has so far stockpiled around 4 crore doses, and will have around 10 crore doses by January. A majority of these will be marked as priority for India. Covishield will be available in the market at Rs 500-600 per dose, and at Rs 220-300 ($3-4) for the government, he added. Two doses of the vaccine will be required. Competing vaccines from Pfizer and Moderna are expected to be priced higher. The Moderna vaccine may cost up to $37 or Rs 2,775 per dose, while Pfizer could price its offering around $20 or Rs 1,500. “At this point, I am delighted that Covishield, a low-cost, logistically manageable and soon to be widely available, Covid-19 vaccine, will offer protection up to 90% in one type of dosage regime and 62% in the other dosage regime,” he said. Globally, the clinical trials on ‘AZD1222’, which evaluated participants over 18 years, showed one dosing regimen with a vaccine efficacy of 90% when half a dose, followed by a full dose at least one month apart, was given. The other dosing regimen showed 62% efficacy when two full doses of the vaccine were given, with a gap of at least a month. The combined analysis from both dosing regimens resulted in an average efficacy of 70%. Though the efficacy of the vaccine is much lower than the around 95% achieved by both Pfizer and Moderna, the vaccine holds more promise for India because of its price, simpler supply chain and scalable platform. The vaccine can be stored in normal refrigerated temperature (2-8 degrees Celsius), and does not require the build-up of a sub-zero cooling chain, which makes it easier to transport, store and distribute even in remote areas, unlike the other two. The Phase-III clinical trials of Covishield on 1,600 participants are ongoing across India and are expected to be completed by mid-December. The interim data of trials—running since October—is promising, Poonawalla said. Positive high-level results from an interim analysis of clinical trials of AZD1222 in the UK and Brazil showed the vaccine was highly effective in preventing Covid-19, the primary endpoint, and no hospitalisations or severe cases of the disease were reported in participants receiving the vaccine. There were a total of 131 Covid-19 cases in the interim analysis. “This vaccine’s efficacy and safety confirm that it will be highly effective against Covid-19 and will have an immediate impact on this public health emergency. Also, the vaccine’s simple supply chain and our no-profit pledge and commitment to broad, equitable and timely access mean it will be affordable and globally available, supplying hundreds of millions of doses on approval,” AstraZeneca’s CEO Pascal Soriot said. AstraZeneca will now immediately prepare regulatory submission of the data to authorities globally that have a framework in place for conditional or early approval. The company will seek an emergency use listing from the World Health Organisation for an accelerated pathway to vaccine availability in low-income countries, a statement added. Over 23,000 participants are being assessed following two doses of either a half-dose/full-dose regimen or a regimen of two full doses of AZD1222 or a comparator, meningococcal conjugate vaccine or saline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/oxford-vaccine-70-effective-may-get-india-nod-by-year-end/articleshow/79378914.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
November 24, 2020||Nagpur||MLC poll code stalls civic budget, works held up||Nagpur: Delayed by almost eight months, the standing committee budget presented in October 2020 is yet to be implemented as the code of conduct for graduates constituency polls is in place. Now, the actual work from standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke’s Rs2,731 crore budget will start after the elections on December 1. “Allocation of funds will start after the election,” said Zalke. Municipal commissioner has issued a notification on November 1 for the implementation of the budget, which has already been delayed due to the coronavirus pandemic. Sources pointed out that Zalke's budget will get only two months — December and January 2021. Sources said for the first time in two decades, this year's budget has been slashed compared to last year. Moreover, Zalke had presented a realistic target in view of the uncertain Covid times. Senior Congress corporator Manoj Sangole said various works pertaining to strengthening of civic amenities have been hit. According to him, works like construction of retaining walls alongside nullahs, asphalting of many potholed roads and sewerage lines repairs have been held-up for want of funds in many areas, especially in North Nagpur. Several other works like repair of British-era trunk line on the 750-metre-long road from Maskasath Chowk to Raut Chowk and beyond has been stalled. The delay is endangering the lives of motorists using the road as the busy stretch has started to cave-in at many spots, becoming a potential death trap. Highlighting the danger, corporators Abha Pande and Ramesh Punekar have demanded immediate repairs. Darshani Dhawad, corporator from West Nagpur, said works like asphalting of roads are pending for more than one year in Prashant Nagar in Dabha area, despite submitting a proposal in 2019. “Though work orders were issued, it could not be started due to fund crunch,” she said. With only a couple of months remaining to implement the budget provisions, the pending civic works will be hit again, she said..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mlc-poll-code-stalls-civic-budget-works-held-up/articleshow/79378280.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Jaipur||Tourist inflows plunge nearly 70% till Sept||JAIPUR: Tourist arrivals in Rajasthan crashed by nearly 70% due to the pandemic, data by the state tourism department show. While inflow of domestic tourists had started picking up from July, mainly weekend tourists to rural tourism hotspots, the recent rise in cases and the government’s restrictions may push back the revival during the current year. Tourist arrivals drew a blank during April, May and June but soon after the borders were opened, cooped up people drove down and thronged nearest destinations like Mount Abu, Jaipur, Pushkar, Udaipur, and Kumbhalgarh in helping the industry to start afresh. Various tourist destinations in Rajasthan received 1.04 lakh tourists in July, 2.53 lakh in August and 3.66 lakh in September. Even though the data for October is still being collated, sources in the tourism department said the numbers are better and indicate a positive trend. “After the lockdown was lifted, footfalls at various destinations have been increasing steadily. We expect to maintain the rising trajectory in coming months as well,” said Alok Gupta, principal secretary, department of tourism. However, industry representatives said that the recent spike in positive coronavirus cases will slow down the recovery which was holding firm in the past three-four months as government makes sweeping interventions without really identifying the source of problems. They said the government should direct interventions at specific problem areas, not end up hurting the whole organized industry which creates large-scale livelihood opportunities. “The recovery of tourism industry in Rajasthan was on well on course. But the blanket curfew is not the answer. The hotel industry is an organized one and always follows what the government says. But the problems of not adhering to social distancing norms and other SOPs have their genesis in the unorganized sector, be it local markets, temples, etc. The hotel industry that supports families of lakhs of people should be spared the punishment for the problems created by others,” said Randhir Vikram Singh, president of Federation of Hotel, Tourism and Restaurants of Rajasthan. The night curfew between 8pm to 6am has not enthused the industry which was just starting to pick up pieces. Singh said that the curfew is having a collateral impact. “Specific interventions will not hurt all, while it would serve to address the problem. The economy and jobs are very important which should not be ignored when decisions are taken,” added Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tourist-inflows-plunge-nearly-70-till-sept/articleshow/79378283.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
November 24, 2020||Varanasi||Virtual buyer-seller meet held by APEDA||Varanasi: The Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA) organised a virtual buyer-seller meet on fresh vegetables export from Varanasi region on Monday. The meet was attended by the APEDA chairman Dr M Aganmuthu, divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal, district level officials of horticulture, agriculture, agriculture marketing, around 25 leading exporters and around 25 Farmers Producer Organisations (FPOs)/ farmers. The APEDA AGM Dr CB Singh briefed the agenda of the meeting and also gave a presentation focussing on facilities and infrastructure (packhouse) available in Varanasi as well as upcoming plans of infrastructure (3 packhouse) to attract exporters to Varanasi and develop the region as an Agri-Export Hub, training and awareness programme being organised in adjoining district. To cater the services APEDA has opened its office in Varanasi, which will look after three states including UP, Bihar and Uttarakhand. Speaking on the occasion, the APEDA chairman focused on promotion of export of processed food. He also highlighted the annual calendar/action plan for export in a time bound manner to boost the agri export. The divisional commissioner spoke about the need of bringing custom clearance facility at exit points of Varanasi so that export of agri produce could boost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/virtual-buyer-seller-meet-held-by-apeda/articleshow/79376545.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odhisha: People casual about wearing masks, social distancing||BHUBANESWAR: Despite the warning of a second wave, people have lowered guard by not wearing masks and not following social distancing norms. And those who are wearing the mask either hang it below the chin or on the neck, thus not covering their mouth or nose. “In Odisha, though the number of Covid cases has gone down, it has not become zero. If people, do not take precautions, then the second wave will come sooner than expected and may be more severe,” said Dr Ashok Mohapatra, former director of AIIMS-Bhubaneswar and vice-chancellor of SOA-University. “The situation is already worse in Delhi. The drop in temperature could spur a rise in infection,” he added. Odisha has witnessed a significant fall in fresh Covid-19 cases in the last few days. After a lockdown for the initial months, people have started working towards revival of livelihood and business, but are not following Covid-19 regulations in the process. “We have to learn living with the virus as it is not going to leave us soon. But if we stay home for more days then we may die of hunger and poverty instead of the disease. So many people are coming out by taking the risk,” said Santosh Kumar Sahu, a shopkeeper at Unit-I market. Even though most shops have asked people to wear masks and pasted stickers of “no mask no entry”, people continue to behave irresponsibly. “In open markets there is absolutely no social distancing. Some people feel that many people are not coming for testing leading to the drop in fresh Covid cases. The high-risk populations will take necessary precautions but youngsters are flouting the guidelines. They should be heavily penalised,” said Nirmal Kumar Dash, a retired government officer. The state government is yet to reopen educational institutions and temples owing to the likely second wave. “The cases have reduced but there is no scope of complacency. Strictly following safety guidelines is the only way to fight the Covid-19 virus. If people behave responsibly and follow all safety precautions then reopening of religious places and educational institutions will not be an issue,” said Dr Jayant Panda, technical spokesperson of health and family welfare department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/people-casual-about-wearing-masks-social-distancing/articleshow/79375693.cms||Minati Singha
November 24, 2020||Jaipur||Rs 5k fine on holding marriage functions without informing authorities||Jaipur: Making an amendment to Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Act, the home department has fixed a penalty of Rs 5,000 for organising any marriage-related functions or gatherings without submitting prior information in writing to the sub-divisional magistrate. The same penalty will also be imposed if in such functions, social distancing norms or wearing of masks properly is not followed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rs-5k-fine-on-holding-marriage-functions-without-informing-authorities/articleshow/79378278.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 24, 2020||Cuttack||10 crore needles, syringes needed to vaccinate each person in Odisha: Govt||BHUBANESWAR: Even as Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to review Covid-19 vaccine distribution with chief ministers on Tuesday, the Odisha government has begun building infrastructure for a mass inoculation drive. Additional chief secretary (health) Pradipta Kumar Mohapatra has written to Vandana Gurnani, additional secretary and mission director, National Health Mission, to know if the state needed to purchase needle and syringes or if the Centre would provide those when a vaccine is finally rolled out. Odisha, which has 4.5 crore people, requires around 10 crore needles and syringes to provide two doses of the vaccine to each person. The state has estimated that this alone would cost it Rs 25 crore. “We are waiting for further instructions from the health ministry. If it is the state that has to purchase the needles and the syringes, we will start the process soon as it will take time,” Mohapatra told TOI. On the state’s preparedness to carry out such a large-scale exercise, Mohapatra said the vaccination drive would in all likelihood be undertaken in phases and span several months. “There won’t be problems of manpower and infrastructure. The more than 29,000 sites identified for vaccination should be enough for us to reach each individual,” he said. As per the Centre’s directives, the state has prepared a database of 2.17 lakh healthcare and anganwadi workers who will receive the vaccine first. Mohapatra said an assessment of the need for additional cold chain equipment had been done by the MD of NHM Odisha, who is also the state nodal officer for the vaccination drive. The Centre has been requested to provide financial assistance for more than 1,000 refrigerators, 30 deep freezers and more than 7.000 needle-cum-hub cutters. On Monday, another 668 people tested positive for the virus, raising the total caseload to 3,14,629. Seventeen more died raising the toll to 1,657. Four each succumbed to the infection in Khurda and Sundargarh. While three passed away in Sambalpur, two each died in Jharsuguda and Bargarh and one each in Balangir and Kendrapada.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/govt-10-cr-needles-syringes-needed-to-vaccinate-each-person-in-state/articleshow/79382472.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Allahabad||Teacher killed in road mishap in Uttar Pradesh||PRAYAGRAJ: A 30-year-old primary school teacher was killed in a road mishap near New Yamuna bridge under the limits of Kydganj police station on Monday morning. The deceased was identified as Ganesh Dutt Shukla, a resident of Daraganj. Police said that the incident took place when the teacher had left his house to attend the primary school located in Koraon in the trans-Yamuna area on his bike and met the accident on the New Yamuna bridge road. The deceased had joined the government service a few months back. The police have been looking for CCTV footage to find out the registration of the errant vehicle. As it was foggy on Monday morning, other commuters on the bridge road could not read the registration of the errant vehicle. The body has been sent for post mortem. The victim was also wearing a helmet when he was hit by the vehicle from the backside.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/teacher-killed-in-road-mishap/articleshow/79377123.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Bhubaneswar||10 crore needles, syringes needed to vaccinate each person in Odisha: Govt||BHUBANESWAR: Even as Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to review Covid-19 vaccine distribution with chief ministers on Tuesday, the Odisha government has begun building infrastructure for a mass inoculation drive. Additional chief secretary (health) Pradipta Kumar Mohapatra has written to Vandana Gurnani, additional secretary and mission director, National Health Mission, to know if the state needed to purchase needle and syringes or if the Centre would provide those when a vaccine is finally rolled out. Odisha, which has 4.5 crore people, requires around 10 crore needles and syringes to provide two doses of the vaccine to each person. The state has estimated that this alone would cost it Rs 25 crore. “We are waiting for further instructions from the health ministry. If it is the state that has to purchase the needles and the syringes, we will start the process soon as it will take time,” Mohapatra told TOI. On the state’s preparedness to carry out such a large-scale exercise, Mohapatra said the vaccination drive would in all likelihood be undertaken in phases and span several months. “There won’t be problems of manpower and infrastructure. The more than 29,000 sites identified for vaccination should be enough for us to reach each individual,” he said. As per the Centre’s directives, the state has prepared a database of 2.17 lakh healthcare and anganwadi workers who will receive the vaccine first. Mohapatra said an assessment of the need for additional cold chain equipment had been done by the MD of NHM Odisha, who is also the state nodal officer for the vaccination drive. The Centre has been requested to provide financial assistance for more than 1,000 refrigerators, 30 deep freezers and more than 7.000 needle-cum-hub cutters. On Monday, another 668 people tested positive for the virus, raising the total caseload to 3,14,629. Seventeen more died raising the toll to 1,657. Four each succumbed to the infection in Khurda and Sundargarh. While three passed away in Sambalpur, two each died in Jharsuguda and Bargarh and one each in Balangir and Kendrapada.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-10-cr-needles-syringes-needed-to-vaccinate-each-person-in-state/articleshow/79375710.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Varanasi||Uttar Pradesh: FIR against complainant in rape case against Ghosi MP Atul Rai||VARANASI: Taking note of the complaint of the brother of jailed Ghosi MP Atul Rai, the chief judicial magistrate (CJM) court on Monday ordered the Cantt police to lodge an FIR against the girl, who had levelled rape charges against Atul Rai and her friend Satyam Prakash Rai, so that the documents submitted by her in different cases are properly investigated. Atul Rai’s brother Pavan Kumar Singh has alleged that the girl, who lodged a rape case against the Ghosi MP and her friend, runs a honeytrap racket. In support of his claim, Pavan submitted copies of two marksheets of the girl which contain different dates of birth and attached in her complaints lodged against Atul Rai and another case lodged against a student leader of UP College in 2015. Pavan’s lawyer Anuj Yadav said: “The complaint against the girl and her friend Satyam Prakash Rai had been given before CJM SP Yadav under section 156(3) of CRPC. Pavan alleged that in 2015 the same girl had lodged a case of sexual harassment against a student leader of UP College with Shivpur police and also submitted her HS marksheet which contained her date of birth as March 10, 1997.” In the complaint, Yadav said, she had submitted her HS marksheet, which contained her date of birth as June 10, 1997. “Pavan alleged that on the basis of fake documents, the girl had been trying to take legal advantages,” said Yadav adding, “the CJM court accepted this complaint and ordered Cantt police to produce copy of FIR after it is lodged.” A week after filing nomination from Ghosi parliamentary constituency as BSP candidate on April 26, 2019 Atul Rai had landed in troubled waters when a Ballia girl lodged a rape complaint against him with Lanka police in Varanasi on May 2. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/fir-names-complainant-in-rape-case-against-ghosi-mp-atul-rai/articleshow/79376620.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
November 24, 2020||Kolkata||Civic body proposes uniform tax structure for Salt Lake, Rajarhat||Kolkata: The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation has proposed a uniform property tax structure for the entire corporation area of Salt Lake and Rajarhat. The civic body has asked West Bengal Valuation Board to formulate the tax that will cover all 41 wards. The move to revise the property tax structure will pave the way for the civic body to start collecting property tax dues by March, 2021. Residents of the corporation area of Salt Lake and Rajarhat currently pay property tax based on the valuations that were assessed in 1997 for Salt Lake and in 2005 for Rajarhat. Civic officials said the valuation board was engaged in chalking up a new tax structure for the entire Rajarhat area and four other wards adjoining Salt Lake proper. Tax payers in 11 wards in Salt Lake will, however, continue to pay their property tax following the old structure due to an ongoing legal case. The new rates will come into effect retrospectively. “The valuation board is making a fresh assessment of the tax structure for Bidhannagar. Once it is chalked up, the new tax structure will be applicable for the first 26 wards that lie in Rajarhat and just four Salt Lake wards, where residents currently don’t pay property tax,” said a civic official. Officials said that once all 41 wards come under the revised tax structure based on the present valuation, the civic body will be in a position to mop off revenue of around Rs 150 crore. Currently, the civic body gets around Rs 25 crore-Rs 28 crore property tax from Salt Lake and Rs 10 crore to Rs 12 crore from Rajarhat. Only 50% dues of the current financial year of 2020-21 have been collected till now. Till the four wards in Salt Lake — 27, 28, 35 and 36 — comprising Mahisbathan, Nayapatti and a bheri area off EM Bypass are brought under the revised tax structure, they will have to pay taxes following the old structure in Salt Lake as an interim measure. Residents of these wards pay Khajna or land revenue at the nearby BLRO office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/civic-body-proposes-uniform-tax-structure-for-salt-lake-rajarhat/articleshow/79376935.cms||Suman Chakraborti
November 24, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha: Devotees rue missing out on pujas as temples stay off limits||BHUBANESWAR: Resentment has been growing among devotees with district administrations for imposing Section 144 around major shrines ahead of festivals. On Monday, the Puri district administration imposed Section 144 around Sakhi Gopinath Temple at Sakhi Gopal while the Cuttack administration put restrictions around Dhabaleswar Temple ahead of Panchuka and Kartika Purnima to be celebrated this month-end. “Every year we come to Sakhi Gopal to catch a glimpse of goddess Radha on the occasion of Anla Nabami. But this year we were disappointed as we could not get a darshan. When everything has been thrown open, why is there restriction on opening temples,” asked Ratnakar Behera, who has been visiting the temple for the last 31 years. Temples across the state are closed since March owing to Covid-19. Usually long queues of devotees are seen in front of Gopinath Temple on the occasion of Anla Nabami. But due to restrictions imposed on entry into the temple, it wore a deserted look with only policemen surrounding the premises. Entry of devotees within 200 metres of the temple has been strictly prohibited. Basant Kumar Mohapatra, chief servitor of Gopinath Temple, said, “This is an unprecedented situation. For the first time the rituals of Radha Pada Darshan were conducted without the presence of devotees. We prayed to the goddess to protect the world from the pandemic and give people strength to fight it.” Shops around the temple rued lack of business on the occasion due to absence of devotees. “Every year we prepare varieties of prasad for the deities and earn some money by selling them. But this year our shops are closed for eight months and we are almost penniless. When the government could open liquor stores, then why not temples,” asked Nrusingha Panda, a shopkeeper near the temple. Prohibitory orders under Section 144 has been imposed from Paikarapur Square to Mancheswar Square, the road connecting Dhabaleswar Temple, till Kartik Purnima, to be observed on November 30. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/devotees-rue-missing-out-on-pujas-as-temples-stay-off-limits/articleshow/79375732.cms||Minati Singha
November 24, 2020||Kolkata||Online food delivery men face threats||Kolkata: Food delivery boys have alleged excess at the hands of some customers, who demand “extra favours” at odd hours and threaten to give bad ratings if their demands are not met. The immediate trigger for the outburst was the alleged assault of a delivery boy in Madhyagram’s Basu Nagar. The delivery boys also mentioned about a recent incident in Kasba where a delivery boy was reported to police by a customer. Later it was revealed that the customer was angry because the person did not bring cigarettes. In Madhyamgram, the delivery agent, Shiva from Milanpally, claimed that when he took food to Basunagar Gate 3 on Sunday and called the customer for directions, the accused refused to accept the delivery and asked him to cancel the order. When he said that the customer’s account would be blacklisted, he camewith another person and assaulted Shiva. He received injuries on eyes, head and was admitted to Barasat Hospital. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/online-food-delivery-men-face-threats/articleshow/79376970.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 24, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Six universities get new vice-chancellors||BHUBANESWAR: On a day governor Ganeshi Lal lost his wife, he set an example by going ahead with his official works. He selected the vice-chancellors for six universities on Monday. There was a suggestion that he postpone the scheduled selection process. However, the governor said the works should not suffer. Lal’s wife Sushila Devi died of post-Covid complications on Sunday night. The governor, who himself also had tested positive on November 2, avoided taking personal interview of the 16 vive-chancellor aspirants as a social distancing measure. Instead, he delegated that part to officers whom he briefed what he wanted to ask and took the feedback from them, the officer said. The governor, who is also the chancellor of state-run universities, did not to delay the appointment to ensure that the new vice-chancellors get at least seven days to join their new assignment as the tenure of the incumbents end this month. Sabita Acharya, a professor of anthropology in Utkal University who got selected as vice-chancellor of Utkal University, appreciated the Governor’s gesture. “Amid the personal loss, the Governor did not postpone the selection process. It is a huge inspiration for us,” Acharya said. Acharya said she would work hard to improve digital infrastructure, the need for which was felt during the pandemic and strive to implement the New Education Policy-2020. The governor appointed Aparajita Chowdhury as vice-chancellor of Rama Devi Women’s University. Aparajita is a professor of home science in Berhampur University. Dinabandhu Sahoo, a botany professor in Delhi University, was selected as the new vice-chancellor of Fakir Mohan University. He has earlier served as director of Institute of Bio-resources and Sustainable Development (IBSD) in Imphal. N Nagaraju, an English professor from Central University of Karnataka, got the assignment of Gangadhar Meher University vice-chancellor. Kishore Kumar Basa, a retired professor of University of Culture and Tagore national fellow, got selected as vice-chancellor of North Odisha University. Prafulla Kumar Mohanty, a zoology professor in Utkal University became the vice-chancellor of Khallikote University.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/six-universities-get-new-vice-chancellors/articleshow/79375722.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Jaipur||Health min Sharma tests +ve, in RUHS||Jaipur: Rajasthan health minister Raghu Sharma tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. He reached RUHS Hospital, the dedicated government-run Covid centre in the city, for treatment early morning.When he came to know about his ‘positive’ report, he was in his constituency Kekri in Ajmer, where he developed symptoms. “We examined various parameters, including oxygen saturation and blood pressure, and started treatment,” said a senior official of RUHS Hospital.“Wishing my ministerial colleague, Dr Raghu Sharma ji speedy recovery from #COVID19. May he get well soon. @RaghusharmaINC,” tweetd chief minister Ashok Gehlot.Sharma has played a key role in providing healthcare services for Covid patients. His staff told TOI that he had had a cough, cold and fever for some time, he got tested and was found to be infected.After he was admitted to the hospital, Sharma met several Covid patients and took their feedback on treatment and facilities provided to them. “Since I am positive, I can interact with these patients to find out about their mental status and other problems,” said Sharma.He said the facilities at RUHS were up to the mark and directions have been issued to expand them further. He also said that he got admitted after the doctors suggested it. “I got myself tested after I developed initial symptoms of Covid. After testing positive, I consulted the doctors,” he said. He appealed to people, who had met him over the past few days, to get tested for the virus.Former health minister Kalicharan Saraf too is undergoing treatment for Covid at the same hospital and is on the same floor as Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/health-min-sharma-tests-ve-in-ruhs/articleshow/79378302.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Kolkata||16-year-old rescued from Digha, 1 held||Kolkata: A 16-year-old girl from Kalikapur, who had been missing since November 20, was rescued from Digha by Garfa police with the help of Purba Midnapore police on Sunday night. The minor has been sent to a shelter home and doctors are carrying out a medical examination to ascertain whether she was raped. Cops arrested Krishna Mondal (21), a resident of Martinpara, who had allegedly enticed the victim into marriage and kidnapped her, from ghat number 2 in Old Digha after two days of continuous efforts. Cops traced the girl, using her call record details and searched for her in over 22 hotels across Old Digha, New Digha and Shankarpur. “The police team went to Digha in the wee hours of November 21 after tracking a tower location and took the assistance of Digha police to locate the minor. She was traced at Old Digha with the accused on Sunday night. The victim was taken to the gynaecology department of SSKM Hospital for medical exam and then to the child welfare board,” said DC (SSD) Rashid Munir Khan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/16-year-old-rescued-from-digha-1-held/articleshow/79376975.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 24, 2020||Kanpur||One injured as two bldgs collapse||Kanpur: One person sustained injuries after rear portions of two multi-storey buildings collapsed in Quli Bazar area on Monday evening. A team comprising of local police, besides Fire department personnel and civil defence members are currently carrying out rescue operations at the site. “As of now, there are no casualties. One injured was rescued and shifted to hospital. We are looking for more victims trapped,” said SSP/DIG Preetinder Singh while talking to reporters. Mayor Pramila Pandey also rushed to the spot to take note of the situation. She told TOI, “The rescue operations are still underway and the concerned authorities are trying to ascertain the reason behind the incident.” A senior district official said preliminary findings revealed that the rear portions of the two buildings collapsed while digging of basement at an adjoining plot was underway. Heavy earth moving machine might have hit the foundation of the buildings said the officials adding that the exact cause would be known after the inquiry. “We have alerted National Disaster Response Force,” SSP/DIG said. “We have made all arrangements for undertaking rescue operation at night to ensure nobody remains under the debris,” he added. “How did this happen and did the contractor or builder have requisite permission to do this will be known only after the inquiry,” SSP/DIG added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/one-injured-as-two-bldgs-collapse/articleshow/79376936.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Sold 2 flats to buy one? Can avail of tax benefit||MUMBAI: The Mumbai bench of the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT), in its recent order, has clarified that when a taxpayer sells two residential properties and re-invests in one residential house, he or she is entitled to tax benefit under section 54. This ruling will be very helpful to several individuals. With work from home here to stay for longer than initially anticipated, several families are in search of larger flats. Investment professionals explain that several salaried employees had invested in a second house. Many are now selling the flat in which they currently reside and their second house, to finance a larger apartment. In this case heard by ITAT, Sabir Mazhar Ali had sold two flats in Bandra (one of which was jointly owned with his wife) and purchased a new residential flat in Bandra. During the financial year 2010-11, he had claimed deduction under section 54 of the Income Tax (I-T) Act, as he had purchased a new house, within the time period specified. Under this section, if the long-term capital gains arising on sale of a house are reinvested in another house in India, within the stipulated period of time, then to the extent of such investment, the taxable component of capital gains is reduced. This results in a lower tax outgo. Thus, if the entire amount of long-term capital gains is reinvested, there is no tax payable. This section requires that within a period of one year before or two years after the date of transfer of the old house, the taxpayer should acquire another residential house. Or the taxpayer should construct a residential house within a period of three years from the date of transfer of the old house. However, as Ali had sold two residential properties and reinvested in one residential house, the I-T officer had concluded that he was not eligible for claiming the benefit under section 54. In the course of litigation, as the Commissioner (Appeals) ruled in favour of the taxpayer, the I-T department filed an appeal with the ITAT. In its order, the ITAT states that the provisions of section 54 do not prohibit the taxpayer from selling more than one residential house and reinvesting in a residential property. Thus, it set aside the grounds of appeal raised by the tax department and ruled in favour of the taxpayer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sold-2-flats-to-buy-one-can-avail-of-tax-benefit/articleshow/79378918.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Jaipur||‘This is the second wave, don’t be careless in following SOPs’||JAIPUR: As the number of patients with severe Covid symptoms have increased in the city, health minister Raghu Sharma said the second wave was already here. Sharma said he appealed to people not to be careless and follow Covid protocol to prevent from getting infected with the virus. While Jaipur is witnessing a sudden spurt in cases, doctors claimed that they were receiving patients in increased numbers with severe symptoms. “The number of cases increased even during Diwali. The proportion of cases developing severe disease remains the same, however due to increase in number of total cases, severe cases have increased,” said Dr Sheetu Singh, director Covid pulmonary rehab at a private hospital. She added, “We are facing post-Covid problems which often contribute to severe disease and mortality. These patients — both Covid and post-Covid - need to be monitored carefully for complications and progression.” Doctors have observed that condition of patients are deterioriating faster than before. “Since last week, we are seeing more rapid progression of the disease in few individuals which is different and severe compared to previous pattern of illness, causing more lung involvement and severe symptoms. In some cases, we have discovered reduced effectiveness of medicines. People should follow norms of wearing a mask and avoid unnecessary going out,” said Dr KK Sharma, senior consultant (pulmonology), at a private hospital. For the past three days, the state has been reporting more than 3,000 daily infections. Health department had anticipated that the second wave before mid-December and started the preparation for expansion of Covid facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/this-is-the-second-wave-dont-be-careless-in-following-sops/articleshow/79378303.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Kanpur||Vikas aide Jaikant booked for using fake docus for passport||Kanpur: The city police have booked Jaikant Bajpai, an alleged aide and financier of slain gangster Vikas Dubey, under various charges of IPC for obtaining a passport after submitting fake documents. As per police sources, this case was registered at Nazirabad police station on the recommendations of SIT on Sunday. The matter via SIT reached the city police, which after preliminary inquiry found the allegations to be true. On the basis of inquiry, the Nazirabad police registered a case against the accused Jaikant under section 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 467 (forgery of valuable security), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), and 471 (using as genuine a forged document) 181 (false statement on oath or affirmation to public servant or person authorised to administer an oath or affirmation), 196 (using evidence known to be false) 198 (using as true a certificate known to be false), 199false statement made in declaration which is by law receivable as evidence) and 200 (using as true such declaration knowing it to be false) of Indian Penal Code and Passport Act 12 (1) (b). During investigations, it came to fore that Jaikant had several criminal cases against him, but he submitted fake documents to the passport office in order to obtain a passport in 2012 and then in 2016. The documents submitted for it are found to be forged. The affidavit of the accused is also found to be false. The investigation has cleared that the passport has been obtained with forged documents. Superintendent of police (South) Deepak Bhuker said, “We have registered a case and investigation is going on. The accused is already in jail. Soon a police team will visit district jail to record his statement in this regard.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/vikas-aide-jaikant-booked-for-using-fake-docus-for-passport/articleshow/79376967.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Varanasi||PM Modi may light first lamp on Dev Deepawali in Varanasi||VARANASI: The world-famous Dev Deepawali may witness Prime Minister Narendra Modi lighting the first earthen lamp at Rajghat in Varanasi to start illumination of all 80 ghats with over 10 lakh lamps on November 30. Modi will not only be witness to the beauty of the illuminated ghats of Kashi, but is likely to also take stock of the progress in Kashi Vishwanath Dham (Corridor) project and enjoy the sound and light show before leaving the city after a six-hour stay. Talking to TOI on Monday, district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said, “We have received initial intimation regarding possible visit of the PM on the occasion of Dev Deepawali ,after which finalization of events in which he will participate,and other preparations have been started accordingly.” “As per the proposal being prepared for the PM’s participation, the tourism department will host a function where he will light the first lamp of Dev Deepawali at Rajghat to mark the beginning of the festival which is observed on the day of Kartik Purnima. It will be followed by cultural events at the same venue for about 45 minutes. After earthen lamps are lighted at all the ghats, the PM will take a boat ride to view the beauty of illuminating ghats along the river Ganga,” he informed TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/modi-may-light-first-dev-deepawali-lamp-in-kashi-on-nov-30/articleshow/79376575.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
November 24, 2020||Goa||75 new Covid infections in Goa, but recovery rate at 96%||PANAJI: On Monday, Goa reported 75 new infections of Covid-19 and 104 recoveries that placed active cases at 1,140. There were no Covid-19 mortalities during the day. The state’s case positivity rate was at 5% with 1,460 samples tested during the day and recovery rate touched 96%. Goa’s mortality has dropped to an average of two to three deaths a day since earlier this month.  Dr Utkarsh Betodkar, state epidemiologist said, on weekends and on Mondays, new cases are less as compared to other days. This month, the state’s daily average of new cases has been 100 to 150 cases. As many as 27 patients were hospitalised and 60 opted for home isolation on Monday. Patients in Covid care centres have dropped to 80 on Monday. With less people moving into Covid care centres, the government has reduced the bed capacity. In North Goa, health centres of Porvorim and Panaji have more cases but their caseload has been below 100. Cansarvanem and Mayem have the least number of cases. Whereas in South Goa, Ponda, Margao and Vasco have slightly more cases but their tally too was less than 100. Margao’s active cases were 93 and that of Ponda 82. Both are big centres having a higher concentration of population.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/75-new-covid-infections-but-recovery-rate-at-96/articleshow/79378306.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Rajkot||Missing man found dead, murder suspected||RAJKOT: The body of a man who had gone missing from Rajkot was found in Bhadar River at Jetpur on Saturday. Police suspect it to be a case of murder. According to the police, deceased Wasim Sheikh (37), had gone missing from his house in Bhilvas locality of Rajkot on November 17. “Sheikh had left his home, telling his family members that he was going to buy medicines as he was suffering from acute stomach ache. As he did not return home, his wife Yasmin lodged a missing persons report with Pradyumannagar police station in Rajkot,” an official from Jetpur city police station said. “Though his forensic report is yet to come, our preliminary investigation indicates that Sheikh had died of strangulation. We are investigating on basis of his call record history to find out whom he had last spoken to,” added the official. Sheikh, a fire safety equipment repair mechanic, is survived by two daughters and a son.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/missing-man-found-dead-murder-suspected/articleshow/79355916.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Cuttack||Death of K Ramesh result of an accident, not custodial torture: Puri SP to Orissa HC||CUTTACK: The Puri SP, Kanwar Vishal Singh, on Monday claimed before the Orissa high court that the death of K Apana, also known as K Ramesh, was not a case of custodial death. In an affidavit, Singh, who took charge as Puri SP on Sunday, said the death was accidental and a fallout of the tussle between Ramesh and police when the former was attempting to escape cop custody by aiming a gun at the police team. Taking note of this, the division bench of chief justice Mohammad Rafiq and justice Biswanath Rath posted the matter to next week for hearing, while giving the petitioner to file a rejoinder by then. The high court was hearing a PIL seeking a court-monitored investigation and action against the police officials involved in the death. The PIL was filed by Sarat Kumar Rayguru, a Puri-based lawyer. It also sought compensation for the family of the deceased. In his counter affidavit, Singh claimed that the petitioner was labouring under a misconception with regards to the facts and had filed the petition on the basis of surmises and conjecture. Singh further said police had never arrested the deceased on November 18. “It was only on receiving information regarding the arrival of the deceased, who was a known anti-social and a hardened criminal, that police attempted to apprehend him. This led to a chase and the deceased aimed a gun on police with intent to kill. The deceased was apprehended with much difficulty. Due to an accident during the tussle, he fell on a stony road, and ultimately died,” he said. “There was never an opportunity for arrest and forwarding to the court of the SDJM. The police had never tortured the deceased,” he added. The petition had alleged that the body of the deceased was cremated on November 19 without being handed over to the family. In his affidavit Singh said an inquest was held in the presence of an executive magistrate, father of the deceased K Gurumurty and paternal uncle K Areya. “After completion of the postmortem, the body was handed over to K Gurumurty for cremation with proper acknowledgement. Gurumurty took the body to Swargadwar, where it was cremated,” Singh claimed on the basis of dead body receipt copy and a copy of the Swargadwar register. The affidavit said an application had been submitted to the district and sessions judge, Puri, on November 20 to depute a judicial magistrate for necessary inquiry for submission before NHRC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/death-of-k-ramesh-result-of-an-accident-not-custodial-torture-puri-sp-to-hc/articleshow/79375752.cms||lalmohan.patnaik
November 24, 2020||Bareilly||Villagers block Bhind-Lipulekh highway after truck runs over girl||Pilibhit: Residents of Jasoli Diwali village under Bisalpur Kotwali police station in Pilibhit blocked Bhind-Lipulekh highway for three hours after a speeding truck ran over an eight-year-old girl on Monday afternoon. The truck driver sped away after the accident. The blockade was lifted following the intervention of Bisalpur circle officer Lallan Singh, SDM Rakesh Gupta and local MLA Ram Saran Verma, who assured the protesters of prompt police action in the matter. In her written complaint, the victim’s mother alleged that her daughter, Richita, was standing just outside her house when a speeding truck, coming from Shahjahanpur side, mowed her down. The girl died on the spot. Sunil Kumar Sharma, SHO, said an FIR was lodged against the driver of the unidentified truck under IPC section 304 A (causing death by negligence) and 279 (rash driving on a public way). of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/villagers-block-bhind-lipulekh-highway-after-truck-runs-over-girl/articleshow/79374483.cms||Keshav Agarwal
November 24, 2020||Ludhiana||All-woman gang of burglars busted, 4 arrested||Times News NetworkLudhiana: The police have arrested four members of an all-women gang of burglars and recovered 25 stolen jackets from their possession. They were nabbed on Sunday when they had come to the market to sell the jackets stolen from a shop in Gandhi Nagar on November 18.The arrested women have been identified as Pinky, 30, Rajni, 40, and Kapila, 30, hailing from Fountain Chowk and Barnala, and Payal, 26, of Rajpura in Patiala. The accused would stay in Patiala and come to Ludhiana especially to execute burglaries.In the wee hours of November 18, the gang had targeted a shop Ajay Garments in Gandhi Nagar and decamped with 25 jackets. Owner of the shop had lodged an FIR at Division Number 4 police station.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City-1) Deepak Pareek said the women were captured in the CCTVs installed in the area. The gang used to execute burglaries around midnight. The women used to stand outside the shop, while the thinnest of them would enter the shop after lifting the main shutter.The ADCP added that as of now, they have not found any criminal background of the arrested women, though the police are suspecting their involvement in more such thefts. The cops also suspect that the gang has more members. The accused are being questioned.Snatchers arrestedIn a separate case, the police arrested five snatchers and claimed to have solved four cases of snatching. Two bikes and two snatched mobile phones have been recovered from their possession.The accused have been identified as Pankaj Soni and Rajan Sharma of New Kundanpuri, Sahil of Haibowal, Lucky of Haibowal Kalan and Sandeep Kumar of Tibba.ADCP Pareek said on November 22, they snatched a phone in Daresi area and on November 20, the accused had snatched Rs 5,000 and a mobile phone in Bhai Manna Singh Nagar. Also, on November 6, they had snatched Rs 80,000 after attacking the victim with a sharp-edged weapon near Kapoor Hospital Chowk and on October 22, they had snatched one phone in Daresi area.The officer said Pankaj has four snatching cases against him, Rajan has two snatching cases and one assault case, and Sandeep Kumar has seven cases of theft, snatching and under the Arms Act registered against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/all-woman-gang-of-burglars-busted-4-arrested/articleshow/79375763.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Kanpur||Range cops for case studies of road mishaps in 4 dists||Prayagraj: In the light of 14 deaths in a road mishap incident near Kunda bypass road on Prayagraj-Lucknow highway in Pratapgarh district recently, Prayagraj range police authorities have mooted a plan to take up case studies for analysis of road accidents to find out the reasons behind the rising number of accidents in Prayagraj range. Cops said that the exercise would also help to identify new black spots or accident-prone areas. Though the site of the road mishap in Pratapgarh district where 14 people travelling in an SUV lost their lives after it collided with a stationed truck was not a black spot, the range police authorities are treating it as a case study to find out the exact causes behind the mishap. Worried by the rising number of road accidents, both in the fatal and non-fatal category, the top police brass has emphasised on conducting a case study or post-accident analysis of every road mishap to find out the cause behind growing accidents. In Prayagraj range, as many as 1,117 people lost their lives in 2,091 cases of road mishaps in four districts of the range which includes Prayagraj, Pratapgarh, Fatehpur and Kaushambi. The figures are from the period between January 1 and November 15 this year. IG ( Prayagraj zone) K P Singh told TOI that, “Senior police officials have been asked to conduct case studies of the road every accident to find out the exact reason behind a particular road accident”. He added that the case study would also help police officials to ascertain new black spots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/range-cops-for-case-studies-of-road-mishaps-in-4-dists/articleshow/79377102.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Allahabad||Illegal liquor worth Rs 12 lakh seized, 2 held||PRAYAGRAJ: A joint team of Jethwara police and crime branch on Monday claimed to have busted a racket involved in the smuggling of Indian made foreign liquor (IMFL) and country-made liquor near Derwa Bazar area and seized 147 cartons of IMFL and 10 cartons of the country made liquor bottles worth Rs 12 lakh.  The police also arrested two men on the charges of smuggling of illegal liquor bottles from Haryana. The arrested persons have been identified as Abhay Singh and Sunny Srivastava and are residents of Sangipur and Ramgarh Derwa respectively. Police are also on the lookout for their accomplice identified as Dhirendra Singh alias Bengali, a resident of Kunda who managed to give a slip to police party. SP (Pratapgarh) Anurag Arya said, “A joint team of Jethwara police and crime branch acting upon a specific tip raided a godown located near an English wine shop near Derwa Bazar area where illegal and smuggled liquor from Harayana was stored.” SP added that the racketeers used to sell these illegal consignments to the liquor shop and even take unfilled bottles from customers to get it refilled. Later, the racketeers mixed smuggled liquor and water in the bottles and sold it to the customers, earning hefty amounts. Meanwhile, SP ( Pratapgarh) has also suspended in charge of Derwa police outpost Satish Yadav on the charges of dereliction of duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/illegal-liquor-worth-rs-12l-seized-2-held/articleshow/79377007.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Cuttack||Orissa HC asks govt to spell out uniform reduction in private school fee||CUTTACK: The Orissa high court on Monday asked the state government to propose a uniform reduction in tuition fees for students of private schools in the state because of the pandemic. The advocate general, Ashok Kumar Parija, sought time from the high court to take instructions from the government. The division bench of Chief Justice Mohammad Rafiq and Justice Biswanath Rath has posted the matter for hearing to December 2, Odisha Abhibhabak Mahasangha counsel V. Narasingh told TOI. The secretary, school and mass education department had submitted a report on six slabs, which have been agreed upon by the different stakeholders, after mediation. It also contained an MoU signed by all stakeholders. “The court may consider accepting the MoU signed by all stakeholders and pass an appropriate order. This will help parents whose income has been affected,” the government stated. The slabs included waiver of 26 per cent for school fee above Rs 1 lakh per annum, 25 per cent for school fees from Rs 72,001 to Rs 1 lakh per annum, 20 per cent for school fees from Rs 48,001 to Rs 72,000 per annum, 15 per cent for school fees from Rs 24,001 to Rs 48,000 per annum, 12 per cent for school fees from 12,001 to Rs 24000 per annum and 7.5 per cent for school fees from Rs 6,001 to Rs1,2000 per annum. No waiver has been agreed upon for school fees up to Rs 6,000. Earlier, the high court had asked the state government to mediate over the dispute. For the last six months, the high court has been adjudicating over three PILs seeking exemption of school fee for students of private schools in view of the pandemic. The petitions have been filed by the Mahasangha, Mohamed Mustaq and Prahallad Rout.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/hc-asks-govt-to-spell-out-uniform-reduction-in-pvt-school-fee/articleshow/79375768.cms||lalmohan.patnaik
November 24, 2020||Aurangabad||Kin of 2 martyred soldiers to get Rs 1cr each: Satej Patil||Kolhapur: The arrival of martyred soldier Havildar Sangram Patil’s mortal remains to his village in Kolhapur district sparked an spontaneous emotional reaction among his neighbours and well-wishers. Patil is the second soldier from Kolhapur district to have have lost his life facing enemy bullets along the Indo-Pak border this month. Just a week before Patil was killed, Rushikesh Jondhale of Bahirewadi village had been martyred along the LoC. In the charge-up atmosphere, district guardian minister Satej Patil announced that the state government will extend financial help of Rs 1 crore to the families of both Jondhale and Patil. “We know that both will never return. They have laid fown their lives to protect the country. As a sense of reponsibility, our government has decided to extend help of Rs 1 crore to each of these families,” said Patil. Havildar Patil, who had served in the Indian Army for 18 years, had planned to return to the Nigave Khalsa village in December to complete the new house he was building. On Monday, when his body was brought in a Tricolour-wrapped coffin to the nearly-finished home, the villagers broke down in tears. Patil’s 4-year-old daughter was also in tears when her father’s body was taken in the funeral procession. His son lit the pyre, after which a gun salute of three rounds each was offered by the police and army personnel. As per initial estimates, more than 25,000 people attended his funeral. Ministers and MLAs from the district also queued up to pay homage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/kin-of-2-martyred-soldiers-to-get-rs-1cr-each-satej-patil/articleshow/79375789.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Toll tally climbs to 883 as Covid claims 2 more lives; 96 test +ve||Ludhiana: Two residents of Ludhiana died of Covid-19 and 96 tested positive on Monday.According to the local media bulletin, the district casualties included a 62-year-old man of Haibowal Kalan, who had diabetes, and a 71-year-old woman of Daisy Das Nursing Department, Ludhiana, who had diabetes, hypertension and chronic kidney disease. Besides, 20 outsiders tested positive for the disease and one succumbed here on the day.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the district fatality figure has increased to 883 and that of outsiders to 368. So far, 4,34,509 suspects have been tested.Of the 96 new cases, 42 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), 30 positive cases’ contacts, 15 from OPD, six through tracing process, one undertrial and two others.The local health department officials said the district case count was 22,140 and that of outsiders 3,125.To date, 20,410 patients have recovered, which constitutes 92.18% of the total cases.There are 844 active patients in the district. As many as 1,814 persons are home quarantined.On Monday, 149 persons were quarantined and 1,461 samples collected. There are 147 ventilators in private hospitals, including four government ones at CMCH.Eight patients, including two of Ludhiana, are on ventilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/toll-tally-climbs-to-883-as-covid-claims-2-more-lives-96-test-ve/articleshow/79375800.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Bareilly||Forest inspector, police SI suspended in separate cases after videos of bribery go viral||PILIBHIT: A forest inspector posted at the Bisalpur range office of the forest and wildlife division, and a police sub-inspector of Bilsanda police station, were suspended by their respective senior officials in separate cases of bribe-taking. The disciplinary action came after videos of the two government employees went viral on social media. Departmental inquiries in both cases have been ordered. According to Sanjeev Kumar, divisional forest officer (DFO) of the forest and wildlife division, forest inspector Radhey Shyam was seen in a viral video taking Rs 10,000 from a timber contractor while sitting on his official chair in Bisalpur range office. The video gives indication it is a case of bribery, though Radhey Shyam later filed an affidavit claiming he was taking back money he had lent to the timber contractor, a video of which was captured with malafide intent, Kumar said. “Even if the version of the forest inspector is found to be true, he can’t be exonerated from his act of flouting departmental code of conduct, according to which he is not authorised to carry out any personal monetary dealing while discharging official duties during office hours,” he said. Radhey Shyam’s suspension order was issued by conservator of forest Javed Akhtar, following which he was attached to the Pilibhit Tiger Reserve headquarters. A departmental inquiry against him will be conducted by sub-divisional forest officer Hemant Seth, the DFO said. Regarding the suspension of SI Ram Kewal, SP Jai Prakash Yadav said the SI can be heard in the viral video demanding Rs 30,000 as bribe from a person, in lieu of filing a chargesheet against three people who have been booked for beating a gram pradhan in Bilsanda. Preliminary inquiry in the matter has found the SI as defaulter. He has been suspended and attached to the reserve police lines. A departmental inquiry, to be conducted by Bisalpur circle CO Lallan Singh, has been ordered, the SP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/forest-inspector-police-si-suspended-in-separate-cases-after-videos-of-bribery-go-viral/articleshow/79374521.cms||Keshav Agarwal
November 24, 2020||Goa||GSL’s first inland water vessel leaves Vasco for Varanasi||Panaji: Goa Shipyard Limited (GSL) on Monday flagged off a 20m passenger ferry, built for the Uttar Pradesh government. The passenger ferry, marks GSL’s entry into the inland waterways market, said chairman and managing director of GSL B B Nagpal. Ordered by the UP Rajkiya Nirman Nigam for Rs 10 crore under the Centre’s PRASAD scheme, the vessel sailed out for the 6,000km journey from Vasco to Varanasi. The ferry will operate along the river Ganga between Raj Ghat and Assi Ghat. Buoyed by the success of the ferry project, GSL is now ready to build solar powered and electric passenger boats. “Construction of the ferry craft marks a significant moment for Goa Shipyard as it forays into the domain of vessel building for inland waterways,” said Nagpal. “GSL has worked on design of solar and electric ferry to convert the existing design into solar and electric.” The twin-deck catamaran can carry upto 80 passengers and is meant for inland waterways. However, to get to river Ganga, the vessel will have to sail around peninsular India till it reaches Kolkatta. The vessel will be assisted by the Indian Coast Guard and a team of engineers from GSL on its journey to Varanasi via sea over the next two weeks. GSL said the passenger ferry will reach Varanasi on December 25.  “This boat has been specifically designed for low drafts to cater to the river water level during the summer in the river Ganga. The ferry will undergo trials at Varanasi before being accepted,” said secretary for defence production Raj Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gsls-first-inland-water-vessel-leaves-vasco-for-varanasi/articleshow/79378324.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Man, kin booked for thrashing wife to death||Ludhiana: The Ludhiana police on Monday booked a man for allegedly killing his wife with the help of his brother and nephew in Paddi village of Dehlon.It is alleged that the accused thrashed the woman, Shanu, to death on November 10, about 10 days after she gave birth to a boy. They then buried her body at their hometown in Jammu & Kashmir. However, following the orders of the district magistrate, her kin exhumed the body and its autopsy confirmed that she was thrashed to death. Her sister’s husband Qadar Hussain, a resident of Jagraon, said in his police complaint, “Shanu had tied the knot with Mohammad Safeeq of Kathua, J&K, about two years ago. Two months ago, Safeeq, Shanu and their nephew Mohammad Jaaqur came to Ludhiana to meet Safeeq’s elder brother Mohammad Farooq. Farooq has been living in Ludhiana for years. On November 1, Shanu gave birth to a boy. Days later, Shanu called up my wife and said that Farooq and his wife were harassing her and making her do all the household chores.”“On the morning of November 10, Farooq called us up and said Shanu was unwell. In the evening, he again called us up and said Shanu had died. They took her body to J&K and buried it. However, while giving the body a bath before performing the last rituals, some women relatives noticed injury marks on it,” Hussain added.Smelling a rat, Hussain approached the Kathua district magistrate and obtained an approval to exhume the body. Dehlon police station ASI Ranjeet Singh said, “The autopsy report ascertained that Shanu was thrashed to death. Thereafter, a complaint was lodged with Dehlon police as the woman was murdered in Paddi village here at Farooq’s house. A team has left for J&K to arrest the accused.” Dehlon police have registered a case against Safeeq, Farooq and Jaaqur under sections 302 (murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence), 34 (act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC.A similar incident was reported in Jodhewal on June 20. In the case, Mohammad Mehfooz, a resident of Jodhewal, with the help of his friend Mohammad Rafeeq had strangled his wife Naju Khatoon and buried the body in a graveyard on June 14. The matter came to light after six days when the father of the woman approached Ludhiana police. The body was exhumed from the grave after permission of the district magistrate and its post-mortem was conducted. According to police, Mehfooz suspected his wife of having an extra-affair and therefore, he decided to kill her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/man-kin-booked-for-thrashing-wife-to-death/articleshow/79375812.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Rage over agri laws fanning farm fires||Ludhiana: Farmers’ anger over Centre not paying heed to their suggestions for agriculture laws is costing the environment dear. The Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) data showed a huge jump in stubble burning cases in the district this year. The stubble collectors said their collections dropped substantially as sizeable number of farmers was angry over the recently-passed farm laws. The collectors supply stubble to power generation industry. “Last year, we collected 17,000 tonnes of stubble from villages in Khanna and surrounding areas, but this time we could manage only 10,000 quintals. We collected stubble from Turmuri, Panjrooka, Fatehpur and Nasrali villages, but farmers in other areas set it afire in front of us. They know their unions will stand with them, besides the government is also not acting tough this time due to farmers’ agitation. Unions wanted to exhibit anger against the government,” said Maggar Singh, a farmer of Turmuri village who is into stubble collection.“Another reason for increase in stubble burning cases this time is that the farmers wanted to sow wheat early,” he added.Another collector seconded him. “Last year, we had collected 1,800 tonnes of stubble, but this year it was 1,500 tonnes. Farmers set it afire due to laxity of the government this year. The previous year, the government agencies were strict in enforcing the ban,” said Avtar Singh, a farmer from Jargari and stubble collector. He said farmers’ union had a role in jump in stubble burning cases as they wanted to show their anger to the government. Rajvir, who is into the stubble collection business for many years now, said, “We collected 1 lakh quintals of stubble from villages in Machhiwara, Khanna and Samrala the previous year, but this time we got 80,000 quintals. We couldn’t achieve the target. Instead of providing it to us, they set it afire as there were no checks during farmers’ agitation. Farmers feel if the government is not supporting them, then why should they support it.” “We charge farmers a nominal fee for transportation of stubble from their fields to power plants in Khanna, Nawanshahr, Garhshankar and near Kurukshetra in Haryana,” he added.However, some collectors managed to meet the target. “In villages like Isru, Kangrala and Abdullahpur, we have worked for years and have been collecting stubble. Against the target of 6,000 tonnes, we collected 5,500 tonnes and hope to achieve the target,” said Gurtej Singh, a farmer and collector from Taunsa village. He added that they had bought two bailers for making stubble bails and then transporting it to power units.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/rage-over-agri-laws-fanning-farm-fires/articleshow/79375821.cms||Shariq Majeed
November 24, 2020||Kanpur||Trial of Ganga Aarti at Atal Ghat on November 27||KANPUR: The district administration will conduct a trial of ‘Ganga Aarti’ at Atal Ghat on November 27 on the pattern of Ganga Aarti program which is organized daily in Rishikesh and Haridwar.  The Aarti would be organized after taking all appropriate measures and following the Covid-19 protocol According to divisional commissioner Raj Shekhar, maximum 100 persons would be allowed to participate in the one-hour trial by following the Covid-19 protocol. “Since Ganga is a lifeline of Kanpur with a rich history and culture, the city’s industries also depend on it , therefore, in order to make the residents aware about the importance of the river the Aarti was planned as a trial”, the commissioner added. Raj Shekhar along with officials of Kanpur Municipal Corporation (KMC) and the district administration visited the site on Monday afternoon to have a view of the program and to assess the necessary steps to be taken in this regard. In Kanpur Ganga Aarti is organized on special occasions such as Devotthan Ekadashi, Dev Dipawali at Parmat and Sarsaiya ghats which are decorated with earthen lamps. But this year the events could not be organized due to the corona pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/trial-of-ganga-aarti-at-atal-ghat-on-november-27/articleshow/79376972.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Ludhiana||White car gang strikes again, ‘robs’ woman, 65||Ludhiana: The white car gang of women is on the prowl again.A 65-year-old woman of Mandi Gobindgarh claimed three women robbed her of gold in a white car in Samrala on Sunday afternoon. Gurdev Kaur said in her police complaint, “I had come to Samrala to attend a function. After it got over, I was standing at the Samrala bus stand to board a bus to Mandi Gobindgarh.”Soon, a car stopped near her and offered her lift. It had three women and a male driver. “While I was sitting in the car, I do not know when the women took off one of my earrings. When they were removing the other, I noticed it. I immediately opened the door of the moving car and jumped out in the nearby village of Utalan,” she added.Gurdev Kaur then sounded the police. Samrala police station SHO inspector Kuljinder Singh said, “A case will be registered after the facts are verified.”Police officials, meanwhile, expressed doubts over the claims of Gurdev Kaur. “The gang told Gurdev Kaur that they too were going to Mandi Gobindgarh and would drop her. That’s why she sat in the car. But how can a woman of 65 years jump from a moving car and not receive any major injuries,” said a cop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/white-car-gang-strikes-again-robs-woman-65/articleshow/79375828.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Sidhwan Bet: One booked for running car over man||TNNLudhiana: Sidhwan Bet police booked a person for killing a man in an accident on Sunday. The accused has been identified as Chamkaur Singh of Sherewala village. Complainant Kala Singh, son of deceased Sajawar Singh of Sherewal, said he and his father were walking to Tihada village for some work when the accused, who was driving negligently, ran his car into his father from behind. He added that as his father fell down, the accused crushed him under the wheels. Kala Singh told cops that his father died on the spot and the accused, after travelling some distance, left his vehicle and fled.Cops from Sidhwan Bet police station reached the spot and booked the accused under Section 304 of the IPC (punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder). The police said the accused would be arrested soon. Sidhwan Bet SHO inspector Rajesh Thakur said the accused deliberately caused the accident as per the onlookers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/sidhwan-bet-one-booked-for-running-car-over-man/articleshow/79375826.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS offers free power, water for GHMC win||HYDERABAD: Free water, power, waiver of motor vehicle tax and linking Godavari and Musi are among major promises made by Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) in its election manifesto for the forthcoming Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) polls. Showering sops ahead of the December 1 polls, TRS announced it would provide free water supply up to 20,000 litres per household from December if voted to power again. In addition to that, the party said it would provide free power to hair salons, laundries and dhobi ghats from December and waive motor vehicle tax on transport vehicles for six months between April and September, 2020. Union minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy termed the TRS manifesto as an old wine in a new bottle. He said the ruling party’s manifesto was not feasible and added many old promises had been repeated in the latest manifesto. “Promises like free power to hair saloons and dhobi ghats are old promises. There is a lot of difference in promises being made and action taken,” he said. TRS president and chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao released the manifesto on Monday. “About 97% of the people in the city will benefit with the free water supply from December. Those who consume more than 20k litres a month have to pay bills,” Chandrasekhar Rao said. While the state government has already been providing subsidised power for hair salons, it now announced free power to laundries across the state. The CM said it would benefit backward classes. Coming to the rescue of industrial units and commercial establishments, the TRS chief said it would waive minimum power demand bill for a period of six months from April to September as the commercial shops and industries suffered due to coronavirus-enforced shutdown. Transport sector too was hit with Covid-19 and subsequent lockdown, KCR said, adding motor vehicle tax would be waived for six months from April to September, claiming over 3.30 lakh would get benefit of about Rs 267 crore. On the request of Tollywood film personalities and exhibitors, the CM said the state government would relax restrictions on number of shows a day and increase film ticket rates on the lines of Maharasthra, Karnataka and Delhi. “The state government has been collecting 9% (total 18% GST) on film productions. Now, films produced with a budget of less than 10 crore can get refund of state GST,” KCR said. He said the government would allow the cinemas to open immediately and they would take a call when to reopen them. In the wake of recent floods which created havoc in the city, the chief minister said the government would come up with a comprehensive sewerage plan and storm water network at a cost of 13,000 crore and 12,000 crore respectively. “Musi river will be rejuvenated like Thames in London. Godavari and Musi river will will be linked to make it live,” KCR said, adding boating and other recreational facilities would be created.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-offers-free-power-water-for-ghmc-win/articleshow/79378943.cms||Koride Mahesh
November 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Cinemas can open in Telangana with 50% seating||HYDERABAD: Over 200 multiplexes and 450 single screens across Telangana have been allowed to open their doors. In a GO released barely days before Hyderabad municipal polls on December 1, authorities said theatres can immediately open with 50% seating capacity. But most theatres are likely to reopen from December 4 onwards. The management has to ensure that audience, staff and vendors wear masks all the time, sanitisers are available at all entry and exits, and physical distancing measures are implemented, the GO 158 said. Sanitisation of the premises, particularly common areas, should be done after every screening. Temperature setting of all air conditioning devices should be in the range of 24-30 degrees centigrade and relative humidity in the range of 40-70%. The GO said recirculation of air should be avoided and intake of fresh air be provided as much as possible. “The show timings should be staggered to ensure that intervals do not occur simultaneously,” the GO said. Telangana stands number three in the country behind Bollywood and Chennai film industry in terms of movies produced every year and industry sources said at least six movies are ready for release. “It will be the discretion of exhibitors to open theatres immediately if they wish to as the government has allowed it. But if theatres have to make a decent profit, the reopening decision will have to be coordinated with producers who are almost ready with their new films,” M Vijender Reddy, former president of Telangana State Film Chamber of Commerce, told TOI. “We had preliminary discussions recently and we believe the reopening can happen on December 4,” he said, adding that theatre owners feel a re-run can fetch them returns if they screen hit films. The Union ministry of home affairs on September 30 had permitted opening of theatres subject to the approval from state governments. Theatres in Mumbai, West Bengal and various parts of the country have opened since, but people have largely stayed away. Many single screens across India shut down again citing lack of content and the pandemic||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cinemas-can-open-in-t-with-50-seating/articleshow/79378969.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
November 24, 2020||Kolkata||Colleges ready with campus plans, wait for govt go-ahead||Kolkata: Only a week is left for first-semester undergraduate classes to begin in colleges across Bengal but the state government is yet to issue any clarification on the format of holding lectures. Though education minister Partha Chatterjee in early November had indicated that on-campus classes could reopen from next month, a date has not been announced. Even chief minister Mamata Banerjee has remained tight-lipped though she had said a decision was likely to be taken after Kali Puja. Colleges can’t take a decision without a government or university notification. Most have already chalked out an elaborate plan for resuming classes on their campuses, and the heads said they would be allowed to bring students back even at a day’s notice. Institutes have lined up different plans, such as holding physical classes on alternate days, asking students of various faculties to attend classes on campus on separate days and continuing with online classes simultaneously with the face-to-face lectures. “We have decided to hold classes in arts and science on alternate days. Another proposal is to allow 50% students to attend classes a day,” Lady Brabourne College principal Siuli Sarkar said. “I have also written to Bikash Bhavan, informing them about the safety measures we have taken for hostel.” Shukla Hazra of East Kolkata Girls’ College said they were primarily waiting for a government order on resuming physical classes. “If the situation is under control, we will hold theory classes online but those, who have to attend practical classes and need access to the laboratory, will visit the campus. We plan to keep both online and offline modes of teaching available for students,” she said. Tapan Poddar, principal of Vivekananda College, said. “We have some initial plans in place. Either student of three streams —humanities, commerce and science—will be asked to attend on-campus classes on separate days or the different semesters will be uniformly distributed,” he said, adding the institute would wait for a guideline from Calcutta University. Surendranath College principal Indranil Manna pointed out that going by initial discussions, around 50% students would be called to the campus every day. “We will continue the online mode of teaching as a support system for the others,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/colleges-ready-with-campus-plans-wait-for-govt-go-ahead/articleshow/79377220.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Kanpur||Uttar Pradesh: Shopping complex owned by gangster Dilip Mishra razed||PRAYAGRAJ: A team of Prayagraj Development Authority (PDA), district officials and police started the process of demolishing a three-storey hostel-cum-shopping complex, allegedly constructed and owned by gangster Dilip Mishra on Mirzapur road in trans- Yamuna area. Prayagraj Development Authority (PDA) zonal officer Sat Shukla told TOI, “The shopping complex cum hostel had been constructed on a 300 square metre area without getting a map sanctioned by the civic agency. The cost of the house is estimated to be around worth crores of rupees.” He further added that the demolition work started after compilation of the records and orders. He said that the demolition drive was conducted by a joint team of Prayagraj Development Authority, administrative officials and the police. Heavy police ‘bandobast’ was made to deal with any protest or disruption, officials said. Meanwhile, officials of PDA, and police were shocked during the exercise when a man carrying a licensed weapon reached the site of demolition demanding to stop the exercise. The police, however, detained the man for quizzing. A senior cop said we are interrogating man who reached the site with licensed weapon and a case would be registered in this connection. The police would also go for the cancellation of arms license of the holder, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/shopping-complex-owned-by-gangster-dilip-mishra-razed/articleshow/79377212.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Mangaluru||Online trade license app ready for launch: Mangaluru City Corporation||MANGALURU: Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) convened a special meeting for traders in the city to discuss the online process wherein trade licenses can be applied or renewed using a mobile app. Traders will be able to pay the fee through netbanking or credit/debit cards to obtain a new trade license or renew the existing one, said MCC environment engineer Madhu Manohar. One can apply for a new trade license, renew or cancel the existing one using the mobile application. Further, traders may view the status of their application on the app. Those who want to apply for the trade license should select one of the 10 categories — general, food and beverages, boarding and lodging, automobile showrooms, spare parts and service centres, offices, industries, hospitals, markets, halls and temporary licence. Later, they may choose the right sub-category and submit documents and photos. In addition to a selfie of the applicant, three photos of the business premises also should be uploaded using the app. The geotagging in the app will help officials to locate the applicant’s premises. Messages will be sent to the applicants soon after the approval. The app will help people obtain new licenses, renew the old or cancel the existing within three days. Further, they need not visit the city corporation, he said. The city corporation will also open a help desk at MCC to redress grievances related to the app for three months from January. “The officers-level training on online trade license app has been completed and it will be open for the public soon,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/online-trade-license-app-ready-for-launch-mangaluru-city-corporation/articleshow/79375855.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Nagpur||NMC to seal building, area if close contacts refuse Covid test||Nagpur: Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B warned on Monday that the civic body would reintroduce strict measures like enforcement of containment zones, if people don’t come forward to get tested. He also said night curfew is being contemplated in the wake of anticipated second Covid wave.The decisions were taken during the civic chief’s two Covid review meetings — one with Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) health and administrative officials, and the other with IGGMCH and GMCH deans on Monday. Containing deaths in high risk groups and keeping all Covid hospital beds functional was discussed. Action on mask-less citizens too will be intensified.Late in the evening, Radhakrishnan also issued orders to screen at city entry points passengers coming from NCR, Delhi, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Goa as per the state government’s SOP from November 25. He said NMC teams would start collecting details of passengers arriving from Monday itself, and get them tested.“Our teams will be deployed at the airport to ensure each passenger has an RT-PCR test report as mandated by the state government. They will be quarantined if test is not done,” he said.Paid quarantine as well as more than 21 civic-run Covid Care Centres (CCCs) are available for passengers. “Yet, if needed, NMC will restart MLA Hostel CCC,” he said.Speaking about the review meet, the civic chief said, “The city will not face bed shortage like in August and September. We are better placed to face the pandemic, more experienced, and trying to avoid earlier mistakes. Clinically, logistically, and administratively, we are prepared.”On movement restrictions, he said, “We don’t want to create panic. If cases are going out of control, we will think about restrictions. Measures like night curfew will be taken at an appropriate time.”NMC has estimated that as on date it has double the number of beds as compared to peak requirement seen on September 12, when city had over 13,000 active cases. Of this, 15% needed hospitalization. With addition of 400 HDU and ICU beds at GMCH, over 2,000 beds are now available in medical colleges and civic hospitals while as many as 2,500 including ICU, ventilators and oxygen beds are available in private.“We discussed how to keep all of them functional at the same time. Manpower and infrastructure mismatch shall be removed. There is infrastructure at some hospitals but not enough manpower and vice versa,” he said.The civic body would also focus on keeping Covid mortality under check. “Targeted testing instructions have been given. Under ‘my family my responsibility’ drive, 81,000 comorbid patients had been identified. We would reach out to these patients under special drive now. Our teams will monitor them and keep them informed about boosting their immunity. This will help prevent Covid deaths,” he said.Increased testing in congested areas, among unaffected population, high death reporting areas too has been planned.“Already, directions have been issued for contact tracing of positive persons. At least 10 comorbid persons in this group will be traced and tested immediately. In case, people don’t cooperate, strict action like sealing building or declaring the area as containment zone will be initiated. This is only to ensure people, especially close contacts, get tested,” Radhakrishnan said.The civic chief also issued an advisory to all testing centres to dispatch samples only as per each lab’s testing capacity. Labs officials told TOI that around 300 to 400 samples were still pending at each public lab. The sudden rush of teachers had caused the huge pile up.InfoboxHEADING OFF THE SECOND WAVE* No projection regarding how fast or when second or third Covid wave will start* 1,500 oxygenated beds, 800 ICU beds, 220 ventilators, amounting to over 50% of city’s bed capacity, are with private hospitals* Plan to keep all beds functional* GMCH has 1,000, IGGMCH 600, AIIMS 90, civic hospitals 200, trust-run 1,000 beds* Contact tracing of 10 persons and another 10 comorbid, if any, in every chain to be tested* Sealing of area or building if people don’t cooperate* Night curfew in case of resurgence in cases||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-to-seal-building-area-if-close-contacts-refuse-covid-test/articleshow/79375858.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
November 24, 2020||Nagpur||Less than 10% students attend schools in Vidarbha on Day 1||Nagpur: It was ‘back-to-school’ for 56,000 students in Vidarbha as schools and junior colleges reopened from Monday. These students accounted for less than 10% of the total students strength in Std IX-XII, the classes for which reopening permission was granted.In the 11 districts of Vidarbha, Nagpur is the only one which will reopen rural schools from November 26, whereas the city ones are closed till at least December 13.While the attendance figure was less than 10% of the students’ strength, it is to be also noted that sending students to school is optional. Only if a parent consents, can the student be allowed back in school.Gadchiroli district, one of the first in the state to reopen schools in July itself for a few days, witnessed a strong reopening with over 90% of its schools reopening. Rajabhau Munghate, a senior academic from Gadchiroli said, “Students did come to campus across the district, though numbers were less. Even in Naxalite-infested areas like Chamorshi, schools and junior colleges opened up and students were present.”In Chandrapur too, the response was on expected lines. Education officer Ulhas Naral said, “A total of 358 schools including government, aided and non-aided schools resumed their physical classes for Std IX to XI in district. There are many more in the queue and would gradually start their operation. All the school administrations have been directed to observe strict precautions while holding the classes.” In Yavatmal, most of the zilla parishad and grant-in-aid schools reopened. Education officer Vikas Chavne said, “Attendance was very low but schools have started to reopen. I visited a some schools in Ralegaon tehsil on Monday where students were present.”Yavatmal city has two ZP run schools. But on Monday, not even a single student turned up in either of those schools. The ZP Girls High School and Junior College principal (in-charge) Saheba Sultana Ansar Abdul said “We have opened the school as per the instructions from the education department but no student turned up today.” Same was the case at ZP (ex-govt) Multipurpose High School and Junior College.Jacob Das, principal of Yavatmal Public School, said, “The parents are unwilling to send their children to school under the threat of Covid-19 pandemic.” No English medium school management in the district has opened their schools as they are in the non granted school category. Similarly, the tribal schools and their hostels remained closed as they have no instructions from their department.An education official from Amravati told TOI that overall the reopening and attendance was as expected. “We have very initial level data from Amravati district as it seems a final update is awaited. Apart from that, the number of students was less than the consent from parents received. Again something which had factored in because some parents are always likely to change their mind,” said the official, who did not wish to named.In the other districts of Vidarbha too, the attendance figures were low. Education officials feel that these may climb higher as the days go by.As Nagpur readies for reopening of schools in rural areas from Thursday, Covid-19 testing of teachers is underway. Chintaman Vanjari, district education officer said “So far, 65 teachers have tested positive. There are 657 schools in rural areas who are eligible to reopen from Thursday. But whether or not they open, is completely at their discretion.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/less-than-10-students-attend-schools-in-vidarbha-on-day-1/articleshow/79375865.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Patna||Flavour of Bihar’s diversity marks Day 1 of new House||PATNA: The 17th Vidhan Sabha assembled on Monday with eight ministers and 190 new members of the state legislative assembly being sworn-in by Pro-tem Speaker Jitan Ram Manjhi in the central hall of the new legislature building in the presence of CM Nitish Kumar. On the first day of the five-day session, several legislators drew attention as they entered the House, some for the first time, showcasing their unique individual style or the region they represent. From putting on the beautifully adorned ‘Mithila paag’, the colourful ethnic headgear from the region, to arriving in a vintage car, and newly-elected legislators taking oath in various languages, including Sanskrit, Urdu and Maithili — the MLAs showcased the cultural diversity of the state. While a majority of the legislators opted for Hindi, Urdu and Maithili to take the oath, Congress MLA from Kadwa, Shakeel Ahmad Khan, stunned everyone by taking oath in Sanskrit. His colleagues appreciated the gesture by thumping their desks. Ratnesh Sada, elected from Sonbarsa, and Mithilesh Kumar from Sitamarhi also opted for Sanskrit. “I took oath in Sanskrit because I wanted to affirm that this language is also equally important,” Khan later said outside the House. Talking to TOI, Shakeel said India has different shades, and all shades should be celebrated. “Let us celebrate the diversity of our country and let us shower love on one another. By opting for Sanskrit, I wanted to give the message of the need for celebrating this diversity. In the last few years, I am witnessing that hatred is being promoted in politics, which is dangerous,” Shakeel added. Among those who took the oath in Maithili are MLAs Vinod Narayan Jha, Nitish Mishra and Arun Shekhar while RJD member Chetan Anand (son of Lovely Anand) took the oath in English. Hindi, English, Urdu, Maithili and Sanskrit are the five languages listed in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution for taking the oath. MLC Devesh Chandra Thakur accompanied by another MLC Sanjay Jha came in a vintage car and instantly became the centre of attraction for the lensmen. Among the legislators from Mithila who wore the traditional headgear was BJP MLA Hari Bhushan Thakur. “Mithila region is culturally advanced, but a lot of development work needs to be done. Through this paag, I want to bring attention to Mithila,” Thakur said. Among the ministers who took the oath were deputy CMs Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi as well as Vijay Kumar Choudhary, Bijendra Prasad Yadav, Sheila Kumari, Ramprit Paswan, Ram Swarath Kumar Rai and Amrendra Pratap Singh. The CM and ministers Mangal Pandey, Ashok Choudhary and Santosh Kumar Suman are MLCs. While Mewa Lal Choudhary has resigned as education minister, animal husbandry minister Mukesh Sahani is not a member of any House yet. “In all, nine ministers and 190 MLAs were to take oath on Monday, and the remaining on Tuesday,” state assembly secretariat secretary Rajkumar Singh said, adding Jiwesh Mishra could not make it on Monday. The 105 first-time MLAs were all excited to enter inside the House and take the oath. Two of them, Sumit Kumar Singh and Paswan Kumar Yadav, bowed on the steps under the portico before entering the House. The newly-elected MLAs were also carrying their winning certificates to be shown before entering the assembly. Debutant BJP MLA Shreyasi Singh arrived clad in red and black salwar suit. Talking to a TV channel, she said, “I am excited and a bit nervous, but have come with energy to work. I will fulfil the promises I have made to people of Jamui and work for the development of all castes and religions. I will see that the NDA government’s policies are implemented. We have a big fight against illiteracy and unemployment.” First-time Congress MLA from Rajapakar, Pratima Kumari said, “I am very happy and am thankful to the people of Rajapakar for choosing me. I will fulfil my duty with responsibility.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/flavour-of-states-diversity-marks-day-1-of-new-house/articleshow/79377222.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 24, 2020||Pune||11 people lose Rs 1.45cr to investment fraud, one in net||Pune: The crime branch of the Pune police on Sunday arrested a Salunke Vihar resident after 11 people alleged that he cheated them of Rs1.45 crore in a fake investment scheme.Pranay Uday Khare (28) was arrested after a 44-year-old woman from Aundh lodged an FIR with the Chatushrungi police in this regard.Police said Khare got himself acquainted with a group of financially well-off people, who were into activities like meditation and spreading happiness. He claimed to be an office-bearer of an organization that teaches meditation and happiness techniques and, on earning the trust of the group members, floated a plan for investment in farmland, purportedly measuring 7000 acres, against attractive returns. According to the police, he promised handsome yearly returns but didn’t pay up even once in three years. Deputy commissioner of police (Crime) Bachchan Singh said they were expecting more people cheated by Khare to step forward. “Khare misused the meditation organization’s name to attract investors. He claimed to have floated a company that was buying 7,000 acres of land in Ratnagiri for drumstick cultivation and other farming purposes,” Singh said.Inspector Rajnish Nirmal of the crime branch said Khare — in a bid to attract investors — dressed well, commuted in swanky cards and claimed to have delivered talks on business.“People became impressed and started investing money in his business plan, under which they were supposed to invest for a 15-year period and reap yearly dividends,” Nirmal said. Since February, the investors started demanding that Khare give them returns on their investment. “However, he made excuses and never paid,” Nirmal said.In the meantime, some members of the group approached the meditation organization, which issued a letter clarifying that Khare was not associated with it. “Following this, the investors decided to approach the police. We found him hiding in a flat in Kondhwa,” Nirmal added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/11-people-lose-rs-1-45cr-to-investment-fraud-one-in-net/articleshow/79379004.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: To woo voters, young brigade in poll fray goes beyond bijli, paani||HYDERABAD: Among a sea of seasoned politicians, the electoral battle on December 1 will also feature a clutch of 20-somethings — promising to give voice to the aspirations of young Hyderabad. And this is perhaps why the poll cry of these first-time candidates, all aged between 21 and 24, goes beyond just sadak, bijli and paani. There’s also the promise of jobs, improving education facilities, women empowerment, ending social discrimination and uplifting communities irrespective of caste and religion. “Since I had the fortune of acquiring a good education, I understand its importance. If I am elected, I will ensure every child gets access to education,” said 21-year-old, T V Tapaswini. The Congress candidate from Goutham Nagar, Malkajgiri, is a B Tech graduate. If some of these budding leaders, either graduates or in their final year of degree, have taken the plunge on a party ticket, many have decided to go solo, banking entirely on the goodwill they have earned among locals. But they do have a common goal: to bring more young people into the political fold, irrespective of their fate in this civic election. “Apart from working for the people, I also want to encourage others my age to join politics through my move. That’s the only way we can bring about changes we want to see,” said independent candidate, M Karthik Yadav who hopes that his promise to make Gudimalkapur safer for women, will help him win at least 5,000 votes on December 1. Some other areas where wards will see these candidates include Begumpet, Meerpet and Moosapet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/to-woo-voters-young-brigade-in-poll-fray-goes-beyond-bijli-paani/articleshow/79379005.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
November 24, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Cops exhume body of Solapur man murdered & buried in Mulshi farmhouse||PUNE: Nine days after a 40-year-old man was bludgeoned, throttled to death and buried on the premises of a farmhouse at Kule village in Mulshi taluka, the Paud police on Sunday exhumed the body and sent it for post-mortem. Police also arrested the victim’s elder brother, a caretaker of the farmhouse, his wife and their associate on the charge of murder and attempting to destroy evidence, among others. “A magisterial court on Monday ordered the arrested trio’s remand in police custody for six days,” sub-inspector Rekha Dudhbhate of Paud police told TOI. The farmhouse is owned by a trader from Sadashiv Peth, police said. Senior inspector Ashok Dhumal of Paund police told TOI, “Our preliminary investigation has established that the elder brother (45) was scared that his younger brother, hailing from their native place in Solapur, would expose his (elder brother’s) wife’s illicit relationship with their associate, also a caretaker of another farmhouse in the vicinity. The trio admitted to have killed the victim on November 13 and buried him in a corner of the farmhouse.” Police said the younger brother came from Solapur in the first week of November to stay with his elder brother. During his stay, the victim had also met the owner at the farmhouse, police added. Dudhbhate said, “The incident came to light when the owner visited the farmhouse on November 21 and noticed that the caretaker’s younger brother was not around. When the owner inquired with the caretaker and his wife, both gave conflicting replies about the younger brother’s whereabouts. The caretaker claimed his brother had returned to their native place in Solapur, while his wife claimed the victim had got a job in Hadapsar.” “Not satisfied with their answers and sensing something amiss, the owner returned to the farmhouse on Sunday and took the couple into confidence. They then narrated the incident and showed him the place where they had buried the body. Later, the police were summoned at the site,” said Dudhbhate. The officer said, “The caretaker told the houseowner that he was aware of his wife’s relationship with their associate. His brother, too, came to know about the affair during his stay. He said he tried convincing his younger brother that he had no issues with his wife’s relationship with another man and requested him not to reveal anything about it to their relatives. However, the victim started arguing, prompting the man and his wife to bludgeon him with a blunt object. The woman then contacted their associate who throttled the victim to death and later buried him.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-exhume-body-of-solapur-man-murdered-buried-in-mulshi-farmhouse/articleshow/79378991.cms||Mihir Tanksale
November 24, 2020||India||CPM brass leave no wriggle room for Kerala on Police Act||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Hectic parleys among senior CPM members — including half a dozen politburo members on Sunday night and Monday morning — led to the LDF government’s decision of withdrawing the 118A amendment made to the Kerala Police Act. Sources said the stand taken by the CPM central leadership didn’t leave any room for the state leadership to even argue for a ‘wait-and-watch’ approach, which was the plan of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who had asked the state police chief to prepare a standard operating procedure to implement the Act by eliminating chances of misuse. It is learnt that on Sunday night, CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury had discussions with Vijayan and politburo members S Ramachandran Pillai and MA Baby. CPI general secretary D Raja also spoke to Yechury and conveyed his party’s displeasure. The politburo — which has taken a strong stand against the government control mooted for digital media a few days ago — was upset over the storm on social media over the amendment. As senior state members sensed the displeasure of the central leadership, a meeting of CPM state secretariat was convened on Monday morning. Vijayan held talks with senior functionaries, including state secretary (in charge) A Vijayaraghavan, and a decision was taken to withdraw the amendment. As the procedure involved technical complexities like issuing a fresh ordinance nullifying the amendment or introducing a fresh bill in the assembly, the chief minister was authorised to take an appropriate route in consultation with the cabinet. The statement issued by the CM has promised a detailed discussion in the assembly hinting that the government will introduce a fresh piece of legislation in the assembly and subject it to a detailed debate. Welcoming the CM’s decision, D Raja said, “Our party’s principle has been to not issue ordinances, especially on matters such as these, which need to be discussed properly in appropriate fora.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cpm-brass-leave-no-wriggle-room-for-kerala-on-police-act/articleshow/79379464.cms||B Sreejan
November 24, 2020||Mangaluru||Issues with bus services in Dakshina Kannada? Take this survey||MANGALURU: Dakshina Kannada Bus Operators Association (DKBOA) and Kanara Chamber of Commerce & Industry (KCCI) have launched an online survey for feedback on the city bus service in the district. DKBOA president Dilraj Alva told TOI that based on people’s response, a detailed project report on making the bus service more people-friendly will be prepared. “This survey is being conducted to understand the perception of the public towards the city bus service. People will have to give their valuable feedback to the questionnaire which will help us improve our services. Through the survey, we will decide how the process of branding bus services can be taken up and thereby build the image through user-friendly measures,” said Alva, who is also a member of the KCCI. There are over 350 private buses plying in Dakshina Kannada. The survey will collect details like frequency, timing and commuting routes. In addition, it also aims at understanding the problems of people about daily commuting and to find whether there are enough number of buses plying to a particular area. The survey also gives an opportunity for commuters to express their views on service, driving, timings, overcrowding, seat reservation for women/ physically challenged, issuance of tickets, collection of fare, time given to board the buses, stops, missing of trips and behaviour of conductors. People also may make suggestions to improve the bus services, Alva said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/issues-with-bus-services-in-dakshina-kannada-take-this-survey/articleshow/79375760.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Goa||Half of Mumbai, Delhi in Goa, new Maha rule a joke: Vishwajit Rane||PANAJI: Health minister Vishwajit Rane reacted to the Maharashtra government mandating a Covid-19 certificate for travellers from Goa, and called it a “joke”. “Goa is having maximum problems because of people coming from Maharashtra,” he said. “Half of Mumbai and Delhi are in Goa. In fact, we should strictly be checking people coming from there. The Maharashtra government’s decision will come into force on Wednesday. Since last month, Goa has witnessed a steep drop in Covid-19 infections and this month, case positivity has dropped below 100. Covid-19 mortalities, too, have fallen drastically. Since Diwali, there has been a surge in tourist arrivals to Goa from Maharashtra and other states. Goa CM Pramod Sawant, in a tweet, said that he has directed the authorities to conduct thermal screening “strictly” at the airport & railway station entry points. The movement of tourists within the state without following safety protocols has worried locals that the state may witness another spike. “I have already asked health secretary Amit Satija to have a strict protocol in place,” he said. “We will have to check people coming in from Delhi and other states, as they are witnessing a spike. The file will be moved for the chief minister’s approval shortly.” Rane said he is all for testing people coming by flight. “We must compulsorily ask them to either get a covid-19 negative certificate or do an antigen test on arrival,” he said. However, he said that checking everyone would be “logistically nightmarish” and that Goa should so thermal screening of those entering the state by road or rail. Besides tourists, a lot of people from Banda, Sawantwadi and Dodamarg in Maharashtra visit Goa for work and trade everyday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/half-of-mum-del-in-goa-new-maha-rule-a-joke-rane/articleshow/79378347.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Mangaluru||Survey shows more people will cycle regularly if M’luru roads made safe||MANGALURU: If cycling is made safe and convenient in Mangaluru, 97% of women and 98% of men would cycle regularly, revealed the survey conducted to assess the challenges Mangaluru Smart City Limited (MSCL) is likely to face in rolling out the #cycles4change challenge. Nearly 1,674 people responded to the survey of which 28% were women and 72% were men. Among total respondents, 4% were below 14 years, 6% were from 14 to 18 years, 81 % were from 19 to 50 years and 9% were above 50 years of age. Interestingly, 80% of women and 84% of men prefer to own a cycle. Of the total respondents, 84% of the women and 99% of the men know how to cycle. On the biggest barriers to cycling in the city, 77% of women and 69%of men feared speeding vehicles, 63% of women and 68% of men found parked vehicles and pedestrians as obstruction. Also, 73% of women and 69% of men found potholes and open drains as a threat and 24% women found eve-teasing to be a threat. More than 50% of the respondents, 54% of women and 55% of the men felt Mangaluru is unsafe and inconvenient for cycling. Among locations, 39% of women and 31% of men said they feel unsafe at junctions, 37% of women and 35% of men felt unsafe on main roads and 12% of women and 18% of men felt unsafe on narrow roads. About 38% of women and 64% of men ride daily or few days a week. On positive feedback for cycling in Mangaluru, only 10% of the cyclists felt the commute distance is too long in the city. Only 15% felt that the weather is unpleasant for cycling and 24% of the cyclists felt that the terrain is too steep and hilly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/survey-shows-more-people-will-cycle-regularly-if-mluru-roads-made-safe/articleshow/79375786.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Mysuru||Kodagu villagers live on treetops to guard farmlands from jumbos||MADIKERI: The farmers residing in five villages bordered across Harangi Reservoir spend sleepless nights inside huts built atop trees. These tree-top huts have been raised by farmers to keep an eye on the wild elephant movement. The villages of Huduguru, Mavinahalla, Kalidevarahosu, Madalapura and Hiraholalu are haunted by wild elephants that are causing immense damage to the cultivated paddy farmlands. The solar fences installed by farmers have outdone by the elephants that are feasting on the paddy yield. “The five villages have nearly 800 acres of farmland and most of them have been cultivated for paddy. However, when the paddy is due for harvest, the yield is damaged by the increased movement of wild elephants,” said Ravi, a farmer and Huduguru gram panchayat member. He added that the solar fences that were installed by 10 farmers across 50 acres in Huduguru were damaged after elephants uprooted tree branches on the fences. Uthaiah, another farmer, had invested Rs 2.5 lakh to install solar fencing across his farmland. But the fence was also damaged by elephants. With no other remedy in place, the farmers have now built huts on tree tops and spend the nights in them watching over their farmlands. “These tree houses are built near elephant entry points. When we spot any elephants, we flash lights and sometimes burst crackers to scare them away,” said Ravi. The farmers said the elephants frequently enter the village limits after quenching their thirst at the Cauvery River near Harangi Reservoir. While the forest department is now installing tentacle solar fencing along a 7-km stretch in these affected areas, the farmers doubt this will put an end to the increasing elephant menace. p3elephanthouse - The treetop huts that line farmlands across Harangi Reservoir limits||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/kodagu-villagers-live-on-treetops-to-guard-farmlands-from-jumbos/articleshow/79376045.cms||G RAJENDRA
November 24, 2020||Madurai||HC: Casual employees have no right of permanent absorption||Madurai: Casual labourers/daily wage employees who were engaged by government departments or organizations have no right of permanent absorption, the Madras high court has observed. Stating that in the event of granting permanent status for these labourers, then the backdoor route created by the authorities would become an illegal channel of appointment and consequently, it would amount to violation of the Constitutional mandates and quashed orders conferring permanent status to contract employees working in the TWAD board.The court was hearing a batch of petitions filed by executive engineer of TWAD Board (maintenance division), Madurai challenging the orders of the inspector of labour, Madurai.While the board contended that there is no direct employer-employee relationship between them and the contract employees, permanent status cannot be conferred to them. However, inspectors of labour contended that since they are working for 480 days, permanent status was rightly conferred to them as per provisions of the Tamil Nadu Industrial Establishments (Conferment of Permanent Status to Workmen) Act, 1981.Justice S M Subramaniam observed that the inspectors of labour had not considered any of these legal principles settled by the Constitution bench of the Supreme Court, contrarily, mechanical approach has been adopted by them and the relief of permanent status is granted by merely verifying the length of services rendered by these labourers.The judge noted that casual labourers were engaged on a daily wage basis in order to complete projects or to meet out certain emergencies. Thus, they were not appointed by following the recruitment rules in force. All these engagements on need basis, are either illegal or irregular appointments, said the judge.No reservations are followed, no merit assessments are made and no selection process was conducted, cited the judge.Holding that all appointments should be made in accordance with rules in force, the judge quashed the orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-casual-employees-have-no-right-of-permanent-absorption/articleshow/79378340.cms||Kaushik Kannan
November 24, 2020||Pune||Pimpri Chinchwad cops clamp down on 32 dens||Pune: The social security cell of the Pimpri Chinchwad police cracked down on gambling, flesh trade, illicit liquor and other illegal activities with the raid of 32 dens in the last two months, leading to seizure of cash, vehicles and other valuables worth around Rs99 lakh, so far. The squad busted 14 gambling dens and also destroyed illegal country-made liquor manufacturing units. Senior inspector Vithhal Kubade, who is in-charge of the squad, told TOI, “We have busted 14 gambling dens, so far. We have also busted a sex racket, which was being run under the guise of a massage parlour. We have rescued five women,” Kubade said. He said on November 22, the squad busted an illegal unit manufacturing country-made liquor in Maan in Mulshi and destroyed chemicals worth Rs5.7 lakh. The Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner Krishna Prakash in September had fanned a social security cell to take action against such illegal activities. Krishna Prakash had said, “The suspects involved in illegal activities later dare to execute serious offences.” Krishna Prakash had even shared his cellphone number and appealed to citizens to inform him about illegal activities in their areas.The in-charges of all the police stations in Pimpri Chinchwad have been told to take action against the illegal activities in their jurisdiction. “We have been monitoring the action taken by the social security cell in the jurisdiction of every police station. The in-charge may have to face action, if he fails to curb the illegal activities,” the commissioner had said. Recently, the squad also busted a racket of adulterated furnace oil, which was being sold to the companies in Bhosari MIDC at higher rates. Box Action taken so far Gambling dens busted: 14 Illegal liquor cases: 14 Sex Racket: 3 Adulteration Racket: 1 Cases registered with police stations Chakan & Wakad: 5 each Chinchwad, Dehu Road, Hinjewadi and Pimpri: 3 each Nigdi, Bhosari MIDC, Sangvi: 2 each Bhosari, Dighi, Talegaon MIDC, Chikhali: 1 each Senior inspector Vithhal Kubade, who is in-charge of Pimpri Chinchwad police’s social security cell, has appealed to citizens to contact him on 9764197977 for any information about illegal activities. “The name of the informer will not be disclosed,” he said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pimpri-chinchwad-cops-clamp-down-on-32-dens/articleshow/79379032.cms||Mihir Tanksale
November 24, 2020||Pune||Man poses as hearing & speech impaired, steals ornaments worth Rs 5.9L from shop||Pune: A man posing as hearing and speech impaired allegedly stole a bag containing gold ornaments worth Rs5.9 lakh from a jewellery shop in Kasba Peth on Sunday afternoon. The shop owner, Romit Sandbhor (31) of Senapati Bapat Road, lodged a complaint with the Faraskhana police late on Sunday evening. The shop also provides the service of hallmarking gold ornaments to other jewellery outlets. Police said a local shopkeeper on Sunday morning had delivered a bag of gold ornaments weighing 112 grams. An employee of the shop had kept it on the display table unattended. The police said the man kept his placard urging people to donate alms on the polythene bag containing the ornaments and showed Sandbhor a diary having names of people donating money to him. After Sandbhor gave him Rs20, he allegedly lifted the bag with the placard and walked out of the shop. When the shop’s employees failed to locate the bag containing the gold ornaments later in the day, Sandbhor and others checked the CCTV footage and the theft came to light, the police said. A search is on for the man.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-poses-as-hearing-speech-impaired-steals-ornaments-worth-rs-5-9l-from-shop/articleshow/79379011.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Mysuru||Ambaari in Mysuru: Double-decker bus service from Dec?||MYSURU: Services of the much-awaited ‘Ambaari’, the double-decker bus, on designated routes covering prominent tourist spots within the city is likely to be launched by Karnataka Tourism Development Corporation (KSTDC) in December. Speaking to TOI, KSTDC regional manager (south) U B Udaykumar said that the trial runs were successfully conducted in March. KSTDC had planned to launch the services during Dasara celebrations, but the same got postponed due to delay in clearing the route from BSNL junction boxes and Cesc power lines to facilitate the movement of bus and trimming tree branches by Mysuru City Corporation and other problems on the procession route. However, most of the works obstructed to launch the services had been sorted out by MCC and BSNL. “KSTDC, which has cleared the bills of the authorities concerned, expect clearance of obstacles to run the service by December 15,” he stated. The corporation is making necessary preparations to launch the service before Christmas as the tourist footfall is high during the New Year celebrations. “The bus almost likely hit the road from December 21. Senior officials of the department will be visiting the city by the first week (of next month) to finalise the date of launch,” Udaykumar explained. KSTDC has purchased six such buses, of which four are meant for Mysuru and the rest for Hampi in Ballari district. Ambaari is a specially-built bus for open-roof tours, with a seating capacity of 40. Tourists on board the bus will get an audio guide (either in Kannada or English) the moment the bus reaches a particular tourist spot. Ambaari is a hop-on and hop-off initiative for tourists to experience the city of palaces and other heritage/ cultural structures. The bus will begin its journey from KSTDC premises (Hotel Mayura) on JLB Road on every trip. It will cover 14 important tourist destinations, including Mysore Palace, Jaganmohan Palace, open-air theatre, Manasagangothri, Mysuru Zoo, Karanji Lake, Crawford Hall, CFTRI and St Philomena’s Church.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/ambaari-in-mysuru-double-decker-bus-service-from-dec/articleshow/79375911.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Aurangabad||BJP demands free power up to 100 units||Nashik: The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) today hit the streets against the rise in electricity charges and demanded that the state government fulfil its assurance of free electricity for 100 units per month. The BJP led by its office bearers today staged an agitation at Raviwar Karanja, demanding that the state government immediately withdraw the hike in tariff charges applicable since April 2020. Led by the BJP general secretary Devyani Pharande, city unit president Girish Palve and other office-bearers, the party workers burnt a copies of bills issued by the Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL). “We are fighting for the rights of the consumers, who have been forced to pay the inflated electricity bills. The company has also increased tariff without warning and the government is not concerned about it,” claimed Pharande. The BJP leaders slammed the company for the alleged high-handedness of officials, who allegedly asked the consumers to first pay their dues before their complaints can be taken up. The BJP also warned against disconnecting the power connections to any consumers over non-payment of bills. They also demanded that the bills of the economically weaker sections of society from March to June be completely waived off. BJP MP Bharti Pawar staged an agitation outside the MSEDCL office in Dindori today. She said the state government was playing with the sentiments of the people – first by promising free electricity for first 100 units and then turning away from its promise. A similar agitation was carried out in Malegaon town led by district unit president of the BJP Suresh Nikam||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bjp-demands-free-power-up-to-100-units/articleshow/79375920.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 24, 2020||Madurai||No safety for women in the DMK: Murugan||Madurai: BJP state president L Murugan once again raised the issue about Alangulam MLA Poongothai Aladi Aruna prostrating before DMK functionaries and asked DMK MP Kanimozhi to talk about it rather than just tweeting about women’s safety Addressing the gathering during the Vetrivel yatra at Palani in Dindigul district on Monday evening, Murugan said that Kanimozhi was tweeting about the safety of women following the Hatras incident in Uttar Pradesh, adding that there is no safety for women in the DMK. Murugan said that the National Democratic Alliance would win a majority in the forthcoming assembly elections. Speaking about long-pending demands of the people of Palani, Murugan urged the state government to form a separate district with Palani as headquarters. He also said that he would take it up with the central government to operate more trains to Palani. Union minister of state for external affairs V Muraleetharan said that the main objective for organising Vetrivel yatra is not only to condemn Karuppar Koottam but also to thank frontline workers who rendered service during the Covid-19 pandemic. As there was no permission for the rally, police officials picked up hundreds of BJP cadres and detained them in a marriage hall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/no-safety-for-women-in-the-dmk-murugan/articleshow/79378343.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 24, 2020||Pune||Threefold rise in daily tests within a week in PMR||PUNE: The number of daily tests for Covid-19 has risen threefold from 2,612 to 11,368 within a week ending November 22 in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on the back of jump in testing in the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporation limits. Data from the district health office showed a huge jump in testing in the PMC limits in the week ending November 22 (from 1,000 tests on November 16 to over 4,500 tests now). The rise has been somewhat similar in the PCMC areas — 700 then to over 3,500 now. With the rise in testing, daily positive cases have risen too in PMR, hinting at possible second wave. Additional commissioner of the PCMC Santosh Patil told TOI, “The administration is fully prepared to tackle the current Covid-19 situation. The major facilities are already equipped with the required medical staff and even the private hospitals have been asked to report the patients with flu-like symptoms. So far, our observation is that even though we have managed to increase the testing, the positivity has not increased accordingly, which is a good sign. But it will be too early to rule out the possibility of the second wave.” Senior public health activist Anant Phadke said the isolation and institutional quarantine of the identified patients and early clinical assessment were the key to stop the spread of the infection. “If the administration could quarantine such patients, it will be able to curb the spread,” he said. Maharashtra president of the Indian Medical Association Avinash Bhondwe said, “The administration is not doing enough to trace the asymptomatic patients. The identified cases are the ones, which are being referred by the private practitioners, having symptoms of cold, influenza-like illness, and severe acute respiratory infections. The health department too needs to increase its tracing to avoid further spread of the infection. The superspreaders need to be tested early after the festive season.” When asked about the private hospitals’ preparation, he said that administration had not allowed them to operate on non-Covid patients as of yet, so the basic infrastructure is already with them with few patients so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/threefold-rise-in-daily-tests-within-a-week/articleshow/79379072.cms||Piyush Bhusari
November 24, 2020||Nagpur||Test students too, demand teachers as schools open||Nagpur: The call for making Covid-19 testing mandatory for students is getting stronger as teachers’ association feels its members are also at risk.As per state government’s circular dated November 10, the RT-PCR test is mandatory only for teachers. For students, a declaration on ‘health status’ has to be submitted. Ashok Gavhankar, general secretary of Vidarbha Junior College Teachers Association (VJUCTA), said that was very ambiguous.“How can anyone make a health status declaration without a doctor’s report? We have no way of verifying if that self-declaration is genuine or not. In this way, we are putting at risk the health of other students and also teachers,” said Gavhankar. He added government must make it mandatory for every student to undergo testing.Madhu Joseph, principal of Bengali High School (Hansapuri), said the tests must be done for safety of all. “Students may also be asymptomatic carriers. And if they are going to be on campus then it makes sense to get them tested. We are seeing positive cases coming up in states where schools are reopening,” she said.Premlata Tiwari, principal of Bhola High School, said, “It’s a very natural progression. If teachers and students are going to be present in the same classroom, it is obvious that all must get tested.”Ashnarayan Tiwari, principal of Adarsha Vidya Mandir (Gandhibagh), said, “It will be good if testing for students is made mandatory. Teachers are getting tested and a similar medical report can be submitted for students also.”Local education officials did not wish to speak on record as all these policies are formulated at Mantralaya. One such official said, “Problem is that if all students are asked to undergo mandatory testing, it may overwhelm the system. Long queues will be seen at testing centre leading to chaos. So this could be one thought in our seniors’ mind while formulating these guidelines.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/test-students-too-demand-teachers-as-schools-open/articleshow/79375902.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
November 24, 2020||Kolkata||New Town residents take click-n-post route to bypass dumped construction materials||Kolkata: Residents of New Town have raised an alarm over the piles of sand, stone chips and other construction materials dumped on pavements that they say is not only causing air pollution but also posing threat to personal safety. Many believe that this is contributing to the poor air quality and can have long-term health ramifications among senior citizens and children.Several residents of the township have started raising the issue on public platforms and posting pictures on social media to attract the attention of the authorities and create awareness on how this not only adds to health hazard. Residents have also alleged that the construction work, with heavy machineries, continues through the night in many pockets, disturbing the peace and tranquillity of the area. “The work on the pavement continued for over six weeks and during the entire period, the construction material and debris would be kept on one side of the carriageway. But surprisingly, when the work was over, the workers left without clearing the space. I have mailed to the authorities but they are yet to take any steps,” said a resident of AL Block in Action Area I. At several pockets of New Town, construction work is still in progress at several residential and commercial projects. Beautification projects, too, are a recurrent feature in the area. Though the residents welcome the developmental projects, their gripe is that both private builders and government contractors execute the projects violating all the norms regarding transportation and stacking of construction materials.The residents have started clicking pictures of violations themselves and started sharing on social media platforms and the township’s app to create awareness about the hazards and to attract the attention of the authorities. “The practice has become common in the township as construction of different projects is still under way in several parts. Most builders violate all guidelines and dump everything on the carriageway,” said Shampa Debnath, a resident of Action Area I. Several private agencies have cautioned that the air quality index in New Town hovers between moderate to poor range due to the high PM2.5 count. Several residents believe that burning of stubble and dust from construction sites are main contributing factors. An official of New Town Kolkata Development Authority said: “We levy very stringent penalties on those violating the norms. We have increased vigil.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-town-residents-take-click-n-post-route-to-bypass-dumped-construction-materials/articleshow/79378356.cms||Zeeshan Javed
November 24, 2020||Goa||Goa doubles no-mask fine to Rs 200, CM says have to be strict||PANAJI/CALANGUTE: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Monday said that the fine for not wearing masks has been increased from Rs100 to Rs200 as a deterrent for people not wearing masks and also to help contain the spread of the virus.. Highlighting the issue for quite some time, TOI has been consistently publishing photos of tourists flouting safety norms requiring people to wear masks and maintaining social distancing. Sawant said, “We have started full-fledged tourist activities in the state, but we have never said that visitors should not use face masks, don’t keep social distancing or don’t use sanitizer. We have full right to fine them for not wearing face masks.” He also said that the state government has given the right to the police, mamlatdar and panchayat secretary to fine those not wearing face masks. “From today (Monday) onwards we will start charging Rs200 for not wearing face masks in public places,” Sawant said. He said that the increase in the fine by Rs100 will at least force people to wear face masks while in public places. “We have to compulsorily fine people for not wearing masks in public places,” Sawant said. “In Delhi and Rajasthan we have seen third phase Covid patients and to bring down this number in Goa we have to be strict. For this we are even ready to face public anger,” he said. Meanwhile Calangute police have started issuing fines to tourists found walking around in public places without face masks, following demands from tourism stakeholders about enforcing safety protocols during the pandemic. Earlier, in this popular tourist belt only those not wearing masks while riding two-wheelers or driving cars were being fined. Tourism stakeholders had last week raised concerns of a possible fresh wave of infections in the state as a large number of domestic tourists had started pouring into the tourism hub and were seen flouting rules by walking around without face masks and also not observing safe distancing norms. A total of 2,214 persons have been fined in Calangute for not wearing face masks since the easing of lockdown measures three months ago, Calangute PI Nolasco Raposo said. Sawant also said that the police have an important role to play to control the spread of Covid-19, adding that he has urged authorities to conduct a drive to fine people for not wearing face masks in public to the extent that “we don’t see any one without a mask”. Sawant said that people should also maintain social distancing on beaches, railway stations, bus stands, etc. “If we maintain social distancing only then we will be able to control Covid-19,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-doubles-no-mask-fine-to-rs-200-cm-says-have-to-be-strict/articleshow/79378358.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal: No reopening decision yet for schools either||KOLKATA: Like colleges, reopening of schools in Bengal hang in balance as the state government is yet to make any announcement. Though education minister Partha Chatterjee had hinted about taking a decision soon, school authorities do not expect a date anytime soon. “We have bought no-contact temperature guns, ordered hand sanitizers to be kept at several points and hundreds of masks that we can distribute to students who may have damaged them while coming to school or during school hours. But before the state government allows schools to begin in-classroom instructions, we plan to sanitize the campus once more,” said principal of Ram Mohan Mission School Sujoy Biswas. Another teacher pointed out that no student would be allowed on the campus without a no-objection certificate from parents. “We will initially ask only senior classes, those between IX and XII, to attend on-campus classes. Also, the online classes will run simultaneously for those who may opt to stay at home,” said another school head. In the first meeting of West Bengal Private Schools Association, which was held at a school in Salt Lake on November 10 and saw representation by more than 100 schools, it was unanimously decided to seek a meeting with chief minister Mamata Banerjee and education minister Partha Chatterjee to request the government to reopen school campuses, which have been shut since March. Saswati Chakrabarti, mother of a Class-VII student at a school, said it was natural for parents to be concerned about the possibility of their kid contracting the novel virus at school. “The data of virus spreading among schoolchildren and teachers from Andhra Pradesh and some other states, where schools have reopened for in-person classes, is scaring me,” she said. Another parent pointed out that given the Covid spread, Maharashtra government had decided to keep schools shut till at least December 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-reopening-decision-yet-for-schools-either/articleshow/79377229.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Chennai||Seven girls from Chennai govt school clear NEET, step closer to dream||CHENNAI: “She’s the first from our entire family to finish schooling and now, go to college. I couldn’t be prouder,” said N Rajan, whose daughter Vishnupriya cleared NEET and will soon be joining Tagore Medical College at Vandalur. An autorickshaw driver by profession, Rajan couldn’t afford to send his daughter to private NEET coaching centres like many fellow aspirants. “But it didn’t matter to me. I worked harder and cleared the exam in my first attempt,” said Vishnupriya, who finished Class XII this year. Vishnupriya and six other girl students from the Government Girls Higher Secondary School in Ashok Nagar cleared the test this year. One of them will be studying dentistry, while others will be pursuing MBBS. All seven secured seats under the 7.5% reservation for government school students. N Keerthana, who passed Class XII this year and cleared NEET in the first attempt, will be joining the Ragas Dental College and Hospital. “I have always been fascinated with dentistry, but given my family’s economic situation, I was slightly doubtful of my prospects. I have to thank my mother for encouraging me,” Keerthana said. She lost her father to a heart attack 12 years ago. Since then, her mother Arockiamary has been working as a sweeper and raising Keerthana and her brother single-handedly. “I used to borrow books for her to study and she worked with what she had, without any coaching. I am so proud of her,” said Arockiamary. B M Govarthini, S Padmapriya, P Prema, K Bhavadharani and J Afrin Sifaya are the five from the school to bag seats. They too hail from economic weak backgrounds. M Palanivel, the father of Prema, recalled how he was dissuaded from allowing Prema to study further by friends and relatives. “They said I shouldn’t be wasting any more money on her education since she will get married and leave us.” A daily wager at the Koyambedu market, Palanivel said he took their words as a challenge. “I told my daughter she can study whatever she wants and marry whenever she wants. I want her to become independent and successful first.” Bhavadharini recalled how it became difficult for her to prepare for NEET during the Covid-19 lockdown. “Our school teachers reached out to us, encouraged us and cleared all our doubts. I have to thank them for their support,” she said. Saying how proud she was of the girls, the school’s principal R C Saraswathi wished them the best. “We want all our girls to pursue their dreams and attain success. We are there to guide them anytime.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/seven-girls-from-city-govt-school-clear-neet-step-closer-to-dream/articleshow/79377231.cms||Aditi R
November 24, 2020||Goa||Casino offices will be shifted to Santa Monica jetty: Michael Lobo||PANAJI: In an effort to decongest the city’s arterial road, D B Marg, the offices and operations of the six offshore casinos will be shifted to the tourism department’s river cruise jetty, said ports minister Michael Lobo on Monday. He added that the Captain of Ports (CoP) and the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) will work out a plan to shift the offshore casino offices and the plan will be put up before the government for approval. Lobo further said that the firms will have to bear the cost of shifting their premises. At present, the offshore casino offices are housed in the CoP building and on the CoP jetty. “We have come up with a solution that the entire activity should go to one place at the Santa Monica jetty and there is ample parking under the three bridges,” Lobo said. A meeting was held at the mayor’s office where Lobo along with Panaji MLA Atanasio Monserrate discussed traffic chaos and jams along D B Marg because of tourist vehicles parked along the road. CCP commissioner Sanjit Rodrigues, mayor Uday Madkaikar and Captain of Ports James Braganza were present for the meeting. “A lot of people who come for the cruise get mixed up with the casino customers and we have a problem as far as the road is concerned. They park their vehicles on the road and it becomes chaotic,” Monserrate said. Monserrate is in favour of shifting the cruise vessels, along with the feeder boats for the offshore casinos, to the tourism department’s jetty. “There is a multi-level car park. The rates should be reduced and all the vehicles should be parked there,” Lobo said. The Panaji MLA said that once CCP and the CoP prepare a plan, the proposal will be shared with the chief minister for his approval. “This should be a hub for embarking and disembarking of passengers. A big lounge can be created and they can board the respective casinos,” Lobo said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/casino-offices-will-be-shifted-to-santa-monica-jetty-lobo/articleshow/79378362.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Nagpur||1 in every 3 infected and recovered from coronavirus, says Chanda sero survey||Chandrapur: Although it sounds shocking, but it’s a bitter truth. Over one-third population of the district has suffered from Covid-19 infection and recovered on without realizing it, reveals a sero surveillance sample survey carried out by the health department in October and November.Although the report is yet to be officially released, sources claimed that 36.5% people tested positive in the sample survey for Covid-19 antibodies. When reflected over the 22 lakh population of the district, the figure astoundingly stands at around 8 lakh. Health department officials claimed that the survey suggests that around 8 lakh people have immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies which develop after 14 days of infection. However, these people either stayed asymptomatic or experienced mild symptoms and mostly recovered on their own without any medication. Officials, however, maintained that the sero survey indication of 8 lakh is quite less in order to develop herd immunity effect. They explained that it requires more than 50% population to have been infected and recovered to bring herd immunity against the virus.Officials claimed that the sero survey was undertaken, after the district came under community spread of Covid infection, to know the extent of spread, ascertaining the number of people who have suffered from Covid-19 infection and developed antibodies against it.Highly placed sources in health department claimed that 2,400 people with high risk, and low risk contacts apart from citizens in containment zones were covered in the survey. Total 21 villages and nine containment zones were marked for the survey. Of the 2,400 samples, 1,400 were from common people, 600 from containment zones and 400 from high risk population.Sources said total 1,675 samples were collected from rural areas. Out of these, 600 (i.e. 35.82%) tested positive to Covid-19 antibodies. In urban areas, total 726 samples were collected and 270 of them (37.19%) were positive to Covid antibodies. Officials said nearly equal percentage of positive people in urban and rural areas shows the spread of Covid-19 infection almost across the district. They also agreed that infection rate in sero survey corroborates with RT-PCR test positivity rate, which is nearly 30% in the district.Two more sero surveys are likely to be done in the district in coming months.Bitter TruthSero surveillance sample survey conducted to ascertain extent of Covid-19 spread21 villages and 9 containment zones were covered in the surveyTotal 2,400 samples were collected from high risk persons, and low risk contacts and those in containment zonesSamples included 1,400 common people, 600 from containment zones and 400 from high risk populationSurvey suggests average of 36.5% infection among general populationOut of 1,675 samples collected in rural area, 600 (35.82%) found positive to Covid antibodiesOut of 726 samples collected in urban areas, 270 (37.19%) found positive to antibodiesCovid infection still well short of herd immunity, which requires over 50% population to be infected and recoveredTwo more sero surveys in the offing||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/1-in-every-3-infected-and-recovered-from-coronavirus-says-chanda-sero-survey/articleshow/79375925.cms||Mazhar Ali
November 24, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: Active cases in PMR soar past 10k again||PUNE: Higher Covid-19 cases and lower recoveries have again pushed active tally above 10,000 in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR). The active cases had dropped to 4-digit number on November 11. Since then, however, there has been a continuous rise in daily cases. On Sunday, the caseload reached 10,114, registering a 13-day high. Of all the active cases, the Pune municipal limits have accounted for a major share. According to the data released by district health office, the active cases have gone up by 700 within the last five days in the PMC limits. On November 17, the municipal areas had 4,176 active patients, the number which increased to 4,901 on November 22. Out of last 10 days in PMR, daily positive cases were more than recoveries on six days. On two days, the PMC areas recorded more than double positive cases than the recoveries. PMC health officials said they had been monitoring the situation on daily basis and had even asked the civic ward offices to stay alert. “Collection of swabs has been increased at the ward-level. If required, more swab collection centres will start functioning in the city. Besides, we are urging citizens to get tested in case of symptoms. We are also appealing them not to venture out without reasons and avoid overcrowding,” a civic health official said. The region’s daily sample testing has also seen a steady rise post-festive season. In fact, for the last two consecutive days, the testing has remained above 10,000. The region had tested over 10,000 samples on October 9, after which it had declined gradually to 2,500 tests per day. After a gap of over 40 days, the region’s daily testing has gone above 10,000. The region has so far conducted over 15.57 lakh tests, of which over 7.90 lakh samples have been tested in the PMC limits, 4.45 lakh in the PCMC limits and 3.21 lakh in the rural areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/active-cases-in-pmr-soar-past-10k-again/articleshow/79379053.cms||Sarang Dastane
November 24, 2020||Nagpur||Bells not ringing for wedding industry this winter||Nagpur: Come November and its boom time for the wedding industry. Caterers, decorators, lawn owners, bichhayat kendra owners, hoteliers don’t have a moment to spare. But this year it is completely different. After going through a terrible phase, the industry is staring at a bleak future.Lack of business for ten months has dried up the finances of many players. They have not paid salaries to their employees since months. People are having difficulty in repaying business, home, car and personal loans.People in the industry say some marriages did take place this November, but they were not very many. Moreover, due to the cap of 50 attendees on functions, people did not spend much on them.Ajit Joshi, a caterer, said most people have postponed their weddings to 2021. “Very few people want to do it with so few guests. You have to leave out a lot of close friends and relatives, which sours relationship with them permanently,” he added.Joshi further said that with limited guests people had a tendency to order fewer dishes. “People think that when we are doing it on a small scale, why splurge money.”Ravi Kurup of Kurup Catering Group echoed his views. “Business has not picked up. There are very few orders and they are for 30 or 40 people. Viability has become a big problem.”Tarak Dewatighare, a decorator, has not got a single order post unlocking. “I have heard that some marriages have taken place but I am yet to get any business.”Naresh Gudadhe, a bichhayat kendra owner, is also yet to get any business this season. “I am desperately waiting for orders,” he said.JS Micky Arora of Hotel Centre Point, who rents out his halls for marriages and provides catering service, said there were very few bookings and the number of guests was low.“We got some enquiries for December but with the government talking about another lockdown, people want assurance that their money would be refunded in case government enforces the lockdown,” Arora told TOI.Vikas Mete, a decorator, said the biggest problem is that there is no light at the end of the tunnel. “The government is not going to increase the cap on number of guests significantly until the general populace gets vaccinated. None of us knows when that is going to happen.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bells-not-ringing-for-wedding-industry-this-winter/articleshow/79375944.cms||Ashish Roy
November 24, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra may have to hike no-mask fine to Rs 1,000 as part of winter plan: Rajesh Tope||PUNE: State health minister Rajesh Tope has called for stricter enforcement of Covid-19 precautions, a move that may include hiking the no-mask fine to Rs 1,000, he said. “Increasing fines to ensure rules are followed is one of the strategies being discussed for the months after Diwali,” he told TOI on Monday. Tope said citizens will have to maintain precautions to avoid lockdowns. He said he has also directed authorities to increase testing (which had dropped by 50%) to keep up disease surveillance. The health minister said Maharashtra has to learn from Delhi and Kerala, two states that are currently seeing fresh infection spikes. “Delhi has increased the no-mask to Rs 1,000. So it’s clear that enforcement was not strict. We need to give our enforcement agencies some teeth. The state too may have to soon increase the penalty to Rs 1,000,” he said. The fine for not wearing a mask in Maharashtra is currently Rs 500. Tope also spoke on testing in the state, which saw a sharp drop during the Diwali period. The state was carrying out nearly 90,000 daily tests until it dropped to 25,000. The minister said this drop may have also caused cases to reduce. He said the 500 labs testing for the illness in the state have been asked to increase capacity. He also urged citizens not to panic if there is an increase in the number of cases. “Our health machinery is equipped to handle the situation. All district authorities have also been asked to increase bed capacity by 10% to 20% as a precautionary measure,” he said. The minister then asked citizens to stick to rules laid out for weddings and public events. “If there are no spikes till January-end, we can say that we have been able to check the spread. The two months of December and January are very crucial. Our health experts have already issued warnings of a likely second wave in the months of January, February,” he said. Tope said lockdowns were still the last resort. “If we do not want a lockdown again, we would need to implement all these measures.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/tope-says-state-may-have-to-increase-no-mask-fine-to-rs-1000/articleshow/79379090.cms||Nisha Nambiar
November 24, 2020||Goa||Covaxin phase-3 trials on in Goa, hundred get jab||PANAJI: The phase-3 trials of Covaxin, India’s first indegenously-manufactured Covid-19 vaccine candidate, have seen around a hundred persons in Goa get the jab. The trials also include the placebo group, which gets a shot without antigens. “The contents of the actual Covid-19 vaccine will be the same as that of the placebo, the only difference being the latter will not have antigens,” said Dr Dhananjay Lad, director of Crom Clinical Research, the agency selected to conduct the trials in Goa. He said some candidates may be given placebos as per protocol drawn by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). All candidates of the trials are given a fair idea about it without disclosing who will be in the placebo group and who will get the vaccine. Lad, however, said that he is not authorised to speak about the content of the vaccine or the sample size of the placebo group. “A controlled group is required to check the safety and efficacy of the new vaccine,” he said. “Whenever comparative parameters are not available for a new drug, placebos have to be introduced,” he said. He added that since there is no marketed Covid-19 vaccine available anywhere in the world, it is not possible to compare it with similar vaccines. He said that after getting the jab, participants are under observation for half an hour, since most of the content of the vaccine is absorbed in the body in the first 30 minutes. “There is no question of pain in the test arm either with placebo or vaccine,” he said. “So it shouldn’t be construed by any candidate that if he/she doesn’t get pain after the shot, it is a placebo.” He was referring to several queries from participants who did not experience any reaction after vaccination. The trials are underway at Redkar hospital in North Goa, and more than 600 candidates in Goa have so far registered to participate in the trials. Lad said they are only taking 40 appointments a day. Persons above 18 can participate by submitting their identity proof, after which persons will be called for trials. “We have participants from all sections, including healthcare workers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covaxin-phase-3-trials-on-in-state-hundred-get-jab/articleshow/79378360.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Meerut||Two years into marriage, woman hangs self to death; husband among 3 booked||BIJNOR: Two years into marriage, a 21-year-old woman — Dilshana — allegedly hanged herself to death in Hisampur village under Shivalakala police station area in Bijnor on Monday morning. Police sent the body for postmortem and booked three people, including the victim’s husband, who was arrested on Monday afternoon. A probe is underway. In his complaint, Dilshana’s father Janabi, a resident of Patee Eran village in Amroha district, alleged that he had married off his daughter to Sazakat of Hisampur two years ago, but her in-laws, husband and other family members kept torturing her for dowry, which was the reason behind her taking the extreme step. Bijnor superintendent of police Dharamveer Singh said the husband was arrested, while other two accused would be nabbed soon. Police have booked them under sections 498A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) and 304 (punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Dowry Prohibition Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/two-years-into-marriage-woman-hangs-self-to-death-husband-among-3-booked/articleshow/79374658.cms||Harveer Dabas
November 24, 2020||Meerut||Jeweller shot dead inside his shop in busy Bulandshahr market||MEERUT: Three unidentified men opened indiscriminate fire at a jeweller inside his shop leaving him dead and fled from a busy market in UP’s Bulandshahr district. Rohtash Verma was shot at on Sunday night and died in a hospital a few hours later, police said. An FIR against three unidentified persons was registered based on a complaint filed by Verma’s family. The murder sent shock waves among the local trader community, who have demanded arrest of the accused. According to sources, Verma was about to wind up the day’s work at his shop in the Narora area when the armed men entered and opened fire. Two bullets hit Verma and he collapsed. Santosh Kumar Singh, Bulandshahr’s senior superintendent of police (SSP), said, “CCTV footage from the spot has given us some clue about the suspect but we are yet to identify them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/jeweller-shot-dead-inside-his-shop-in-busy-bulandshahr-market/articleshow/79374654.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Meerut||Racket making counterfeit protein supplements of top US brands busted in UP’s Muzaffarnagar||STRAP: Over 500 boxes containing hundreds of kg of fake protein powder seized, docs say its use can lead to kidney ailment & impotency Muzaffarnagar: A well-oiled and organised gang whose members were making and selling fake protein powder after sticking labels of top US and European brands was on Monday unearthed in UP’s Muzaffarnagar, a district which was so far known for faking liquor brands and guns. Three members of the gang have been arrested while another, who also owned a printing press, is absconding. According to a study released by FICCI’s CASCADE (Committee Against Smuggling and Counterfeiting Activities Destroying the Economy) in 2015, roughly 1/5th of all the packaged food in the market may well be counterfeit, posing a serious threat to health. According to police, the protein supplement was being supplied to various parts of the country. It was a win-win situation for the gang and for the wholesalers buying the protein boxes, sources said. “We were getting regular inputs about the activity of the gang. Our crime branch teams silently worked on getting enough details before raiding multiple locations in the district,” said Abhishek Yadav, senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Muzaffarnagar. “We recovered 1.5lakh labels, hundreds of kgs of fake protein supplement in 572 containers with stickers of renowned firms like ‘Universal’, a US-based company. Over 9,500 empty bottles and boxes, 28 sacks of carbohydrate powder, hundreds of prohibited drugs and steroids were also recovered,” the officer said. Police are questioning the three arrested accused, Zubair Alam, Arsi and Amil, to know more about the racket. “The supply chain is spread wide and deep. It goes to various states, including Haryana, Maharashtra, Punjab, UP, and Delhi,” a police officer said. Throwing light on the ill-effect of the counterfeit protein supplements, senior surgeon and andrologist Dr Sunil Jindal said, “These supplements have high proportions of anabolic steroids like Deca Durabolin, testosterone, androsterone, etc. which immediately and substantially increase muscle mass and athletic power and are banned all over the world particularly in sports. The presence of these substances can only be traced through urine examination. The abuse of these drugs also leads to kidney ailments and impotency. But use of these cheap and fake products is rampant in gyms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/racket-making-counterfeit-protein-supplements-of-top-us-brands-busted-in-ups-muzaffarnagar/articleshow/79374657.cms||Mohd Dilshad
November 24, 2020||Kolkata||National Library reopens after 8 months, e-passes a must for entry||Kolkata: National Library on Monday reopened its gates for readers after the pandemic-induced closure for eight months. Just like Metro Railway, e-passes must be booked 24 hours in advance to enter the library. The digital pass can be generated through an URL available on the library website.“We had 40 readers in our 11 reading rooms today. Thermal checking, sanitization and other Covid-19 protocols were followed strictly,” officer-on-special duty (OSD) K K Kochukoshy told TOI.The advance seat bookings are necessary for maintaining the fixed head counts for different sections. The Bhasha Bhavan reading room, for instance, can accommodate a maximum 30. And only five can walk in to the lending section. The books that were used on Monday have been segregated in a room. “Sanitizers will harm the books. So we shall keep them aside for 72 hours before sending them back for circulation,” Kochukoshy said.Dwaipayan Ghosh, who is doing his PhD in anthropology from Delhi University, said: “It’s big relief to be able to use the Bhasha Bhavan reading room after ages.” But those like sexagenarian Jayanti Mukherjee are peeved because senior citizens are not allowed at the library at present. The employees’ union that functions under the banner of Joint Platform of Action wants to take up their cause. Secretary Saibal Chakraborty said, “We are writing to the culture ministry to make allowances for the sake of these scholars who are an integral part of National Library.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/national-library-reopens-after-8-months-e-passes-a-must-for-entry/articleshow/79378359.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
November 24, 2020||Madurai||Active cases below 1,000 in south; cases dip in central TN too||Madurai/Trichy: The 10 southern districts of the state on Monday reported 133 fresh Covid-19 cases, a drop after a climb during the weekend. Active cases in the southern region came below 1,000 for the first time in more than five months as it counted 961 on Monday. Meanwhile, in the central region, it was another zero-cases day for Perambalur as the other seven districts registered 131 cases on Monday taking the toll to 69,810. Two deaths, recorded in the southern region, are in Madurai and Theni districts. The victim in Madurai was a 34-year-old man with diabetes mellitus, systematic hypertension and chronic kidney disease. Madurai (24) has the highest number of active cases, followed by Kanyakumari (20), while the other districts recorded less than 20 fresh cases each. Tirunelveli (7) recorded the lowest number of fresh cases, followed by Ramanathapuram and Sivaganga with nine cases each. Tenkasi (8,008) became the 8th district in the region to record more than 8,000 total positive cases. Theni (26) has the least number of active cases in the region, followed by Ramanathapuram (45). While the two districts have less than 50 active cases each four more districts – Tenkasi (67), Dindigul (68), Sivagangai (68) and Virudhunagar (73) – have less than 100 active cases. Cases in Madurai have dropped to 245 on Monday. In the central region, Perambalur has only one active case on Monday. There was a sharp decline in the number of fresh cases in the central region comprising eight districts including Trichy. Ariyalur also reported a single fresh case as the number of positive cases has climbed to 4,535, which include 24 active cases. On November 18 also the district recorded a single fresh case. The region also recorded one death each in Thanjavur and Tiruvarur taking the toll to 895.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/active-cases-below-1000-in-south-cases-dip-in-central-tn-too/articleshow/79378349.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Pune||Day’s recoveries top infections, 22 dead||Pune: The daily Covid-19 recoveries exceeded cases after a gap of five days in the Pune Metropolitan Region on Monday, with the discharged (588) staying above the infections (525) marginally. Among the new cases, the PMC areas added 206, followed by the the rural areas (160) and the PCMC limits (159). Both the municipal corporation areas continued to add more patients than daily recoveries even in the last 24 hours. Only exception was the rural and Cantonment areas wherein more patients were discharged against new cases. A report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that tally of positive cases reached above 3.36 lakh while recoveries increased above 3.18 lakh. The region reported 22 deaths due to Covid-19 on Monday. Nine patients succumbed in the PMC limits, while eight in the rural areas and five in the PCMC limits. As many as 8,297 persons have succumbed to the infection in the region so far. The region’s sample testing dropped to 7,584 on Monday mainly due to lesser testing over the weekend. The active caseload of the region was at 9,918 on Monday night, of whom 3,929 patients were admitted in various hospitals, while 5,989 were in home isolation. The data revealed that Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporations had more active cases in home isolation as against the patients admitted to the hospitals for the Covid-19 treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/days-recoveries-top-infections-22-dead/articleshow/79379109.cms||Sarang Dastane
November 24, 2020||Meerut||Car with bride's jewellery stolen minutes before her ‘vidaai’ in UP||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Minutes before a bride's ‘vidaai’ from a wedding venue in Uttar Pradesh's Shamli district, the newly married couple and their families were in for a rude shock. All the bride's jewellery gifted by her in-laws were stolen. It was kept inside a car which also went missing. The incident took place in Kandhla, late on Sunday, when the groom's father Kurban Ahmed was preparing the couple for the 'nikah'. Ahmed's nephew Azad rushed into the room to inform that the waiting car along with gold jewellery worth lakhs of rupees were all gone. The car was parked outside to take the couple from the venue. The bride's family had come from Kairana. Police have started an investigation. According to Harun, a member of the bride's family, the entire incident has come as a huge shock not just for the newly married couple but also to both the families and the locals. The groom's father has registered a complaint with the cops at Kandhla police station. "We are investigating the matter. The incident looks suspicious. Action will be taken once we start getting the leads. All the aspects of the ceremony are being looked into. We will achieve a breakthrough soon," Kandhla SHO Rojant Tyagi said on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/car-with-brides-jewellery-stolen-minutes-before-her-vidaai-in-up/articleshow/79374648.cms||Mohd Dilshad
November 24, 2020||Meerut||Groom's friend shot at during celebratory fire in UP, critical||BIJNOR: A man was left critically injured after he was struck by a bullet in his stomach during celebratory gunfire at a wedding in UP's Amroha district. The man is one of the groom's friends and is said to be in a serious condition. The incident took place in Mandaihyo village under Saidangali police station limits. The accused, identified as one Abid Ahmed, who came from the bride's side of Mandaiyo village, has been arrested. Mohammad Firoz, the injured man, was rushed to a local hospital and later referred to a higher medical facility in Meerut. Firoz, who belongs to Gajraula, received bullet injuries when Ahmed all of a sudden started shooting during the function, sources said. Police, however, said that Firoz and Ahmed may have got into an altercation, and the latter shot at the groom's friend. "The injured man was first taken to a local hospital and later referred to Meerut for better treatment. His condition is said to be critical. Police have registered a case under relevant section of the IPC. The accused man has been arrested," Saidangali SHO Rajeev Sharma said on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/grooms-friend-shot-at-during-celebratory-fire-in-up-critical/articleshow/79374651.cms||Harveer Dabas
November 24, 2020||Nagpur||Good Covid-19 immune response gives doctors hope||Nagpur: Healthcare as well as administrative machinery in entire state is now anticipating the second wave of Covid-19. Vidarbha has already started reporting spike in cases in last three-four days. But, we must also keep in sight the brighter side of Covid-19 research in last two weeks.Apart from two vaccines with 95% efficacy and two monoclonal antibodies getting approval as treatment in EUA, there is also some good news about immune response to Covid-19 virus. Those who recovered in March/April, are still having antibodies (immune response). This indicates the immune response lasts at least 8 or 9 months, possibly much longer. Last week, Pfizer and BioNTech announced that their vaccines had an efficacy rate of 95%. Moderna put the figure for its vaccine at 94.5%. In Russia, the makers of the Sputnik vaccine claimed efficacy rate was over 90%. Vaccine picture is promising in India too. India’s indigenous Coronavirus vaccine maker Bharat Biotech on Monday began Phase-3 clinical trials of its Covaxin and they are expecting at least 60% efficacy. Covaxin is expected to be launched in Q2 of 2021. Covishield, another vaccine developed by the University of Oxford, showed an average efficacy of 70%, announced makers Astra Zeneca on Monday. The vaccine will likely be the first one available in India.“We can say it’s like a light at the end of tunnel,” said infectious disease specialist Dr Nitin Shinde. “Doctors across the world were expecting 50% to 70 % efficacy of vaccine. US-FDA had said it would consider granting emergency approval for vaccines that showed just 50% efficacy. Even WHO’s criteria of efficacy is 50% and above,” he added. Another recent positive development is about medicine/drug on Covid-19. US-FDA issued an emergency use authorisation (EUA) for Casirivimab and Imdevimab – two monoclonal antibodies to be administered together for the treatment of mild to moderate Covid-19. TOI had reported on November 21 that research on similar monoclonal antibodies under way in Nagpur has also reached a breakthrough point. If successful, it will bring an indigenous medicine at very affordable price for India and could be a game changer. Third and most important outcome for researchers in last two weeks is positive indication about longevity of immune response of people. “Latest research papers say Covid antibodies stay in body for more than six months. Looking at a very negligible rate of re-infections all over the world, some researchers have claimed the immunity could even last a lifetime,” said Dr Shinde. In Vidarbha, patients who got infected during March and April are doing well. Recently, antibody tests of six patients recovered in early April was done as part of a research and antibodies effective against Covid-19 virus were detected in their blood. In short, once you get cured, you remain protected for at least six to eight months and even longer. Positive developments: - 2 vaccines show 95% efficacy- Indian Covaxin expecting 60%+ efficacy- Serum’s Covishield having 70% efficacy- 2 monoclonal antibodies get emergency use authorization - Indigenous monoclonal antibodies research under way in Nagpur at breakthrough point- 1st rapid home test for Covid-19 got emergency use authorization- Immune response to virus lasts at least 8-9 months, maybe many years||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/good-covid-19-immune-response-gives-doctors-hope/articleshow/79375967.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 24, 2020||Nashik||Vehicles parked on cycle tracks block paths in Nashik||Nashik: Cyclists are unable to use 1.1 km track from Ashok Stambh to Trimbak Naka as four-wheelers and two-wheelers are parked illegally there. “I want to use this cycle track but am unable to do so. I don’t understand why the cycle track is used as a parking area,” rued Neha Parikh, a student. The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) developed the first smart road on this stretch with proper footpaths and cycle tracks. The Nashik Cyclists Foundation (NCF) has requested the Nashik Municipal Smart City Development Corporation Ltd (NMSCDCL) to look into the issue. “We have already urged the NMSCDCL to ensure that there is no illegal parking of vehicles on cycle tracks,” said Rajendra Wankhede, president, NCF, adding that there is a need to develop a cycle track from Trimbak Naka to Garware point via Papaya Nursery. “The cycle track on this route will not only help students and cyclists, but also the industrial workers from Satpur and Ambad industrial estates. We are soon meeting the Nashik municipal commissioner on this issue,” said Wankhede. When contacted, Prakash Thavil, CEO, NMSCDCL, said that they have already written to the commissioner of police, Deepak Pandey, and also the traffic police department. “We will again pursue the issue and will urge the police to make the cycle track free from illegally parked vehicles,” said Thavil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/vehicles-parked-on-cycle-tracks-block-paths-in-nashik/articleshow/79375971.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 24, 2020||Goa||Pvt bus operators gherao dy director of transport again||Panaji: In their continued demand for the release of grants, regulating bus fares and waiver on taxes during the lockdown months, private bus owners gheraoed the deputy director of transport on Monday, amidst a police watch. This is the second time that the senior official was mobbed inside his office by the bus operators pressing to fulfill their demands. “We have also petitioned the matter for waiver in the court. We have attended one hearing and are awaiting the next one. We have demanded that the government waive taxes from the period of March 23 to October 31,” president of the All Goa Private Bus Owners’ Association Sudeep Tamankar said. “We have given a written reply to all their grievances, yet they are not satisfied with our response.” deputy director of transport, Pralhad Desai told TOI. TOI had earlier reported that the operators had threatened to mob the transport director Rajan Satardekar on November 23, following which, the department had deployed police personnel outside Junta House. However, when the operators reached there, they realised that Satardekar had not reached the office yet, and gheraoed the deputy director instead. “Why is the director of transport not ready to face us? He is answerable to transport stakeholders. If he fails to give us an answer, the government must remove him from his position,” Tamankar said. He further threatened to attack the transport officials and surrender himself to the police to make his voice heard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pvt-bus-operators-gherao-dy-director-of-transport-again/articleshow/79378439.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Pune||Two hospitals in Pune district on list of sites for Sputnik V trials||PUNE: Two hospitals in Pune district — the KEM Hospital Research Centre in Shirur and Noble Hospital in the city — have been selected as potential host sites for the mid-stage human trials of the Sputnik V Covid vaccine, developed by Russia. The names of the hospitals were uploaded on the website of the Clinical Trials Registry-India (CTRI). A senior official from the Hyderabad-headquartered Dr Reddy’s Labs — which will distribute the Russian vaccine — said the trial could involve 1,600 volunteers: 100 in phase II and 1,500 for phase III. The screening of volunteers is expected to start in a couple of weeks. The Dr Reddy’s official said, “The vaccine has already reached India. It will be sent to the selected sites after screening of volunteers is completed. It’s a pan-India trial, but we don’t have statewise break-up on the number of volunteers.” An ICMR official said, “Dr Reddy’s and Sputnik LLC are jointly conducting the trials. Though ICMR maintains the CTRI portal, the Sputnik V trials are not being done with ICMR. The agency does not have more information on current status of the trials than what has already been provided by the CTRI.” Officials from the two hospitals, while confirming their selection, said approvals from ethics committees were still pending. An official from the Institutional Ethics Committee at Noble Hospital said the trial proposal is still under review and a clearer picture will emerge after eight to 10 days. An official from the KEM site said, “The trial documents are yet to be shared with us. The documents will be sent to the ethics committee. And once we have its nod, an agreement will be signed between the sponsor and the selected site.” According to the CTRI, the trial could take seven months. Nine sites have been selected. Other locations are in Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Rajasthan and Puducherry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2-hospitals-in-district-likely-to-host-mid-stage-human-trial-study-for-russian-vaccine/articleshow/79379123.cms||Neha Madaan
November 24, 2020||Goa||Goa govt asks JSW to pay Rs 156 crore as cess for coal transportation||PANAJI: The state government has slapped a fee of Rs 156.3 crore on JSW Steel for transporting coal through the state without paying Goa rural improvement and welfare cess. The transport department served a demand notice on the country’s second-largest private sector steel company, and has threatened the firm’s officials with a jail term of two years if the amount is not paid in 15 days. According to Mormugao Port Trust’s records, JSW Steel transported 3.1 crore metric tonne of coal between 2014 and July 2018 from Goa to the firm’s steel plants in Karnataka. The state has levied a cess of Rs 50 per tonne of coal transported, which works out to Rs 156.3 crore, said the directorate of transport. The state had issued a show cause notice to JSW Steel on September 4, and a reminder to pay the amount on September 29. However, JSW Steel said that due to Covid-19, it did not have staff on duty and could not complete the formalities. The directorate of transport also said that JSW failed to appear for the personal hearing despite providing an assurance to do so. “In the instant case, you have transported material specified in schedule 1, i.e., coal into the state, wherein the entry point is Mormugao Port. In view of above, contentions raised by you are not acceptable by the assessing authority,” said the transport directorate’s demand notice. The state government introduced the Goa Rural Improvement and Cess Act, 2000, and the cess has been levied on the owner of the goods being transported since February 2006. “Failure to pay the aforesaid amount, the department shall be compelled to recover as an arrears of land revenue. Failure to pay the cess levied within the prescribed period shall be punished with imprisonment or a term which may extend to two years, or with fine which may extend to Rs 2,50,000, or both,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-asks-jsw-to-pay-rs-156-crore-as-cess-for-coal-transportation/articleshow/79378388.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 24, 2020||Goa||Scrap double-tracking project or quit: Locals to fisheries minister||MARGAO: Water resources minister Filipe Neri Rodrigues on Monday had to face the ire of locals and anti-coal protestors at Sao Jose de Areal, who demanded that he, their local MLA, prevail upon the state government to scrap the double-tracking work and stop land acquisition for the project forthwith. The agitators told Rodrigues to resign if the government fails to heed their demand. Tension gripped the village on Monday morning when hundreds of protestors again stopped Railways’ track-doubling work near the level crossing when railway officials had come for demarcation of the railway property as earlier demanded by villagers and the panchayat. However, the agitators insisted that they were opposed to the double-tracking project itself, and thus there was no point in demarcating the land. Though railway officials decided against going ahead with the surveying, the agitators refused to budge until they were assured by the local MLA that the project would be scrapped. Rodrigues arrived only to face the fury of the agitators. He managed to wriggle out of the situation by assuring the crowd that he would place the villagers’ demand at the next meeting of the state cabinet. The locals then demanded that he, alongwith 9 other MLAs who switched over to BJP, resign forthwith if the government failed to accede to their demands. “Ten of you had joined the BJP to bring in development. What development have you brought to Goa, other than these proposed projects that would turn Goa into a coal hub?” a protestor demanded. The agitators dispersed only after Rodrigues assured them of his support. In neighbouring Davorlim, too, villagers protesting double-tracking in the village confronted MLA Luizinho Faleiro, who also pledged his support to their agitation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/scrap-double-tracking-project-or-quit-locals-to-fisheries-min/articleshow/79378400.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 24, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra awaiting 101 ice-lined refrigerators from Centre||PUNE: State health minister Rajesh Tope on Monday said the state is currently preparing names of frontline workers for priority vaccination and awaiting delivery of cold-chain equipment assured by the central government. Six walk-in coolers and 101 ice-lined refrigerators (ILRs) are expected from the Centre as part of upgrades to the state's cold chain network, he said. The minister said data of frontline workers is ready from 99% of government bodies and 70% of private institutions. The Prime Minister’s review meeting, involving chief ministers and health ministers of eight states (including Maharashtra), is set to be held on Tuesday. The meeting’s agenda includes vaccine distribution strategies. Tope said the Covin app, created by the Centre to log details of vaccinated workers, was still awaited. “District officials will have to upload details of frontline staff on this app,” he said. State immunisation officer DN Patil said, “We are told the app is under development. Once the data is uploaded, we will get an overall picture on the number of healthcare workers from both government and private sectors.” Vaccination details, including dosage, of each healthcare worker will be tracked via the app, Patil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/tope-says-state-waiting-for-cold-chain-equipment-from-centre/articleshow/79379129.cms||Nisha Nambiar
November 24, 2020||Aurangabad||Five criminals externed from Nashik city & district||Nashik: The police have externed five criminals involved in body and property offences from the city and district for periods ranging from six months to two years. The criminals have been identified as Sumit Salve (25) from Khadkali, Bhadrakali; Kalpesh Zagade (22) from Kumbhar Wada, Old Nashik; Dhananjay Misal (29) from Anandwali, Gangapur Road; Hemant Bhadane (30) from Dharmaji Colony, Gangapur; and Avdhoot Jadhav (19) from Shiv Shakti Chowk, Cidco. Police officials said the men were involved in various criminal activities involving thefts, burglaries as well as physical assaults. Given their criminal background, police officers had proposed to extern them from the city and the district. An enquiry was conducted and they were externed under sections of the Maharashtra Police Act. Salve has been externed for six months, while Zagade, Misal and Bhadane have been externed for one year each. Jadhav has been externed for two years. Officials said under the guidance of police commissioner Deepak Pandey, criminals who have two or more body/property offences registered against them and those who create nuisance in the society are being externed from the city and the district. Officials also said that criminals who are forming gangs are also on the police radar and they too are being externed from the city. Officials said it has been observed that many externed criminals sneak into the city without getting noticed by the police and resume their criminal activities. To overcome this problem, the police have been putting posters of such criminals in their areas so that if they are spotted, people can report them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/five-criminals-externed-from-nashik-city-district/articleshow/79375957.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Nagpur||Man, wife convicted for letting 74-year-old father beg for food||NAGPUR: Judicial magistrate first class (JMFC), Gondpipri, Chandrapur, TP Mote made a couple stand in his court the entire working hours for abandoning 74-year-old father of the husband and denying him food for 12 years. The court has also fined the couple Rs 2,000 each after they admitted their offence in the first week of November. This is likely to be the first conviction in Vidarbha under less known enactment for protection of the elderly from domestic violence. Jayant Dohone and his wife Vijaya were booked under Section 24 of the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2007, following a complaint from Bhagwan Dohone at Dabha police station in Gondpipri in October this year. Bhagwan had stated his son and daughter-in-law Vijaya had compelled him to beg and eat leftovers from neighbours since 2008. He was also denied meeting with his granddaughter. The couple also used to taunt him. Jayant worked as a farm labourer. It is learnt Jayant and Vijaya admitted their guilt before the court and pleaded to be exonerated. The court stated it had considered that it was the first offence of the couple and also their weak economic condition in its order that has helped the senior citizen receive food from his family. Asst PI Sushil Dhokte of Dabha police station, who was stunned to hear the senior citizen’s agony, decided to take legal recourse rather than opting to settle the family dispute through counselling and preventive action. “It is a fact that such disputes within family are generally dealt with through non-cognizable offences under Indian Penal Code (IPC) but I decided to take a more concrete step. After referring to law books and discussing with my seniors, I came across a provision under the less known Act for the senior citizens,” he said. Under Section 24 of the Act, the perpetrators can face imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three months or fine up to Rs 5,000 or both. Dhokte said he prepared the chargesheet soon after registering the FIR and sent it to court. “We had recorded the statements of the house owners who used to provide Bhagwan food against some work. Bhagwan was dominated and tortured in the house because of his age but the property belonged to him. We also presented the property documents before the court to argue that the senior citizen was ill-treated in the house that belonged to him,” said Dhokte.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/man-wife-convicted-for-letting-74-year-old-father-beg-for-food/articleshow/79375980.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Aurangabad||IMA’s Aurangabad chapter wins 3 awards for pandemic work||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA) has received three awards in recognition to its work during the ongoing Covid pandemic and other social and academic initiatives, an official release said on Monday. IMA Aurangabad secretary Yashwant Gade has been declared the best secretary at the state-level whereas vice-president Anupam Takalkar and former president Kuldeep Singh Raul have been awarded the special state-level presidential award. IMA Aurangabad president Santosh Ranjalkar on Monday said that the local chapter has demonstrated excellence on various front while showing commitment towards the society and the organization. “The state-level convention of the IMA is scheduled to take place at Solapur on November 28 where these awards would be conferred upon the winners. The recognition from the state leadership would further motivate and encourage us to serve better in the interest of the society and the medical fraternity as a whole,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/imas-aurangabad-chapter-wins-3-awards-for-pandemic-work/articleshow/79375986.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Kolkata||CFR dips, discharge over 90% as city crosses 1L tally||Kolkata: City’s Covid cases crossed the one-lakh mark on Monday with little less than fifth of these cases being reported in November. But November statistics, till now, have yielded a lot of positives for the city. Kolkata’s Covid case fatality rate (CFR) slipped below the 2.5% mark in November and the month also reported a high discharge rate of above 90%. Kolkata’s CFR on Monday was 2.4%; the city’s discharge rate was 90.6%. Kolkata had reported its first case on March 17. The first 25,000 Covid cases in Kolkata were reported in 141 days. On August 5, the Covid cases were at 25,202. The next 25,000 cases were reported in 46 days. On September 20, the Covid cases were at 50,127. The next 25,000 cases were reported in 34 days. On October 24, Kolkata’s total Covid cases stood at 75,006. The last 25,000 cases were reported in less than a month. On Monday, the total Covid cases in Kolkata was at 1,00,756.The 19,456 Covid cases reported in November with an average 846 people testing positive in the city daily — the fastest spread — has, however, been largely off-set by high discharge rate. On October 31, Kolkata’s discharge rate was 88.7%. Since then, 19,222 people have been discharged. Among Kolkata’s one-lakh odd Covid cases, 91,363 people have been discharged. This coupled with the dipping CFR has ensured that the city’s active cases — an indication of the Covid affected people who may need medical attention — is gradually falling. On Monday, Kolkata’s active Covid cases were at 6,878. Since November 17, when Kolkata’s active Covid cases slipped below the 7,000-case mark, Monday’s active Covid cases was the lowest.“Positive cases are on a decline in the city in the past few weeks. Hospitals were not able to approve ICU beds earlier. But now some hospitals are unable to provide such beds. This is a positive sign. But with winter round the corner we need to be on the guard looking at the trend of surges in some European countries during the winter season,” said Debkishore Gupta, infectious diseases control specialist.Experts said Kolkata’s CFR which slipped below 2.5% on Monday is significant. In May-end it was as high as 7%. In July-August-September, Kolkata’s CFR hovered over the 3%-mark. On October 31, the CFR was 2.7%. “Kolkata’s CFR has always been a reason for worry. In Bengal, it had dropped to 1.7%. Kolkata, primarily due to the demography and because of its specialized facilities, cater to a lot of critical patients,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cfr-dips-discharge-over-90-as-city-crosses-1l-tally/articleshow/79378438.cms||Saibal Sen
November 24, 2020||Pune||Details of rollout needed in public domain: Gagandeep Kang||PUNE: With many vaccine candidates being developed, detailed plans related to every vaccine must be made available in the public domain, said vaccine scientist and former chair of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) panel on Covid-19 drugs and vaccines Dr Gagandeep Kang. “We are moving forward but it would be useful to have more public information on detailed plans,” Kang told TOI. “I am sure everyone would like to know when they would get the vaccine and there are no clear pathways available yet,” she added. Dr Kang said that while there are many vaccine candidates in the third phase of trial, vaccine safety and efficacy cannot be compromised with everyone speeding up the process to make an announcement. “I think we will need to wait for a Phase 3 efficacy trial to be completed somewhere in the world before the vaccine is rolled out. Monitoring safety must continue well beyond Phase 3 trials and into routine use. The third phase will roughly detect adverse events at a rate of 1 in 1000 at the current size of 30,000+ participants. However, rarer and later safety events will need larger and longer monitoring,” she explained. Dr Kang further added that the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines that are being developed may not be suitable for India and that the country should wait for more suitable vaccines that are affordable and conducive for storage. “While India can and should discuss with these countries, we should not focus only on the first vaccines being developed, but also on those that are most suitable for us. At the moment, we do not have the cold chain capacity for -70C storage or even -20C storage for vaccines that is enough for the entire country,” she said. While it is possible that cold chain capacity can be built, there are many challenges, particularly for remote locations, where electricity supply may be an issue, she said. Kang, who played a critical role in the development of India’s rotavirus vaccine, said that vaccines that can be stored in a temperature range of -2C to -8C should be more conducive. Pfizer and Moderna already have most of their initial supply committed. It is expected that very limited supply will be available for any country that has not made advance purchase commitments. “While richer countries are making advance purchase deals, they are also contributing money to enable poorer countries to receive vaccines through the COVAX facility. I think we need to recognize those contributions while encouraging more global participation and sequencing of supply by greatest need,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/details-of-roll-out-needed-in-public-domain-kang/articleshow/79379135.cms||Nisha Nambiar
November 24, 2020||Pune||PCB starts RT-PCR tests for high-risk individuals||PUNE: The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) has started conducting RT-PCR tests on close to 5,000 potential ‘super spreaders’ like shopkeepers, hotel and restaurant staffers, vegetable vendors etc over the next fortnight to trace and treat people infected with Covid-19 virus at an early stage. The PCB witnesses a fairly sizeable crowd on MG Road, East Street, Modikhana, New Modikhana, Ghorpadi, Wanowrie and Kumbhar Baodi, among others. In August-September, 4,460 high-risk and 15,510 low-risk people were identified as part of the ‘Majhe Kutumb Majhi Jababdari’ campaign. Dr V D Gaikwad, PCB’s resident medical officer, said, “Our surveyors are collecting more than 100 samples daily. Those who test positive will be hospitalised. Our staffers are collecting data of each person with all details. So far, we have received positive response from the people. The testing drive is being conducted in New Modikhana and old Modikhana areas.” Pune cantonment has a population of 72,000, of which 5,000 are from the military areas. The cantonment has so far recorded 1,709 cases since the outbreak of the pandemic. Of these, 1,642 have been discharged after recovery, 57 have succumbed to the virus and 10 are active cases as on November 22. Amit Kumar, chief executive officer, PCB, claimed, “We cannot afford to lower our guard as we cannot rule out finding more cases, especially after Diwali festival and after reopening of all businesses. We want to detect positive patients at an early stage to contain the spread of the disease. Our move to conduct health check-ups and testing of super spreaders will certainly help us to achieve the target.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcb-to-conduct-rt-pcr-test-on-5000-super-spreaders-over-next-fortnight/articleshow/79379130.cms||Sandip Dighe
November 24, 2020||Nagpur||Lockdown won’t be effective now, wearing mask will be, say doctors||NAGPUR: With increase in number of new Covid-19 cases across Vidarbha, second wave has now become talk of the town. People have already started predicting about the second complete lockdown sometime in December of January. But, neither the administrative authorities nor expert doctors are recommending another lockdown. Doctors told TOI, lockdown is not the solution anymore even if the region/state witnesses the second wave. Instead, better quality mask for all should be made available at affordable cost and community masking should be ensured. “More focus should be on prevention of airborne transmission than sanitization of surfaces. Even physical distancing may not help when more people will stay indoors during winters,” said Dr Nitin Shinde, infectious disease specialist. “Studies have shown that most infection spread was by the people who had no symptoms. In fact, when one starts showing symptoms, viral load starts declining and the person becomes less infective. So, it’s always better to cover face with good quality mask,” said Dr Shinde. According community health medicine expert Dr Chetna Jain, lockdown can only postpone incidence. “With another lockdown, we will get only another breathing period. We have taken that breathing time already during earlier lockdown,” she said. “Earlier, lockdown was advisable as spreaders were coming from other nations and states. But now, we have spreaders even in rural areas. Another lockdown will hardly work in reducing new cases. Instead, it will create a community problem due to financial uncertainty,” she added. Doctors insisted on compulsory use of good quality mask. SARS-CoV-2 infection is transmitted by respiratory droplets generated when people cough, sneeze, sing, talk, or breathe. “Use of non-valved multi-layer cloth masks can reduce the emission of virus-laden droplets. Masks also help reduce inhalation of these droplets by the wearer,” said physician Dr Prakash Moon. Another important issue is the consistent and correct use of masks. With fresh spike in Covid-19 cases, we must revise the awareness literature about masks. According to medical practitioners, mask should cover nose and mouth to help protect others in case the wearer is infected with Covid-19, but he/she has no symptoms. Everyone should wear a mask in public settings, should not put the mask around neck or up on forehead and should not touch the mask frequently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lockdown-wont-be-effective-now-wearing-mask-will-be-say-doctors/articleshow/79376000.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 24, 2020||Madurai||Bear outsmarts rescuers after falling into well, caught later||Tirunelveli: The bid to rescue a fully-grown sloth bear that accidentally fell into a well near the Kalakkad Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve (KMTR) in Tirunelveli district did not go the way as scripted by the forest department, as the animal outsmarted them and ran into the village. However, its happiness was short-lived as the department managed to tranquilize and capture it within two hours. Around 4am on Monday the 11-year-old male bear fell into an open well amidst paddy fields in Singikulam village. According to villagers the animal suffered a couple of wounds. A team of 48 forest department personnel from Kalakkad division of Kalakkad Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve (KMTR) led by deputy director M Elango reached the place around 10am equipped with a net, tranquilizer guns and a metal cage. Department personnel lowered the cage tied to ropes with its shutter open. They expected the animal in distress would enter cage. However, in an unexpected turn of events, the animal climbed the cage by holding on to the metal side, jumped on top of the cage and then reached the ground above. Frightened by its move department personnel and the public ran in all directions. The bear was given a tranquilizer shot using a gun as it was speeding away. “It ran into the bushes about 300m from the well. After meticulous tracking and observation for nearly two hours it dozed off due to the tranquilizer effect and was captured around 1.30pm. It is in good health and after observation will be released in the KMTR forest,” Elango told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/bear-outsmarts-rescuers-after-falling-into-well-caught-later/articleshow/79378443.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 24, 2020||Goa||‘Road Ashram’ drive to reach Goa today||Panaji: A group of socially conscious and road-friendly citizens have rolled out a donation drive to support people affected by the pandemic. As part of their campaign called the ‘Road Ashram,’ the team is travelling along the borders of India, covering nearly 25,000 km and 28 states, in about 60 days in a specially modified car. They will be in Goa on November 24 and intend to engage with people from different walks of life to discuss the humanitarian impact of Covid. “As conscious citizens of the country, we can’t just sit and let this happen,” said Siddhartha Dutta, who will be navigating the routes during the trip. “The non-profit sector is doing whatever is possible with the available resources. But it is not enough. These organisations, especially the grassroots level NGOs need immediate support to continue their life-saving work. Through Road Ashram campaign, we wish to appeal to everyone to make a generous contribution to the cause,” he added. Through the 60-day drive on the kacha-pakka roads on the borders, the team will raise awareness and resources to help people facing difficulties due to the pandemic. The team has travelled along the China and Nepal borders in Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. They further travelled to Sikkim, Kolkata, the Sunderbans and the Bhutan border in Jaigaon, West Bengal. Later they travelled to Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Manipur, Tripura, Orissa, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Pondicherry and Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Karnataka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/road-ashram-drive-to-reach-goa-today/articleshow/79378518.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 24, 2020||Hubballi||BJP MLAs will join Congress soon, claims DKS||HUBBALLI: State Congress chief DK Shivakumar claimed on Monday that a number of BJP MLAs would join Congress soon. These legislators are only waiting for works in their constituencies to end, he said in Hitnal village, Koppal district. He refused to divulge any names, saying the moment was not right. Shivakumar is touring North Karnataka to build early support for his party before the Maski bypoll, whose date has not been announced yet. He said he was confident that Congress would win this election and that party members in Koppal, Raichur and Ballari were working towards it. He asked the state government to announce a support price for paddy, the way it had for coconut farmers. “Paddy and coconut farmers toil hard to get yield and the cost of fertiliser and pesticide is the same for both, the government should not discriminate while announcing the support price,” he said. Shivakumar criticised the government for increasing the electricity rate by 40 paise per unit. “This year, Karnataka received a good rainfall. Instead of ensuring steady power supply, the government has increased the tariff, which is a shock for farmers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/bjp-mlas-will-join-congress-soon-claims-dks/articleshow/79375064.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Chennai||MBBS open category counselling: Toppers skip session, leave other aspirants smiling||Chennai: MBBS/BDS admissions for the open category in the state, where more than 5,000 students have scored above 500 marks in NEET, began on Monday amid Covid protocols. There were cheers when the top 15 performers, with NEET 2020 scores between 710 and 688 skipped counselling, possibly because most had got seats in the all India quota. “We don’t know the complete details about where they are yet, but we are hoping they opted for all India quota seats in Tamil Nadu or central institutions such as AIIMS and JIPMER,” health minister C Vijaybaskar said after handing over the admit cards to 10 students. Even students with ranks below 57 were celebrating as they would get an opportunity to get seats in premier Madras Medical College. “It will be a gain if students take seats in any college during all India counselling. Every year, 15% of seats from government colleges are surrendered to AIQ. If students from TN take these, it would mean we are retaining seats for our students. If they go to central universities or AIQ seats in other states, our meritorious students are opting for seats in colleges outside the state,” said S Vasanth, a NEET tutor helping students make smart choices during counselling. Parents and students watching the display screen from the waiting hall cheered each time, they found a candidate had skipped counselling. “This also shows students from our state are cracking NEET and scoring better each year,” said student counsellor Manickavel Arumugam. The selection committee called 361 students with scores from 710 to 631 for counselling under open category. The state opened 2,747 seats in 26 government colleges, of which 864 were in open category. At the end of the day, all open category and BC seats in MMC and Stanley Medical College were taken. BCM seats in Madras Medical College were also filled. Of the 307 allotted seats, 143 joined MMC where the cut-off was 631 marks. At Stanley Medical College, where 21 got admission, it was also 631. Admit cards were handed over to three government school students who could not collect them earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/mbbs-open-category-counselling-toppers-skip-session-leave-other-aspirants-smiling/articleshow/79377293.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Aurangabad||16 new cases reported in Kolhapur; curfew in Pandharpur||Kolhapur: As many as 16 new cases of Covid-19 were reported across Kolhapur district on Monday, taking the number of active cases to 555. According to a health official, the number of patients who were discharged from various hospitals was 44. “The total number of cases in the district has now reached to 48,932, out of which 1,671 have succumbed to infection. However, no casualty was reported on Monday,” he said. No masks, no vegetables Vendors from Kolhapur city have decided not to sell vegetables to people who do not wear face masks. Civic chief Kadambari Balkawade has applauded the vendors and have appealed to the citizens for cooperation. Meanwhile, in the last two days, the KMC has collected a fine over Rs 1 lakh from people violating the Covid-related norms. Sangli reports 41 cases A total of 41 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Solapur district on Monday, while one patient succumbed to the contagion. The number of active Covid cases in the district has declined to 378 after 68 patients got discharged. The number of cases in the district has reached to 46,515, out of which 1,690 have died. Curfew in Pandharpur Curfew will be imposed in Pandharpur and 10 surrounding villages from Tuesday night as the administration has prohibited annual gathering of Kartiki Eakadashi that falls on Thursday. While services of Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) will be suspended for two days, private vehicles coming towards Pandharpur will be stopped at the entry point. The administration has also banned the holy dip in river Chandrabhaga till December 31. The temple would also be closed on Wednesday and Thursday. Pandharpur tehsil had registered 6,569 cases till Monday and 6,352 of them have been discharged. The active cases stand at 399, while 208 people have died due to the contagion. 147 cases in Satara Satara district reported 147 fresh Covid patients and two deaths due to the infection between Sunday and Monday, taking the total number of cases to 49,879. The death toll has now gone up to 1,683. As many as 47,053 patients have recovered while 1,123 patients are undergoing treatment. Of the fresh cases, Phaltan tehsil recorded 40 cases and Satara tehsil added 33 cases, including 12 from Satara town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/16-new-cases-reported-in-kolhapur-curfew-in-pandharpur/articleshow/79376003.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Kochi||Animal bridges coming up on Gap Road||IDUKKI: To ensure the safe passage of elephants and other wild animals across the Kochi-Dhanushkodi national highway, NHAI will construct bridges and ramps on the Gap Road stretch in Munnar. The forest department had submitted a proposal which the National Highway Authority of India has approved. “We will construct 10 ramps on the Pooppara-Devikulam stretch. A 5.5m-high bridge will be constructed at the start of Gap Road connecting two hills for Nilgiri tahr. In addition, we have identified 10 elephant paths on the route for ramps, which will ensure their safe passage between habitats,” Rex Felix, NHAI assistant executive engineer, told TOI. “Construction work on the bridge and ramps will be completed soon. The project is being implemented with NHAI funds,” Felix said. “The ramps and bridges will ensure safe passage for wildlife in the region,” Munnar forest division DFO MVG Kannan said. “We had identified 48 locations between Pooppara and Bodimettu. The NH passes through an elephant corridor and the habitat of many wild animals,” he said. “The animals can easily traverse small roads. But, the heavy traffic on a national highway exposes them to grave danger. It is when infrastructure development cuts off the traditional paths of animals that they enter human habitation,” the official said. The Rs 268.2-crore road-widening work on the Munnar-Bodimettu stretch was started in 2017. Nearly 3.2km of the 41km-long stretch passes through forest areas, officials said. Earlier, to assure a safe habitat for the grizzled giant squirrel at Chinnar wildlife sanctuary, the forest department had constructed 19 canopy bridges connecting the trees on the Chinnar-Marayoor route.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/animal-bridges-coming-up-on-gap-road/articleshow/79373758.cms||Sandeep Thomas
November 24, 2020||Bareilly||PTR gets first global award for doubling tigers population in 4 yrs||Pilibhit: It was a proud moment for Pilibhit tiger reserve (PTR) and the forest department when it bagged the first-ever international award, TX2, on Monday evening for doubling the number of tigers in 10 years.PTR was the first to receive the award among 13 tiger range countries.The award was virtually presented to the principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife) of UP, Sunil Pandey, by UNDP’s (United Nations Development Program) head of ecosystems and biodiversity, Mindori Paxton. Pandey said the global target of doubling the tiger population was set in 2010 by the partners in TX2 award -- UNDP, Global Tiger Forum, International Union for Conservation of Nature, World Wide Fund for Nature, Conservation Assured / Tiger Standards and the Lion’s Share.Naveen Khandelwal, deputy director of PTR, said he had applied for this award in September this year after the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) released this year's the state-wise figures of tiger estimation which was based on the census conducted in 2018 in all tiger reserves across the country. Khandelwal said no other tiger reserve among all 13 tiger range countries could succeed in doubling the big cat population in a span of 10 years. PTR achieved this goal in just four years from 2014, when it had 25 tigers. It went up to 65 in 2018.He said as per the NTCA’s tiger estimation report, the PTR had 57 resident and eight transit tigers in 2018. This figure did not include the tiger cubs below the age of one year. The growth of 40 tigers in a short span of four years was recognized for TX2 award, said Khandelwal.He attributed the success to rigorous patrolling with constant use of M-STrIPE monitoring system for tigers, stringent action against wildlife criminals and poachers and forest and grassland management. The efforts of forest staff, local stakeholders and wildlife enthusiasts in tiger conservation paid off, added Khandelwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/ptr-gets-first-global-award-for-doubling-tigers-population-in-4-yrs/articleshow/79374714.cms||Keshav Agarwal
November 24, 2020||Kolkata||Pipeline breach: North, central Kolkata taps to go dry on Saturday||KOLKATA: The entire north and central Kolkata will go dry on Saturday since civic workers will plug a breach in the primary water supply line from Tallah tank. A section of the 60-inch diameter pipe developed a crack near RG Kar Medical College Hospital on Sunday, inundating the hospital premises and nearby localities like Nilmoni Mitra Row. Though enough water still flowed beyond the breach to maintain supply to north Kolkata, south Kolkata and Salt Lake, KMC water supply department has decided to shut it down for 24 hours after the early morning supply on Saturday so that the breach can be repaired and water wastage is stopped. Some parts of Salt Lake may also get affected as a portion of the township’s water supply happens from Tallah via this pipeline. KMC board of administrators chairman Firhad Hakim on Monday said the civic body would have to shut down the Tallah water tank on Saturday to repair the pipe. The other supplies later in the day and evening will not happen. Though the plan is to restore the supply by Sunday morning so that water can flow into taps in the morning, engineers said the Sunday morning supply could get affected if the repair is not completed during the night. Work on locating the breach and preparing the ground for seamless work with minimum time wastage will happen between Tuesday and Friday. The 60-inch water pipe along with another pipeline of the same diameter forms the backbone of the water supply distribution system from Tallah water reservoir to entire north and central Kolkata. Sources in the KMC said though there was no immediate threat to water supply to nearly half of the city’s population, the civic body was still struggling to prevent water from gushing out of the pipeline that carries filtered water in high pressure because of its proximity to Tallah tank. “We are trying to locate the actual point where the pipe got breached. Till then, we won’t stop supply from Tallah,” said a senior official. KMC sources said after the breach led to flooding of R G Kar premises, an SOS was sent to officials at Belgachhia drainage pumping station to deploy heavy duty pumps. “We are particularly anxious about the hospital premises. After officials at Belgachhia drainage pumping station started operating heavy duty pumps, the water level went down. We are still in the process of pumping out water from affected areas,” said a KMC water department official. Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation will try to source additional water from New Town treatment plant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pipeline-breach-north-central-kol-taps-to-go-dry-on-saturday/articleshow/79378523.cms||Saikat Ray
November 24, 2020||Pune||CID commissions study of acquittals in sensitive cases||Pune: The state Criminal Investigation Department (CID) has signed an MoU with 10 law colleges across Maharashtra for a comprehensive study of acquittals in 80 sensitive cases, including murders and crimes against women, and others, in the last 15 years.They hope to find ways for improving the state police’s conviction rate which is at 31%, at present.Additional director general of police (CID) Atulchandra Kulkarni said all these cases are sessions court matters. “We will closely examine the shortcomings as recorded by the court’s observations and other matters in the rulings. The study will be published in a booklet and circulated among different police units, including the CID,” Kulkarni further added .The purpose is to go to the roots of the acquittals and ensure that mistakes are not repeated again and secure better investigation as well as conviction, he added. “Preparation of documents for court cases is another aspect,” he said.The CIC signed the MoUs with different law colleges over the last four months and their professors, legal experts and CID staffers are already studying these cases. A senior police officer told TOI, “In a majority of the cases, it has been found that the witnesses turn hostile during the course of hearings in the courts. This results in acquittal of the accused persons. The police must strive to protect their witnesses and their stance and statement in the court of law.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cid-commissions-study-of-acquittals-in-sensitive-cases/articleshow/79377297.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Pune||Flyers ditch Delhi, Rajasthan over fresh state restrictions||PUNE: An increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi and neighbouring states, which has led to fresh restrictions, has got flyers from the city both scared and confused. Travel agents said many flyers preparing to visit Delhi and Rajasthan for business or for a vacation were either rescheduling flights or cutting their visit short fearing another total lockdown. “One of my clients went to Delhi for business and was to stay on for around five days. However, just a day after he reached Delhi, the client called and asked me to reschedule his return ticket on the same day because he had heard that the Maharashtra government was considering suspension of all flights to and from Delhi due to rising Covid-19 cases. He didn’t want to take any risks. As yet, there is no clarity from the state government here and this is causing confusion among flyers. They are ready to pay the additional rescheduling charges to come back home as soon as possible,” said Nilesh Bhansali, director, Travel Agents Association of Pune (TAAP). A representative of another travel agency said that a group of around 14 people, who had booked tickets for Jaipur in the first week of December, had cancelled their trip altogether. “It seems that the Rajasthan government has announced some restrictions because of the rising Covid-19 cases. The entire group cancelled their trip as they feared another lockdown. The cancellations aren’t a good sign as it may impact fresh bookings too. It is after a long time that we are witnessing some business,” said the representative. Koregaon Park resident Arvind Dixit, who planned to vacation with his family in Delhi and Shimla next month, said that he was reconsidering his decision. “I read that an entire village in Himachal Pradesh is Covid-19 positive and Delhi too is witnessing yet another wave of the pandemic. We might drop the idea to travel until early next year. It is frustrating because we haven’t been able to take a vacation since mid-last year,” Dixit said. Meanwhile, senior officials of the state government said that presently there was no consideration on suspending flight movement to any location. Valsa Nair Singh, principal secretary of the tourism department, told TOI, “We are not considering suspension of any flights as of now.” Different airlines operate 12 flights on the Pune-Delhi sector. “There is no change for now. However, one must check with the airlines for future flights,” said Pune airport director Kuldeep Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/flyers-ditch-delhi-rajasthan-over-fresh-state-restrictions/articleshow/79377292.cms||Joy Sengupta
November 24, 2020||Madurai||Damaged streets in Madurai haunt pedestrians, traders||Madurai: Few streets in and around Nagaikadai Bazaar in Madurai were damaged during the work carried out to provide drinking water connection under the smart city scheme. Paver block roads and bitumen roads have suffered damages during the work. Traders and commuters complained that they have been facing inconvenience and parking has also become an issue as there is no adequate space. Traders said that it has been six months since the roads were damaged but have not been repaired yet. The work was carried out to provide drinking water connection under the round-the-clock water supply project for area based development (ABD). It comprises 15 wards around the Meenakshi Amman Temple. K Perumal, a jewellery shop owner from Nagaikadai Bazaar said, “Almost all the roads are in bad shape now. Apart from the Masi Streets, where drainage and other works are being carried out, small lanes have also suffered. Particularly, Mela Chetty Street, Thottiyan Kinatru Street and Sokkappa Nayakkar Street,” he said. R Venkatesh, another trader, said that they have been waiting for the corporation to repair the damaged roads. He said that roads with paver blocks need only repair works unlike bitumen roads, which need to be re-laid. “Our body pains when we drive on the bad roads,” said V Shanmugam, an autorickshaw driver. An official from the Madurai Corporation said that a proposal would be made ready to repair and lay fresh roads soon. The works would be taken up after the monsoon as roads might get damaged during rains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/damaged-streets-in-madurai-haunt-pedestrians-traders/articleshow/79378510.cms||V Devanathan
November 24, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu assembly elections: Despite BJP push for power sharing, AIADMK says no to coalition govt||CHENNAI: Even as BJP leaders sought to reinforce their demand for power sharing after the Tamil Nadu assembly election, the ruling AIADMK remained firm in its stand that if the party won, it would head the government. AIADMK leaders were of the view that the political posturing of allies would fizzle out once seat sharing talks get underway. Jayalalithaa’s AIADMK contested all 234 seats in two leaves in 2016 and recorded a historic consecutive win after three decades. The leaders said power sharing was never on the agenda of the state polity for decades and the AIADMK would always strive to form a government on its own. Senior minister D Jayakumar said a coalition set up in Tamil Nadu was unthinkable. “It will never happen. We will contest with allies and win a majority of the seats and form a government on our own. The AIADMK will continue the legacy of MGR and Amma,” the minister said, pointing to strong, decisive mandates in the past. The ruling camp is keen on striking a poll deal with friendly partners to defeat the DMK, a common agenda of the NDA allies that came together in the May 2019 LS polls. The BJP has been far from subtle when it came to sharing its views on power sharing at all public platforms. For their part, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam declared that the alliance with BJP would continue for the assembly election too. Much to the surprise of their own partymen and allies, party coordinator OPS and joint coordinator EPS made the announcement in the presence of Union home minister and senior BJP leader Amit Shah, who was in Chennai over the weekend, thus pre-empting any move by the national party to team up with actor Rajinikant, point out party leaders. Palaniswami’s confidantes say the CM has been hopeful of returning to power with the support of the BJP. Panneerselvam hailed Amit Shah as “a master strategist and a modern day Chanakya”. Senior leader and former minister S Semmalai pointed out that EPS had made it clear in the presence of Shah that the alliance would win a majority of the seats and that it would be a solo show for the AIADMK post election. The principal Dravidian parties have won consecutively in grand alliances since 1967 but never shared power with allies. In 1980, the DMK contested in 117 seats and allotted an equal number to Congress. But DMK patriarch M Karunanidhi was projected as the CM candidate. Political analyst Tharasu Shya said the Dravidian parties were averse to sharing power. “Simply, because the parties are not prepared to have checks and balances in governance,” he said, pointing out how Karunanidhi headed the first minority government in 2006-2011.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/despite-bjp-push-for-power-sharing-aiadmk-says-no-to-coalition-govt/articleshow/79377302.cms||Julie Mariappan
November 24, 2020||Erode||Tamil Nadu: Colleges with higher fee put students in a tough spot||CHENNAI: Meritorious students are in a fix. A clause in the prospectus directs them to take up a seat in Raja Muthiah Medical College, Annamalai University, Chidambaram, when seats in all government institutions are exhausted or lose all opportunities to opt for upgrade when vacancies in government colleges arise. The directorate of medical education this year reclassified Raja Muthiah Medical College, ESIC, KK Nagar and IRT, Perundurai (rechristened Erode Medical College) as Category A institutions along with 23 government institutions, but with higher fees. While government colleges charge Rs 13,610 per year, it is Rs 1 lakh at Erode Medical College, Rs 3.85 lakh at ESIC and Rs 4 lakh at Rajah Muthiah Medical College. The prospectus for 2020-21 says, “When seats are available in Category A, if he/she opts out of Category A, he/ she cannot claim seats in Category A during subsequent counselling.” It also says a candidate opting must mark as ‘no’ in the relevant column. “This rule seemed sensible last year when these three colleges were in category B and self-financing colleges were category C. We can’t opt for the college hoping for an upgrade,” said Parameshwari S, whose nephew is an aspirant. On Monday, students and parents sought a clarification, but officials did not reply. Selection committee secretary Dr G Selvarajan said: “We will take the issue senior officials. It has to be discussed before making any amendment.” Most parents said by Tuesday, many students will be forced to make a decision in the counselling room.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/colleges-with-higher-fee-put-students-in-a-tough-spot/articleshow/79386526.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Colleges with higher fee put students in a tough spot||CHENNAI: Meritorious students are in a fix. A clause in the prospectus directs them to take up a seat in Raja Muthiah Medical College, Annamalai University, Chidambaram, when seats in all government institutions are exhausted or lose all opportunities to opt for upgrade when vacancies in government colleges arise. The directorate of medical education this year reclassified Raja Muthiah Medical College, ESIC, KK Nagar and IRT, Perundurai (rechristened Erode Medical College) as Category A institutions along with 23 government institutions, but with higher fees. While government colleges charge Rs 13,610 per year, it is Rs 1 lakh at Erode Medical College, Rs 3.85 lakh at ESIC and Rs 4 lakh at Rajah Muthiah Medical College. The prospectus for 2020-21 says, “When seats are available in Category A, if he/she opts out of Category A, he/ she cannot claim seats in Category A during subsequent counselling.” It also says a candidate opting must mark as ‘no’ in the relevant column. “This rule seemed sensible last year when these three colleges were in category B and self-financing colleges were category C. We can’t opt for the college hoping for an upgrade,” said Parameshwari S, whose nephew is an aspirant. On Monday, students and parents sought a clarification, but officials did not reply. Selection committee secretary Dr G Selvarajan said: “We will take the issue senior officials. It has to be discussed before making any amendment.” Most parents said by Tuesday, many students will be forced to make a decision in the counselling room.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/colleges-with-higher-fee-put-students-in-a-tough-spot/articleshow/79377304.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Kolkata||Senior docs, health workers keen to join vaccine trials||Kolkata: With Phase III trials for Covid vaccines expected to start in the city in about two to three weeks from now, eager volunteers have started enrolling themselves. Many from the medical fraternity who have been leading the battle again Covid-19 have shown interest to be volunteers for the trials.Pratip Kumar Kundu, who superannuated in October end this year as director of School of Tropical Medicine (STM), called up the team at STM saying that he was ready to be a volunteer for the vaccine trial. STM will be conducting Phase III trial of candidate Covovax, taking in 100 volunteers.The 65-year-old microbiologist was assigned as director of STM in January, just months before the pandemic hit the city. He had worked as principal of Malda Medical College prior to this. Even as STM is not involved in treatment of Covid patients, its lab is one of the foremost, testing samples in the city. The proposal for the vaccine trial was made a few months ago when he was still the director of the institute. During this pandemic, Kundu had got his swab samples tested by RT-PCR thrice and tested negative. Later, he also got his antibody tests twice, both of which tested negative. Not having infected by Covid is one of the criteria to be a volunteer for the vaccine trial.While the trial at STM will be done on 100 candidates, the Phase III trial on India-made Covaix at NICED (National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases) will be taking in 1,000 volunteers. A reputable onco-surgeon, who heads a cancer institute in the city, has also offered to be a volunteer for the trial. “Medical professionals are more aware about drug and clinical trials. Hence, if they are taken in as volunteers it would be good as far as being responsible and compliance with the investigation process,” he said. Officials of Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute (CNCI) have got in touch with both STM and NICED, saying that many healthcare workers of the institute are keen to be volunteers for the trials. “Volunteers are backbone for clinical trials. In addition to their role of taking the vaccine shots they also have the responsibility of coordinating the investigators and complying with norms like regular follow-ups for best outcome of the trial. So well informed volunteers are always good for a drug or vaccine trial,” said Santanu Kumar Tripathi, who will be the principal investigator of the Covovax vaccine trial at STM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/senior-docs-health-workers-keen-to-join-vaccine-trials/articleshow/79378548.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
November 24, 2020||Pune||Affordable housing lottery winners’ response poor||Pune: Only 240 winners of the online lottery conducted by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) for allotment of apartments under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana have paid the 10% advance necessary for the purchase of flats till the November 23 deadline. As many as 2,918 people had qualified during the online draw conducted by the civic administration in October. The PMC had received over 20,000 applications for the lottery. A PMC official said 1,500 beneficiaries had collected challans from its office, but were yet to transfer the amount. “The civic administration had sent letters to the winners and told them to make the payment. We have told those on the waiting list to apply for the houses. They would be allotted the units, if the winners failed to complete the process by the end of Monday,” the official said. The PMC had conducted the lottery for allotment of houses in five projects for the urban poor in areas such as Kharadi, Hadapsar and Wadgaon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/affordable-housing-lottery-winners-response-poor/articleshow/79377303.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Pune||Sketching course for police soon at SPPU||PUNE: The state Criminal Investigation Department (CID) has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) for its three to four-month-long sketching course for the police personnel. “The course has been designed by the CID for the police force and would be conducted with the help of the Centre for Police Research (CPR), Pashan. The MoU with the university and colleges was required to certify the constables or officers who will complete the course after an assessment,” additional director general of police (CID) Atulchandra Kulkarni said. According to the CID officials, each part of the course, divided into three stages of a five-day programme, a 15-day programme and a 25-day programme, would have 20 to 30 ‘students cops’ officers or constables. “The officers would have to clear examinations at each stage to proceed further. We would issue the certificate to personnel who would clear the third programme of 25 days,” Kulkarni said, adding, It is an art and one has to listen with great patience to the victims and witnesses to come up with a reliable sketch. The course includes the study of psychology and practical work and studies, including digital superimposing techniques.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sketching-course-for-police-soon-at-sppu/articleshow/79377300.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Pune||It’s time for some rip-roaring music again as DJs return to their consoles||Pune: After being unemployed for months, DJs are back in business.Many city DJs performed for the first time last weekend after the lockdown. They are planning to get behind the consoles and cater to a live audience regularly again.Yogesh Patil, aka DJ Dustin, said, “It’s an incredible feeling to perform for a much smaller crowd. The capacity of venues has reduced to adhere to social distancing norms. Guests are being catered to on reservation and first-come-first-serve basis. For New Year parties, there might be cubicles or designated areas for groups and couples if the dance floor does open at all.”Garry Kumthekar, who goes by the name of DJ Garry, said that only 30% of the clubs in the city have reopened, the rest are still closed or gone out of business. “Few clubs have reopened, and even fewer among them have called DJs back because they don’t have the budget. They are paying DJs just 50% of what they used to pay earlier, because sponsorship from liquor companies have stopped. With regulations, such as no dancing allowed and early closure, the way we dish out tracks has changed. We are stimulating a sort of a background scene. Previously, while playing hip hop, we would dish out Mumbathon and remixes, but now we are staying away from such genres. We are sticking to original songs and low tempo tracks.”“It feels good to get back to work after eight months, but performance-wise, it is a little tough to control the flow of music. All the venues I’m working with are paying me 80% of my salary. For resident DJs, jobs are coming back, but it is still a tough time for freelancers,” said Mrunal Patel, aka DJ Reviver.A major concern among the DJ community is the possible relapse of the lockdown in case of another wave of the coronavirus. “For now, it’s tough to entertain a small, seated audience, but that is where the challenge lies in showing your talent. Fortunately, I am not facing any pay cut because I play for premium clubs, but other venues have been hard on artists,” said Yashodhan Rege, who goes by the name of DJ Regge.Sandy Singh, owner of clubs like Swig and Euriska, said, “We are inviting only local DJs to come and play. We want to promote our local artists like they have been supporting us and get them back into business. We are helping them recover as we recover ourselves. .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/its-time-for-some-rip-roaring-music-again-as-djs-return-to-their-consoles/articleshow/79377314.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Playgrounds in T Nagar used to park garbage trucks turn filthy||CHENNAI: Famous public playgrounds in T Nagar have turned slushy, filthy and completely unsanitary as the civic body has been using them as parking lots for garbage pickup trucks and to store dustbins. The corporation ground on Venkatanarayana Road (opposite Natesan Park) and Somasundaram Ground on Somasundaram Street, Parthasarthi Puram, are in no shape to be used, say residents. The playgrounds are always packed with youngsters playing cricket, basketball, badminton and football. After being closed to the public when the Covid-19 pandemic restrictions set in in March, playgrounds were opened to the public last month. “We were all excited to start playing cricket again. But we couldn’t because trucks have been parked all over the ground and even some event tents have been put up,” said K Murali, of Parthasarathi Puram. A B Muthukumar, secretary, Somasundaram Playground Civic Exnora, said the entire place has turned muddy because of the trucks and the corporation hardly took efforts to maintain the place. Waste is just strewn all over the ground, he added. V S Jayaraman, of T Nagar Residents’ Welfare Association, reiterated that the upkeep was poor. “Even if it was not used daily, it is the responsibility of the corporation to guard it properly. They simply can’t turn them into parking lots or use it for other purposes,” said Jayaraman. When contacted, a senior corporation official from T Nagar zone told TOI that this was only a tempoprary arrangement and that the ground will be made available for the public soon. GCC has roped in a new private contractor (Urbaser-Sumeet) for conservancy work and some of the vehicles engaged by the firm are parked along Sterling Road in Nungambakkam, the space usually reserved for tipper trucks of T Nagar zone. The trucks by the previous contractor, whose term ends by the month end, are parked in the two playgrounds. “This is only for the transition, the grounds will be free of vehicles from November 29 — the date operations will be transferred completely to the new entity,” the official added. The tents were put up for a recruitment drive for sanitary workers and will be removed in a week’s time, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/playgrounds-used-to-park-garbage-trucks-turn-filthy/articleshow/79377327.cms||Ram Sundaram
November 24, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal: Medical dream comes true for farmer’s son in West Midnapore’s Debra||KOLKATA: Sayan Rana, the 19-year-old son of a marginal farmer in West Midnapore’s Debra, on Monday took admission in the Calcutta National Medical College, ending a month-long anxiety in which the hospital’s alumni from Kolkata to London pitched in to fulfil his dreams. The teenager had always aspired to be a doctor and to fight against abject poverty. The topper of Radhamohanpur High School had been working as a daily farm labourer to support his family as well. He said, “I started working in between classes while I was in high school. I am really happy today as I came to take admission along with my father Joydeb Rana who works as a marginal farmer.” Sayan said that to turn his dream into reality, his mentor A K Maity helped him and provided him with study materials. Sayan said that he had received help after a TOI report showcased how he fought against all odds to crack NEET. Abhay Das, a medicine consultant with NHS in Leeds, UK had also promised to give necessary support for studies of Sayan. The boy, after cracking NEET, was at a loss on thinking how to meet the cost of MBBS studies. Das, who had passed out from CNMCH, said he too had fought against poverty to be a doctor. Similarly, Gita Chatterjee, a retired surgeon, has already provided Rs 5,000 to Sayan to buy apron books and kits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/med-dream-comes-true-for-farmers-son/articleshow/79378583.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Trichy||Five ambulances added to 108 service in Trichy dist||Trichy: With five more ambulances added to 108 service in the district, the average response time will come down to 10 minutes. Minister for tourism Vellamandi N Natarajan and minister for backward and minorities welfare S Valarmathi flagged off the vehicles at the collectorate in the presence of collector S Sivarasu on Monday. With the latest addition, the service will have 39 vehicles to serve patients across Trichy district. GVK-EMRI 108 ambulance service district manager T Arivukarasu said that the addition of five more vehicles will help his team decrease the response time to 10 minutes to reach a distance of 8km. The present response time was 12 minutes. “Since we have got five more vehicles, they can be stationed at places which have witnessed many cases in the past thus reducing the response time,” he said. The five vehicles will be stationed at EB road, Valanadu, Vaiyamapatti, Jambunathapuram and Vaiyampatti. It may be mentioned that the average response time of 108 ambulance vehicles was 16.6 minutes during the corresponding period last year.The new vehicles will be kept ready at locations near areas where the demand for ambulance service was high due to high number of cases. Road traffic accidents (RTAs) accounted for the most number of cases in the district after relaxation of Covid-19 lockdown norms after September this year. While the 108 ambulance service in the district handled 3,274 cases in September, the number touched 3,520 in October. The increase was attributed to increase of RTAs and other ailments while the number of Covid-19 cases reduced drastically now. Considering the dip in Covid-19 cases, the number of vehicles deputed for transporting Covid-19 patients has been reduced to two now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/five-ambulances-added-to-108-service-in-trichy-dist/articleshow/79377329.cms||Gokul Rajendran
November 24, 2020||Madurai||Foreign fishing vessels poaching in Indian waters will be punished, says central govt||Madurai: The Union ministry of fisheries, animal husbandry and dairying has stated that foreign fishing vessels are not allowed to fish in Indian waters and they would be detained and punished. The statement was issued by fisheries development commissioner (in-charge) of the Union government in response to an issue in this regard raised by Tamil Nadu-based fishermen activist P Justin Antony. In September, Antony, president of International Fishermen Development Trust (INFIDET), wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, highlighting illegal fishing by foreign vessels in Indian waters in the three main seas along the shores of the country – from the Bay of Bengal to the Arabian Sea. “Foreign vessels are plundering our fishing wealth in all the seas. This is making life difficult for our fishermen,” he said. In his letter, the activist urged the central government not to allow foreign ships in Indian waters for fishing and fishing-related activities. He also stated that Indian fishermen should be allowed for deep sea fishing without restrictions, as it would not only provide better opportunities but also help keep a check on the illegal entry of foreign vessels. Responding to the letter forwarded to the fisheries minister, the development commissioner said, “As per the extant policy of the government of India, foreign fishing vessels are not allowed to fish in Indian waters. Any foreign fishing vessels if found engaged in illegal fishing or poaching in Indian waters is apprehended by Indian maritime security and monitoring agencies.” Pandian added that they are punishable under provisions of the Maritime Zone of India (Regulation of Fishing by Foreign Vessels) Act, 1981 i.e., MZI Act and MZI Rules, 1982. The commissioner said that traditional fishers were being encouraged and supported to undertake deep-sea fishing by providing them assistance for procurement of resource-specific fishing vessels. Conversion of existing trawlers into long liners, training and capacity building and other welfare measures under the centrally sponsored ‘Blue Revolution’ scheme and ‘Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana’ (PMMSY) were being implemented by the department, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/foreign-fishing-vessels-poaching-in-indian-waters-will-be-punished-says-central-govt/articleshow/79378584.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 24, 2020||Trichy||Trichy residents wary of inundation||Trichy: The weather alert for the next two days has left residents and shopkeepers wary of inundation on arterial and commercial streets. As faulty stormwater drains were clogging close-packed localities in the city even under moderate rainfall last week, residents are keeping their fingers crossed and urged the civic body to take up preventive measures.In the last two weeks, the moderate rainfall that lashed the city had left Salai road, Thillai Nagar, Thennur and Woraiyur heavily inundated. Residents blamed the bad condition of stormwater drains as one of the chief causes for inundation. A majority of stormwater drains are being used as drainage and are also clogged with plastic and other solid waste dumped by locals. Besides, as the civic body is redeveloping the stormwater drains and pedestrian platforms on Thillai Nagar and Salai road, rainwater takes a long time to drain through the stormwater drains. As cyclone Nivar is expected to leave the city drenched for the next two days, locals are apprehensive of water stagnation affecting vehicular movement and even seeping into commercial establishments. “Low-lying areas must be focussed by the corporation. Even for one hour of rain, roads in Woraiyur appeared like a canal. We are worried over the status of the same roads in case of incessant rainfall,”said K Saravana Kumar, a resident of Woraiyur.In Bhima Nagar, residents claimed that even for moderate rain overflowing water through the stormwater drain had started seeping into the houses along with rainwater, also giving pedestrians tough times. Locals claimed that lack of periodical desilting and releasing waste into stormwater drains as the cause of the problem. “A team of junior engineers have been told to be on alert to attend grievances on water stagnation. Residents must cooperate with us by refraining from dumping solid waste in drains,” a corporation official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-residents-wary-of-inundation/articleshow/79377331.cms||Deepak Karthik
November 24, 2020||Trichy||Retail traders pitch for separate vegetable market||Trichy: A section of retail vegetable traders said they will not participate in a stir called by the wholesale traders demanding opening of the Gandhi market in Trichy from Tuesday evening. Contradicting the demands of wholesale vegetable traders seeking the wholesale vegetable operations to continue in the Gandhi market, the retail traders pitched for a separate market each for retail and wholesale vegetable operations. “We are being used as a shield by the wholesale traders to prevent them from being relocated to the outskirts. We will not participate in the protest and will continue to sell vegetables in the temporary markets until Gandhi market is reopened,” said K Jaishankar, who is part of the dissenting faction of retail traders. The dissenting section said that some wholesale traders who are doing retail business, ar affecting the livelihood of 1,200 retailers. The retailers convening a meeting at EB road Mathuram ground on Monday demanded that retail sales be retained at Gandhi market. “District administration is keen on relocating only the wholesale vegetable operations to Kallikudi. We were told that retail vegetable sales can continue in the Gandhi market,” Jaishankar added. A section of retail vendors, however, maintained that not all the retailers align with the decisions taken by the dissenting group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/retail-traders-pitch-for-separate-vegetable-market/articleshow/79377341.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Trichy||Cyclone Nivar set for landfall, coastal districts on the alert||Trichy: As cyclone Nivar formed over the Bay of Bengal is expected to make landfall on Wednesday, the government has readied its entire machinery in the delta districts such as Nagapattinam, Thanjavur and Tiruvarur to face the storm.District authorities have set up shelters to accommodate people in case of any exigency. They have taken all preparations to tackle the cyclonic storm, which is expected to bring heavy rainfall on November 24 and 25 in the districts.All the required basic amenities and required materials have been put in place at 66 shelters including schools, marriage halls and community centres, 22 cyclone centres and nine evacuation centres in Nagapattinam district, Praveen P Nair, district collector, told reporters.“We are ready to handle the situation with full preparedness. All the shelters and centres are equipped with basic amenities. Food, medicine, fuel and generator facilities have been made available. The general public are advised to go to the shelters in case of an emergency. Special food for children and senior citizens is also ready,” the collector said.Meanwhile, handlooms minister O S Manian visited the coastal villages and assured the villagers all help. He asked them to move swiftly to the government shelters in case of heavy downpour or storm before the situation goes out of control.In Tiruvarur, 212 low-lying areas have been identified and precautionary measures have been taken to shift people in case of flood, collector V Santha said. “A total of 249 shelters including schools, and halls are ready for accommodating people if needed. All the shelters are equipped with kitchen, groceries, and ready to eat food items,” the collector added.Following the instructions issued by the fisheries department, 30,000 fishermen from Nagapattinam district have not ventured into the sea. They have 8,000 fishing trawlers including 1,000 mechanized boats.“We have asked fishermen to move their boats at least 50m away from the shore. As per our directives, they have detached their nets and motor engines from their fishing trawlers. We have advised them to keep the boats upside down so that neither water nor the storm cannot damage them,” joint director of fisheries department Amal Xavier told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cyclone-nivar-set-for-landfall-coastal-districts-on-the-alert/articleshow/79377361.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
November 24, 2020||Mangaluru||Bike-borne miscreant snatches gold chain||UDUPI: A motorcycle-borne miscreant robbed a fisherwoman of her 32gram gold chain when she was returning home near Board High School here on Sunday. According to the complaint that Varija, 57, a resident of Brahmagiri, has filed at Udupi town police station, the incident happened when she, along with her sister, was walking on the road behind the school. She was carrying a fish basket on her head. The miscreant, aged around 30, came from behind, snatched her chain valued at Rs 1.20 lakh and fled. A case has been registered at Udupi town station, SP N Vishnuvardhan said, adding that efforts are on to curb such incidents. “I have asked our officers to keep an eye out for youths wandering suspiciously on motorcycles,” he said. Man drowns off beach A man, who ignored warning from locals and went for a swim at Kodi beach, drowned on Monday. Police identified the victim as Manjunath, 35, of Nalagunda. The victim, who had befriended a couple and promised them a job, went with them to the beach. Police said Manjunath entered the water in an inebriated state. Efforts by local youths to save him went in vain. A case of unnatural death report has been registered at Kundapur town police station. The victim and the couple were daily wage labourers residing at a temporary shelter near Gandhi Maidan in Kundapur, police said, adding the body has been kept at the local government hospital mortuary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/bike-borne-miscreant-snatches-gold-chain/articleshow/79375875.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Trichy||Citizens group to promote RWH system through places of worship||Trichy: A citizens group comprising people from various walks of life working towards the restoration of the Chola-era Uyyakondan canal here has identified a temple, mosque and church, to install and promote the importance of rainwater harvesting (RWH) mechanism. The group has planned to harvest the rainwater from these religious places of worship situated on the canal bank to divert the surplus water to the polluted irrigation canal.Citizen For Uyyakondan (CFU) comprising doctors, architects, engineers and students from Trichy completed 150 weeks of continuous weekend activities towards the canal restoration. CFU alongside Rotary Club have planned to sponsor and technically support the installation of RWH structures in Rahamath masjid, St Antony’s church and Anjaneyar temple, all situated in Duraisamipuram.Organisers said that they will avail the technical support of Bengaluru-based RWH expert and scientist A R Shivakumar. “The managements of the mosque, church and temple have okayed our suggestion, and they will promote RWH among their worshippers,” Dr K Narasimha Rao, one of the organisers said.The group said that cost-effective models will be implemented to serve as a success model in promoting the same across houses situated on the banks of Uyyakondan.Though the group’s fieldwork came to halt due to Covid-19, it organised webinar and online awareness drives by roping in experts from various sectors such as solid waste management, groundwater management and environmental conservation, corporation, to suggest constructive ideas in policymaking. Former Trichy Corporation commissioner Swaran Singh, who participated as the chief guest in the 150th week celebration said, “Without the participation of the local community, environmental development programmes will not sustain.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/citizens-group-to-promote-rwh-system-through-places-of-worship/articleshow/79377333.cms||Deepak Karthik
November 24, 2020||Trichy||Farmers trim trees, fishers move boats||Trichy: Based on the experience from cyclone Gaja that struck the delta in 2018, farmers and fishermen have swung into action to safeguard their crops, trees and boats. Fishermen moved their trawlers several metres away from the coast on Monday.As per the advisory issued by the agriculture department, farmers in Thanjavur, Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur districts trimmed their coconut and other trees in such a way to reduce excess weight. It may be recalled that Gaja uprooted around 55 lakh coconut trees across the delta districts in November 2018.Farmers, fishermen and the general public from Vedaranyam in Nagapattinam district were the worst-hit after severe cyclone Gaja lashed the coast. The announcement from the Indian meteorological department about cyclone Nivar has created panic among the residents of Vedaranyam and surrounding areas such as Kodiakkarai, Pushpavanam, Arukattuthurai, Vanavanmadevi and Vellapallam.People who reside in thatched houses covered their roof with tarpaulin. Farmers cut their trees, which were overweight and the trees that were a hindrance for overhead power cables. Many have started stocking things such as candles, matchboxes, emergency lamps, torch lights and grocery items. People hurry to fill fuel in their vehicles.A Justin, joint director of agriculture, Thanjavur, asked the farmers who have raised samba paddy to drain water from their fields immediately and advised them to maintain the same condition for three more days. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-trim-trees-fishers-move-boats/articleshow/79377370.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
November 24, 2020||Trichy||Trichy professor wins award for extracting water from air||TRICHY: The idea of a city college professor to extract water from air at zero energy expenditure to tide over water and energy crisis in India has been adjudged the best solution award in World Water Challenge 2020 - an event where proposals are called for various problems and best solutions are awarded - organised by the ministry of environment, South Korea and the Korean water forum S Senthil Kumar, botany professor of National College Trichy (NCT), won the best solution among 86 entries across 32 countries. By winning the contest, he has got an opportunity to attend the ninth World Water Forum to be held in March next year in Senegal and also receive a cash award of Rs 8 lakh. He said presenting his idea to world’s leading water scientists, activists, policy makers and bureaucrats in the world water forum will be a proud moment. His idea of converting water droplets dripping from air-conditioners for effective use received praise from the department of science and technology (DST) in 2017. DST sanctioned him Rs 25 lakh to come out with water purification option at cheaper or zero energy expenditure. He pitched the idea under the theme ‘urban water scenario with respect to global warming’. “I proved that the quantum of water dripping out of an air-conditioning machine in commercial establishments is surplus or sufficient for daily drinking water needs in the office,” he said. As usage of air-conditioners has increased enormously in recent years, he proved that commercial establishments can easily meet their drinking water need by recycling the water from ACs. “For instance, if an office is purchasing 100 litres of water per day, it takes 400 litres of raw ground water which is purified through various methods. By making use of the water from the AC, not only ground water will be saved, the power to extract water from ground, purification cost and the transportation charge is saved,” he said. “The energy saved reduces carbon emission which is responsible for global warming. Days are not far when saving water dripping from AC will be made mandatory,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-prof-wins-award-for-extracting-water-from-air/articleshow/79377373.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Trichy||5 students from govt school get MBBS, NIT admissions||Trichy: Five students from the government model girls higher secondary school at Manachanallur were felicitated on Monday for making their school proud by getting medical seats and joining National Institute of Technology (NIT) Trichy. Three students - P Sathya, V Suganthinima and S Abinaya - secured MBBS seats, S Vaishali got a BDS seat while S Pugazharasi will join NIT. Sathya cleared NEET in her third attempt this year by securing 396 marks. She had joined BSc Mathematics a city college, but dropped out to join private NEET coaching to focus full time on NEET. V Suganthinima and S Abinaya cleared NEET in their first attempt. All the four students secured seats under 7.5% reservation this year.S Pugazharasi secured a seat in the metallurgy department at NIT. The district administration had arranged for weekend coaching for interested government school students wanting to pursue engineering in centrally-funded institutions. While she showed interest in engineering, students of NIT Trichy had come forward to teach them to clear the joint entrance examination (JEE). K Shanmugam, district education officer (Lalgudi) felicitated the students at an event on Monday. He said out of nine students who secured MBBS seats in Lalgudi educational district, seven are from Manachanallur block. He asked students to keep focusing on their studies as they did for NEET and JEE training.Saying that the girls have given an identity to the school, headmaster S Anbusekaran said that it has been a few years since a student managed to get MBBS seat from the school. “This year, four students have secured MBBS seats and one student has joined NIT Trichy which has never happened in the past,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/5-students-from-govt-school-get-mbbs-nit-admissions/articleshow/79377372.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Madurai||Teacher jailed for sexually abusing minor||Tuticorin: The special court for exclusive trial of cases under Pocso Act here on Monday found a 52-year-old school teacher guilty of sexually assaulting three minor girls of the same school. The accused K Rajkumar Muthupandi from Kurumbur village was awarded five years of imprisonment and slapped a fine of Rs 30,000. According to police, the accused was a teacher in a school at Nalumavadi in Tuticorin district. He was accused of sexually harassing three girls aged 11, 12 and 14-years-old. The Srivaikuntam all-women police registered a case under sections of Pocso Act and arrested him. On Monday, the court found him guilty under sections 9(f) (whoever being on the management or staff of an educational institution or religious institution, commits sexual assault on a child in that institution) and 9(m) (whoever commits sexual assault on a child below twelve years) of Pocso Act and convicted him. The jail term will be extended if he fails to pay the fine. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/teacher-jailed-for-sexually-abusing-minor/articleshow/79378635.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||13 virus deaths in Ahmedabad in a day, most for 5 months||AHMEDABAD: In the 24 hours ending 5pm on Monday, the city recorded 13 Covid-19 deaths, the highest one-day death toll in 148 days or nearly five months. The city accounted for three of every four deaths recorded, 76%, in these 24 hours. At 17 deaths, this was the highest one-day death toll in 63 days for Gujarat. In the last three days, the city’s average daily death toll has shot up to nine compared to 2.5 in the first 20 days of November – a nearly three-fold rise. For the state, the average of 13 daily deaths in the past three days is in contrast to the six deaths a day the state recorded in the first 20 days of November. Vadodara, Rajkot, Surat and Morbi recorded one Covid death each. Gujarat, in these 24 hours, added 1,487 new Covid cases, taking its total number of cases to 1.98 lakh. The new cases included 344 from Ahmedabad, 270 from Surat, 172 from Vadodara and 154 from Rajkot. This was the fourth consecutive day that Ahmedabad recorded more than 300 cases in a day. “Cases are on the rise, whereas the trend we have seen in the past few days shows the presence of more persons older than 51 years among the hospitalized. These could be some of the factors that explain the high number of deaths again,” said a city-based critical care specialist, adding that there is relatively no major change in the treatment protocol. Ahmedabad also recorded the discharges of 331 patients in 24 hours — the highest among the state’s major cities — followed by 185 in Surat, 87 in Rajkot and 57 in Vadodara. Just 6% of non-requisitioned beds available Ahmedabad: Despite increase in the number of hospitals and beds in the non-requisitioned category (where hospitals can decide on patient admission compared to requisitioned beds where AMC sends patients) in the past few days, on Monday morning 94% of the 2,705 such beds were full. Of such ICU beds, only 8 of 391 without ventilators and 9 of 197 with ventilators were vacant. Occupancy for isolation and high-dependency units was 93% and 94%, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/13-virus-deaths-in-city-in-a-day-most-for-5-months/articleshow/79377512.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Noida||Covid-19: Random tests at UP’s borders with Delhi||GHAZIABAD/NOIDA: What happened for a day in Noida last week – vehicles being randomly stopped at the border and occupants being asked to take a Covid test – is likely to become the norm for the next few days at all UP-Delhi borders, starting Wednesday. The Noida and Ghaziabad and administrations will set up kiosks at the borders to conduct rapid antigen tests on commuters entering either city from Delhi after the state government ordered random screenings in the wake of the surge in cases in the capital. Officials said police will also be deployed to help health department teams go about the job. They emphasised the tests would be voluntary, but on the evidence of what unfolded at the DND border on November 18, the ‘voluntary’ tests ended up as cases of police stopping commuters and directing or escorting them to the test camps. The effect on traffic remains a concern – there was no disruption on November 18 other than for those who were stopped. Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said, “We will set up camps in border areas like Indirapuram, Kaushambi, Vasundhara and Vaishali from where movement to Delhi is maximum. The tests will be voluntary, but the focus will be on testing people with symptoms like cold and cough. Police teams will also be present for management and checks for masks. The plan will be implemented from Wednesday.” The state government, which began the random testing exercise in Noida last week itself, has also asked the health department to conduct tests at bus stands and railway stations. Ghaziabad junction is among the busiest railway stations. Health department officials said three dedicated teams had been formed in either city to carry out random sampling with rapid antigen test kits. These teams will be on the move. A senior officer in the health department who is overseeing the random sampling exercise told TOI some vehicles have to be stopped. “At times, some people offer resistance. But then, health teams are able to convince such individuals by telling them there is no harm in getting tested for free.” Noida has targeted a minimum 100 tests per day in the random sampling exercise. “We inform authorities in Delhi if a person testing positive is from there. If the person is a Noida resident, the integrated control room is alerted and details are passed on to the team assessing the medical condition of individuals who test positive. Similarly, authorities in other parts of Uttar Pradesh or other states are informed if a resident of another place is found to have Covid,” the officer said. UP’s minister of state for health Atul Garg, meanwhile, blamed Delhi for the spike in Covid cases in Ghaziabad and Noida and urged the Delhi CM to speak to Yogi Adityanath for any assistance in dealing with the Covid surge. Garg said load on hospitals in NCR too had increased because of the surge in Delhi cases. Additional chief secretary (medical and health) Amit Mohan Prasad said, “Preventive steps will be taken to arrest rise of case burden in UP.” Sources said the state government was considering the option of quarantining infected passengers at hospitals of districts where they tested positive. “The district administration will take a call on quarantining those who show Covid symptoms,” Prasad said. Sources said the state government was also considering fresh guidelines and stricter enforcement mechanisms, including heavy fines for not wearing masks, besides exhorting people to maintain social distancing to contain the spread of the pandemic. Additional chief secretary (information) Navneet Sehgal said the quantum of testing will be increased in the days to come. (Additional reporting by Pankaj Shah in Lucknow)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/random-tests-at-delhi-borders-from-wednesday/articleshow/79378646.cms||Shalabh
November 24, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Tribunal deducts Rs 19 lakh from accident relief for contributory negligence||CHENNAI: The family of an accident victim lost Rs 18.5 lakh — 50% of the compensation awarded — after a tribunal held that the victim was equally responsible for the accident. Kavitha of Nerkundram moved a petition seeking compensation for the death of her husband Kesavaperumal, a truck driver. According to her petition, Kesavaperumal was driving the truck along Keerapakkam in Kancheepuram district when a rashly driven tourist bus from Andhra Pradesh collided into the truck, leading to his death. In response, the insurer of the bus contended that the accident happened only due to the negligence of the truck driver and argued that it cannot be held liable to pay compensation. The counsel for the insurer pointed out that the co-passenger in the truck had given a statement to support the stand. The tribunal perused the submitted evidence and documents and noted that the FIR (First Information Report) also stated that the accident occurred due to rash driving by the deceased truck driver, who handled the vehicle negligently while negotiating a sharp turn. It, however, noted that the FIR alone cannot be a substantiative piece of evidence and that it can only be only used for the purpose of confrontation. The tribunal pointed out that there were eyewitness accounts that state that the bus driver had operated the vehicle in a negligent manner. After perusing the submissions, the tribunal held that both the bus driver and the truck driver are equally responsible for the accident and held that the deceased will receive compensation. The accident occurred in 2012 and Kesavaperumal was 42 years old at the time. He was the owner and driver of the truck. Computing factors including the age, loss of income, the tribunal arrived at Rs 37 lakh compensation. After deducting 50% for contributory negligence, the tribunal directed the insurance firm to pay Rs 18.5 lakh to the family of the deceased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tribunal-deducts-rs-19-lakh-from-accident-relief-for-contributory-negligence/articleshow/79377385.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Madurai||Manpower shortage at RTO in Madurai cripples functioning||Madurai: V Manikandan a resident of Madurai got an appointment at Madurai North RTO for his son to get a learner’s licence on Monday. Although they reached at 10am on the given slot, they had to wait for two-and-a-half-hours for the motor vehicle inspector to reach the office and start his work. By then, around 100 applicants with different slots had gathered there. The shortage of motor vehicle inspectors (MVI) was cited as the reason for the delay in adhering to the timings.“The purpose of introducing the appointment system is to bring down the crowd. But the very purpose is defeated. Many of them did not even wear a mask. It was scary to sit among the crowd for so long, exposing ourselves to the risk of getting infected with Covid-19. When asked, I was told that it was due to shortage of motor vehicle inspectors,” he said.The sanctioned strength of the MVI at Madurai North is 5, but at present, there is only one person. And that too is a temporary arrangement as the officers from unit centres like Usilampatti and Vadipatti are asked to work there on alternative days. There are three RTO offices in Madurai namely Madurai North, Madurai South and Madurai Central, each headed by a regional transport officer. Only north and south have got RTOs. Four unit offices are functioning in Vadipatti, Usilampatti, Thirumangalam and Melur. Each one is headed by a MVI. The sanctioned strength of MVI posting for Madurai district is 16, but only six are available now. The same officer has to conduct driving test, register new vehicles, issue learners licence and process various other office works. Occasionally, they have to conduct checks at night to streamline passenger and transport vehicles.Driving schools are also affected badly due to the manpower shortage. “We could get only two driving licences per week at present, while there is a requirement for at least eight. Due to the delay in getting a licence, people are not coming forward to learn. We have invested so much on vehicles but hardly earned anything in the last few months.” said a driving school owner.A higher official from the transport department said the issue would be sorted out in a month. By then, two officers who have gone for training would return. Two MVIs are expected to join Madurai North RTO in a week. “Most of the RTO offices in the state are functioning with a single motor vehicle inspector. Recruitment was conducted four years ago for 130 officers, but got delayed due to litigations,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/manpower-shortage-at-rto-in-madurai-cripples-functioning/articleshow/79378639.cms||V Devanathan
November 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19: Posh west pounded by new wave in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: The latest surge in Covid cases seems to have pounded the city’s posh west with the greatest severity, making it the new virus hotspot. Of the Top 10 areas — in terms of the number of societies affected — that were micro-contained over the past fortnight, six are from the west. These include Bopal and Bodakdev. Memnagar from the South Zone is among the top micro-contained areas of the city. An analysis of the micro-containment list reveals that the Top 5 areas are Bopal, Bodakdev, Maninagar, Jodhpur, and Gota. They account for 50% of the 2,755 families that have been placed in micro-containment zones. The data reveals that the Walled City areas (including Khadia, Jamalpur, Dariapur, Shahpur, and Danilimda) have learnt some safeguard lessons. These wards were declared as containment zones in April; now they are in the green zone. A senior AMC officer said that Bopal was always in the Covid news with cases being reported regularly. But since Diwali, the officer said, the area has been hit by a new wave of Covid. Over the past four days, 388 cases were reported from the area of which 304 were from one tony society alone. Officials said that South Bopal too was reporting a high number of cases because of the unchecked movement of vegetable vendors in the area. A major shopping complex in the vicinity may be playing a part too, the officials said. Maninagar has recorded a surge as well. Officials say the Sindhi Market near the Maninagar railway station could be a spreader hub. The ward seems to have ignored the insights from its initial containment from April to May. As for the western part of the city as a whole, officials said that the cases rose soon after the lockdown was relaxed. Not much change was observed in the eastern part. In August and early September, three zones in the western part — West, North West, and South West — accounted for about 60% of the active cases in the city. Even on Monday, of the 2,965 active cases in the city, the three zones had 1,385 — that is 48% of the active cases in zones that are home to 42% of the city’s population. The officials said that an analysis of the Aarogya Setu data made it clear that the maximum number of infected people were in Jodhpur, Bodakdev, Navranpura, and South Bopal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/posh-west-pounded-by-new-wave/articleshow/79377489.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
November 24, 2020||Trichy||DMK youth wing secretary Udayanidhi Stalin campaigns in Thanjavur||THANJAVUR: DMK youth wing secretary Udayanidhi Stalin said that AIADMK has made their work easier by announcing AIADMK’s alliance with BJP, while addressing party workers on the fourth day of his ‘Vidiyal Nokki Stalin Kural’ (Stalin’s voice for awakening) election campaign in Kumbakonam in Thanjavur on Monday.  “The people of Tamil Nadu chased away AIADMK in the parliamentary elections. That anger has not yet gone,” he said. “Wherever I go for campaigning, police arrest me like a terrorist. They confine me in wedding halls till night. Despite their arrest, a 100-day campaign against corruption and against the fascist regime will continue,” he added.  A group of transgenders met Udayanidhi and handed over a memorandum demanding to allot houses under slum clearance board housing allotment scheme. He also met traders, farmers and Veena artists during his campaign.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/udayanidhi-campaigns-in-thanjavur/articleshow/79377376.cms||---
November 24, 2020||India||Uttarakhand allows ‘catch & release’ fishing in 8 rivers for tourism||DEHRADUN: Two years after Uttarakhand became the first state in the country to ban angling — catching fish using hooks and releasing them back into rivers and ponds in forests — the decision has been reversed. An order to this effect, dated November 18, signed by the chief wildlife warden JS Suhag (a copy is with TOI) has been sent to all divisional forest officers. The order says the state wildlife board, in its meeting held last year, decided that angling should be permitted in state’s reserve forest areas, provided norms are followed. Among the norms that have been laid down are that angling will be permitted in eight specified rivers on a ‘catch and release’ basis only and permission will be given by the DFO of the area for the activity to be conducted between sunrise and sunset. The season for angling has been specified as being between September 15 and May 31. In July 2018, the Uttarakhand forest department had ended angling in reserve forests as well as buffer areas, citing “cruelty to fish”. A year later, in August 2019, it was decided to revoke the order, stating the need “for a boost to tourism in Uttarakhand”. It then took the forest department a year and three months to issue the written order to DFOs to restart angling in forest areas. Those connected with the tourism sector had been approaching different authorities in the last two years to get the order revoked, claiming that it affected business. On multiple occasions, representatives of tourism groups had met forest minister Harak Singh Rawat as well as chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat to press their demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/uttarakhand-allows-catch-release-fishing-in-8-rivers-for-tourism/articleshow/79379582.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Lioness’s curious 35-km run and 3 abandoned cubs||AHMEDABAD: On September 23, the state forest department found three lion cubs with no sign of their mother near Virpur village in the Visavadar forest range in Gir. The department looked for the lioness who gave birth to them for ten days but had no success. As they are in the process of closing their investigation, experts and wildlife lovers feel it’s too soon to call the cubs ‘motherless’. In the known history of Asiatic lions in their last abode, never has a mother lioness abandoned three cubs. Experts see some hope because of another more recent incident. A fortnight before the cubs were found, a female lioness was captured by the department after it killed a farm labourer’s child in the same village. The lioness was released in the last week of October after the forest department’s investigation showed that the attack was an accident and she was not a maneater. On being released in the Rajpara area of the Visavadar forest range, the lioness rushed to Virpur village, about 35km away. She made roaring calls as if she were looking for her cubs, according to a forest department official, who spoke on condition of anonymity. “The lioness ran like lightning to the village where she had been caught. It happens to be the same place from where the cubs were found. This got wildlife lovers hopeful that the cubs would be hers. There were also no recent lioness deaths reported in the area,” said a lion expert. After finding the cubs, the department searched the area for about ten days for her mother, said a forest department official. The cubs were given sanctuary at a village temple during this time. “We reached the conclusion that the cubs have been abandoned,” the official added, saying that the lioness who was captured was not lactating. Lion watchers say the department has not made any effort to bring the cubs close to the lioness after capturing them. There is no harm in one attempt at bringing the cubs close to the lioness in a properly guarded manner, said a retired IFS officer, who worked in the lion landscape for more than a decade. “It is a rare occurrence that a lioness abandons cubs and that too three of them. One possibility could be that the mother may have died and forest department officials are unable to find the body,” said H S Singh, who is a member of the National Board for Wildlife and an expert on lions. A senior forest official said in the past there have been instances where cubs have refused to leave the area where their mother has died for days together. He said is quite unnatural that the cubs would leave their mother or vice versa. In this instance, the mother may have been captured by the department and these cubs would have been found later and are now being labeled orphans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lionesss-curious-35-km-run-and-3-abandoned-cubs/articleshow/79377409.cms||Maulik Pathak
November 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Make RT-PCR tests mandatory if RAT returns negative: PIL||AHMEDABAD: A PIL in the Gujarat high court has sought directions to the authorities that RT-PCR tests be mandated for patients showing symptoms of Covid-19 but test negative in rapid antigen tests (RAT). Petitioner-advocate K R Koshti moved the HC seeking strict implementation of the guidelines repeatedly issued by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) with regard to the use of the RT-PCR tests, considered the gold standard to detect the novel coronavirus. He claimed that the ICMR on five occasions — June 14, June 19, June 23, July 1 and September 4 — advised RT-PCR tests on persons found negative by the antigen test. The petitioner sought suitable directions for strict implementation of these guidelines. He cited the example of the state government religiously clinging to ICMR guideline in its discharge policy, where patients are discharged without conducting tests on them. Hinting that the state government is not conducting enough RTPCR tests, he also sought a daily break-up of Covid tests conducted in the state, re-testing by RT-PCT and the results. He contended that the low specificity of the antigen test led to a seeming decline in Covid numbers in the past. The situation will become clear if the government reveals the data. The petitioner cited various findings including one of the World Health Organization, that the antigen test is less reliable and greater use of antigen tests without RT-PCR tests could lead to a false sense of security among the people. The petitioner submitted that after the introduction of antigen tests in Gujarat, daily testing increased from 5,000-7,000 to 75,000 per day. Before the introduction of antigen tests, the city of Ahmedabad used to witness more confirmed cases and the ratio of Covid cases was high in the state. This PIL is likely to be heard on November 27, when the high court has posted a hearing on its suo motu PIL on issues related to Covid-19 and the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/make-rt-pcr-tests-mandatory-if-rat-returns-negative-pil/articleshow/79377484.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Bareilly||PTR gets first global award for doubling tigers population in 4 yrs||PILIBHIT: It was a proud moment for Pilibhit tiger reserve (PTR) and the forest department when it bagged the first-ever international award, TX2, on Monday evening for doubling the number of tigers in four years against a target of 10 years. PTR was the first to receive the award among 13 tiger range countries. The award was virtually presented to the principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife) of UP, Sunil Pandey, by UNDP’s (United Nations Development Program) head of ecosystems and biodiversity, Mindori Paxton. Pandey said the global target of doubling the tiger population was set in 2010 by the partners in TX2 award -- UNDP, Global Tiger Forum, International Union for Conservation of Nature, World Wide Fund for Nature, Conservation Assured / Tiger Standards and the Lion’s Share. Naveen Khandelwal, deputy director of PTR, said he had applied for this award in September this year after the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) released this year's the state-wise figures of tiger estimation which was based on the census conducted in 2018 in all tiger reserves across the country. Khandelwal said no other tiger reserve among all 13 tiger range countries could succeed in doubling the big cat population in a span of 10 years. PTR achieved this goal in just four years from 2014, when it had 25 tigers. It went up to 65 in 2018. He said as per the NTCA’s tiger estimation report, the PTR had 57 resident and eight transit tigers in 2018. This figure did not include the tiger cubs below the age of one year. The growth of 40 tigers in a short span of four years was recognized for TX2 award, said Khandelwal. He attributed the success to rigorous patrolling with constant use of M-STrIPE monitoring system for tigers, stringent action against wildlife criminals and poachers and forest and grassland management. The efforts of forest staff, local stakeholders and wildlife enthusiasts in tiger conservation paid off, added Khandelwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/ptr-gets-first-global-award-for-doubling-tigers-population-in-4-yrs/articleshow/79374907.cms||Keshav Agarwal
November 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Roaming freely with Covid, without even wearing masks||AHMEDABAD: The AMC’s solid waste department on Monday tested 113 people who had been venturing out without masks and found four of them positive. The corporation teams sealed 17 units, including offices and shops, which did not enforce social distancing and mask norms. On Monday, the solid waste department teams collected fines to the tune of Rs 1.7 lakh from those who violated Covid norms. As for the four people who tested positive, two each were from South and East zones. Harshad Solanki, the director of the solid waste department, said: “Since Friday, the AMC has been making violators undergo the rapid antigen test for Covid at the nearest kiosks.” He added: “Those found positive are immediately sent to a Covid-care centre or hospital.” Officials said that making the violators queue up at testing kiosks stirs fear in them as they may be in proximity with infected people. The tactic, officials said, will also deter the public at large from breaching Covid norms. Since the drive began, 369 people caught without masks have been made to undergo the tests and of these 13 were found to be positive. On Friday, three people each tested positive from South West, North, and East zones of the city. These people were asymptomatic and were moving freely and meeting people without wearing masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/roaming-freely-with-covid-without-even-wearing-masks/articleshow/79377483.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana bags 3rd place in state for PAS participation||LUDHIANA: Ludhiana bags the third place for participation in the Punjab Achievement Survey (PAS), held between November 11 and November 20 for students studying from classes, I to XII of government schools. In mathematics, 23,537 students appeared in Class VI and the average percentage is 63.16% and the same number of students appeared in Class VII and the average percentage is 63.50%. In the board classes X and XII, 22,261 and 20,861 students appeared and scored 62.09% and 64.43% respectively. While Class IX showed a bit poorer response as 26,156 students have scored 57.69%. However, in English subject, students of Class X scored 70.29% with 97.37% and in Social science 72.91% is the average score with 97.27% in Class X. Though in Hindi subject, out of 20,861, Class X enrolled students, 20,211 students appeared for the test. 2,824 students scored 40 out of 40, 9,208 students scored 90% above, 4,073 scored above 80% and 2,592 students scored above 70%. It is pertinent to mention that government schools attendance was 98.5% while for aided schools it was 87.3%. Jasvir Singh, district mentor for science, who compiled the information, said, “Though in science subject, out of 20,861, Class X enrolled students, 20,362 students appeared for the test. Nearly, 3,827 students scored 40 out of 40, 9,254 students scored 90% above, 3,410 scored above 80 and 2,238 students scored above 70%. It is pertinent to mention that 99% from government schools attended PAS and 89.0% from aided schools. Dr Davinder Singh Chhina, one of the academic analysts, said, “PAS has inculcated a healthy sense of competitiveness among students, also enhancing their academics and communication skills. Students stayed in touch with other even during the pandemic times to share study materials.” Swaranjeet Kaur, district education officer, said, “Everyone worked hard for the test and made it possible for Ludhiana to become the third in the state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ludhiana-bags-3rd-place-in-state-for-pas-participation/articleshow/79377425.cms||Mehak Jain
November 24, 2020||Kochi||Kerala HC to hear M Sivasankar’s bail plea on Dec 2||KOCHI: The Kerala high court will hear the bail plea of M Sivasankar, the former principal chief secretary to CM Pinarayi Vijayan who was arrested in gold smuggling case, on December 2. Justice Ashok Menon scheduled a hearing on December 2 after the petitioner’s counsel S Rajeev submitted that Supreme Court senior advocate Jaideep Gupta will be representing Sivasankar at the hearing. Central government’s counsel told the high court that an additional solicitor general would appear before the court for the hearing. Sivasankar, who was arrested by Enforcement Directorate (ED) on October 28, has contended that prosecution has failed to produce sufficient evidence to substantiate his involvement in the crime as alleged. ED had collected eight statements from gold smuggling key accused Swapna Suresh in connection with the probe under PMLA but he was not implicated in them nor did she reveal that the petitioner was aware of the gold smuggling, the petition stated. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hc-to-hear-sivasankars-bail-plea-on-dec-2/articleshow/79376163.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||39 more microcontainment sites notified||AHMEDABAD: Following the Iskcon Platinum housing colony in Bopal, Safar Parisar Parts I and II are in the news with several floors in three blocks of Safal Parisar I and II declared micro-containment areas. This is not the first time the housing scheme has been under containment. On Friday, one block in Safal Parisar I was also contained. Of the 39 colonies or neighbourhoods placed in micro-containment on Monday, 26 were once from the western part of the city with many of them in Bopal, Vejalpur and Chandlodia. With 39 new micro-containment areas added, the total of such areas in the city rose to 151 on Monday. Casa Vyoma in Vastrapur has several floors in containment in Blocks A, B, D, E, F, I, K and L and at Konark Karishma society the entire B and C blocks and five floors of Block A were on the containment list. Other micro-containment areas included on Monday were certain floors in Blocks G, V, R and F at Venus Parkland Apartments in Vejalpur. In the South Zone, societies in Lambha, Khokhra, Maninagar, Kankaria and Vatva were placed in micro-containment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/39-more-microcontainment-sites-notified/articleshow/79377497.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Bhopal||Active cases drop in 7 tribal dists despite Covid surge||Bhopal: While there has been an increase of more than 38% in active cases in the month of November, there are more than half a dozen districts — mostly tribal — where there has been a reduction in active cases.There were a total 8,929 active cases in the state as on October 31. This has now increased to 12,336 on November 23.But in districts of Betul, Anupur, Balaghat, Umaria, Seoni, Niwari and Dindori, there has been a reduction in the number of active cases. All these seven districts are mainly tribal-dominated.Betul has seen the maximum reduction in number of active cases in the month of November. While there were a total 261 active case as on October 31, now there are only 113 active cases on November 23 — a reduction of around 56%.Similarly, in another tribal-dominated Anuppur district, there were 100 active cases on October 31 and now there are 62 active cases.Likewise in all the other districts like Balaghat, the active cases have reduced from 120 to 91, in Umaria, it has reduced from 57 to 37, in Seoni, it has reduced from 41 to 29, in Niwari, it has reduced to 16 from 24, and in Dindori, it has reduced from 33 to 29 active cases between October 31 and November 23.However, it is Burhanpur district which has the least number of active cases as of now. There are only 6 active cases in the district. However, this has increased from 5 active cases as on October 31.Sources said that all these districts, where there has been reduction in the number of active cases, are mainly tribal districts. Districts like Dindori, Anuppur and Balaghat have less transportation options. Due to people remaining confined and minimum exposure to external infected patients, active cases could have reduced, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/active-cases-drop-in-7-tribal-dists-despite-covid-surge/articleshow/79376158.cms||Amarjeet Singh
November 24, 2020||Ludhiana||From today, goods and passenger trains start service again in Punjab||LUDHIANA: In a big relief for the businessmen and the citizens of the state, both passenger and goods trains will start its service from November 24. A lot of action will be witnessed at Ludhiana railway station as eight trains will be incoming into the state today and 11 passenger trains will be leaving. Baring two trains, 17 will pass through Ludhiana. Already two goods trains — one bound for Lucknow and the other for Delhi — were operated on Monday, which passed through Ludhiana. Divisional railway manager (DRM), Ferozepur division, Rajesh Aggarwal, said, “Since September 24 due to farmers agitation, passenger trains, goods trains and the special trains had not been running. Keeping in view the recent decision taken by the farmer unions to allow the movement, we have initiated the plan to run several trains from tomorrow. We are thankful to the farmers who took compassionate view of the problems of the people of the state and accepted the request of the chief minister and allowed the movement of trains.” Aggarwal also added, “Since Saturday, when we were intimated that farmers have agreed to allow the movement of trains, our entire division along with RPF and GRPF swung into action. Along with reviewing the security arrangements at railway stations, the checking of all the fitting of all tracks under Punjab and Jammu Kashmir was started by us, as the trains were not running for almost two months now. After the final inspections, which concluded on Monday around 12 in the afternoon, when we were fully satisfied with all the security checks and arrangements, we despatched two goods trains from Punjab, one of which loaded with gypsum left from Jammu for Lucknow and the other one which was empty was despatched from Jalandhar to Delhi.” Welcoming the development, Vinod Thapar, chairman of the Knitwear Club, said, “We are thankful to the railways for its prompt action and we are hopeful that the situation turns to normal by the end of this week and all passenger and goods trains will start running to and fro from Punjab. However, we request the farmer unions to give up their condition of allowing the movement of trains only till December 10, as it would be detrimental to the industry.” According to Harish Dua, president of the Knitwear and Apparel Exporters Organisation, “Starting of the trains is big relief for the industry as already we have suffered massive losses as thousands of crores worth goods and raw material has remained undelivered due to the non-movement of the trains. Garment industry was the worst sufferer, as business of not only exporters but those manufacturers who supply their goods within India too had taken worst hit. Running of trains will give push to the movement of the goods that are already stuck at ports, dry ports, railway stations and factories but for fresh despatches, it largely depends on what happens after December 10.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/from-today-goods-and-passenger-trains-start-service-again-in-punjab/articleshow/79377417.cms||Mohit Behl
November 24, 2020||Nagpur||Protests over DCP’s outburst at Arya||Nagpur: DCP, crime, Gajanan Rajmane’s angry outburst at NMC chief medical officer Dr Praveen Gantawar and senior NCP leader Vedprakash Arya a week ago has triggered protests against the alleged misdemeanour of government officials with citizens, and a campaign to ‘end corruption’. Rajmane said the strict words were for Gantawar, accused in two cases, including a honeytrap, who had entered his chamber with Arya. Arya, under the banner of Nagpur Vikas Parishad, staged a ‘Bharat Bachao Andolan’ at Samvidhan Square on Monday, demanding fresh legislation with provision to book misbehaving government officials. Referring to section 353 of Indian Penal Code (IPC), which is invoked against citizens obstructing government officials, Arya has demanded similar enactments against government employees too, to give civilians justice in similar situations. Later, Arya led a deputation to the collector to submit his demands. Arya, two-time NCP corporator and also ex-leader of opposition in NMC, also demanded that amendment of the law which made IPC 353 a bailable offence by the sessions court. He has appealed to revert to the norms where bail under section 353 IPC could be granted by the magistrate’s court. Arya also demanded norms to ensure files or works at government offices are cleared within 45 days, with action against officials failing to do so. On the incident in his chamber, DCP Rajmane said he had given an appointment to Arya, without knowing that Gantawar would be with him. “Arya had said that a friend is going to come along, but I had no idea it would be Gantawar, who is facing serious charges and is under probe. I realized it was Gantawar after he had already stepped into my chamber,” said Rajmane. “I have always met Arya cordially in the past and would have done so this time too, if he had come with any person other than an accused,” said Rajmane. “There is always a fair probe under me, and no need to especially come to request that,” said the DCP. Arya, who met state home minister Anil Deshmukh over the issue, said DCP Rajmane acted with high-handedness with him and Gantawar, though he ignored another senior politician entering crime branch with a hardened criminal, who is also convicted in murder. “It was not expected from a senior officer to misbehave with an elderly person like me, and especially when I had gone to just keep a plea of fair probe before him,” he said. Arya also said he is preparing for a bigger agitation in the near future if his demands are not met.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/protests-over-dcps-outburst-at-arya/articleshow/79377442.cms||Soumitra Bose
November 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Set up lake conservation body by January 2021, says NGT||AHMEDABAD: Even as Gujarat cities like Ahmedabad, Vadodara and Surat and other nagarpalikas are slow to act on preserving water bodies, the National Green Tribunal has stepped in and directed Gujarat along with other states to designate a nodal agency for the conservation of lakes. The NGT has written to the Gujarat chief secretary to designate a nodal agency which should hold its meeting not later than January 31. The NGT’s principal bench has written to the state that as a custodian, under the Public Trust Doctrine, the State has to act as trustee of the water bodies to protect them for public use and enjoyment for current and future generations. In 2005, the Gujarat government had notified 44,138 lakes, almost two and half times the number of lakes that are claimed to be desilted under the Sujalam Sufalam Jal Sanchay Abhiyan. Almost 1,939 are within urban areas. Of them, 625 are within the urban limits of Vadodara, the highest in the state. In Vadodara's Bapod area alone, 38 lakes are completely silted, 26 have turned into dry pits, 11 lakes disappeared to build roads, three lakes have been reserved for police housing, district panchayat housing and Sardar industrial estate. Surat urban limits have 330 lakes while Ahmedabad has 61 and Rajkot nine notified lakes. But sadly, most of these face the danger of disappearing with agencies hardly moved to save them over the past 13 years. This is not the first reminder, but the Union water resource and river development secretary too had sent two reminders earlier in 2018 to the state to take stock of the situation. Secretary Shashi Shekhar had earlier written to the state government seeking action taken with respect to encroachment, silting, drying up, and existing urbanisation pressures on lakes and water bodies in urban and rural limits. “The importance of water bodies has been re-established during drought situations and water-scarce conditions in various parts of the country,” Shekhar had written, while reminding that an earlier letter written on February 26, 2016 has remained unanswered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/set-up-lake-conservation-body-by-jan-2021-ngt/articleshow/79377457.cms||Paul John
November 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Baig, Raj share ward in prison hospital||Bengaluru: During their good times, former minister and expelled Congress leader Roshan Baig might have met his former party colleague and former mayor R Sampath Raj innumerable times in the corridors of Vidhana Soudha and other places. In bad times now, they are on different sides of the political divide, yet sharing a common ward in the hospital of Central Jail, Bengaluru. Raj, arrested by Central Crime Branch in connection with the east Bengaluru violence, walked into the prison on November 20, while Baig, taken into custody by Central Bureau of Investigation, entered the judicial custody on Sunday night. Raj is undertrial prisoner No. 8759 while Baig is 8823. “Providing a separate ward to them doesn’t mean they are VIPs. According to prison guidelines on Covid-19, new entries should be quarantined immediately and subjected to the test. Since Baig told us that he is asthmatic and needed monitoring, he was shifted to the ward where Raj was lodged. After finishing quarantine, they will be shifted to general barracks. We may shift them to the barrack presently occupied by Sudhakaran, foster son of former Tamil Nadu chief minister J Jayalalithaa,” prison sources said. Sleuths from the National Investigation Agency (NIA) probing the violence on Monday questioned Raj inside the prison. On Friday, NIA had approached a local court in Bengaluru, seeking permission to interrogate Raj. The court allowed NIA to question him for two days, beginning from Monday. Earlier on Sunday morning, Raj had complained of chest pain and was taken to Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research where he was checked in detail for over two hours and declared healthy. By late afternoon, he was back in the prison. NIA sleuths questioned Raj in a closed room near the main office of the prison. “After questioning and making another round of investigation, we’ll decide on adding him to the list of accused,” sources said. So far, NIA has arrested over 293 suspects, while the joint team of East division police and CCB arrested 425 persons. All of them are in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/baig-raj-share-ward-in-prison-hospital/articleshow/79376602.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
November 24, 2020||Hubballi||Legislators urge govt to come to aid of cash-strapped KIMS||HUBBALLI: Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) which has been lauded for treating Covid-19 patients well is facing a cash crunch and the demand for additional grants for the institute has come to fore once again. JD(S) MLC Basavaraj Horatti and Hubballi-Dharwad East Congress MLA Prasad Abbayya have demanded that the government allocate at least Rs 300 crores to ensure more development works happen at the institute. KIMS is called a lifeline of North Karnataka region and the hospital treats patients from seven to eight surrounding districts. It is one of the largest government hospitals with 1,800 beds. Sources in KIMS said they have plans to increase the capacity to 2,200 beds in the next few months as in-patient flow is increasing. To enhance the capacity, the hospital needs additional funds and its annual budget of Rs 145 crore is insufficient to run the show, sources added. Horatti said, “KIMS is doing extraordinary work. Many government health care institutes in the state are getting more funds, but KIMS which is treating more patients than any other government healthcare institute is getting a very meagre amount.” “KIMS spends Rs 115 crore towards salaries of its employees, Rs 13 crore towards pension and Rs 17 crore for medicines, which means the hospital cannot take up any development work from its budget,” he added. Abbayya said KIMS should be provided a grant of Rs 300 crore, adding the proposal for increasing the grant is pending before the government. Both Horatti and Abbayya urged medical education and health and family welfare minister K Sudhakar to take a proper decision in this regard during an inauguration programme in KIMS on Saturday. The minister did not make any announcement but said the government will do everything for the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/legislators-urge-govt-to-come-to-aid-of-cash-strapped-kims/articleshow/79374950.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
November 24, 2020||Hubballi||Vendors told to vacate Janata Bazar||HUBBALLI: Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation (HDMC) has set November 25 as the deadline for vendors to shift out of Janata Bazar to alternative locations on Hosur Cross and Gokul road. Plans are afoot to redevelop Janata Bazar at a cost of Rs 18.3 crore under the Smart City project once vendors vacate. HDMC and Hubballi-Dharwad Smart City Limited (HDSCL) have begun preparations to vacate vendors and start works. To rehabilitate the vendors, platforms are constructed at a place adjacent to Clarks Inn Hotel on Gokul Road, and shops have been built near Hosur Circle. The contract to redevelop Janata Bazaar has been given to SKS Karkala Infra Projects Private Limited, and the works are to be completed in 18 months. A four-storeyed structure along with parking facility will be built where Janata Bazar currently stands. HDSCL special officer SH Naregal said, “Once vendors vacate within the next 2-3 days, construction work will commence. The platforms and shops have been constructed at alternative places, for rehabilitating existing vendors. Street vendors will be shifted to other market places.” Supermarket Chikka Vartakar Sangha, Hubballi, president Premanath Chikkatumbal said, “Traders here in Janata Bazar are engaged in business over several decades. If they are removed forcibly, they will face many difficulties. We are not opposing development works at Janata Bazar, but we are requesting the authorities to provide proper facilities at alternative places till the work gets over and ensure priority is given to the 177 vendors who are currently in the building.” HDMC commissioner Suresh Itnal said, “Initially, we had not planned to include all vendors except the existing stalls. But considering their demand, we have now designed the plan in such a way that all 177 vendors can be accommodated. Already a list of the 177 vendors has been submitted to HDMC and their names have been verified.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/vendors-told-to-vacate-janata-bazar/articleshow/79375046.cms||J Abbas Mulla
November 24, 2020||Ludhiana||We are ready for dialogue, but PAU is not listening to us: Protesters||LUDHIANA: “We have always been ready for dialogue with the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) vice-chancellor. In fact, more than five meetings between representatives of union and committee authorised by the university authorities have taken place, but none of the demands has been fulfilled so far,” said Baldev Singh Walia, president of the employees’ union. The teaching, non-teaching and class IV employees of the (PAU) have been protesting in the campus since October 13. Walia said the union members submitted the demand charter to the authorities in May and written many letters to the VC and the registrar before starting the protest. They had given an ultimatum to resolve the issues before October 6, but authorities never responded, not even bothered to call them for any meeting, he added. Now even after a long protest of about one and a half months, authorities are stating that they want to resolve demands by dialogue, said Walia. He also said the statement issued by the registrar regarding the status of the demands, contradicts itself. For isntance, Walia pointed out that they are demanding implementation of old pension scheme for employees appointed up to July 9, 2012, the registrar stated that implementation of NPS has been made according to government instructions. But Walia said it has already been approved in principle by the board of management in 2017, only implementation of the same is still pending. Regarding the demand of promotion of clerks to the post of senior assistant, Walia said Punjab government has issued clear instructions that all the clerks having experience of four years are to be promoted to the post of senior assistant, these instructions are adopted by the PAU, but are not being implemented, as 64 posts of senior assistants are lying vacant and clerks having more than 11 years of experience are still not getting promoted. “Registrar has said they have created 10 posts of agriculture field officers (AFO) to promote agriculture sub-inspector (ASI), but the fact is that none of the ASI has been promoted as AFO, till date,” he added. Walia alleged that the Punjab government has reduced the period of experience of different categories a few months ago, but the university is not implementing the instructions of the government. “Government has clarified that clerks and stenos are having basic requirement qualification of bachelors therefore, they are being paid minimum wages as per DC/ labour rates admissible to category B, but in PAU they are being paid wages of category C.” Walia further said according to the registrar, nobody fulfils the criteria for promotion to the post of JE (civil), but, according to him, the university should advertise the post and if anybody fulfils the criteria he may be promoted. Walia said the Punjab government has also issued a letter to count probation period experience of employees towards regular service but the university is not implementing the same. According to Walia, if demands are not met soon, they will intensify the agitation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/we-are-ready-for-dialogue-but-pau-is-not-listening-to-us-protesters/articleshow/79377446.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra CM launches app for safe public transport||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday launched the Ambhayam app, the first internet of things (IOT) based women’s safety project to ensure safe travel in auto rickshaws and taxis. Speaking via video conference, the chief minister said they already have the Disha app which is being run and monitored by the police department and now, the Abhayam app will be handled by both transport and police departments. The CM asserted that the project was not brought in due to a lack of trust in auto or taxi drivers but to build confidence in drivers among women passengers. “Not just corporate companies like Ola and Uber offer safe travel, even our local autos and taxis can offer much safer transport, where women need not fear to board these vehicles,” he said. Jagan said the project aims to bring one lakh autos under the initiative, where 5,000 vehicles will be equipped with tracking and IoT devices by February 1, another 50,000 by July 1 and reach one lakh by November 2021. Initially, IoT devices were installed in 1,000 autos in Visakhapatnam as a pilot project and will now be introduced in Vijayawada and Tirupati as well. Reiterating that the government is giving top priority to law & order and women’s safety, the CM said there should be no compromise when it comes to protection and safety of women. “The government has already provided financial assistance through schemes like Asara, Cheyutha for empowering them (women) by all means. Similarly, the government had also brought 50% reservation for women in nominated posts and also appointed two women as home minister and deputy chief ministers,” Jagan said. The CM said that in order to ensure women’s safety to the fullest, the state government has established special police stations in every district, is taking steps to set up special courts and even bringing in Mahila Police Mitras in every village. “The police brought in the Disha app which is being used by all sections of society and on similar lines, the transport department came up with Abhayam app for safe and fearless travel in taxis and autos,” he said. Home minister M Sucharita, transport department secretary Krishanbabu, transport commissioner P Sitaramanjaneyulu and other officials were among those present at the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cm-launches-app-for-safe-public-transport/articleshow/79375139.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Land hurdles between Byappanahalli, KR Puram delay Whitefield Metro||BENGALURU: Metro work on the Seetharampalya (Visvesvaraya Industrial Area)-Whitefield section is progressing fast. However, land acquisition problems between Byappanahalli and KR Puram are delaying the Byappanahalli-Whitefield corridor. In 2017, BMRCL had awarded the contract for the 15km elevated Byappanahalli-Whitefield corridor to ITD Cementation India Ltd and it was supposed to be ready by 2020. The deadline was extended to August 2021 and has now been revised to June 2022. The corridor under Metro’s Phase 2 is an extension of the existing Purple Line (Mysuru Road-Byappanahalli) and will have 13 stations. BMRCL statistics show 95% of civil work between Seetharampalya and Whitefield has been completed till October. For the Byappanahalli-Seetharampalya section, the figure is 80%. On Friday, ITD Cementation completed all segmental spans (2,125 segments) of viaduct between Seetharampalya and Whitefield. The section will have stations like Kundalahalli, Nallurhalli (Vydehi Hospital), Sadaramangala (Satya Sai Hospital), Pattandur Agrahara (ITPB), Kadugodi, Channasandra (Ujjval Vidyalaya) and Whitefield. Pabitra Roychoudhury, project manager, ITD Cementation, said: “The work was taken up in a heavily congested area but we took all safety precautions. The section has critical curves but we successfully completed it with BMRCL help.” But it’s still not clear whether BMRCL will commence commercial operations between Seetharampalya and Whitefield instead of waiting for commissioning of the entire line. Experts say it could start services once the Kadugodi depot work is over. In October 2019, BMRCL had awarded the contract for construction of depot structures, site development work, internal roads and drainage to Vascon Engineers Ltd at a cost of around Rs 160 crore. The work is supposed to be completed in two years. However, land acquisition between Byappanahalli and KR Puram is mired in legal wrangles. Officials said they are yet to acquire 61 properties and need permission to relocate around 60 trees near Benniganahalli Lake. “We are planning to acquire the properties for road widening work between Jyothipura and KR Puram railway station, which is expected to be completed by December. We are yet to get nod to remove the trees,” said a BMRCL official. This means the 8km Byappanahalli-Seetharampalya section will take at least two more years. Stations on the route include Benniganahalli (Jyothipura), KR Puram, Saraswati Nagar (Mahadevapura), Gurudacharpalya and Hoodi Junction (Doddanekundi). BMRCL sources said since Benniganahalli station may get delayed, they are planning to operate trains between Whitefield and Byappanahalli via KR Puram without the station. It will be constructed later. Managing director Ajay Seth was unavailable for comments. Three Metro lines — Byappanahalli-Whitefield, ORR-Kempegowda International Airport and depot entry line — will pass through Tin Factory junction. The section between KR Puram station and Tin Factory will have a six-lane road on the southern side and five-lane one on the northern side. A two-lane additional flyover from Tin Factory to Kasturinagar is also part of the road infrastructure, the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/land-hurdles-between-byappanahalli-kr-puram-delay-whitefield-metro/articleshow/79376644.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
November 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Kankaria carnival will not be held||AHMEDABAD: Taking a serious note of the spiralling cases of Covid-19 in the city, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) seems to have made up its mind not to organize the annual event of Kankaria carnival this year. However, the official announcement in this regard is yet to be made. Sources in the AMC said that usually from the mid November the planning for the event begins as the artists are supposed to be given time for the preparation of stage events. However, no such planning has begun this year. “The carnival, which begins from December 25 and continues till January 1, draws lakhs of revellers in a single day. However this time, the AMC has convinced even the political leaders against organizing the event this year,” said a senior AMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/kankaria-carnival-will-not-be-held/articleshow/79377525.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Mangaluru||Smart city works worry local internet service providers||MANGALURU: More than 100 cable operators here are worried as Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) is hinting at laying underground cables as part of its Smart City projects. Currently, most local internet and cable TV service providers have tied up with Mescom to provide internet connections through electricity poles. Sandesh D Poojary, managing director, DeeNet Services Private Limited, said “MCC has been hinting at laying underground cables only. In case MCC decides to clear the cables overnight or without providing an alternative, many local cable operators will be hit hard. With the pandemic, the demand for internet services has increased by 50% in Mangaluru.” “We fear that in case an unplanned decision to remove cables is implemented, only big players who provide internet through underground cables will be benefitted. In the present scenario, with work from home being the order of the day, people are not willing to live without internet even for 30 minutes,” he said. Meanwhile, it is also learnt that MCC wants cable operators to obtain a NOC from it. “From control rooms to the Mangaluru Smart City office most government offices are working on the internet provided by local operators. We request MCC to provide underground cable ducts before taking any major decision in haste. Laying of underground optic fibres would mean a huge investment for local providers,” Sandesh said. Currently, local cable operators are providing internet and cable services to nearly 15,000 houses and business establishments. The small players are already feeling the heat from big players due to competitive pricing. MCC commissioner Akshy Sridhar said, “We have not given any such directions, but we have been considering providing ducts for all such cables.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/smart-city-works-worry-local-internet-service-providers/articleshow/79375847.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
November 24, 2020||Vadodara||Slight increase in nCov positivity rate||Vadodara: While the results of samples collected in the city and district for Covid-19 have shown a minor rise in positivity rate, officials believe that the condition is not alarming. They added that the city was nowhere near the situation it faced in the first wave when the cases were on a rise.Concerns were being expressed about the Covid-19 situation in the city as the number of new cases did not go below 90 cases a day. The cases were much higher than the expectations of the administration. At the same time, the relief was that the number hovered around 55 to 60 cases a day that was considered acceptable.From 90 new cases on November 12, the number reached 105 on November 11. There were 105 cases detected from 3,576 tests on Sunday. Against this when the graph was going southwards in October, the same number of positive cases were found from 3,897 tests at lower positivity rate.At the other end, when the pandemic was strengthening its grip in August, 105 cases were found from a much lesser 1,640 samples. “It is true that there is a marginal rise in the positivity rate, but this is far below the positivity rate we had when we were headed towards a peak in August and September,” said an official.The official added that the number of samples being tested was going up as more people were coming forward for testing. “People who have come in contact with a Covid-19 case, as well as those who are unwell, have started getting themselves tested. After the recent spike, it was expected that many would rush for testing and it has come true,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/slight-increase-in-ncov-positivity-rate/articleshow/79374968.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Betelnut in 66-year-old woman’s lung mistaken for TB||BENGALURU: A 66-year-old woman who showed symptoms of lung infection was wrongly diagnosed with tuberculosis and treated for the same in a Chikkaballapura hospital. But a thorough examination at a Bengaluru hospital revealed her lung had a foreign object — a betelnut she had unknowingly swallowed — which caused the complications. While accidental swallowing of foreign bodies is common among children, doctors say it’s rare in adults. Laxmi Narassamma, from a village in Chikkaballapura district, had been suffering from chest pain for the past few months. After doctors at a hospital in Chikkaballapura town said it was tuberculosis, she was taken to Prakriya Hospitals in Bengaluru. Pushpa Latha, the patient’s daughter-in-law, told TOI, “We are glad that we opted for a second consultation in Bengaluru. The doctor was really helpful and my mother-in-law has completely recovered now. She was admitted to the hospital on October 27, underwent a procedure and was discharged a day later.” Dr Ganesh Pratap, a pulmonologist from Prakriya Hospital, said, “We decided to do a bronchoscopy, wherein the doctor examines the inside of the lungs, including the bronchi, which are the main pathways into the organs. A thin tube containing a light and camera is inserted into the lungs through the nose or mouth. It revealed the existence of a foreign particle. Upon close observation, we got to know it was a betelnut which had got stuck in her left main bronchus.” He said the woman could have swallowed a betelnut without her knowledge, which was creating problems for her. Doctors find a lot of such cases among kids, who swallow small objects when they start crawling and develop hand-mouth coordination. As betelnut is a commonly consumed item in rural areas, people need to be extremely careful as it can damage the bronchus. Dr Pratap added the foreign body aspiration is commonly seen in children and older adults whose swallowing reflexes decrease over a period of time. “Timely intervention could save the lung and restore normal function,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/betelnut-in-66-year-old-womans-lung-mistaken-for-tb/articleshow/79376647.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: CBI raids Roshan Baig’s residence, son’s office||BENGALURU: A 13-member team of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) officials from New Delhi on Monday morning raided former minister Roshan Baig’s residence and his son’s office in connection with the multi-crore I Monetary Advisory (IMA) scam. This comes a day after Baig’s arrest on Sunday. According to CBI sources, two groups of officials conducted the raid on Baig’s house in Coles Park, Fraser Town, in the presence of his wife Sabiha Fatima and son Ruman Baig. The search began at 6.30am and continued till 4pm. A couple of hours later, another CBI team raided Ruman’s office on Jayamahal Road. CBI sources said they seized some documents which they suspect are linked to their investigation. Several lockers were also taken away. Women officials took Sabiha to the CBI office in Ganganagar for questioning and took statements from her. Meanwhile, IMA Group’s founder-director Mohammed Mansoor Khan, who was in CBI custody since Saturday, was produced before the special court. CBI sought an extension of Khan’s custody and was granted the same till November 27. Baig, who was arrested based on ‘material evidence’, is presently in judicial custody. Khan in his statement had said Baig had taken Rs 400 crore from him. On Sunday, Baig and Khan were brought face to face and asked to explain their claims. Declining to reveal the details of what transpired during the face-off, a CBI source only said Khan reiterated he had paid Rs 400 crore, but Baig denied the same. A CBI special court is likely to hear Baig's bail application on Wednesday. Executive engineer of Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) PD Kumar, who is accused of taking a bribe of Rs 4 crore from Khan, has been taken into CBI custody. According to the agency, Kumar, who worked in BDA’s land acquisition department, had allegedly promised Khan he would bail him out from the inquiries initiated against him in 2018 and had taken the money. Till date, CBI has registered five FIRs in the IMA case and alleged that irregularities totalling Rs 4,000 crore have been committed. Directors, members and associates of IMA Group and government employees, including IPS officers, have been named in the FIRs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cbi-raids-roshan-baigs-residence-sons-office/articleshow/79376569.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra HC seeks details of amount spent on Amaravati||VIJAYAWADA: The AP high court on Monday directed state’s accountant general to provide details of the amount spent on various development works in the Amaravati capital region. The bench headed by justices JK Maheswari, Satyanarayana Murthy and Ninala Jayasurya passed the direction during the hearing of a bunch of petitions challenging the trifurcation of state capital. Unnam Muralidhar Rao, who argued on behalf of the farmers, said the state government cannot take back its decision after entering into a contract. “Farmers gave their lands to the government on the promise of development of capital in this region. The government is promising to develop returnable plots by shifting the executive capital to Vishakapatnam which is not acceptable,” he said. Rao also explained various development activities and projects grounded in Amaravati region to win the confidence of farmers which made them part with their land under the land pooling scheme. The court then asked the accountant general to submit details of the total amount spent on Amaravati till date. The bench also sought details of pending works and amount spent on those works. It directed the accountant general to submit the details on Tuesday, and posted the matter for further hearing to Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/hc-seeks-details-of-amount-spent-on-amaravati/articleshow/79375290.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Vijayawada||AP govt to set up food processing clusters||VIJAYAWADA: The state government is planning to set up food processing clusters across all districts. The government is ready to spend Rs 10,000 crore on food processing units and allied activities, chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy said on Monday. The CM held a review meet with officials from the agriculture, horticulture, and marketing departments along with AP Food Processing Society officials at his Tadepalli camp office. The CM said the government was spending huge amounts to provide support to farmers. He told officials about the construction of Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs) and Janata Bajars at all village secretariats. As per the CM, the Janata Bajars will serve as marketing centres for farmers to offer their produce directly to customers. He directed officials to plan food processing clusters in every Lok Sabha constituency, instead of existing revenue districts in every Lok Sabha constituency, instead of the existing revenue districts. “The clusters would come up in addition to the industrial parks proposed by AP Industrial and Infrastructure Corporation (APIIC),” he said. Jagan also directed officials to identify major industrial units engaged in food processing and invite them to partner with the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-to-set-up-food-processing-clusters/articleshow/79375224.cms||Gopi Dara
November 24, 2020||Vijayawada||Bhavani Deeksha to commence tomorrow at Kanaka Durga temple in Vijayawada||VIJAYAWADA: Authorities of the Sri Durga Malleswara Swamyvarla Devastanams (Kanaka Durga temple) are gearing up to go ahead with Bhavani Deeksha starting on Wednesday. Devotees will observe Mandala Deeksha at the temple between November 25 and November 30. Bhavani Deeksha is the second-largest event observed at the Kanaka Durga temple after Dasara. Close to 4.5 lakh devotees relinquished their deeksha at the temple last year. Devotees will take 40-day-long deeksha in which they wear red robes and offer special prayers. Devotees can also take Artha Mandala Deeksha (20-days-long) from December 15 to December 19. Kalasa Jyothi will begin on December 29. The temple management said they will implement similar measures enforced during Dasara celebrations to prevent the spread of Covid-19. They are expecting lesser crowd this year due to Covid-19. Temple trust board chairman Paula Sominaidu said they were expecting around two lakh devotees this year and are making necessary arrangements. “Bhavani Deeksha has great significance after Ayyappa Deeksha. Devotees across the country are expected despite Covid-19. It is our responsibility to provide them a safe darshan and facilities. Experience in handling Dasara festivities is a major advantage for us. Handling relinquishment is a huge task. Timeslot darshan and relinquishment will be provided for the devotees,” Sominaidu said and added that they will be taking suggestions of the health department and frame guidelines accordingly. Temple executive officer (EO) MV Suresh Babu has been inspecting arrangements for Deeksha Sweekarana since Wednesday. “Special counters will be arranged for Bhavani devotees for Deeksha Swikarana. All priests and staff of the temple are likely to get Covid-19 tests before the fest’s commencement,” he said and urged devotees to follow Covid-19 guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/bhavani-deeksha-to-commence-tomorrow-at-kanaka-durga-temple/articleshow/79375271.cms||Venu Lanka
November 24, 2020||Hubballi||Publisher offers free bookshelf to patrons purchasing all titles of Prof Narayanacharya||HUBBALLI: A publishing house has been distributing to a group of patrons a most fitting gift: A Bookshelf. Those who purchase the entire collection of Prof KS Narayanacharya’s books are being given bookshelves free of cost, and thus far, as many as 165 of Sahitya Parakashana’s patrons, spread across Karnataka, have been the recipients of the publisher’s generosity in the past 30 months. Sahitya Prakashana’s proprietor MA Subramanya opined that this was a first-of-its-kind initiative undertaken in the Kannada publishing industry. “We launched this with the aim of preserving all the books of a writer. We are honouring a great writer this way, and such an initiative has not been undertaken by publishers of books of any other language,” Subramanya told TOI. A bestselling author, Prof Narayanachanrya was a scholar in his own right, Subramanya pointed out. “He is proficient in Kannada, Sanskrit, English, Tamil and Hindi. Even at the age of 88, he writes around 60 to 70 pages daily, and enjoys a wide readership among Kannadigas. He is also familiar with the ancient poets of English and Kannada,” he said. Sahitya Prakashana is selling 100 titles of Narayanacharya for Rs 20,000. “This includes a bookshelf that is itself worth Rs 10,000. We order 20 shelves at a time, and the seller gives each piece to us at a discounted price – we get a 20% rebate. We are delivering the shelf along with the books to the doorstep. If our customers are residents of remote villages, we ask them to collect the consignment from the nearest town,” Subramanya added. ‘A giant among writers’ Dr Shivaram KV, a Sirsi-based ophthalmologist, said that he found Prof Narayancharya’s books uplifting and inspiring. “After I purchased his entire collection, which was delivered to me along with a shelf, I approached the nearby Lions School and the Swarnavalli Math, and expressed my desire to donate the same, if the institutions were willing to share the cost. Both institutions agreed to contribute, and I paid the remaining sum. The shelf containing Prof Narayancharya’s books is now preserved in their library. You cannot attach a price to content. Purchasing all the books of a writer, who is a giant in his domain, and preserving them has become easy, thanks to this offer by Sahitya Prakashana,” Dr Shivaram said. Dr Vikram Haridas, a Hubballi-based rheumatologist, highlighted the broad range of subjects that Narayanacharya’s works encompassed – Vedas, Ramayana, Mahabharata, stories of the Alvars, tales of the Dasas, et al. “Works such as ‘Krishnavatarada Koneya Dinagalu’, ‘Aa Hadinentu Dinagalu’ are written in very simple language and yet, they are endearing. One almost feels as if he is remarking on the events from the very ground where these mythical events take place, bridging the time gap with his words,” Dr Haridas said. Subramanya said that the offer of a free bookshelf was likely to expire if the total number of patrons who have purchased Narayanacharya’s entire collection touches 200.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/publisher-offers-free-bookshelf-to-patrons-purchasing-all-titles-of-prof-narayanacharya/articleshow/79375176.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
November 24, 2020||Madurai||Actor Thavasi passes away battling cancer||MADURAI: Tamil actor and comedian Thavasi, who was undergoing treatment for cancer at a private hospital in Madurai, passed away on Monday at the age of 60. He is survived by wife, son and daughter. According to Thiruppurankundram MLA Dr P Saravanan, at whose hospital Thavasi was undergoing treatment, the actor suffered breathing difficulties and had to be shifted to an ICU, but he breathed his last around 8 pm. “For the past two days, he was critically-ill and we provided him the best treatment we could. By Monday afternoon, his condition was worsening and became extremely critical. His death is a huge loss to the film fraternity,” said Dr Saravanan. The MLA said that his family had wished to take him back to his native place during the last days of his life but he had expired before they could make any arrangements. Last week, after a heart-breaking video of the actor seeking financial help for his treatment went viral on the social media, Dr Saravanan had reached out to help him get treatment at his hospital free of cost. The actor had been admitted in a critical condition to Saravana Multispeciality Hospital on November 11 and had undergone a procedure to implant an oesophageal stent. He shown some improvement and was able to take in semi-solid and liquid food. Several actors and celebrities from the film fraternity had also reached out to provide financial aid to him and his family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/actor-thavasi-passes-away-battling-cancer/articleshow/79378656.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad heritage story loses its anchor||AHMEDABAD: “Heritage status is great. But the real work begins now. That of bridging the gap between heritage policy makers and those living in the pols. Making Ahmedabad see an opportunity in this Unesco status, and take pride in this city is our biggest task.” This was deputy general manager, heritage cell, P K Vasudevan Nair, representing Ahmedabad when TOI called him at Unesco’s 4st session at Krakow in Poland, when Ahmedabad was inscribed as India’s first city, as a world heritage site on July 8, 2017. He died on Monday of Covid. He retired from the Gujarat ASI circle and joined the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) in 2009-2010 as deputy general manager of the heritage cell. From restoring the Darwazas of Ahmedabad post earthquake to the restoration of Modhera Sun Temple, Dholavira and other Gujarat ASI sites, to being deputed by the Indian government to Cambodia to restore the Ta Prohm temple complex, to striving to get the last detail right for getting the city inscribed as a world heritage site, P K V Nair’s contribution to the cause of heritage can never be forgotten. He was also instrumental in bringing together for the first time in the country, the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) and a civic body. AMC and ASI signed an MoU for development of the Bhadra Plaza. “A pious sincere and dedicated man. I have no words. A huge loss for us at AMC,” said municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar. “He was the binding force in the Ahmedabad world heritage city status story. I heavily relied on his expertise to firefight contentious heritage issues. A meticulous, sincere person, and a loyal worker for the cause of heritage conservation for Ahmedabad city. It’s a big loss,” said secretary, department for promotion of industry and internal trade, Guruprasad Mohapatra, who was a former Ahmedabad municipal commissioner. The current member, Lokpal, I P Gautam said, “Nair never got swayed by arguments or emotions. A focused man. He had joined AMC during my tenure as commissioner and helped cement the country’s first MoU between ASI and AMC. He was instrumental in ensuring Ahmedabad appear in Unesco’s tentative list and helped the team preparing the dossier for seven years till the city finally made it. He even helped us bring the metro rail to the walled city. His loss is irreparable,” said Gautam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/abad-heritage-story-loses-its-anchor/articleshow/79377502.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: SEC steps in as row over ads at public spaces erupts||HYDERABAD: After a row erupted over ruling Telangana Rasthra Samithi (TRS) occupying majority of outdoor advertisement space in the city for GHMC poll campaign, state election commissioner C Partha Sarathi on Monday directed GHMC commissioner-cum-election authority Lokesh Kumar to instruct all private advertising agencies to provide equal opportunities to all political parties to display their advertisements. Earlier, BJP and Congress had filed separate complaints with SEC, accusing TRS of hijacking advertisement space at bus shelters, toilets, Metro pillars and foot-over- bridges. Orders from SEC assume significance as the opposition parties had filed complaints stating that display of TRS advertisements was a violation of election code and thus should be removed. The SEC had written to the GHMC commissioner and Hyderabad Metro Rail Limited (HMRL) managing director seeking clarification on political advertisements. Both GHMC and Hyderabad Metro Rail Limited replied to SEC stating that public toilets, bus shelters and Metro rail were public private partnership (PPP) projects and the advertisement rights on the space on the toilet walls and the Metro rail pillars were with the private party implementing or maintaining the projects. Thus, they cannot be termed as totally government properties until the contract period is over and the projects are handed over to the government by private agencies. As a result, the existing political advertisement and welfare schemes of the TRS government would continue to remain on Metro rail pillars, bus shelters and toilets, and other political parties would also get equal opportunity to display their campaign material by taking the space on lease from private agencies. GHMC commissioner Lokesh Kumar said advertisement space was still available in the city. HMRL said L&T Metro Rail Hyderabad Limited, which built Metro rail, has advertisement rights on the pillars and other structures for the concession period of 25 years. Earlier, BJP member of parliament Dharamapuri Arvind along with his followers pulled down a TRS advertisement on a toilet in the city. A fuming Arvind said, “The public space is not the property of TRS leaders. They (TRS) suddenly gave an election notification and clandestinely struck an agreement with advertisement agencies and next day of announcement of schedule, TRS ads popped up all over the city.” “We are ready to pay ten times more than what TRS is paying,” he added. The MP called upon his party workers to remove all TRS advertisement from public spaces. GHMC in-charge of advertising Karthik told TOI, “There are around 1,500 bus shelters, 2,000 Metro Rail pillar ads and a few foot over bridge ad spaces. Most of these ad spaces are owned by Uni Ads, Prakash Arts and other agencies. We have no role in who the agencies rent the space out. But we have been informed by SEC that two parties TRS ad BJP have sought permission for setting up ads.” When TOI enquired with Uni Ads, a representative of the agency said, “There is no space available till the elections are completed. The representative, who did not want to be named said, “We won’t give for political ads now. Bus shelter will cost Rs 75,000 per month and toilets Rs 25,000 per month. We have 500 bus shelters and 200 toilets.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sec-steps-in-as-row-over-ads-at-public-spaces-erupts/articleshow/79377468.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
November 24, 2020||Hyderabad||33 Maoist cadre surrender before Bhadradri police||HYDERABAD: In a major setback to the operational ability of the Maoist party in the Telangana-Chattisgarh border area, 33 militia and village committee members belonging to a tribal community have surrendered before the police on Monday. Bhadradri Kothagudem SP, Sunil Dutt held a press meet with the surrendered militia and village committee members from Battinapalli and Kishtarampadu villages in Cherla mandal of the district. Of the 33 members, who have surrendered before the SP and the CRPF personnel, 25 are farmers from the Koya community in Battinapalli village. The remaining eight are from Kistarampadu village, but are natives of Sukma in Chattisgarh. The SP said that the surrendered have joined the banned organisation and are working for the Maoist party’s Cherla area committee secretary Aruna, for two years. “Some of these militia members were involved in the road blasting incident at Pedda Midisileru, planting of landmines in Kaliveru village, burning road roller and earth mover at Tippapuram village. We appeal to all Maoist party members and their leaders to surrender with their weapons and join the mainstream in the interest of the general public and development of the area,” Sunil Dutt said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/33-maoist-cadre-surrender-before-bhadradri-police/articleshow/79377421.cms||---
November 24, 2020||India||Activist who got a similar law struck down by SC starts another legal battle||Even with the Kerala government deciding to withdraw the amendment to the Kerala Police Act following public criticism, the legality of the ordinance could still be called into question, reports KP Saikiran. Anoop Kumaran, an activist who had opposed Section 118D of the KPA in the Supreme Court, resulting in its scrapping, has approached the HC against the ordinance. In his petition, he contended that Section 118A overlaps with central legislation, which renders it untenable under the statute. He argued that the ordinance provides penalty for defamation, which is already covered under Sections 499 and 500 of the IPC. The ordinance, unlike Section 499, does not provide for any exceptions. Moreover, the provision in the ordinance makes the offence cognizable, unlike Section 499, under which it is a non-cognizable offence. Thus the provision has, in effect, amended Section 499 of IPC, which is a central legislation by making the offence cognizable and increasing the punishment. The ordinance is beyond the power of the state legislature and is thus arbitrary and illegal, the petition said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/activist-who-got-a-similar-law-struck-down-by-sc-starts-another-legal-battle/articleshow/79379576.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Nagpur||After 5 days, Vidarbha sees more recoveries than new cases||NAGPUR: The graph of Covid-19 cases and recoveries in Vidarbha had never fluctuated so much before. After reporting a spike of over 1,300 new cases on Sunday, the 11 districts in the region together reported 896 cases on Monday. The trend of more cases and fewer recoveries being reported since November 18 reversed on Monday. Against 896 new cases, 960 patients recovered in a day. The concern once again was the number of deaths due to Covid-19. On Monday, 24 patients died in Vidarbha with 10 of them from Nagpur district alone. Remarkably, only three of the deceased were from Nagpur city. Remaining seven were from other states/divisions who came to Nagpur as uninfected and tested positive for Covid-19 during their stay in the city. Bhandara reported four deaths, Chandrapur (3), Yavatmal (2), Washim (2), Wardha (1), Gondia (1), and Amravati (1). With this, the toll in Vidarbha reached 5,904. Case fatality rate is 2.69% which is higher than state and national average. New cases came from Nagpur (357), Chandrapur (109), Gondia (105), Gadchiroli (74), Amravati (64), Akola (42), Wardha (37), Bhandara (35), Buldhana (33), Yavatmal (22), and Washim (18). Recoveries came from Nagpur (273), Chandrapur (191), Buldhana (125), Gondia (87), Akola (75), Gadchiroli (61), Bhandara (46), Amravati (38), Wardha (37), Yavatmal (20), Washim (7). Now, out of region’s 2,19,036 cases reported so far, 2,02,533 have recovered. Recovery rate of Vidarbha is 92.46%. State’s overall recovery rate increased on Monday to 92.74%, which is just some decimal points higher than Vidarbha. Chandrapur: A spike of 109 new cases took the district's caseload to 18,788 on Monday. Recoveries reached 16,625 with discharge to 191 patients, leaving 1,868 patients under treatment. Three more deaths were registered in the district, taking the toll to 285. Yavatmal: A 70-year-old man from the city and 75 year old man from Ralegaon died on Monday. With 22 new cases, the Covid count reached 11,062. Twenty patients were discharged, taking the recovery count to 10,370, leaving 326 patients under treatment. Wardha: A 62-year-old man from Deoli died during treatment while 37 new patients were detected positive for Covid-19, taking the caseload to 7,432. With 37 patients getting discharge on Monday, the recovery count reached 6,781. Now, 416 patients are under treatment. Cases came from Wardha (20), Deoli (14), Hinganghat (2) and Samudrapur (1). Amravati: After five days, the district reported one Covid death on Monday, taking the toll to 373. The day also saw 64 new cases and 38 patients getting discharge. The caseload is 17,356 and recovery count 16,524 for a recovery rate of 95.21%. Now, 459 patients are under treatment, including 230 in home isolation and two admitted in Nagpur. Bhandara: With 46 patients recovering in a day, the recoveries reached 9,032 patients. Caseload reached 10,118 with addition of 35 new cases. Four deaths during the day took toll to 243. Bhandara’s recovery rate is 89.27%, fatality rate 2.39% while 843 patients are under treatment. Gondia: With 105 new cases, Gondia reported 100-plus spike for third day in a row, taking the caseload to 11,659. On the other hand, 87 patients recovered, taking the number of recovered patients to 10,621. One death during the day took the toll to 153. Recovery rate is 90% and 885 patients are under treatment. Gadchiroli: With 74 new cases, Gadchiroli’s Covid-19 count reached 7,530 on Monday. Out these, 6,765 have recovered till date. Recovery rate is about 90%. No death was reported on Monday. Now, 690 patients are under treatment. Akola: The district reported 42 new cases and 75 recoveries on Monday. Now, the district has 9,061 cases, 8,305 recoveries and 288 deaths. No death was reported on Monday. Now, 468 patients are under treatment. Buldhana: On Monday, the district reported only 33 new cases and 105 recoveries. No death was reported. The district has 10,868 cases, 10,383 recoveries, 134 deaths and 346 patients under treatment. Washim: The district reported Covid-19 deaths after 14 days on Monday. Two patients from Washim who were being treated out of district died during treatment, taking the toll to 146. The day also saw 18 new cases and seven recoveries. Now, Washim has 5,967 cases, 5,654 recoveries and 168 patients under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/after-5-days-vidarbha-sees-more-recoveries-than-new-cases/articleshow/79377474.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 24, 2020||Ludhiana||2 engineers get show cause for poor condition of roads||LUDHIANA: Municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal on Monday issued show cause notices to two assistant engineers of bridges and road department for not performing their duties properly. They are given three days time to reply why action should not be taken against them. First notice is issued for pothole at Model Town road, where a girl was injured after losing her balance at two wheeler. Another notice was served for poor construction work in zone C. At Model Town road due to the pothole, the commuters were a harried lot and recently, the civic body had to face residents’ ire for not repairing it. Though on Monday patch work was done, the commissioner still took to task Balwinder Singh, assistant engineer of zone D. Another show cause was issued to Rakesh Singla, assistant engineer zone C. A complaint was registered against road work in zone C where it was found that steel shuttering was 11 inches instead of 12 inches. Singla has been asked to submit reply in three days||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/2-engineers-get-show-cause-for-poor-condition-of-roads/articleshow/79377462.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||1,700 engineering seats still vacant||AHMEDABAD: After holding an extra round of admission for filling up 2,700 seats for undergraduate engineering courses in government and grant-in-aid colleges, about 1,700 seats still remain vacant. The admission committee has decided to not hold any more rounds for these empty seats, said sources in the committee. In this latest round, 413 fresh candidates were enrolled while 580 were transferred from other colleges. “About 980 students have been enrolled in this new admission round for grant-in aid and government run engineering colleges. This leaves as many as 1,700 seats vacant in these colleges,” said an official of Admission Committee for Professional Courses (ACPC). The committee had initiated the process to fill up 51,524 seats for all colleges in Gujarat including self-financed institutions. At the end of two rounds, more than 32,000 seats are vacant after 18,331 students confirmed their admissions. GU to conduct another round of admission for BSc candidates: After holding three rounds of admissions and one for reshuffling process, 4,900 seats out of 14,000 seats remain vacant for science colleges affiliated to Gujarat University. The committee has now announced a fresh round of admission for filling up these empty seats, said sources in GU. The fourth round for these vacant seats has been announced from 26th to the fourth. “In this round, those candidates who registered before and have not been admitted, will be given a chance to apply between November 26 and November 30,” said an official of GU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/1700-engineering-seats-still-vacant/articleshow/79377482.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Four postmortems of corona patients done at Civil so far||AHMEDABAD: The forensic medicine department at BJ Medical College has so far carried out four biological autopsies of patients at Civil Hospital who had died due to Covid-19. Dr Kalpesh Shah, professor and head of the department, on Monday told mediapersons that the department intends to carry out at least 50 such autopsies to understand the effect of the infection on internal organs. “Our focus will be to understand the impact of the infection on organs such as the heart, and phenomena such as deep vein thrombosis (DVT) that often leads to a sudden collapse of patients during or after the hospitalization period. We will need patients of different age groups and with different parameters to understand how Covid-19 affected them and led to their deaths,” said Dr Shah. The department carried out its first autopsy on Diwali day. Civil Hospital officials said a special negative pressure chamber has been created at the old postmortem room which has been refurbished for the sole purpose of Covid-19 related autopsies. It’s been designed and created with national and international guidelines in mind, said officials. Dr Shah said special staff is deployed at the 1,200-bed hospital to counsel the kin of the deceased patients. “It’s a very important medical procedure to fight the disease and we need public support. Our staff is working round the clock for the purpose,” he said, adding that the consent of relatives is mandatory to carry out an autopsy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/four-postmortems-of-corona-patients-done-at-civil-so-far/articleshow/79377480.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Nashik||NMC told to carry out health survey||Nashik: The state health department has ordered the Nashik Municipal Corporation ( (NMC) and the Nashik Zilla Parishad (ZP) to carry out a survey of people, who frequently come into contact with a large number of people daily, and conduct their Covid tests. Ratna Raokhande, the civil surgeon, said, “If any of these people show Covid symptoms, the health agencies have to take appropriate steps by conducting tests and providing treatment to them,” The officer said these people have been categorised in four groups based on the services they provide and chances of coming into contact with many people. The first group is of small traders comprising those who operate grocery stores, vegetable vendors, people working in hotels and restaurants. The second group includes people who provide services at homes like people delivering milk, domestic help, cylinder delivery people, laundry service providers among others. Drivers of trucks, tempos and autorickshaws fall in the third group while the fourth group includes government officers, police, home guards among others. The civil surgeon said, “The respective agencies have to form teams that will conduct surveys of such people. They will be inspecting their health and also raise awareness about the inspection, besides promoting preventive measures.” “The RT-PCR tests have to be taken for such people depending on their nature and the health conditions exhibited by them,” the officer said. With the possibility of the second wave of Covid-19 in December, the government has made this move aimed at early diagnosis and treatment of the infected people, which will play a major role in containing the spread of the disease, the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-told-to-carry-out-health-survey/articleshow/79374985.cms||Abhilash Botekar
November 24, 2020||Bhopal||1700+ new cases again, MP Covid count may cross 2L mark in a wk||Bhopal: For the third consecutive day, more than 1,700 new cases of Covid-19 were reported in a single day in the state on Monday. A total of 1,701 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Madhya Pradesh on Monday, taking the count of total cases reported so far to 1,94,745. At this rate, the state may cross 2 lakh mark within a week. It was after 44 days that 1,700 new Covid-19 patients were diagnosed in a single day in the state on November 21 and then again on November 22 and 23. On October 8, a total 1,715 new cases were reported in the state and lesser number of cases were reported since then. Apart from the fresh cases, 10 deaths were also reported as per the state health bulletin, released by the Directorate of Health Services. Districts where these deaths were reported include Indore where 3 deaths were reported, 2 deaths were reported from Gwalior and one death each was reported from Bhopal, Khargone, Sagar, Damoh and Harda districts. A total 29,926 samples were tested on Monday, out of which 1,701 people were found positive. Thus the positivity rate stood at 5.6%. The cumulative positivity rate in the state on November 23 was 5.51%. It is noteworthy that positivity rate above 5% is considered high and more and more tests are recommended if the positivity rate is above 5%. On Monday, fresh cases were reported from 46 of the 52 districts of the state. On the brighter side, 1,120 people who were admitted at hospitals recovered and were discharged. With these new patients recovering from the disease, the count of people who have recovered so far from the disease reached 1,79,237. As on November 23, there were 12,336 active cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/1700-new-cases-again-mp-covid-count-may-cross-2l-mark-in-a-wk/articleshow/79376180.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: Students in class after scanning, but relief combines with risk||PUNE: Sakshi Tupe, a standard X student from Haveli taluka, spent Sunday night thinking about going to school on Monday after eight months. “I woke up very early to get ready. My parents have consented and since it is a crucial year, I thought it would be best to sit in class and prepare with all caution," she added. She dressed for school in her uniform and said she had never been more excited about the first day in school. Pune ZP chief executive officer, Ayush Prasad, told TOI on Monday, “We cannot live in fear, and we are well-prepared. We are glad that parents and students responded to our call and in some schools the attendance was over 80% on an average." Over 35% of rural schools in the state reopened on Monday after all preparedness for classes for standards X and XII. Pune zilla parishad officials said classes for standard IX would begin by mid-week. Students arrived with consent letters, and underwent thermal scans and oxygen reading. They sat in sanitised classrooms, and were happy to meet classmates and teachers. The initial checks before entering the premises took almost an hour. Some schools that have to undergo inspection for compliance of the state government’s SOPs will open later this week. Among the schools run by the Pune ZP, 491 schools of the 1,241 reopened fully. Prasad said it will improve as some schools were putting things in place. The Pune ZP’s education office told parents and teachers about the procedures to follow if any positive cases turned up. Prasad said these meetings before reopening brought confidence to parents and students which helped the first-day response.  Nandurbar Shows The WayThe Nashik division threw a varied picture of schools reopening on Monday. At least 250 schools of the 314 reopened in Nandurbar district, with the Nandurbar administration stationing health teams and deploying a ‘boat ambulance’ to cater to schools. Those in Dhule district will remain closed till November 30, in Jalgaon district till December 7 and those in Nashik district till January 4. In Ahmednagar district, only 278 out of the 1,209 schools started, and less than 10% students attended, a senior officer from education department of Ahmednagar said. “We are not in a hurry. Schools can open any time after November 23. We want the consent of more than 50% students. Some schools remained closed because of Covid-19 patients in those villages,” an education officer said. Dull Scene In Kolhapur Anxiety among the parents led to thin attendance of students. Less than one-fourth schools in Kolhapur district opened on Monday as managements were yet to comply with the SOPs. Only 321 schools of the 1,054 in the district opened. Around 1,800 standard IX, X and XII students of the 2.25 lakh attended. Two schools that opened in the city without preparations were told to close. There was thin attendance in Solapur, Sangli and Satara districts as well. Fear Keeps Many Away Few students attend schools in the rural areas of Aurangabad, Latur and Osmanabad. Different teachers’ associations said the turnout was between 10% and 50%, with attendance likely to improve in a week. Kailas Gaikwad, Aurangabad district general secretary of the state-level teachers association, said Covid fear and an extended Diwali vacation may have led to poor attendance. Latur, where schools have begun in urban and rural areas, reported 12% attendance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/pupils-in-class-after-scanning-but-relief-combines-with-risk/articleshow/79379966.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
November 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Gimmicks galore: From ironing to playing barber in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: It’s election time and contestants are desperately trying to garner some attention.  Sama Tirumal Reddy of Hayathnagar division has plunged headlong into his campaign for a re-election in the GHMC polls on December 1. Tirumal stopped by to shave a person’s beard on the road. While going door-to-door, the TRS candidate also falls at the feet of anyone on the slightest pretext – it could be an elderly, or a person with reputation, or could simply be a common man. He also washed the feet of a GHMC worker who got down into a drain. “I wore khakhi uniform everyday for the last five years. I have served people always, except the 11 days when I was in home quarantine,” he said during his campaign. Interestingly, Tirumal Reddy who belongs to the ruling TRS staged a novel protest last year stressing on the poor condition of roads in his area. He sought to bring to the attention of officials the sad state of roads by breaking a coconut at such pockets and placing a garland there. Ch Priyanka Goud who is the TRS nominee from Red Hills is also unstoppable. The MBA graduate stops by at any place that gives her an opportunity to interact with voters. She lends a helping hand to a woman cleaning utensils or a man ironing clothes. “I will fight with KCR anna (chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao) and KTR anna and get funds for the division. I will get the nalas cleaned and provide basic amenities,” she said. However, at Boudhanagar, TRS candidate Shailaja had to face the ire of a local woman on Sunday who demanded that a bar in the area be closed. “We have complained of the nuisance several times but no one bothers,” the woman said. When the candidate’s father Narayana intervened and asked her why she was shouting in public, she reacted with anger. “Because this is a public issue,” the woman insisted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gimmicks-galore-from-ironing-to-playing-barber/articleshow/79377494.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Scientist slams coal mine report, alleges violation||HYDERABAD: Scientists are questioning Environment Protection Training and Research Institute’s (EPTRI) environmental impact assessment report (EIA) on Singareni Colleries Companies limited regarding Venkatesh Khani, one of the underground mines regarding which a public hearing is scheduled for November 24. A group of scientists led by former IICT chief scientist Babu Rao alleged that SCCL had violated environment protection norms in the case of at least 18 mines. What is the action taken against SCCL for operating without valid EC for 10 years, he asked. “Draft EIA does not recognize climate change as an environmental impact of coal mining. Climate Accountability Institute, Colorado has been doing extensive work on carbon emissions and has identified 90 companies globally that contributed to two third of historic emissions. One of the studies first published in 2014 ranks SCCL 60th among the 90 companies identified. How does the proponent SCCL or its consultant EPTRI justify leaving out climate impact from EIA?” said Babu Rao. SCCL itself claimed in one of its Expression of Interest tender invitations for KK-6 incline in May 2019 that the coal seams in the project are considered Degree-I gassiness based on the same seams of the neighbouring mines in Mandamarri area. “RIA report contains this sentence. ‘Flameproof apparatus has to be installed at each and every working face to monitor the weather in the area of development or depillaring in each and every discontinued gallery as also in all other places, where the percentage of methane in the general body exceeds 0.2%’.” “Chapter 10 of the report on environmental management has been copy pasted from chapter 9 of the EIA report for Kakatiya Khani Opencast II coal mining project prepared by Department of Environment, SCCL in January 2016,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scientist-slams-coal-mine-report-alleges-violation/articleshow/79377479.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
November 24, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Students in class after scanning, but relief combines with risk||PUNE: Sakshi Tupe, a standard X student from Haveli taluka, spent Sunday night thinking about going to school on Monday after eight months. “I woke up very early to get ready. My parents have consented and since it is a crucial year, I thought it would be best to sit in class and prepare with all caution," she added. She dressed for school in her uniform and said she had never been more excited about the first day in school. Pune ZP chief executive officer, Ayush Prasad, told TOI on Monday, “We cannot live in fear, and we are well-prepared. We are glad that parents and students responded to our call and in some schools the attendance was over 80% on an average." Over 35% of rural schools in the state reopened on Monday after all preparedness for classes for standards X and XII. Pune zilla parishad officials said classes for standard IX would begin by mid-week. Students arrived with consent letters, and underwent thermal scans and oxygen reading. They sat in sanitised classrooms, and were happy to meet classmates and teachers. The initial checks before entering the premises took almost an hour. Some schools that have to undergo inspection for compliance of the state government’s SOPs will open later this week. Among the schools run by the Pune ZP, 491 schools of the 1,241 reopened fully. Prasad said it will improve as some schools were putting things in place. The Pune ZP’s education office told parents and teachers about the procedures to follow if any positive cases turned up. Prasad said these meetings before reopening brought confidence to parents and students which helped the first-day response.  Nandurbar Shows The WayThe Nashik division threw a varied picture of schools reopening on Monday. At least 250 schools of the 314 reopened in Nandurbar district, with the Nandurbar administration stationing health teams and deploying a ‘boat ambulance’ to cater to schools. Those in Dhule district will remain closed till November 30, in Jalgaon district till December 7 and those in Nashik district till January 4. In Ahmednagar district, only 278 out of the 1,209 schools started, and less than 10% students attended, a senior officer from education department of Ahmednagar said. “We are not in a hurry. Schools can open any time after November 23. We want the consent of more than 50% students. Some schools remained closed because of Covid-19 patients in those villages,” an education officer said. Dull Scene In Kolhapur Anxiety among the parents led to thin attendance of students. Less than one-fourth schools in Kolhapur district opened on Monday as managements were yet to comply with the SOPs. Only 321 schools of the 1,054 in the district opened. Around 1,800 standard IX, X and XII students of the 2.25 lakh attended. Two schools that opened in the city without preparations were told to close. There was thin attendance in Solapur, Sangli and Satara districts as well. Fear Keeps Many Away Few students attend schools in the rural areas of Aurangabad, Latur and Osmanabad. Different teachers’ associations said the turnout was between 10% and 50%, with attendance likely to improve in a week. Kailas Gaikwad, Aurangabad district general secretary of the state-level teachers association, said Covid fear and an extended Diwali vacation may have led to poor attendance. Latur, where schools have begun in urban and rural areas, reported 12% attendance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pupils-in-class-after-scanning-but-relief-combines-with-risk/articleshow/79377500.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
November 24, 2020||Pune||Delhi techie found hanging in hotel room in Pune, suicide note & 2 audio clips recovered||PUNE: A software engineer (29) from Delhi was found hanging from a ceiling fan in the room of a hotel at Model Colony in Shivajinagar around 3pm on Sunday. Senior inspector Balasaheb Kopnar of the Shivajinagar police said, “Jitendrakumar Gupta had checked into the hotel on November 20. He was to check out on Sunday afternoon. As he did not come out of his room, the hotel staffers went to check the matter. When he did not respond to their repeated knocks, they opened the door using another key and found Gupta hanging from the ceiling fan.” Gupta’s brother-in-law, Ramanand, who landed in the city on Monday with another relative from Delhi, told TOI, “He (Gupta) had married only 11 months ago and had a baby boy. He was working as a techie with a prominent software company in Noida and earning a good salary. Before that, he worked with another prominent firm in Pune for three years.” Ramanand said, “Gupta walked out of his house in the last week of October. We searched for him for a couple of days before lodging a missing person’s complaint on October 30 at the Raj Park police station in New Delhi.” After the arrival of Gupta’s two relatives, the police again searched the room he stayed in and checked his belongings in their presence. “We found a notebook in which there was a handwritten note in Hindi, purportedly written by Gupta, stating that he was ending his life. The note did not mention the reason behind the extreme step,” said inspector Vikram Goud of the Shivajinagar police. Another officer said Gupta’s suicide note stated, “I am completely broken. I wanted to do many things for my son. I am sorry. I have left two voice messages in my cellphone.” The police investigators cracked the password of Gupta’s cellphone and recovered the voice messages. Barring these two messages, he had deleted all other content in his cellphone, the police said. Goud said, “One of these messages was for his wife and the other expressed his state of mind. It is evident from the other voice message that after leaving home, Gupta attempted to end his life several times before hanging self here. The voice message mentioned he tried to jump off a building but backed out. Then he slit his wrist but survived. He once ate too many sleeping pills but woke up after a long gap. He also backed out from jumping off a hill in Mahabaleshwar fearing that his relatives may not find his body.” The police will try to find out when and where Gupta travelled in the past few days and attempted to end his life with the help of his cellphone location. Kopnar said, “At the time of checking in, Gupta had furnished his Aadhaar card to the hotel authorities. It had partial address of his residence. With assistance from the Raj Park police in New Delhi, we got in touch with his brother-in-law and other relatives.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/techie-found-hanging-in-hotel-room-suicide-note-2-audio-clips-recovered/articleshow/79377531.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra: Students in class after scanning, but relief combines with risk||PUNE: Sakshi Tupe, a standard X student from Haveli taluka, spent Sunday night thinking about going to school on Monday after eight months. “I woke up very early to get ready. My parents have consented and since it is a crucial year, I thought it would be best to sit in class and prepare with all caution," she added. She dressed for school in her uniform and said she had never been more excited about the first day in school. Pune ZP chief executive officer, Ayush Prasad, told TOI on Monday, “We cannot live in fear, and we are well-prepared. We are glad that parents and students responded to our call and in some schools the attendance was over 80% on an average." Over 35% of rural schools in the state reopened on Monday after all preparedness for classes for standards X and XII. Pune zilla parishad officials said classes for standard IX would begin by mid-week. Students arrived with consent letters, and underwent thermal scans and oxygen reading. They sat in sanitised classrooms, and were happy to meet classmates and teachers. The initial checks before entering the premises took almost an hour. Some schools that have to undergo inspection for compliance of the state government’s SOPs will open later this week. Among the schools run by the Pune ZP, 491 schools of the 1,241 reopened fully. Prasad said it will improve as some schools were putting things in place. The Pune ZP’s education office told parents and teachers about the procedures to follow if any positive cases turned up. Prasad said these meetings before reopening brought confidence to parents and students which helped the first-day response.  Nandurbar Shows The WayThe Nashik division threw a varied picture of schools reopening on Monday. At least 250 schools of the 314 reopened in Nandurbar district, with the Nandurbar administration stationing health teams and deploying a ‘boat ambulance’ to cater to schools. Those in Dhule district will remain closed till November 30, in Jalgaon district till December 7 and those in Nashik district till January 4. In Ahmednagar district, only 278 out of the 1,209 schools started, and less than 10% students attended, a senior officer from education department of Ahmednagar said. “We are not in a hurry. Schools can open any time after November 23. We want the consent of more than 50% students. Some schools remained closed because of Covid-19 patients in those villages,” an education officer said. Dull Scene In Kolhapur Anxiety among the parents led to thin attendance of students. Less than one-fourth schools in Kolhapur district opened on Monday as managements were yet to comply with the SOPs. Only 321 schools of the 1,054 in the district opened. Around 1,800 standard IX, X and XII students of the 2.25 lakh attended. Two schools that opened in the city without preparations were told to close. There was thin attendance in Solapur, Sangli and Satara districts as well. Fear Keeps Many Away Few students attend schools in the rural areas of Aurangabad, Latur and Osmanabad. Different teachers’ associations said the turnout was between 10% and 50%, with attendance likely to improve in a week. Kailas Gaikwad, Aurangabad district general secretary of the state-level teachers association, said Covid fear and an extended Diwali vacation may have led to poor attendance. Latur, where schools have begun in urban and rural areas, reported 12% attendance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/pupils-in-class-after-scanning-but-relief-combines-with-risk/articleshow/79379965.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
November 24, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Students in class after scanning, but relief combines with risk||PUNE: Sakshi Tupe, a standard X student from Haveli taluka, spent Sunday night thinking about going to school on Monday after eight months. “I woke up very early to get ready. My parents have consented and since it is a crucial year, I thought it would be best to sit in class and prepare with all caution," she added. She dressed for school in her uniform and said she had never been more excited about the first day in school. Pune ZP chief executive officer, Ayush Prasad, told TOI on Monday, “We cannot live in fear, and we are well-prepared. We are glad that parents and students responded to our call and in some schools the attendance was over 80% on an average." Over 35% of rural schools in the state reopened on Monday after all preparedness for classes for standards X and XII. Pune zilla parishad officials said classes for standard IX would begin by mid-week. Students arrived with consent letters, and underwent thermal scans and oxygen reading. They sat in sanitised classrooms, and were happy to meet classmates and teachers. The initial checks before entering the premises took almost an hour. Some schools that have to undergo inspection for compliance of the state government’s SOPs will open later this week. Among the schools run by the Pune ZP, 491 schools of the 1,241 reopened fully. Prasad said it will improve as some schools were putting things in place. The Pune ZP’s education office told parents and teachers about the procedures to follow if any positive cases turned up. Prasad said these meetings before reopening brought confidence to parents and students which helped the first-day response.  Nandurbar Shows The WayThe Nashik division threw a varied picture of schools reopening on Monday. At least 250 schools of the 314 reopened in Nandurbar district, with the Nandurbar administration stationing health teams and deploying a ‘boat ambulance’ to cater to schools. Those in Dhule district will remain closed till November 30, in Jalgaon district till December 7 and those in Nashik district till January 4. In Ahmednagar district, only 278 out of the 1,209 schools started, and less than 10% students attended, a senior officer from education department of Ahmednagar said. “We are not in a hurry. Schools can open any time after November 23. We want the consent of more than 50% students. Some schools remained closed because of Covid-19 patients in those villages,” an education officer said. Dull Scene In Kolhapur Anxiety among the parents led to thin attendance of students. Less than one-fourth schools in Kolhapur district opened on Monday as managements were yet to comply with the SOPs. Only 321 schools of the 1,054 in the district opened. Around 1,800 standard IX, X and XII students of the 2.25 lakh attended. Two schools that opened in the city without preparations were told to close. There was thin attendance in Solapur, Sangli and Satara districts as well. Fear Keeps Many Away Few students attend schools in the rural areas of Aurangabad, Latur and Osmanabad. Different teachers’ associations said the turnout was between 10% and 50%, with attendance likely to improve in a week. Kailas Gaikwad, Aurangabad district general secretary of the state-level teachers association, said Covid fear and an extended Diwali vacation may have led to poor attendance. Latur, where schools have begun in urban and rural areas, reported 12% attendance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/pupils-in-class-after-scanning-but-relief-combines-with-risk/articleshow/79379967.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
November 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Want votes? Improve infrastructure & paint our apartments, says electorate||HYDERABAD: Exorbitant demands from the electorate stumped the leaders when they went to seek votes. Apart from demanding sports facilities, some residents even went to the extent of renovating infrastructure of the housing societies and painting their apartments. “When I went to campaign, residents asked for additional gyms and a sports arenas. Pointing out towards the existing outdoor gyms in Sudarshan Nagar and the one near Jayabheri Enclave, they asked me what are my plans to promote fitness,” said R Nagendar Yadav, a former TRS corporator from Serilingampally, who failed to get the ticket this time. A resident of the eastern part of the city said that there is nothing wrong to make such demands. “We asked an elected representative to renovate the library in our society, there is nothing wrong to seek amenities. Obviously, they will spend it from our money i.e tax payers money. They will not spend from their pockets,” said a housing society member. Though an aspirant instantly agreed to their demand, their request did not go down well with the MLA. “If they are asking for painting or renovation works for a private property they will no longer have the right to hold my collar and question me for civic works, which are very important,” said the MLA. The condition is similar in parts of the Old City, said several corporators. Kotta Kapu Aruna Ravinder Reddy, who is contesting from Saidabad ward on a BJP ticket, said she was surprised seeing the enthusiasm of people to remain fit. “Not only youngsters, but even senior citizens also wanted an exclusive area for sports and a badminton court inside. I was surprised to find that they are giving so much importance to fitness facilities and lung spaces. Citing Covid-19 they demanded more sporting facilities,” said Reddy. When I started campaigning , people asked me for additional sports facilities. We have already converted open lands into playgrounds and marked an exclusive area in the parks for sports facilities||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/want-votes-improve-infra-paint-our-apts-says-electorate/articleshow/79377518.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Mysuru||CPM backs protest against Centre’s anti-labour policies||MYSURU: CPM district secretary K Basavaraju on Monday said that their party will extend support to the nationwide protest organised by the left parties and other central trade unions on November 26. The protest is to oppose the central government’s alleged anti-labour and anti-farm laws as well as privatisation of public sector units. Speaking to reporters, he said workers from all sectors, except those involved in essential services, will take part in the protest. Besides 10 major trade unions, employees’ organisations in banking, insurance, railway and state and central government institutions will also take part in the strike, and so are taxi drivers and workers from the unorganised sector. He requested the owners of private vehicles to keep off the road, except in cases of emergency, in solidarity with the strike. Basavaraju accused Prime Miniseter Narendra Modi of pushing economy backward by hasty decisions of demonetisation and GST introduction against the interest of people. “NDA came to power for the second term by hoodwinking people by raising the issue on Indo-Pakistan tension in the border,” he claimed. He said his party and trade unions raised major demands including withdrawal of anti-farmer and anti-labour bills, crediting Rs 7,500 in the accounts of all non-tax paying families, provision of 10kg foodgrains every month to families in need, expansion of MGNREGS to provide 200 work days per year with increased wages and its implementation in urban areas, end to privatisation in defence, railways, ports, aviation, power, mining and finance sectors, end to forced lay-off of employees in PSUs and provision of pension for workers in the unorganised sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/cpm-backs-protest-against-centres-anti-labour-policies/articleshow/79376081.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Hyderabad||How will govt operate Dharani sans legal backing, asks Telangana high court||HYDERABAD: Telangana high court on Monday sought to know from the state government as to how it would go about implementing the Dharani portal scheme in the state without the required statutory support. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy posed this question to advocate general BS Prasad while hearing a PIL filed by advocate Saaketh Kasibhatla who questioned the decision of the state government to collect sensitive personal data of the property owners at the time of uploading their non-agricultural property particulars into Dharani portal. Petitioner’s counsel K Vivek Reddy said that while it is true that it was made mandatory for people to part with their photographs and fingerprints at the time of registration of properties, it should be kept in mind that the Centre has done it by bringing in section 32-A to the Registration Act. “There is no such specific legislative support to Dharani though it asks people to part with more sensitive data like biometrics, etc,” he said. “If there is law, we can test its validity, need, safeguards etc. But in the case of Dharani, the state is seeking to implement with the help of a GO which is impermissable,” Vivek said. The AG explained that farmers have to part with these details at the time of availing Rythu Bandhu financial assistance. “The same is being sought even by the Centre at the time of extending assistance to farmers under Prime Minister Kisan scheme,” he said. There is a specific provision even in Aadhaar Act that enables the governments to seek such details at the time of extending benefits to the farmers and other sections, he said. The bench asked the petitioner as to what is wrong if the state seeks these details when even mobile phone Sim card sellers were seeking the Aadhaar details. The counsel replied that both Supreme Court and the Aadhaar Act allow people to voluntarily part with such information. But the state cannot compel to part with such details by imposing conditions. The state is precisely doing that in the case of Dharani that furnishing Aadhaar is a must for registering properties, he explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-how-will-govt-operate-dharani-sans-legal-backing/articleshow/79377470.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||State to prepare feasibility report for toy park||Gandhinagar: Chief minister Vijay Rupani on Monday directed the administration to prepare a feasibility report to explore the potential of setting up a toy park to develop the toy industry in Gujarat. He was presiding over a high-level meeting to discuss overall development of the Gujarat Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC) estates, including housing and common infrastructure facilities.  The CM suggested construction of multi-storied buildings for industrial estates in urban areas, to fit in more small and medium sized industries of nearby towns. He suggested developing common infrastructure and other facilities in the GIDC estates. In the wake of setting up more GIDC estates in the state, he said a demand survey could be prepared. Rupani called for early settlement of land acquisition for GIDC estates, which had slowed down for some time. He suggested early commissioning of the desalination plant being set up at Dahej in Bharuch district before the scheduled time, and also development and allotment of plots at the IT Park at GIFT City in Gandhinagar. The CM also called for making the functioning of the GIDC estates more industry-friendly, like developing a single-window with all facilities under one roof, for new industries coming to the state. The meeting was attended by GIDC chairman Balwantsinh Rajput, CM’s chief principal secretary K Kailashnathan, chief minister’s additional chief secretary and additional chief secretary for industries M K Das, GIDC managing director M Thennarsan and other senior officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-to-prepare-feasibility-report-for-toy-park/articleshow/79377523.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Nashik||Bed capacity for non-Covid cases increased in rural areas||Nashik: The Nashik civil hospital has increased the bed capacity of rural hospitals for Covid as well as non-Covid patients so that people from these areas are not forced to go to neighbouring talukas or Nashik city for treatment.Nashik civil surgeon Ratna Raokhande said that after the onset of Covid-19, most of the rural hospitals were converted into dedicated Covid health centres (DCHCs). As a result, non-Covid patients had to go all the way to Nashik civil hospital or neighbouring talukas with a rural hospital or a sub-district hospital.“Currently, there are over 1,500 beds for non-Covid patients and 1,031 for Covid-positive patients in rural areas of the district at the DCHC level,” said Raokhande.The civil surgeon said there was a significant drop in the number of Covid cases across the district about a week ago. “However, the number of patients has started increasing gradually. We are expediting the process of contact tracing and bringing patients under treatment at the earliest to stop the spread of of the disease.”Health officials said that many private hospitals too have reserved beds for Covid patients across the district, following which it has become possible to throw open the rural hospitals for non-Covid patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bed-capacity-for-non-covid-cases-increased-in-rural-areas/articleshow/79374972.cms||Santosh Sonawane
November 24, 2020||Kochi||As HC denies change of judge, special prosecutor quits||KOCHI: Two days after the Kerala high court dismissed a petition seeking change of the trial judge hearing the actor-abduction-and-rape case, special public prosecutor A Sureshan has put in his papers. A statement was filed announcing his resignation, on Monday, when the case came up for hearing before the additional special sessions court, which is conducting in-camera proceedings. “The counsel representing the special public prosecutor filed a statement that he submitted his resignation before the authority concerned and requested to be relieved from his duties. Considering his submission and the order of the Supreme Court to dispose of the case on or before February 4, 2021, the Investigation Officer is directed to make necessary arrangements to resume the trial,” the court dairy, which is accessible to the public, said. Following the development all petitions relating to the case set to be considered on Monday were posted to Thursday. The trial hasn’t made much progress since the last week of October after the prosecution approached the high court seeking transfer of the trial. The resignation of the prosecutor is likely to further delay proceedings. Even if a prosecutor is appointed immediately, the person will have to be accorded time to study the case. According to sources, comments made by the trial court provoked the resignation. Sureshan is learnt to have sent his resignation letter via email to the additional secretary of the home department. The case received national attention after popular actor Dileep was named eighth accused. The survivor was abducted and sexually assaulted in a moving car in February 2017. Dileep, who is out on bail, is accused of conspiring to commit the crime. The prosecution, in filing the plea for change of judge, had alleged bias which would render impossible a fair trial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/as-hc-denies-change-of-judge-spl-prosecutor-quits/articleshow/79376190.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Machinery misused by Telangana govt: BJP||HYDERABAD: The BJP state unit on Monday complained to the State Election Commission that state machinery is being misused by government to create trouble for BJP candidates and their campaign for GHMC polls. BJP urged SEC to take action against such officials. Party former city wing president N Ramchander Rao in a complaint said the retuning officers refused to accept the B-forms submitted by BJP candidates and insisted on A-forms also even though B-forms were signed by the president of the BJP. “It took us a lot of effort to convince the officials by showing them the rule position. In some cases, where the party wanted to replace the candidate in whose favor the B-form had been issued, they refused to accept the same,” Rao said in the complaint. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/machinery-misused-by-govt-bjp/articleshow/79377560.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Pune||Colleges in Pune await decision on non-final year law exams||PUNE: The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) is yet to decide about examinations for intermediate law students who were already declared passed using the common formula. It was devised by the university for all non-final year students in all streams and courses as the standard for eligibility to the next level. However, after the Bar Council of India declared that passing all examinations is mandatory for students to get the final law degree, the SPPU decided to review the matter two weeks ago. Anjali Kurane, dean faculty of humanities at SPPU, said, “The Board of Studies for Law faculty had met on November 19. They are collecting data on what other universities are doing, what factors need to be taken care of if exams are conducted and what options are available to students. Once they collate the data and discuss it, recommendations would be made for further action.” Rohini Honap, principal of Navalmal Firodia Law College, said they are awaiting instructions from the university. “Most students tend to forget the previous year’s syllabus the moment they are promoted to the next year. In this case, students have been promoted and they have also started with the classes for the next year. Now, if examinations are conducted, the students may not have the mindset. There has been a huge gap and they will have to prepare a vast syllabus while studying for the next year too. We will abide by the university recommendations,” she added. Bhagyashri Deshpande, in-charge principal at New Law College of the Bharati Vidyapeeth, a deemed university, said they too are waiting. “The second wave of the pandemic is likely and it may be difficult to conduct a physical examination. Our university is yet to formulate a strategy to conduct exams feasible in this pandemic situation,” she added. Shashikala Gurpur, director and dean of Symbiosis Law School, said, “We have fully complied with the BCI norms. We have conducted examinations for all schools under our faculty. The examination, both written and viva, were held in an online mode.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/colleges-await-decision-on-non-final-year-law-exams/articleshow/79377539.cms||Ardhra Nair
November 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat’s groundnut exports continue upward trend||AHMEDABAD: The export of groundnut has continued its upward journey by clocking a 19% growth in terms of volume following a good demand from the international market. According to the provisional data compiled by Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA), the groundnut export from India surged close to 1.9 lakh tonnes during April-September period this fiscal as against 1.6 lakh tonnes in the same period last financial year. Being the largest producer of groundnut in India, Gujarat accounted roughly for around 55% of the groundnut exports made during April-September period. In rupee terms, the exports growth is even higher at 33%. The exports touched Rs 1,776 crore in the first six months of 2020-21 from Rs 1,328 crore in the first half of 2019-20, APEDA data further shows. Majority of groundnut exports have been to Indonesia, Vietnam, Malaysia, Philippines, Thailand and China. “There is a good demand for our groundnut in the export market. In addition to regular buyers, several exporters have also turned to India for procuring groundnut due to lower production of the oilseed in China. This has helped increase our groundnut exports,” said Samir Shah, president, Saurashtra Oil Millers Association (SOMA). “Groundnut production in China is estimated to be lower by 40 lakh tonne this year. Hence, there has been a diversion of orders from China to India,” Shah added. Groundnut oil exports have seen even bigger jump in exports mainly on account of heavy buying by China. The increase in export demand for groundnut and its oil has come as a major boon to Gujarat, which is expected to harvest a record production of 35 lakh tonnes this kharif season. Gujarat had also registered a 57% growth in groundnut exports in 2019-20. The exports stood at 4.7 lakh tonnes as compared to 3 lakh tonnes in 2018-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/groundnut-exports-continue-upward-trend-on-good-demand/articleshow/79377564.cms||Kalpesh Damor
November 24, 2020||Hyderabad||No development: 5,000 Karthikeya Nagar voters prefer Nota to parties||HYDERABAD: Agitated over lack of development of open spaces, the electorate of Karthikeya Nagar in Nacharam have now taken a firm stand to opt for Nota in the ensuing Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation elections. Political leaders entering Karthikeya Nagar, which has over 150 apartments and 250 independent houses and a population of around 12,000, for campaigning on Monday were welcomed with banners stating ‘We vote for Nota’. Residents rue that it has been 30 years that Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation has failed to develop six open spaces in the locality into parks, making them vulnerable for land grabbers. “We have unanimously decided to cast our vote in favour of Nota this GHMC elections as we have seen no development in our area for the last three decades. In the 33 acres of colony land, we don’t have a single park for children and the elderly and the open spaces are constantly under threat,” said B Chandrasekhar, general secretary, Karthikeya Nagar Welfare Association. The colony has over 5,000 voters. Not just this, residents rue that the water pipeline and the drainage network have also not been replaced and repaired for the past many years, causing leakages and pollution. Other issues such as road repair work of street number 4, 8 and 10 and main road and repair and replacement of street light has also not been taken up. The recent floods the city witnessed has also damaged several roads. “Despite our efforts over the years, no political party or concerned departments have addressed our issues. With no other option left, we have lost faith and trust on the existing political system and have decided to vote for Nota on December 1,” said N Dutta Reddy, president, Karthikeya Nagar Welfare Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-development-5000-karthikeya-nagar-voters-prefer-nota-to-parties/articleshow/79377542.cms||Preeti Biswas
November 24, 2020||Bhopal||CM gives away masks on 2-hr devpt review drive||Bhopal: Now that his party has scored an impressive bypoll victory, completion of development works is again set to take centre-stage for chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan. Covering three ends of the city within a span of just two hours, Chouhan reviewed the status of public welfare schemes on Monday. CM will visit various cities and villages of the state to review the implementation of public welfare and development schemes in coming days, say sources. It began in the state capital with a review of Lok Seva Kendra, sewage treatment plant (Koh-e-Fiza) and housing for all scheme construction at Kokta Transport Nagar. On the way back, CM halted at Abbas Nagar and distributed free face masks. He encouraged all to wear face masks to fight against Covid-19. During the inspection in the state capital, Chouhan first visited Lok Seva Kendra which is located in the district collectorate. Chouhan interacted with people who had filed applications. He also made a few telephone calls from the centre. Chouhan asked why Rs5 was charged as fee for a simple receipt. “The receipt fee should be reduced,” said CM to the officials. A fee of Rs5 is charged from the applicants who request for a receipt. Chouhan said that a new policy will be formulated to reduce this fee. Chouhan instructed Collector Bhopal, Avinash Lavania, to change the system of charging fee in the Kendra and provide relief to the public. He also interacted with those working in the Kendra. From the district collectorate, Chouhan reached the Upper Lake to inspect a new sewage treatment plant. Located at Koh-e-fiza the plant would lay down new standards for treatment of sewage in the area; CM is expected to inaugurate the new plant on December 15. Chouhan said, that such plants should work to their full potential for the purification of water bodies, he also issued instructions to complete the incomplete works of sewage treatment plants. From VIP road, Chouhan travelled around 22km to reach Transport Nagar, where three houses under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana would soon be handed over to eligible beneficiaries. Chouhan inspected the houses being constructed by Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) in Kokta on Raisen Road. The CM said, slum dwellers also have a right to reside in clean houses; the goal to provide houses to the poor in the state has to be fulfilled. There has been delay in the construction of houses at many places as the previous government did not take a serious stand towards the implementation of the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. This shortfall should be removed by speeding up completion of the houses under construction, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cm-gives-away-masks-on-2-hr-devpt-review-drive/articleshow/79376188.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 24, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra needs more clarity on hyperloop safety: Ajit Pawar||PUNE: Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Monday said the hyperloop project would not be implemented in the state unless there was more clarity despite the news about some preliminary trials of it abroad. Ajit Pawar told TOI, “Even if it is tried and tested in other countries, the state needs to get clear information about the project.” He said the state government would not invest in the hyperloop project even if Virgin Hyperloop conducted more trials abroad. The company would have to use its own funds for the test corridor. “At the most, we can provide them land, provided they come clean on testing and safety,” he said, adding he was not against any infrastructure projects, but such new technologies cannot be implemented unless tried and tested. He said the state would concentrate on other modes of transport till hyperloop technology developed more.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/maha-needs-more-clarity-on-hyperloop-safety-dy-cm/articleshow/79377543.cms||Nisha Nambiar
November 24, 2020||Pune||Gold medal for IISER’s malaria kit||Pune: A team of 14 students from the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) Pune, who competed at the 2020 international Genetically Engineered Machines contest, have won a gold medal at the International Giant Jamboree held virtually between November 13 and November 22. "The IISER Pune team worked to develop a library of protein-based therapeutics to combat the disease and a simple, cheap and efficient diagnostic kit along with an awareness campaign aimed at informing the public about the methods of prevention and cure," the statement said. The team’s diagnostic kit consisted of an easy-to-use software developed with an accuracy of 95.45% that uses images of blood smears to detect malaria. These images can be cheaply and easily obtained using the existing technologies of a foldscope (a foldable microscope) and a paper centrifuge which cost under Rs 100.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gold-medal-for-iisers-malaria-kit/articleshow/79377581.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Madurai||Woman loses eyesight after treatment by quack in Kanyakumari district, seeks relief of Rs 1 crore||KANYAKUMARI: A 49-year-old woman in Kanyakumari district, who lost her eyesight at the hands of a quack, has petitioned district collector M Arvind seeking a compensation of Rs 1 crore. Regila Bhagyajothi, 49, a resident of Kovilvilai near Nagecoil in Kanyakumari district, was suffering from fever and sought treatment from a private hospital at Thengamputhur, run by S Ratheesh, who was later revealed to be a quack. While she was undergoing treatment at the hospital, her condition worsened and she started losing her eyesight. She was taken to another private hospital where it was revealed that she was given wrong treatment. Regila also had to undergo an eye surgery, but she lost her vision. A case was registered against Ratheesh. On Monday, the woman and her family submitted a petition at the district collectorate. In their petition, they sought strict action against Ratheesh and a compensation of Rs 1 crore for the medical expenses she had to bear. District collector M Arvind assured them that prompt legal action will be taken against the accused and that best efforts will be taken to provide relief to the woman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/woman-loses-eyesight-after-treatment-by-quack-seeks-relief-of-rs-1-crore/articleshow/79378668.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Pune||Hard-pressed parents keen on ashram shalas starting||Pune: Officials governing ashram shalas in Pune and nearby areas said parents of students in tribal schools are insistent about sending them.Poor cellphone penetration and network conditions, and lack of any other gadgets have rendered online education useless. There are 23 government-run and nine aided ashram shalas under Pune’s Integrated Tribal Development Project. The government notification has said the tribal schools for standards IX, X and XII will reopen on December 1. “The department is currently collecting data of students willing to come to the residential schools. Arrangements must ensure a safe stay and school for these students,” the Integrated Tribal Development Project, Ghodegaon’s project officer RB Pandhure said. While the number of students in standards IX to XII category is being compiled by the department, the RT-PCR tests to detect Covid-19 virus would be performed on all teachers three days before the schools reopen. Schools’ management committees have been told to buy thermal scanners and other measures required for proper care. “We are expecting a large number of students to come to school as parents have no resources at home. They all come from poor families and hardly any own smartphones. Hence, online education has not been a success with them. We have tried to reach them via resource persons, but there is a gap. Parents want to send them to school as their educational and other needs are taken care of in ashram shalas. The exact numbers would be known after we get the parents’ consent,” assistant project officer Navnath Bhawari added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hard-pressed-parents-keen-on-ashram-shalas-starting/articleshow/79377556.cms||Ardhra Nair
November 24, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: M Swaraj files complaint with speaker against ED||KOCHI: In yet another twist in the tug-of-war between central investigation agencies and the CPM-led Kerala government, party MLA M Swaraj lodged a petition with legislative assembly speaker P Sreeramakrishnan against Enforcement Directorate (ED). As per the complaint, ED has infringed upon the rights of legislators and breached the privilege of the members of assembly by mooting an inquiry into the Comptroller and Audit General (CAG) report on KIIFB, a document which is yet to be tabled in assembly. Addressing mediapersons in Kochi on Monday, Swaraj said that ED’s move to start an inquiry on the basis of CAG report on Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) is a breach of privilege of legislators. “The CAG report should be tabled in the assembly. The legislators should discuss it. Public accounts committee has to go through it. Only then can the report be given to any agency or put in the public domain. There were reports that ED is going to start an inquiry on the basis of the CAG report. If there is a move to start inquiry on the basis of a report yet to be tabled in the assembly, it is breach of privilege of the legislators. That’s why I gave the complaint to the speaker,” Swaraj said. He also alleged that the central agencies are being misused for political interests. The observations of CAG that KIIFB has been functioning in an unconstitutional manner had kickstarted a controversy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/swaraj-files-complaint-with-speaker-against-ed/articleshow/79376207.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Bhopal||MP: Migrants head back to other cities amid coronavirus 2nd wave||BHOPAL: As the state braces for second wave of Coronavirus, the districts in Bundelkhand are witnessing another round of migration due to joblessness. The migration this time is in larger numbers as compared to the previous months. The state government said, “We are working with the Centre to get the migrating labourers enrolled on the government portal to aid them get basic facilities.” Around 7.30 lakh labourers had returned to Madhya Pradesh along with over 5 lakh members of family during the migrant exodus, in the beginning of the Covid pandemic. A little more than half of them had come from Gujarat and Maharashtra. The labourers had vowed “ never to migrate in future” after they returned in hordes from bigger cities. They walked down long distances, cycled 800 kms or boarded trucks to reach home. Months later, they are facing it hard to survive in the absence of jobs. (The state government has claimed to provide jobs to 39,400 migrants.) The labourers are migrating again in search of jobs. The phenomenon had started in September, but after Diwali there has been an increase in the number of workers heading back to big cities for jobs. Hundreds of families are leaving homes from the Chattarpur, Khajuraho and Harpalpur railway stations. The bus stands of Nowgaon, Panna, Tikamgarh and Chattarpur are also witnessing assembly of hundreds of families every day to board the buses leaving for Delhi and NCR. At Harpalpur railway station, a labourer Ramdin said, “We know about the second wave. But we can’t help. It is a do-or-die situation for us.” Dilip Ahirwar, a labourer boarding a bus to Delhi from Chattarpur said,” I had returned home in April, since then it was an 8 month long wait for jobs .” Labour minister of Madhya Pradesh, Brajendra Singh Rathore, also from Bundelkhand admitted to the “ issue of unemployment in the region.” He said that, “With agriculture as the main source of employment, they cannot sit at home for long.” He said “we are working with the Centre to get our migrating labourers enrolled in the portal. They would get all the benefits of the Centre’s schemes including the jobs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/migrants-head-back-to-other-cities-amid-corona-2nd-wave/articleshow/79376200.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana sees 600 Covid cases as testing goes down||HYDERABAD: Days after the Telangana government said it will increase Covid-19 testis to 64,000 per day, testing on Monday hit a low of 24,139, throwing up 602 new positive cases and three deaths.  While the caseload has reached 2,64,128, the total death toll went up to 1,433. So far, a total of 2,51,468 patients in the state have recovered from the coronavirus infection, while the number of active cases in the state has further dropped to 11,227 now from over 20,000 last month.  The state has crossed 51.5 lakh sample testing since the onset of pandemic and the number of samples tested per million population in the state now stands at 1,38,594. State health department has planned to upscale testing from current 40,000-45,000 per day to 64,000 per day, days after HC asked authorities to carry out 1 lakh tests. Of the total positive cases, 70 per cent are asymptomatic patients, while the remaining have had symptoms. Among all patients, 39 per cent are females and 61 percent are males. On Monday, GHMC limits recorded 129 new cases, Medchal Malkajgiri recorded 60, Rangareddy recorded 62 and Karimnagar recorded 51 cases. Of the total positive cases, 70 per cent are asymptomatic patients, while the remaining have had symptoms. Among all patients, 39 per cent are females and 61 per cent are males||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-sees-600-cases-as-testing-goes-down/articleshow/79377592.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat aims for Centre’s production-linked incentives||GANDHINAGAR: The Gujarat government expects to garner a lion’s share of the Rs 1.5 lakh crore production-linked incentives (PLI) scheme of the Union government, which is aimed at promoting domestic manufacturing in 10 key sectors. Nine of the ten sectors identified for promotion by the government of India (GOI) have a strong base in Gujarat. The state government has already begun to plan ways to see local industries can avail benefits of the Centre’s PLI scheme. Manoj Das, additional chief secretary (ACS), chief minister’s office (CMO) and industry & mines department said, “We are expecting Gujarat’s industry will get a major share in the GOI’s proposed PLI scheme as we have a strong presence in nine of the ten sectors which will be covered. Auto, pharma and textiles among others have a strong presence in Gujarat.” The move is aimed at helping labour-intensive sectors such as textiles, food and automobiles and its components as well as high-end goods such as advanced batteries, including hydrogen fuel cells, and solar cells, while reducing the import of electronics, pharmaceuticals, speciality steel, white goods and telecom and networking equipment. The PLIs will be available over a five-year period and funds will be based on proposals finalised by a committee of officers. Exporters will benefit from the incentives, and the new mechanism is seen to be a more focused approach with the benefits expected to flow mainly to large producers. “We are expecting final detailed guidelines from the government of India as different ministries are linked for sectors like pharma, textile etc. We have decided to start a dedicated facility to educate state based industries to increase their production and get maximum benefit under the GOI’s incentive scheme,’’ Das said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-looks-to-reap-benefits-of-centres-pli-scheme/articleshow/79377636.cms||Kapil Dave
November 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Paigah land: Telangana HC stays order||HYDERABAD: A division bench of the Telangana high court on Monday stayed the order of a single judge in the Secunderguda Paigah land tussle at Gandipet in Ranga Reddy district. The bench of chief justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and justice B Vijaysen Reddy gave this interim direction while hearing the appeals filed by the state and legal heirs of the Paigah estate. Appearing for the state, special counsel Harender Pershad said that they are aggrieved by the finding of the single judge in holding a view that the land is now not with the court of wards. Appearing for legal heirs, senior counsel D Prakash Reddy said that the single judge traversed beyond the scope of the writ petition and passed orders on various aspects. The single judge, earlier heard the issue and directed the revenue officials to issue e-pattadar passbooks to farmers Burra Venugopal Goud and others because they have occupancy rights and also possessed pattadar passbooks over 38 acres of land in Secunderguda village. He also gave a finding that this village is not a Paigah village. When the bench said that the matter needs a final hearing for coming to a conclusion and till then they are suspending the single judge order, the farmers’ counsel Anand Kumar Kapoor urged the bench not to pass any interim order because the state has no case in the matter. “When Inams Abolition Act came in July 1955, all inam lands are vested with the state and this Act has an overriding power over the court of wards Act. Hence the state cannot contend now that this land is still in the purview of the court of wards,” he said. The bench posted the case to Dec 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/paigah-land-hc-stays-order/articleshow/79377544.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Hyderabad||IIIT-Hyderabad course tweaked for online classes||HYDERABAD: From splitting the incoming batch of undergraduate students (UG) to tweaking the syllabus, the International Institute of Information Technology, Hyderabad (IIIT-H) has taken slew of measures to commence online classes for the academic year 2020-21. The institute split the incoming batch of first year UG students into two sections. Online classes for section A commenced on September 14 and classes for section B are set to commence on Monday. An internal survey conducted by student parliament at IIIT-H indicated that 66 per cent of those surveyed reported an increase in time spent on academics. A whopping 82 per cent said that stress due to academics had increased. They attributed the increased stress to a significant increase in online workload and consequent screen time. Following this, the institute reduced the course load on students by reducing the semester duration and course syllabus. To further lighten the burden, the number of courses a student can register for in each term was restricted to three. “We had to do a curriculum shift. We had to move out hardware courses and bring in courses that are scheduled for later to fill in those slots,” says Prof. Sivaswamy, dean, academics at IIIT-H.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/iiit-h-course-tweaked-for-online-classes/articleshow/79377536.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand allows ‘catch & release’ fishing in 8 rivers for tourism||DEHRADUN: Two years after Uttarakhand became the first state in the country to ban angling – catching fish using hooks and releasing them back into rivers and ponds in forests – the decision has been reversed. An order to this effect, dated November 18, signed by the chief wildlife warden JS Suhag (a copy is with TOI) has been sent to all divisional forest officers (DFOs). The order says that the state wildlife board, in its meeting held last year, decided that angling should be permitted in the state’s reserve forest areas to boost tourism, provided due norms are followed. It goes on to say that the forest department has accordingly decided to allow angling with certain conditions. Among the norms that have been laid down are that angling will be permitted in eight specified rivers on a ‘catch and release’ basis only and permission will be given by the DFO of the area for the activity to be conducted between sunrise and sunset only. The specified rivers pass through dense forest belts and include Sharda, Nayar, Ganga, Vyasghar, Tons, Dodital, Kosi and Kothari rivers. The season for angling has been specified as being between September 15 and May 31. In July 2018, the Uttarakhand forest department had ended angling in reserve forests as well as buffer areas, citing “cruelty to fish”. A year later, in August 2019, it was decided to revoke the order, stating the need “for a boost to tourism in Uttarakhand”. It then took the forest department a year and three months to issue the written order to DFOs to restart angling in forest areas. Those connected with the tourism sector had been approaching different authorities in the last two years to get the order revoked, claiming that it affected business. On multiple occasions, representatives of tourism groups had met forest minister Harak Singh Rawat as well as chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat to press their demand. Now, with the ban revoked, tour operators expressed relief. Hari Maan, president, Corbett Hotels and Resorts Association, Ramnagar, said, “Promoting tourism had become difficult ever since the ban was imposed. Neighbouring Himalayan states of Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir hadn’t banned angling, so tourists simply preferred visiting those areas.” Wildlife experts, on the other hand, advised caution. “If angling is permitted, the process — to make sure the fish are released back in the wild — should be monitored, as the forests are among the only remaining habitats for aquatic life. As it is, Himalayan rivers are witnessing a reduction in and migration of fish population due to various factors ranging from construction of hydropower plants, pollution, to uncontrolled fishing, irrespective of seasons,” said a scientist from the Doon-based Wildlife Institute of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-1st-state-to-ban-angling-reverses-decision-allows-catch-release-fishing-in-8-specified-rivers-to-encourage-tourism/articleshow/79375011.cms||Shivani Azad
November 24, 2020||Visakhapatnam||RTC set to resume services from Kakinada to Chennai||Visakhapatnam: The Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) is gearing up to resume its bus service from Kakinada to Chennai from November 25 following an official order issued to local authorities, as per the Vizianagaram zonal office. Speaking to TOI, zone executive director, C Ravi Kumar, said that at present, a bus runs up to Sullurupeta in Nellore district from Kakinada in East Godavari. Sullurupeta is located 90 kilometres away from Chennai. “Once the order comes, we would extend the existing Kakinada-Sullurupeta bus service to Chennai. Since the occupancy ratio is very poor for the Vizag-Chennai bus service, we cancelled it and shifted the same to Kakinada in our zone,” Ravi Kumar added. The Kakinada route has direct passengers to Chennai. A lack of direct train facility between Kakinada and Chennai is also one of the reasons for the RTC to successfully operate the bus, Ravi Kumar said. It may be mentioned that the RTC has resumed 45 bus services to Hyderabad from Visakhapatnam in first week of this month following the resumption of inter-state services between Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. While 28 buses are from East Godavari district, the remaining 17 buses run from Visakhapatnam and its surrounding districts of Vizianagaram and Srikakulam to Hyderabad. “Similarly, we are hoping for the resumption of the inter-state services between Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu this week,” said another RTC official from Vijayawada. Till now, private operators have been operating services to other states including Tamil Nadu. Now, the RTC ready to operate services without compromising on Covid-19 protocols. Last month, the RTC received a positive feedback from the Association of State Road Transport Undertakings (ASRTU) under the Union ministry of road transport and highways. The ASRTU conducted a survey on RTC services in different states such as Telangana, Karnataka among others. In its survey, the body mentioned that the Covid-19 spread is very low in services run by APSRTC compared to other states. “It also mentioned that the public transportation system in AP has been better during Covid-19,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/rtc-set-to-resume-services-from-kakinada-to-chennai/articleshow/79356263.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
November 24, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: No new lake near Gaumukh, but debris pile-up poses serious risk||DEHRADUN: Three years after the formation of an “artificial lake” was reported at Gaumukh, source of the Ganga river, scientists said the water body that had formed has disappeared, possibly because of sedimentation. The accumulation of debris, however, continues to pose a serious threat. “In 2017, I had pointed out in my report to the Uttarkashi DM that a lake — about 1.5-2m deep and 18-25m long — had formed at Gaumukh. A state government team had accompanied me then,” said PS Negi, senior scientist with the Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology, Dehradun. In October this year, Negi made a repeat visit to the area and found that the lake is not there anymore. “The old lake is unlikely to reappear under the existing circumstances,” he added. A month before that, in September, the Gangotri National Park management had made the same observation in a report to the Uttarkashi DM. The report was submitted in the Nainital high court which is hearing a PIL regarding the state of Gaumukh. Last week, the state disaster management department came under fire from the high court for not complying with orders to submit periodic reports on Gaumukh. The state government, meanwhile, has been contending that the formation of the lake was a natural phenomenon. While the lake and its implications are contested, the imminent threat posed by the debris is not. “The deposition of debris right at the snout of the Gangotri glacier may cause severe damage if there is heavy rainfall,” said Negi. In 2017, this pile of debris had altered the course of the Ganga. “It is now between 3m and 12m high along a 1.3-km stretch in the area. If a cloudburst happens, like before the 2013 Kedarnath disaster (when water had accumulated in the Chaurabari Lake), or a lake outburst or even heavy rainfall, the debris may come hurtling down the slope in downstream areas near Uttarkashi. It would leave a trail of massive destruction,” Negi added. The multidisciplinary team had also warned of this. “In the event of unprecedented rainfall, downflow of loose glacial material and blocking of the river cannot be ruled out,” its report, submitted to the disaster management department, said. Piyoosh Rautela, director of the Disaster Mitigation and Management Centre and a member of the multidisciplinary team, said, “The state government is exploring the possibility of regular monitoring of glacial lakes and other water bodies in remote areas using remote sensing techniques to ensure new lakes are not created and the swelling of existing ones is immediately noted.” In October, the IIRS was requested to take this up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/no-new-lake-near-gaumukh-but-debris-pile-up-poses-serious-risk/articleshow/79375023.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Burglar held, stolen gold recovered||HYDERABAD: A burglar, who was involved in five offences, and a stolen property receiver were arrested from different locations in the city. Cyberabad police recovered 19 tola gold and foreign currency from their possession. In another development, Hyderabad police arrested a thief along with two juvenile offenders and recovered two stolen cell phones from his possession. In the first case, Miyapur police arrested a burglar, S Anil Kumar, 33, and a stolen property receiver, D Venkataraman, 45. Police arrested Anil Kumar during a vehicle check conducted at Allwyn X Roads in Miyapur on Sunday and, based on his confession, they nabbed Venkataraman from his Kondapur house. Cops recovered 19 tola stolen gold,||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/burglar-held-stolen-gold-recovered/articleshow/79377600.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Dehradun||Commotion marks first day of opening of border check points for Army pensioners from Nepal||PITHORAGARH: Over 700 people from Nepal, mainly pensioners of the Indian Army residing in Nepal or their kin crossed the border here so they could withdraw pensions but only 125 of them could get their money. “The Nepalese officials gave the nod to their citizens to enter India after 3 pm. Thus, many could not withdraw the amount as the bank branch shuts by 4.30 pm. The rush also created some chaos in Jhulaghat but the traffic was restored soon. We have arranged for the accommodation of more than 550 people from Nepal, who could not withdraw the pension amount on Monday in government schools and other public buildings. They can make the withdrawal on Tuesday,” said Tara Singh Rana, police official at Jhulaghat, the main border check point through which entry was allowed for the Nepalese citizens. Vivek Yadav, branch manager of the SBI branch in Jhulaghat, said, “On Monday, 125 pensioners from Nepal withdrew a total amount of Rs 93 lakh. The others could not withdraw the money as they reached late.” It is worth mentioning that the SBI branch of Jhulaghat has accounts of 1,200 Indian Army pensioners from Nepal. Among those came to withdraw pension was Leela Devi, a 76-year-old woman whose late husband had served in the Indian Army. She was carried on a stretcher by four persons, including her son, since she was unable to walk due to arthritis. “My father Narayan Singh Bist served in Bengal during the 1960s. He retired in 1970 and died in 1990. Since then, my mother has been withdrawing the pension amount but lately her condition has deteriorated and it has become difficult for her to walk due to arthritis,” said Kishan Singh, her son.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/commotion-marks-first-day-of-opening-of-border-check-points-for-army-pensioners-from-nepal/articleshow/79375028.cms||Prem Punetha
November 24, 2020||Pune||65-year-old man jumps to death from 13th floor of building at Rahatani||Pune: A man (65) on Monday afternoon jumped to his death from the 13th floor of a building at Rahatani where he had gone under the pretext of buying a flat.Senior inspector Vivek Mugalikar of the Wakad police said, “Deceased Sunil Ranade’s son told us that had raised money from people for investing in the share market and was struggling to repay the amount.” He said. “Ranade had gone there to check the flat on Sunday as well. On Monday afternoon, he reached the building and went to the 13th floor along with a salesperson. Ranade had told the sales person that he would wait for his son. As the sales person went to his site office for some work when Ranade jumped to his death.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/65-year-old-man-jumps-to-death-from-13th-floor-of-building-at-rahatani/articleshow/79377618.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Nigerian among two held for duping by Rachakonda cops||HYDERABAD: Two people, including a Nigerian national, were arrested from New Delhi by Rachakonda police after they duped several persons on the pretext of sending money to India for charity work. Police said Chibuike Christian Aririegbunamu and Arun Kumar were arrested and the prime accused Sonia Sharma is absconding. Chibuike and Sonia hatched a plan to cheat people on the pretext of transferring money to charity funds. The accused would contact victims through different social media platforms and emails. In October, Chibuike contacted a woman in the city over Whatsapp and discussed spiritual matters. He later told her that a foreigner was interested in transferring Rs 4 crore for charity work in India. “Sonia contacted the victim through Whatsapp calls and email by posing as an executive of Foreign Remittance department and demanded that government fees be transferred for the release of the money. The victim transferred Rs 29.74 lakh to five different bank accounts located in Kolkata, Tripura and Delhi between October 27 and November 6. After getting money from the victim, the accused withdrew the money with the support of Arun,’’ Rachakonda police said in a press note. When the police went to Delhi to nab Chibuike, he allegedly assaulted a sub-inspector and a constable. The injured policemen lodged a complaint against Chibuike in Tilak Nagar police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nigerian-among-two-held-for-duping/articleshow/79377570.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Schools to function in mornings||AHMEDABAD: The commissionerate of schools has instructed the state government and self-financed schools to keep the working hours from 7.30 am to 12 noon. This is applicable for secondary and higher secondary schools. “All the schools that have kept afternoon hours for carrying out administrative and other office work will now have to shift to morning hours,” said an official aware of the matter. “So teachers and all other staff members are now required to attend the schools in the morning hours,” the official added. The state government had earlier announced the re-opening of schools from class 9 to class 12 for students from November 23. The decision was recalled after the state witnessed a spike in Covid-19 numbers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/schools-to-function-in-mornings/articleshow/79377657.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Mysuru||Man, lover held for wife’s murder||HASSAN: Three weeks after Hassan police found the body of a woman in a village pond under Dudda police limits, they have identified her as Sushmitha, 26, from Belaguru village, in Chitradurga district. Her husband Nagaraju, 28, a watch repairer, is the prime accused and has been arrested for the murder alongwith his lover, Shaila. The others arrested are Nagaraju's brother Mohan, 24, who owns a mobile service shop, and his parents Eshwararao, 59, and Jayanthi, 57. Sushmita's body was found in a pond in Cheeranahalli village, Dudda, Arsikere, on November 1. On October 29, her father Krishnamurty had lodged a missing complaint at Srirampura police station. On November 22, Nagaraju was taken into custody and he admitted to plotting his wife’s murder along with the other accused, said police. Nagaraju and Sushmita fell in love and got married six years ago. The couple has a four-year-old daughter. However, Nagaraju was having an affair with Shaila, a maid from the neighbouring village. When Sushmita got wind of the affair she moved to her parents’ house a year ago. She found a job in a garment factory in Arsikere, said superintendent of police R Srinivas Gowda. She had filed a case in court seeking financial aid from her husband, a move that enraged Nagaraju. On October 29, Nagaraju called Sushmita home to iron out their differences. When their arguments got out of hand, he pushed her. Sushmita’s head dashed against the wall and she fell unconscious. Then he strangled her to death, said polie. Nagaraju then took the help of his brother, Mohan, and Shyla. The three took the body in a car and dumped it in the river. Police said that Nagaraju had told his parents about the murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/man-lover-held-for-wifes-murder/articleshow/79376063.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: TIMS nurses detained for stir over non-payment of salaries||HYDERABAD: Fifteen nurses of Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (TIMS), Gachibowli, protesting over non-payment of salaries at BRKR Bhavan were detained by police on Monday. They were protesting over delay in payment of salaries and other issues, including contractual service terms. In fact, protests have been on over the issue of delayed payment of salaries to nurses at King Koti Hospital and Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences for the last couple of days now. Many newly-recruited contract nurses were facing issues due to non-payment of salaries and were unable to maintain their day-to-day expenses. “Several nurses travel long distances of 45-50 kilometres to get to work, even getting bus passes has become an issue for them,” a nurse from the hospital said. Meanwhile, the health authorities have said the delay was on account of the contractor as salaries were not directly paid to contract employees by the government. Apart from nurses even senior residents have been protesting over a different issue at the hospital.  Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences doctors have been protesting over cancellation of alternate weekly quarantine. With both doctors and nurses protesting over different issues the functioning of the Covid-19 nodal hospital might be hit if the stirs continue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tims-nurses-detained-for-stir-over-non-payment-of-salaries/articleshow/79377625.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Hyderabad||On GHMC battlefield, 1,122 to try their luck||HYDERABAD: As many as 1,122 candidates will battle it out for 150 wards of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation which goes to polls on December 1. This after 695 candidates withdrew 1,377 nomination papers on the last day of withdrawals on Sunday. The number of contesting candidates is 211 lesser compared to 1333 candidates who contested in 2016 GHMC polls. The reason being attributed for this is that many other registered and recognised parties including Lok Satta had contested in 2016, which do not have a single candidate this time. The contest this time is mainly a triangular fight between TRS, BJP and Congress in the 100 wards in Secunderabad, Cyberabad and other parts of Greater Hyderabad and will be four-cornered between MIM, BJP, TRS and Congress in the Old City. Right from illiterates, retired employees, businessmen and housewives to those holding B.Tech, M.Tech degrees and doctors, candidates from varied backgrounds have entered the fray for the polls. Age too is no bar with candidates aged 21 to 75 fighting a pitched battle. This time the BJP fielded candidates from all 150 wards. However, it’s candidate’s nomination from Nawabsahebkunta ward was rejected. The saffron party had contested 55 wards in 2016. The BJP had an electoral alliance with the TDP in 2016, but is going alone this time. Jana Sena party candidates withdrew from the fray in support of the BJP. MIM is contesting in over 51 wards. The TRS and Congress too fielded candidates from 150 wards each. The nominations of candidates belonging to the Congress were rejected from Tala Chanchalam, Barkas, Golconda and Toli Chowki making it 146 for the Congress. The ruling TRS is the only party contesting from all wards. The number of independent candidates is only 415 this election. Another 76 candidates are in fay from recognized and regional parties. Despite the TRS, BJP and Congress leadership managing to cajole and convince the rebels to withdraw from a majority of wards, some of the aspirants remained in fray. Last minute efforts are being made to ensure that they remain as dummy (silent) candidates without campaigning so that they don’t cut into the vote bank of their respective parties. The TDP is contesting in as many as 106 wards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/on-ghmc-battlefield-1122-to-try-their-luck/articleshow/79377697.cms||Roushan Ali
November 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Gastroesophageal reflux disease on rise in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: The incidence of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) is on the rise in the city. Experts consult 10-15 patients in a month on an average. Gastroesophageal reflux disease occurs when stomach acid frequently flows back into the tube connecting the mouth and stomach (esophagus). This acid reflux irritates the lining of the esophagus. While many people experience acid reflux from time to time and tend to ignore the symptoms, GERD is a mild acid reflux that occurs at least twice a week. In some moderate to severe cases, results in vomiting at least once a week. “Gastro esophageal reflux disease is caused by a combination of physiological abnormalities in patients. The symptoms include burning in chest, reflux episodes and some times respiratory problems. This disorder is increasing due to an increase in precipitating factors like obesity, sedentary lifestyle, stress, untimely food habits, change in sleep pattern, spicy food consumption, smoking and alcohol intake,” said Dr Aslam Baba, consultant surgical gastroenterologist, Medicover Hospitals. Symptoms include heartburn, difficulty in swallowing and sensation of a lump in the throat. People experiencing night time acid reflux, might also experience chronic cough, laryngitis, new or worsening asthma and disrupted sleep. “GERD can lead to severe problems like Barret’s esophagus and cancer of oesophagus. Certain lifestyle and dietary changes can often help relieve & prevent symptoms of GERD,” said Dr Abhiram Koganti, consultant gastroenterologist, Aster Prime Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gastroesophageal-reflux-disease-on-rise-in-city/articleshow/79377672.cms||Amrita Didyala
November 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Two die in road accident in Nizamabad||HYDERABAD: Two persons died in a road accident at Kukunur X Roads in Nizamabad on Sunday when a car crashed into a truck coming from the opposite direction while overtaking a tractor. The deceased were identified as A Srinivas, 48, a car driver, and P Lavanya, 30, a housewife. According to Armoor police, the accident occurred when families of P Naveen and P Rajasekhar from Vemulawada in Rajanna Sircilla district were going to a wedding in Nizamabad. Police shifted the bodies to Armoor government hospital. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-die-in-road-accident-in-nizamabad/articleshow/79377678.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Kolhapur||Udayanraje slams Cong, NCP netas||Kolhapur: BJP Rajya Sabha member Udayanraje Bhosale, who is the 13th descendent of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, has come down heavily on the previous Congress governments in the state for delaying the decision on reservation for the Maratha community. Without taking any names, Bhosale also targeted NCP chief Sharad Pawar over the issue. Speaking to the media on Sunday, Bhosale posed a series of questions regarding Maratha reservation. He questioned why the decision was not taken at the time of the Mandal Commission. “What is the contribution of Maratha chief ministers to the issue? What has the so-called strongman done to meet the long-standing demand?” he asked. In the same breath, Bhosale said ex-CM Devendra Fadnavis ensured reservation for Marathas even though he does not belong to the same community. “Make Fadnavis CM and I assure you that reservation will be granted to Maratha community,” he said, adding that it was of no use to discuss the issue with Pawar. Bhosale alleged that the previous generation of Maratha leaders deliberately kept the issue pending. “How can the government lawyer be absent during the hearing in the Supreme Court? Do not test the patience of the Maratha community or you will face the consequences,” he warned. He said, “The Maratha community has been assured of a solution in every election. An elected representative should feel ashamed and resign if they do not have the capacity to solve the issue.” The Maratha community does not want reservation at the cost of any other community. “There is an attempt to make two communities fight against each other,” he said, adding that he would not tolerate injustice to any other community because of Maratha reservation. Bhosale warned that the politicians should not underestimate the Maratha community. “They have elected you and they are can pull you down from power,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/udayanraje-slams-cong-ncp-netas/articleshow/79497262.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Nashik||Prestige fight for BJP to retain Pune seat||Kolhapur: A close contest is expected between the BJP, which has represented the Pune division graduates’ constituency for more than three decades, and the Mahavikas Aaghadi (MVA) in the election to be held on Tuesday. NCP chief Sharad Pawar, along with state chief Jayant Patil and Supriya Sule, campaigned aggressively for Arun Lad, who is the MVA candidate. The NCP leaders launched systematic and disciplined campaigning all five districts and were helped by Congress and Shiv Sena. BJP state unit chief Chandrakant Patil held the seat for the past two terms and the party is keen on retaining it. Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and several senior leaders took out election tours in five districts in support of party nominee Sangram Deshmukh. BJP is mainly banking on its cadre to ensure that its committed voters go to polling station. On Sunday, BJP undertook massive exercise to reach the voters by visitng their homes. However, NCP is a little anxious over the presence of two candidates – Sharad Patil of Janata Dal (Secular) and Shrimant Kokate, an independent. Patil had won the election from the same constituency in 2002 and enjoys goodwill among the voters. Kokate, who has been vocal over Maratha reservation, had sought nomination from NCP but he was not given the opportunity. He has been aggressively speaking for Maratha reservation and other issues and is respected for his writing. The constituency has a total of 4.26 lakh voters spread over five districts. Over one lakh voters are from Pune district, where the BJP has a strong network. Kolhapur district with 89,529 voters follows next. Deshmukh, Patil and Lad are from Sangli but the districts stands in the third position considering the number of voters (87,233). Satara district has enrolled 59,071 voters. Solapur district has recorded the lowest number of voters (53,813) in the division. The constituency has a total of 62 candidates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/prestige-fight-for-bjp-to-retain-pune-seat/articleshow/79497257.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Bar bribery probe scuttled after KM Mani met Kerala CM, says hotel owner Biju Ramesh||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Bar hotel owner Biju Ramesh alleged on Monday that the bar bribery probe was scuttled after KC (M) leader (late) K M Mani visited chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan at his residence. “After this meeting, a message went to state police headquarters to stall probe in the bar bribery. I had earlier met Pinarayi Vijayan and Kodiyeri Balakrishnan and they had urged me to stand firm on my statements and had pledged support. But, after Mani’s visit everything came to an end,” he alleged. He also made a new revelation against opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala. “When I was set to give a statement under CrPC Section 164, Chennithala’s wife pleaded not to create trouble for her husband. After that, Ramesh called and requested me not to reveal his name while giving my statement and I did not mention his name. He was the home minister then,” said Biju. He alleged that every time the then excise minister K Babu demanded money for party fund, he used to inform that he was following the directive of the then chief minister Oommen Chandy. Biju said he had no faith in vigilance probe. “All political parties are alike. Congress is working, hand in glove with CPM, to settle bar bribery case. Hence only an investigation by a central agency can bring out the truth,” he added. Biju claimed that he had revealed the names of all political leaders who had accepted money and also the offer made by Mani’s son Jose and that vigilance was not ready to record the same.  “They were of the opinion that they have certain limitations. I still stick to what I have said and will provide more proof. But, I have lost trust in vigilance,” he said. He claimed CPM was not sincere in the bar bribery case. “If the government wants to proceed with the case I am ready to cooperate,” he said. Defamation notice against BijuMeanwhile, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala decided to send a defamation notice to Biju Ramesh for putting him and his wife in a bad light before the public by making false and defamatory statements. “Vigilance had twice found that there was no evidence to prove the allegations levelled against me. However, Biju has come out with baseless statements against me and my wife and I have decided to take legal recourse,” said Chennithala. Surendran slams CM, oppn leaderBJP state president K Surendran alleged that it was CM Pinarayi Vijayan who torpedoed the bar bribery case. Surendran said that the disclosures by Biju Ramesh shows the understanding between UDF and LDF. CM should make it clear if he got any favour – other than Jose K Mani joining LDF –in return for torpedoing the probe. He also slammed opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala saying that he should say why he pleaded before Biju. When Jose K Mani changed political front he became a saint. In Kerala, UDF and LDF are indulging in settlement politics, he alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/probe-scuttled-after-mani-met-cm/articleshow/79376233.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand hills get fresh spell of snow, but Met says it’s ‘not colder than last yr’||DEHRADUN: A fresh spell of snowfall lashed higher reaches of Uttarakhand on Monday while plains and foothills received intermittent showers resulting in drop in the mercury across the state. However, the regional meteorological office said, unlike Delhi, which is witnessing an early onset of a cold wave, it is not colder than previous years in the hills. According to Bikram Singh, director of the regional meteorological centre, “The temperatures in Uttarakhand are not settling less than the average as compared to the previous year. On the other hand, the maximum temperatures are settling above normal in the plains.” Singh added that throughout the month of November, the day’s temperatures were recorded above normal except for a few days when snow activity was witnessed in the hills or rain lashed foothills and plains. Meanwhile, very light to light showers occurred in the high altitude places of Uttarkashi, Rudraprayag and Chamoli district since Monday morning, while a few places in Bageshwar, Pithoragarh and Dehradun received light showers. According to reports, Badrinath, Kedarnath, the valley of flowers, Rudranath, Auli and surrounding hills also received snowfall. In Chamoli district, villages like Pana, Ramani and Kanol experienced snowfall since Monday morning. “The Met office had issued a forecast of snow and rain in the state on November 23 and 24. High altitude places situated at 3000m and above received snowfall,” said Bikram Singh. Cloudy conditions prevailed in the state capital causing fall in the day temperature. On Monday, the maximum temperature in Dehradun was recorded at 21.4 degrees Celsius, while the minimum settled at 8.9 degrees Celsius, one notch below normal. Meanwhile, snow and rain activity is likely to continue on Tuesday as well, said Met officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-hills-get-fresh-spell-of-snow-but-met-says-its-not-colder-than-last-yr/articleshow/79375042.cms||Gaurav Talwar
November 24, 2020||Dehradun||‘Harley’s exit blow to biking culture,’ say 200 owners in Doon||DEHRADUN: The decision of Harley Davidson to pull out of India has left 200-odd owners in Dehradun worried about loss of the vibrant biking culture in the region as well as service delivery and availability of spare parts for their prized rides. Several cities in the country have recently recorded protest rallies by owners and dealers against the American motorcycle company stopping sales and manufacturing operations in the country. Among owners in Dehradun, it has sparked fear that “an entire culture would be eroded and a legacy lost”. “Being a member of Harley Owners Group (HOG) is a matter for pride. I have even stopped wearing apparels and riding gears of other brands since I bought the bike in 2015,” said GDS Warne, one of the Harley owners in Dehradun. In the city and nearby hills as well, thrill seekers can often be seen zooming past on their high-end bikes. In fact, demand from travellers who wanted to navigate hilly terrains on two wheels had led Uttarakhand to roll out state-operated bike rental services in 2016, allowing travellers to rent Harley and Royal Enfield motorcycles. Col (Retd) Saurabh Bhardwaj, who owns a Harley Davidson Fat Boy and has been a part of the riding community of the Indian Army, told TOI that it was a phase of uncertainty for the riding community. “The owners of Harley Davidson bikes are referred to as HOG which promotes the legacy of the motorcycling experience. We are not just customers but have been a part of the Harley family. We just hope that the riding experience of these machines can remain intact when a new company starts providing services.” Another rider from Dehradun Saurabh Agarwal added, “I have clocked in more than 60,000 kilometers on my Harley and the experience has been an unforgettable one. When the company decided to move out of India, owners were left disappointed. However, the company has assured us that existing customers need not worry about service. I hope that quality standards remain a priority.” The sole Harley Davidson dealership in the state located in Dehradun declined to comment on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/harleys-exit-blow-to-biking-culture-say-200-owners-in-doon/articleshow/79375051.cms||Abhijeet Singh
November 24, 2020||Hyderabad||India’s first facial tech tracker goes live on November 27||HYDERABAD: Internet Freedom Foundation (IFF) will launch India’s first tracker for facial recognition systems on November 27. The Foundation on Monday announced it is all set to launch Project Panoptic, India’s first facial recognition technology (FRT) tracker. “It maps the development and deployment of facial recognition technology projects across India. We will go live on November 27,” it announced. Internet Freedom Foundation demanded the government pass data protection law as well as specific law about facial recognition technology. National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) has started making plans to set up Automated Facial Recognition System (AFRS) with an estimated budget of Rs 308 crore and create a national database of photographs. The project is aimed at swiftly identifying criminals by gathering existing data from the passport database, Crime and Criminal Tracking Network and Systems (CCTNS), Interoperable Criminal Justice System, KhoyaPaya Portal , Automated Fingerprint Identification System (AFIS) and any other image database available with police or other departments. Data privacy activists said the use of this technology without having legal safeguards would lead to discrimination and exclusion. “In the absence of a strong data protection law, AFRS could lead to mass surveillance. A strong data protection act should be brought in to hold AFRS accountable in terms of data collection, storage and usage of data, including sharing of data across government agencies. This should also include the sharing of data with third parties,” Internet Freedom Foundation said. IFF demanded the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) and NCRB roll back request for proposal (RFP) and halt the ongoing tender process. It asked the government to place a moratorium of three years on the use of technology. Watch India’s first facial recognition system to go live on November 27||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/indias-first-facial-tech-tracker-goes-live-on-nov-27/articleshow/79377641.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
November 24, 2020||Nagpur||Choice meat cuts, fruit, honey lure animals to new life in Gorewada zoo||Nagpur: With wild animals from Gorewada Rescue Centre giving a tough time to veterinarians while shifting them to bigger Indian Safari enclosures in Gorewada zoo, experts are using food to lure the animals into trap cages. In the last three days, Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra (FDCM) with the help of veterinarians from Wildlife Research & Training Centre (WRTC) have shifted two tigers, seven leopards, and a sloth bear to Indian Safari in the zoo, 5km from the Centre. “After being in Centre for a long time, animals showed reluctance to enter into treatment cage and later to transport cage. Although male tiger Rajkumar that was shifted on Friday didn’t resist, Lee, the female tigress, gave a tough time for three days before she finally entered the cage,” stated divisional manager Pramod Panchbhai. “WRTC experts led by director Dr Shirish Upadhye and deputy director Dr Vinod Dhoot, along with their team of doctors comprising Shalini AS, Mayur Pawshe, Sujit Kolganth, Vijay Suryawanshi, and staff are not stressing the animals and and the entire operation has passed peacefully. One bear has been shifted and remaining five will be moved on Tuesday,” said Panchbhai. Sources said that to lure Lee, even Dr SS Bawaskar and an attendant from Maharajbagh Zoo, who took care of the tigress as a cub, was summoned but it did not budge. All leopards that were shifted are problem ones that had attacked humans. Dr Upadhye said, “We used dietary choices of these animals to lure them. For the last month, when we knew these animals would be shifted for Safari, we were closely monitoring their food habits. For Lee, the thigh piece of beef was favourite. So, when we put a thigh piece in the trap cage, she walked in.” “Generally, animals are reluctant to enter trap or squeeze cages, but our team did it without having to dart a single animal. Similar tactics were used to lure leopards whose favorite beef part was liver. After putting that part in the trap cage, leopards too entered without any resistance,” said Dr Dhoot. “We knew sloth bears loved honey and came running when they were showed it. Another sloth bear loves papaya so the fruit was being put as bait to lure it. It is perhaps for the first time food was used to lure animals into cages. WRTC will validate its research,” said Dr Upadhye. Panchbhai said, “All the animals have been kept in various cells in the Indian Safari enclosures. This is being done to acclimatize them in new place ahead of opening the Safari for visitors sometime in December.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/choice-meat-cuts-fruit-honey-lure-animals-to-new-life-in-gorewada-zoo/articleshow/79377714.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
November 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: MIM puts up candidates in 51 wards, 9 less than in last poll||HYDERABAD: Though AIMIM is focusing on increasing its base outside the state it is contesting only in 51 wards as against 60 in the 2016 elections. The party backed out of the IT corridor and had also withdrawn its candidates from Somajiguda and Vengal Rao Nagar. However, the party members are confident of retaining the Erragadda and Shiekpet wards in the Jubilee Hills constituency. In the Secunderabad parliament segment too, MIM did not field any candidates unlike in the last elections when it contested in Golnaka and Amberpet wards. The party had secured very little percentage of votes in these segments. According to the state election commission records, AIMIM secured 1.05% votes in Mailardevpally ward, 13.71% in Golnaka, 25.17% in Amberpet, 7.63% in Gajularamaram, 7.28% in Moulali, 1.75% in Serilingampally, 14.31% in Somajiguda, 15.17% in Vengal Rao Nagar and 14.43% in Attapur. The party is not contesting in these nine wards now. AIMIM leaders said that the party opted out of these areas due to poor response. “It is not about contesting more number of seats, the party’s aim is to increase the number of corporators in the GHMC limits,” said an AIMIM leader. A source said that AIMIM will not give the ticket unless Owaisi feels they are winning the seat or will create a base for the future. “Granting the seats liberally gives scope to corruption. Sadar Saab (Asaduddin Owaisi) had rejected hundreds of applications. People thronged to Darusalam seeking party ticket from various parts of the city. As selection is done wisely compared to other parties, MIM candidates jumping to other parties rarely happens,” said the source. Meanwhile, Owaisi, who held a public meeting on Monday said that the government should reduce the power charges. “The electricity bills in Hyderabad during lockdowm (April-June) were exorbitant and beyond the capacity of most of the domestic consumers. We have to ensure that government at least waives off 300 units from each bill,” said Owaisi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mim-puts-up-candidates-in-51-wards-9-less-than-in-last-poll/articleshow/79377717.cms||Nabinder Bommala
November 24, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Over 100 deaths for fourth consecutive day in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi recorded more than 100 Covid-19 deaths for the fourth consecutive day on Monday with 121 people succumbing to the disease in the past 24 hours. On Sunday, too, Delhi witnessed 121 Covid deaths. Since November 1, 2,001 people have died in the capital due to Covid-19, taking the total toll to 8,512. On an average, Delhi has witnessed 91 deaths every day in November, which is much higher than the average of 75.6 recorded in June when the city witnessed its first wave of Covid-19 and the highest number of deaths in a month — 2,269 — was recorded. New cases have, however, reduced significantly. On Monday, it stood at 4,454 cases out of 37,307 tests, as against 6,746 cases on Sunday. The total count has crossed 5.3 lakh, out of which 1,47,611 cases have been reported in November, the highest for a month till date. In the past 24 hours, 18,046 people have been tested using RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat and 19,261 through rapid antigen tests. Health officials said testing would be increased further. More than 90% of the ICU beds with ventilator support for Covid patients are occupied. The occupancy rate for ICU beds without a ventilator is 81%. “Since Diwali, there has been a sharp increase in cases. All our ICU beds are full for the past 10 days,” said Dr Rajesh Malhotra, head of AIIMS Trauma Centre. Earlier, all Covid-19 patients were discharged after 10 days on an average but now patients are allowed to go home if they are stable and have a clear CT scan, he added. “Maximum severity and mortality are being seen in diabetics and those with comorbidities,” Dr Malhotra said. Both central and Delhi governments are working actively to add more ICU beds. To meet the increased demand for manpower, Delhi government has also allowed hospitals to rope in MBBS students, interns and dentists to assist duty doctors. Critical care experts say death rate due to Covid-19 has gone up in the current peak, also referred to as the third wave, as compared to the peaks witnessed in June and September. “This time, we are seeing more seriously ill patients,” a doctor said. “Patients often visit hospitals late, when oxygen saturation has already reduced to dangerous levels, leading to higher risks of complications and even death,” a doctor at Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital said, adding that unavailability of ICU beds was also causing delay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/over-100-deaths-for-fourth-consecutive-day/articleshow/79377725.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
November 24, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||KSHRC orders probe against cops over neglected mother’s plaint||KOLLAM: State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) ordered for a probe against Iravipuram police for dereliction of duty in a complaint filed by an 80-year-old woman against her sons. Commission member V K Beena Kumari ordered to implement the Kollam maintenance tribunal and sub divisional magistrate’s order on April 21, 2016, with regard to the protection of the mother within two weeks and asked the Iravipuram station house officer to submit a written explanation. Kollam city police commissioner has also been asked to submit a report and take appropriate action. The commission’s action was based on a complaint by Sumathi Amma, a native of Valathungal, Iravipuram. The tribunal had ordered the elder son to pay Rs 2,000 per month to Amma and the second son to protect the mother. But both the sons are not protecting the mother. She had given 50 cents of the 58 cents she had to her sons. Now she is staying in a shed set up in the eight cents. Amma’s brother is paying for her household expenses. A neighbouring woman is taking care of the bed-ridden Amma, according to the report. Instead of implementing the tribunal’s order, Iravipuram police were giving a report in favour of the complainant’s son. The commission also observed that the district social justice officer’s report was correct. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kshrc-orders-probe-against-cops-over-neglected-mothers-plaint/articleshow/79376301.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Why flood aid stopped, Telangana HC asks SEC||HYDERABAD: Telangana high court on Monday directed the State Election Commission (SEC) to explain within 24 hours the legal basis for its directive issued to the state government and the GHMC officials asking them to forthwith stop distribution of Rs 10,000 flood relief assistance. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy said this to SEC while hearing a PIL filed by advocate S Sharath Kumar who questioned the ‘unilateral decision’ taken by the SEC. The bench issued notices to the state, GHMC and SEC, sought counters from them and posted the case to Tuesday. “People hit by the natural calamities can be helped by the state and its machinery even during an election and the model code of conduct cannot be an obstacle for extending this much needed help,” Sharath said. The SEC in its November 17 letter written to the municipal administration department’s principal secretary asked him to stop the flood relief assistance as it violates the model code of conduct. Appearing for the SEC, senior counsel G Vidya Sagar said that the petitioner was referring to the model code of the Election Commission of India and not the SEC. “At SEC, we do not have any such exceptions in our code,” he said. “We have not adopted the ECI’s model code,” he said. The SEC stalled the work as ministers were seen distributing money to flood victims, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/why-flood-aid-stopped-hc-asks-sec/articleshow/79377715.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
November 24, 2020||Nagpur||Allow two-way traffic on Manish Nagar ROB: DCP traffic||Nagpur: DCP (traffic) Sarang Awad on Monday gave the nod for two-way traffic on Manish Nagar Railway Overbridge (ROB) connecting Wardha Road double decker flyover. However, he declined permission for two-way movement in the Railway Underbridge (RUB) connecting Manish Nagar with Ujjwal Nagar, stating that it is very narrow and zigzag to facilitate two-way traffic. After inspecting both Manish Nagar RoB which connects to the double decker flyover and RuB on Monday, Awad said his office has never issued any circular as regards restrictions, including one-way traffic on the RoB and RuB. Sources said the DCP wondered if the MahaMetro had constructed left arm for free left turn on the double decker flyover connecting with RoB, why did it close the section. There is no reason to stop the free left turn for motorists using the facility. In fact, this will reduce the vehicular movement on road beneath the flyover. After opening of RoB, RuB along with double decker Wardha road flyover on November 13, the new road infrastructure work came in for sharp criticism from citizens, especially those residing in Manish Nagar, Besa, Beltarodi and beyond, over poor planning. After inspecting two-way traffic on RoB connecting with the flyover, Awad ruled out two-way traffic on RuB. He asked MahaMetro officials to ensure proper road divider on the 900 meter patch of the RoB connecting double decker flyover with Manish Nagar road. Until today, only motorists coming from Manish Nagar are allowed to use the RoB that connects with the Wardha road flyover. Traffic from Ajni is prohibited on the RoB. Henceforth, they will be allowed to use the double decker flyover to move towards Manish Nagar from Ajni side. The Metro will also provide divider on the RoB patch. Motorists going toward Ajni or Somalwada from Manish Nagar are required to use the RoB to reach Pride Hotel, from where they use the double decker flyover to reach their destination. The RuB is only for vehicles coming from Ajni and going toward Manish Nagar and beyond. To a query, the DCP admitted that wrong side driving from RuB was a serious issue and needs to be solved immediately. His office has directed senior police inspectors from both Sonegaon and Ajni traffic zones to deploy traffic cops on either side of the entry and exit of the RuB. The DCP was quick to admit that deployment of traffic cops round the clock at both the points to check wrong side driving is not possible and appealed to motorists to diligently follow rules. Citing MahaMetro’s other project, the DCP said completion of another RuB, which is under progress, will facilitate vehicular movement from Manish Nagar side to Wardha road direction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/allow-two-way-traffic-on-manish-nagar-rob-dcp-traffic/articleshow/79377734.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
November 24, 2020||Kolkata||Bidhannagar areas reel under Covid-dengue pincer attack||Kolkata: Residents of Salt Lake, New Town, Baguiati and other localities under Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation (BMC) are battling a twin crisis. In addition to the onslaught of Covid-19, they are now facing a surge in dengue cases. Though dengue cases this year are lower than last year or the year before, regular reports of fresh cases from pockets of Salt Lake and Rajarhat are emerging as a major concern. The twin townships have reported over 60 cases since the last week of October. Residents said the dip in temperature and unseasonal rain had led to a sudden increase in mosquitoes across Salt Lake, specially in areas off Kestopur canal and Eastern Drainage channel. “The mosquito menace is such that we are unable to open windows,” said Sankhadeep Roy Chowdhury, a resident of AE Block living close to Kestopur canal. In the past five years, over 1,500 people living in the belt have been affected by dengue. This year, around 150 people have reported dengue so far, around 90 of them between January and October. The remaining 60 cases have been reported in the past three-four weeks.“We are continuing with the dengue-prevention drive, including spraying of larvicide and using fogging machines as well as cleaning up vacant plots where mosquitoes can breed. Canals are also being dredged to prevent stagnant water,” the official added. This apart, two more Covid deaths have been reported in the BMC area in the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 19 in the last 22 days. In all, there have been 82 Covid-related deaths in the BMC area. At present, BMC has more than 10,000 active cases. Around 100 new cases are being reported daily. Till Sunday, total Covid cases in Bidhannagar reached 11,678 with 10,562 people recovering from illness. Civic officials rue that though they have been continuously urging people to wear masks and follow social distancing and hygienic measures, many continue to ignore the advice. “During the festive month, people let their guard down. This may have led to a sharp rise in Covid cases,” said a civic official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bidhannagar-areas-reel-under-covid-dengue-pincer-attack/articleshow/79376280.cms||Suman Chakraborti
November 24, 2020||Kolkata||‘Madam Rose Valley’ back on police radar||Kolkata: Govid Agarwal’s arrest, police say, can lead to unveiling the mystery of ‘Madam Rose Valley’ that they had stumbled upon in 2016 after the demonetisation. Police believe the suspected scheme of routing money from one company to another will also help shed light on the nexus between entry operators — or “jama kharchi” companies — and a section of officials. Agarwal, who was arrested on Saturday for helping an income tax official to “park” ill-gotten money, will be produced at the court on Tuesday after two days of judicial custody.Agarwal’s role, which is also being probed by the Enforcement Directorate, is likely to lead investigators to several unanswered questions in the Rose Valley muddle. CBI is also probing the Rose Valley case. The links came to the fore during a cash haul of demonetized money in December, 2016. The cash, cops came to know during investigation, was supposed to be deposited at Agarwal’s Mangoe Lane office. When the cops started searching the office of the financial consultant, they had reportedly stumbled upon two folders — ‘Rose Valley’ and ‘Madam Rose Valley’. It was found that the folder ‘Madam Rose Valley’ had details of several crores being transferred to a specific person.Agarwal’s name surfaced for the second time when police registered a case against former I-T additional director Neeraj Singh in April, 2017. Police alleged that Agarwal had been acting as a ‘frontman’ of Singh and helped him transfer money that he allegedly “obtained through illegal gratification”. Singh, who is unwell, could not be contacted. Earlier, he had told TOI that he came to know Agarwal through his father and had not spoken to him for years. Singh had claimed that he came to know about Agarwal’s connection with the Rose Valley Group after the case started. Since Agarwal had a number of clients, he never shared the details with Singh.When ED started probing into the Singh and Agarwal case, they reportedly found that the IRS officer allegedly took Agarwal’s help to route money through a web of companies and bought property with that. They also attached a property in Mumbai worth Rs 3.2 crore in July this year. The IRS officer later claimed that the property was never owned by him or his wife.“Kolkata Police has not specified the quantum of fraud although Agarwal has been charged with cheating. His health condition is critical and he has cooperated with police. He has an advanced stage of liver fibrosis and submucous fibrosis in his mouth,” said Biplab Goswami, Agarwal’s lawyer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/madam-rose-valley-back-on-police-radar/articleshow/79376302.cms||Rohit Khanna
November 24, 2020||Hyderabad||This election will change Hyderabad: Tejasvi Surya||HYDERABAD: Bharatiya Janata Youth Morcha (BJYM) president and MP Tejasvi Surya on Monday said voting for AIMIM in Greater Hyderabad civic poll will empower the party in other parts of the country. He said the GHMC polls are of national importance. Speaking to the rank and file of BJP at the ‘Change for Hyderabad’ signature programme, he said Owaisis should understand that Nizam rule is gone now. “This is the time of Narendra Modi,” he said. The MP came down heavily on AIMIM-TRS alliance and said the TRS was indeed helping the city like the Hyderabad of Pakistan. “Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has vowed to transform Hyderabad into Istanbul. But, President of Turkey speaks against India and Hindus in India,” he said. He said once BJP comes to power, “we will turn Hyderabad into Bhagyanagar”. Claiming that GHMC polls will change the political scenario, he said: “This election will change Hyderabad today, Telangana tomorrow and south India day after tomorrow. If the BJP wins here, the result will influence other states like Kerala and Tamil Nadu also,” he said. Criticising the TRS as a family-ruled party, he said the BJP gives ordinary activists like him every chance to grow in politics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/this-election-will-change-hyd-surya/articleshow/79377729.cms||Sribaala Vadlapatla
November 24, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand govt gives nod to construction work of state’s first cycling velodrome||DEHRADUN: The Uttarakhand government has given the approval for the construction work of the state’s first cycling arena in Rudrapur. The velodrome will be built in the city for the 38th National Games which will be hosted by Uttarakhand next year. The construction of the velodrome had stopped due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown but the work will start soon. The velodrome will further improve the cycling infrastructure of the state. Earlier, cyclists in Uttarakhand used to visit other states for skill training. Apart from the cycling velodrome, the construction work for a multi-purpose hall is also going to resume after a period of nearly eight months. The multi-purpose hall will also be used during the next year’s National Games. The estimated budget for both these facilities is nearly Rs 80 crores. The state government is aiming to finish all the work related to the National Games by April, 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-govt-gives-nod-to-construction-work-of-states-first-cycling-velodrome/articleshow/79375122.cms||Mohammad Anab
November 24, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand gets five more weeks to verify 1 lakh educational certificates of teachers||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Monday gave the state government five more weeks to verify over 1.25 lakh educational documents/certificates of some 32,000 teachers posted across the state. The development comes while the HC was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) that had alleged that there are thousands of teachers working in the government-run schools who do not have required qualification and have furnished forged documents to get the job. Earlier, the Uttarakhand government had given an undertaking in the HC that the entire process of verification of educational documents of teachers will be completed within four weeks which ended on November 2, 2020. RK Kunwar, director of Academic Research and Training, Uttarakhand, who appeared in the court hearing via video conferencing, told the bench of acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Ravindra Maithani that the education department has completed the verification of 18,473 teacher certificates till now. The court was also told that the universities and institutions from where the teachers have completed their education are asking for money from the education department for verification of the documents. Even Garhwal University has asked for fees for document verification from the Uttarakhand education department, the court was told. “The state government had told the court last month that it will verify the documents of over 30,000 teachers in the next four weeks. However, till now, they have only managed to complete the verification of 15% of the total documents. The court has given the next hearing date after five weeks,” said an advocate present in the hearing. Notably, the PIL also alleges that even though a Special Investigation Team (SIT) was formed in 2018 to investigate the teacher recruitment scam, the progress of the investigation has been very slow. Initially, the state had sought 18 months to verify these documents but the court had refused to give such a long time for the exercise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-gets-five-more-weeks-to-verify-1-lakh-educational-certificates-of-teachers/articleshow/79375141.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 24, 2020||Delhi||Mobile lab set up at ICMR HQ to offer free RT-PCR tests in Delhi||NEW DELHI: In a significant initiative to make RT-PCR tests affordable for the residents of Delhi, home minister Amit Shah on Monday launched a mobile testing laboratory at Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) headquarters here that will offer these tests free of cost to the public. The results of the tests will also be faster, taking an average 6-8 hours from the time of sample collection instead of the usual 24-48 hours taken to receive an RT-PCR report. ICMR, which will fully bear the Rs-499 cost of an RT-PCR test taken at the mobile labs, plans to set up 10 of these labs in the first phase, with each lab initially testing up to 1,000 samples a day and then slowly ramping it up to 3,000 samples per day per lab (30,000 tests a day). “This testing lab and more such labs which are planned to be set up, shall help in adding more capacity to Covid-19 testing...This initiative is a step in making Covid-19 testing affordable and more accessible to the common person. The test report would be available within 6 to 8 hours from the time of sample collection, compared to the average 24 to 48 hours taken by similar test reports,” said a home ministry release. An RT-PCR test -- considered “gold standard” for Covid testing, being more decisive than rapid antigen tests -- done at a private laboratory or hospital in Delhi currently costs Rs 2,400. However, the same test, if taken at the mobile testing laboratory, will cost just Rs 499, which shall also be fully borne by ICMR. The mobile Covid-19 RT-PCR lab inaugurated by Shah at the ICMR facility here is the outcome of a joint venture of SpiceHealth and ICMR. The lab is accredited by NABL and approved by the ICMR. SpiceHealth has signed a memorandum of understanding with ICMR for setting up testing facilities and collection centres across the country. To begin with, the first testing facility has been set up in Delhi. More such testing facilities will come up in different parts of the national capital over the coming days. Present at the inauguration of the mobile testing lab by Shah here on Monday was Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, ICMR director general Balram Bhargava, CMD of SpiceJet Ajay Singh and CEO of SpiceHealth Avani Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mobile-lab-set-up-at-icmr-hq-to-offer-free-rt-pcr-tests/articleshow/79377759.cms||Bharti Jain
November 24, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC polls: SEC issues guidelines for cash movement||HYDERABAD: The State Election Commission on Monday issued guidelines for the movement of cash in the city during the GHMC polls period and said that in case of a person carrying cash for the purpose of medical treatment, the cash will not be seized, provided he or she produces the proof of medical admission and medical treatment. In the case of individuals or businessmen carrying cash from the business place to the bank for the purpose of depositing it in the bank, they should produce documents like PAN card, business registration certificate, bank passbook and its statement and a copy of the cash book to show regular cash deposits to avoid cash from being seized. Any cash being carried for marriage purpose will not be seized, if the person concerned produces documents like marriage invitation, Kalyana Mandapam or marriage function hall booking receipt, or any other document to prove the marriage ceremony being held. No jewellery or bullion carried for marriage or for personal use will be seized. In a letter to the state level bankers’ committee, the SEC said the agencies and their personnel moving with cash to refill ATMs should carry valid identity cards and authorization letters to avoid the cash from being seized by election commission’s flying squads and surveillance teams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sec-issues-guidelines-for-cash-movement/articleshow/79377731.cms||Roushan Ali
November 24, 2020||Kolkata||Derby, circus requests put cops in dilemma||Kolkata: The major part of the festive season may be over — with citizens mostly maintaining social distancing norms and pandals kept off limits for visitors — but some recently proposed social gatherings have left cops in a spot. Two of the proposals — one by SC East Bengal and another by a circus company stuck in the northeast since the shutdown — has prompted cops to seek guidance from the administration.East Bengal club officials have proposed to open the gates for supporters who can catch the Derby against ATK Mohun Bagan on September 27 on a giant screen. The club, though, has made it clear that the proposal is pending with the administration and nothing will be done until it gives the green signal. The idea to give supporters a real feel of the match.“The proposal will be discussed. Ideally, if there are fewer than 100 people in the tent with adequate social distancing, there will be no reason to object. However, the club needs to follow all Covid-19 protocols,” said a Lalbazar officer.The other proposal is from a circus management that sought to know if they can run the events with restricted entry. “We are consulting the administration. At a time when the state is fighting Covid amid the festival season, we need to take a stand on a case-to-case basis,” said a senior divisional officer. The management has claimed it was touring north-east and is stuck there. Its members have been forced to sell fish in the local market. “There are humanitarian issues, but we cannot go beyond the norms,” explained an officer.Police said they had already cancelled numerous applications for winter carnivals and fairs. “The divisions are going through the details of each application and deciding after the local police stations’ inputs. We understand that people usually unwind during the festive season in winter. But they must realize that circumstances are different this year,” explained an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/derby-circus-requests-put-cops-in-dilemma/articleshow/79376306.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 24, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||CII seeks conducive atmosphere to function||Thiruvananthapuram: Confederation of Indian Industries (CII) Kerala chapter has asked state government to ensure a conducive atmosphere in the state for the normal functioning of industries during the 24-hour national strike called by trade unions on November 26. CII Kerala in a statement said here on Monday that the industries body has conveyed to the state government its concerns that a 24-hour strike, at a time when the industries are slowly limping back to normalcy after the challenges posed by the pandemic would badly hit the industries. “The Covid-19 will be a long-drawn battle and may last for one more year. It has severely impacted the industrial activities and economic activities in the state. Industries had already lost many man days due to the pandemic. Even as the government has now relaxed the restrictions in many ways, the impact of the lockdown on the economy is likely to be long-term. Strikes are becoming more and more common and this affects not only the local economy but, businesses and employees alike. Businesses suffer production and financial losses and consumer confidence is adversely affected,” a statement from CII said. Businesses everywhere are looking at ways and means to getting the business back to normal. As the industries are slowly returning to normalcy and resuming their operations, the call for nationwide strike by trade unions will further impact the industrial activities. “In this context, CII Kerala had requested Kerala government to allow industries to function normally and resume their operations on 26 November,” the statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cii-seeks-conducive-atmosphere-to-function/articleshow/79376346.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Mangaluru||Korgi Jayaprakash Hegde to head backward classes commission||UDUPI: The government has appointed Korgi Jayaprakash Hegde, former minister and Udupi-Chikkamagaluru MP, as the chairman of Karnataka State Backward Classes Commission. An order that Sripathi P K, under-secretary to department of backward classes welfare signed, stated that the appointment of Hegde is until further orders. Hegde has closely associated himself with BJP since his ouster from Congress in 2015. Thanking the state BJP leadership for entrusting him this new responsibility, Hegde told TOI that he will first take stock of the work that the commission has been doing before charting the path ahead. Hegde, an advocate, said that the commission can do many things for the backward classes based on their socio-economic condition. “I will strive to work in this direction,” he said. “I will be in Bengaluru on Tuesday, and shall meet the officials at the commission to discuss priority issues before formally taking charge of the post,” Hegde said, adding that he will also call on the chief minister and other senior leaders for suggestions. BJP district unit president K Suresh Nayak said Hegde’s experience as a lawyer and his style of functioning will ensure that the backward classes get their due.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/korgi-jayaprakash-hegde-to-head-backward-classes-commission/articleshow/79375286.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Dubbak victory will reflect in GHMC polls: Muralidhar Rao||HYDERABAD: BJP’s win in Dubbak will not be short-lived and the verdict in GHMC elections will reflect the changing mindset of people towards the BJP, P Muralidhar Rao, party former national general secretary, tells Sribala Vadlapatla. A star campaigner of the party, the alumnus of OU says BJP’s constitutional nationalism is gaining prominence even in southern states. Excerpts from the interview Dubbak win is being attributed to hyperlocal reasons. How much BJP as a party has contributed to the victoryIf you look at the by-poll scenario in the country recently, all the states have given verdict in favour of the BJP. It means people have actually accepted the leadership of Narendra Modi. Dubbak, for sure, had had hyperlocal reasons. But, our candidate Raghunandan Rao’s hard work and anti-TRS sentiment in people’s minds worked in our favour. BJP scored shock wins in Nizamabad and Karimnagar Lok Sabha seats, but has failed to win in successive civic polls. How do you see the scenario changing in GHMC polls? BJP sees the election in two ways. Like any other party, winning is important. The second factor is propagation of our ideology through elections. Our cadre are always activated to tell people of our ideology. That is why you see there is a perceptible change among people towards us. Election result is only one part of our vision. BJP gaining prominence all over the nation did not happen overime. Your party is very vocal about Hindutva. In a first-of-its-kind scenario in Telugu states where regional parties and the caste equations play a major role, how do you think Hindutva will work?We are not aggressive like Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM. We believe in certain ideology, which is very much valid constitutionally. I call it ‘constitutional nationalism.’ We are not talking anything against the Constitution. Supreme Court in some of its judgments reviewed the constitutional nationalism we talk about. People are vexed with the family rule in Telangana and this will help us in many ways. Is it like BJP nationalism vs TRS regionalism? Even when Andhra Pradesh was a united state, the identity and spirit of Telangana people could not be suppressed. Historically, there was suppression by differently rulers for over 400 years. That is always there in the minds of the people. The TRS is utilised by AIMIM to cut the majority Hindu votes in the Old City. The TRS is just a ‘vote cutva’ party there. What will be your caste composition here? Can you match up to leaders like KCR or KTR in Telangana?Initially, BJP was accused of being just a Brahmin and Bania party. But now, BCs, STs and STs are voting for us. Congress-led ideologists ran a systematic campaign against us. Muslim women have voted for us in the north. Muslims here will also understand one day that we are not against them. As far as facing up to KCR, BJP has a collective leadership. When the time comes, leaders will emerge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dubbak-win-will-reflect-in-ghmc-polls-murali/articleshow/79378728.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Fight is between Hyderabad & Bhagyanagar: Asaduddin Owaisi||HYDERABAD: AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Monday said that the fight is between Hyderabad and Bhgyanagar. “The fight is between Hyderabad and Bhagyanagar, now it is the responsibility of the people to decide whether it is Hyderabad or Bhagyanagar,” said Owaisi. Stating that the government should take care of Rohingyas, he said, “If there are 40,000 Rohingyas, what is home minister Amit Shah doing? Do we prepare the electoral list in the GHMC? If there are 40,000 Rohingyas as BJP members claim, show us at least 1,000,” he said. Owaisi said that he will file a criminal case against BJP Ghansi Bazar candidate Renu Soni, who he alleged Backward Class (BC) certificate by cheating. “Madam, I am promising you, I will file a case against you. I will file a case post which you can approach court. You procured the certificate by lying and cheating,” said Owaisi. He further alleged that the Congress party’s Vijay Nagar Colony candidate has changed father's name as it was a reserved seat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/asad-fight-is-between-hyd-bhagyanagar/articleshow/79377740.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Nagpur||Patriotism ends where Army flag day collections for veterans’ welfare begin||Nagpur: Emotions ran high after Katol’s Naik Bhushan Satai was killed in firing across the line of control (LoC) a week ago, with thousands joining in to pay last respects to the fallen soldier. The same patriotism, however, is not seen when it comes to financially helping veterans, in the last two years. A number of welfare schemes for ex-soldiers are funded through collections by the Armed Forces flag day fund. This is a corpus built on the basis of voluntarily contribution by the general public. The yearly fund quota for relief schemes in each district is also fixed on the basis of collections. This includes the Rs1 crore to be paid to kin of martyrs like Satai too. A target of around Rs2 crore has been fixed for the Nagpur district for the year. With hardly a fortnight remaining for the year to end, the contributions so far are at only 30% of the target, said sources. A year is calculated from December 7 for this purpose. This is because the Armed Forces flag day is observed on December 7. The targets are fixed on the basis of population of ex-servicemen and their dependents. In Nagpur, this is estimated to be 60,000. Given the population, the collections so far may not be enough. The money is spent on welfare schemes, ranging from one-time payment for education, periodic doles to even last rites, apart from relief to kin of martyrs, a source said. Contributions are made through the respective district sainik welfare offices. The funds are mobilized through the district collectorate, which exhorts officials of different state government departments to contribute. Even private persons can contribute, sources said. In Nagpur, the sainik welfare office is located at the government administrative building. “The contribution is purely voluntarily. Other districts of the region have easily surpassed the target but Nagpur has not even touch the half way mark. This is despite the district’s size and socio-economic condition of the people here,” a source said. Nagpur city also has a sizeable population of retired army officers, who can easily donate for the welfare of the men, the source said. There are still some days left this for the year to end and the tally can be increased. This year Covid may have impacted the contributions, but even last year Nagpur did not meet the target. It is learnt that in 2018-19, Nagpur district collected a little more than 50% of the target. The coming year’s target has been slightly reduced. Earlier, contributions were also taken from schools with volunteers collecting donations in the streets. The practice was discontinued following complaints. Ram Korke, vice-president of Maji Sainik Aghadi, said, “Contributions are low because of the pandemic. Covid reduced footfall to the government departments, where people coming for work are also requested to contribute. As the numbers reduced, even contribution was down.” The contributions qualify for income tax relief also, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/patriotism-ends-where-army-flag-day-collections-for-veterans-welfare-begin/articleshow/79377790.cms||Shishir Arya
November 24, 2020||Ludhiana||After jt CP’s transfer, ADCP to handle plaint against Bains||Ludhiana: With joint commissioner of police (rural) being transferred, now, additional deputy commissioner of police (headquarters) Ashwini Gotyal will be investigating the complaint against Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) chief MLA Simarjit Singh Bains. On Monday, the joint commissioner of police (rural) Kanwardeep Kaur, who was investigating the complaint, was relieved from Ludhiana commissionerate of police as she had been transferred to Kapurthala as SSP. So far, in the case the Ludhiana police has summoned the realtor against whom the complainant woman had alleged that he sold her house and duped her of the money and also asked her to develop physical relations with MLA Bains. The realtor had appeared before the joint CP and had submitted some documents. So far, the MLA has not been called by the police to record his statement. The commissioner of police, Rakesh Agarwal, said, “Kanwardeep Kaur has been relieved from Ludhiana on Monday. Now, ADCP (headquarters) Ashwini Gotyal has been given the investigation of this case.” On being asked if the transfer of Kanwardeep was caused due to any kind of pressure in this case, Agarwal said, “No, there is nothing like this. Posting of Kanwardeep was pending as her two batch mates have already joined as SSP in different districts. Joint CP (city) Bhagirath Singh Meena’s posting is also pending.” ADCP (headquarters) Ashwini Gotyal said, “I have got the files on Monday and are studying the investigation done so far.” On November 17, a 45-year-old window had accused LIP chief and MLA Simarjit Singh Bains of raping her and threatening to kill both her sons if she complained against him. She has also accused the MLA’s brother, Karamjit Bains, a realtor, and a woman worker of LIP of helping him. The woman alleged that the MLA raped her several times at his office. She also accused Bains of duping her of money by selling her house with the help of a realtor. On the other hand, the MLA has refuted the allegations and accused the Congress of hatching this conspiracy against him. Bains also stated that earlier in September the woman had lodged a similar complaint against the realtor and had later compromised and apologised in writing after taking Rs 60,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/after-jt-cps-transfer-adcp-to-handle-plaint-against-bains/articleshow/79376322.cms||Payal Dhawan
November 24, 2020||Dehradun||Self-styled saint held for raping seven-year-old||HARIDWAR: A day after the parents of a seven-year-old girl complained that their child was violated by a 48-year-old self-styled saint who is the landlord of the house they are living in, the police caught the accused in Haridwar on Monday. A case was registered against him under section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code and under the POCSO Act on Sunday on the basis of the complaint by the girl’s father. SHO city police station Amarjeet Singh told TOI, “The accused Muneeshwar Das posed as a saint and the girl’s family lived in his house as tenants. According to the complaint, the accused used to rape the seven-year-old girl when her parents would go out for work.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/self-styled-saint-held-for-raping-seven-year-old/articleshow/79375157.cms||MS Nawaz
November 24, 2020||Agra||North under grip of winter, Muzaffarnagar coldest in UP with 5 deg C||Agra/Meerut: Mercury in most parts of northern India dipped below 10 degree Celsius marking the onset of winter season, as people were seen covered in warm clothes and bonfires dotted the region giving people and animals respite from cold during night. In Agra, both the minimum and maximum temperatures were recorded two degrees below the normal level. This week registered a dip of about 5 notches from the last one. However, mild sunshine spread warmth in the afternoon. Till 8pm, the maximum temperature was recorded 25.7 degrees. The minimum dropped to 9 degrees. Firozabad, Mathura, Etah, Aligarh and Mainpuri were also reeling under the spell of cold weather. Aligarh remained colder as compared to Agra. Here the minimum temperature was recorded 7.4 degrees which was six notches less as compared to normal. According to the meteorological department, the Agra region is likely to witness moderate fog with cloudy sky till January 23. Muzaffarnagar emerged as the coldest place in the state with 5.5 degrees, the Meteorological (MeT) Department said on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/north-under-grip-of-winter-muzaffarnagar-coldest-in-up-with-5-deg-c/articleshow/79375171.cms||Deepak Lavania
November 24, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS tried to finish off opposition: Revanth Reddy||HYDERABAD: Telangana Congress working president and Malkajgiri MP A Revanth Reddy on Monday appealed to voters in Greater Hyderabad to give atleast 70 of the total 150 wards in Greater Hyderabad to the opposition. At a ‘Meet the Press’ programme on Monday, Revanth said it is most important in a democracy to have a sound opposition to keep the ruling party under check and also to raise the issues and concerns of the people and get their solutions implemented by the government. “TRS president and chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has tried everything he can to finish off the opposition in Telangana. The Congress candidates will withdraw from GHMC poll fray and he would work as a watchman at Pragathi Bhavan if TRS, before December 1 GHMC polls, can release the list of one lakh beneficiaries from the city to whom one lakh 2-BHK housing units have been allotted and publish the list of lakhs of candidates who got jobs in the last six years,” he said while throwing a challenge at the TRS to come out with facts on 2-BHK allotment and jobs given to the youth. He appealed to the voters of Greater Hyderabad to ensure victory of the Congress candidates from over 30 wards and sought to promise the citizens that the Congress would make a ‘difference’ to Hyderabad and raise their issues. “During the governments led by M Channa Reddy, NT Rama Rao, N Chandrababu Naidu or YS Rajasekhar Reddy, the opposition parties had a strong voice and played an active role in state development. But in the last six years in the state, the TRS government has crushed the opposition,” Revanth alleged. Revanth further accused the TRS government of claiming credit for numerous projects, programmes and initiatives implemented by the previous Congress governments in Greater Hyderabad including Metro Rail, ORR, Krishna and Godavari waters lines to Hyderabad, Hitech City or IT development. “Except for building Pragathi Bhavan and demolishing the structurally-fit secretariat buildings, the TRS government has done nothing great for the state capital. Telangana is probably the only state in the country sans a regular secretariat building to run state administration,” he alleged. He demanded that the TRS government should first pay the property tax and other dues on Pragathi Bhavan before going to polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-tried-to-finish-off-oppn-revanth/articleshow/79377754.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Kolkata||No immersion rally in Chandernagore||Kolkata/Chandernagore: The Jagaddhatri Puja in Chandernagore this year has seen several changes. The biggest among them are the pushpanjali over loudspeakers and cancellation of the immersion procession along the Chandernagore Strand.The immersion will be a strictly guarded affair under the eyes of the police and district administration on Tuesday and Wednesday. On Tuesday, the immersions will start at noon and end by 3:15pm. On Wednesday the timing will be from 10am to noon. There are 171 pujas in Chandernagore and Bhadreshwar, of which 129 are in Chandernagore and the immersion for the latter will be manned by Hooghly Police along with the Chandernagore Municipal Corporation.“We have organised immersion at four designated ghats — Ranighat, Shibbati Ghat, Mill Ghat and Debdedia Ghat,” said Swapan Kundu, administrator of the Corporation. The two-day long daytime immersion has been organised because of the Covid situation, explained police commissioner, Humayun Kabir. “Organisers have been told not to bring in more than 15 members in a truck and no gathering will be allowed,” he said.Munna Agarwal, member board of administrators of the corporation, said, “A pond-like clearing has been made in the Hooghly where the immersion will take place,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-immersion-rally-in-chandernagore/articleshow/79376332.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
November 24, 2020||Dehradun||Governor shifted to AIIMS-R a day after she tests Covid-19 positive||DEHRADUN: A day after Uttarakhand governor Baby Rani Maurya was found Covid-19 positive, the district administration shifted her to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Rishikesh on Monday. Dr UB Mishra, dean, AIIMS-R, told TOI that all necessary tests of the governor were conducted at the time of her admission in the hospital. “We have constituted a team of five doctors to keep a tab on her vitals which are currently normal,” added Dr Mishra. Meanwhile, 376 fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported from the state on Monday. With this, the total number of coronavirus cases reached 71,632 in the state. According to the health bulletin, as many as 11,058 samples tested negative for Covid-19 on Monday. The maximum of 133 Covid-19 infections were recorded in Dehradun. Dr Dinesh Chauhan, district surveillance officer, informed that eight people tested positive for coronavirus in the random sampling tests done at the Asharodi Check Post. “As many as 49 new cases of Covid-19 were found in Haridwar, followed by 47 in Nainital, 26 in Pauri, 24 in Chamoli, 23 in Pithoragarh, 18 in Champawat, Udham Singh Nagar, 12 cases each in Uttarkashi and Tehri, 11 in Almora, five in Rudraprayag, and four in Bageshwar,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. The state also reported deaths of seven Covid-19 patients. With this, the toll of the virus shot up to 1,162. On Monday, 428 people recovered from the Covid-19 infection, taking the total number of cured cases to 65,530.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/governor-shifted-to-aiims-r-a-day-after-she-tests-covid-19-positive/articleshow/79375169.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Jumbo ballot in Jangammet as 20 in race||HYDERABAD: Twenty candidates are vying for victory from ward no. 45, Jangammet in the Chandrayangutta circle, the highest among the 150 wards of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC). Apart from the TRS, BJP, AIMIM, Congress, CPI (M), and two other registered parties, 13 independents are in the fray for the December 1 elections. With 20 candidates to be featured, election officials have now ordered a jumbo ballot paper with additional columns included. As per the State Election Commission (SEC) printing guidelines, the ballot paper, usually has only eight columns, seven for candidates names with symbols and one for NOTA. If the number of contestants increases, then additional columns will be added. According to the final list released after the scrutiny of nominations, a total 1,122 candidates are in the fray from 150 wards. After Jangammet, 14 candidates each are contesting from ward no. 52 Goshamahal and no. 102 Rahamathnagar. From ward no.5 Mallapur 13 are in the fray while 12 have successfully filed their nominations from ward no.143 Tarnaka. “We have supplied adequate ‘wove’ paper to the offset printers. The ballot papers will be ready soon,” GHMC sources told TOI, adding that postal ballot papers are also being printed simultaneously. “Once they are ready, we will dispatch them to the concerned returning officers,” a source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jumbo-ballot-in-jangammet-as-20-in-race/articleshow/79377756.cms||Sunil Mungara
November 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Congress contributed the most to Brand Hyderabad, says Uttam Kumar Reddy||HYDERABAD: Launching his campaign in GHMC elections from Bouddha Nagar and other wards in Secunderabad zone on Monday, Telangana Congress president and Nalgonda MP N Uttam Kumar Reddy appealed to the voters to defeat the TRS, BJP and MIM. He alleged that TRS government was corrupt and charged BJP and MIM as parties promoting hatred on religious lines. “Vote for the Congress, which contributed the most in building Brand Hyderabad image. Throw the TRS GHMC poll manifesto in the dustbin. Big ticket projects like the international airport, outer ring road, PVNR expressway, Hyderabad Metro Rail, Godavari and Krishna river drinking water supply lines to Greater Hyderabad, transforming the city into a pharma hub and setting the stage for IT development—all were either started or completed by the previous Congress governments,” Uttam said, while addressing a road show in Secunderabad. Even the premier institutes such as BHEL, DRDL, HAL and HMT were established in Hyderabad during Congress regimes. The Information Technology Invest Region (ITIR) was sanctioned to Hyderabad when Congress was in power at the national level. “But due to negligence of TRS and BJP governments in the state and at the Centre, the state has lost the prestigious ITIR project. The Congress-led UPA government sanctioned ITIR project envisaged to get an investment of Rs 2.5 lakh crore with a potential to provide direct and indirect jobs to about 50 lakh people,” Uttam said. Stating that the Congress wants all-round development of Greater Hyderabad and the state, Uttam said the Congress has always wanted people of all religions, regions and sections to live harmoniously.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-contributed-the-most-to-brand-hyderabad-says-uttam/articleshow/79377765.cms||Roushan Ali
November 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Interim permission to factories for extraction of groundwater||Ludhiana: City industrialists who were seeking relaxation in the norms for applying for permissions for extracting groundwater within their factories will now be able to get interim permissions from Punjab Water Regulation and Development Authority (PWRDA). Till now, the factory owners had to apply for permissions to extract groundwater inside their factories from the Central Ground Water Authority (CGWA), which according to businessmen was a very time taking and complex procedure. Ever since last year, when these norms of seeking permissions from the CGWA came into effect, several business associations had to organise help camps for their members to help them apply for permissions. However, the PWRDA will provide ad-interim permissions for groundwater extraction to industrial and commercial units in Punjab under the draft guidelines, pending their finalisation. Units which are granted interim permission will have to comply with the rules and regulations of the PWRDA once they are finalised by the authorities concerned. Meanwhile, confirming the development, a source in the PWRDA said, “We will grant ad-interim permission to the industrial and commercial units in the state for extracting groundwater on the condition that the applicant shall comply with the conditions contained in the draft guidelines. Besides, he shall also comply with the finalised guidelines as and when they are notified. Factory and commercial establishment owners interested to obtain ad-interim permission under the draft guidelines may apply to the authority in the specified form available on websites irrigation.punjab.gov.in” and www.punjab.gov.in. Application form, along with the required enclosures and specified fee, can be sent either by registered post to the permissions section, Punjab Water Regulation and Development Authority, SCO 149-152, third floor, Sector 17-C Chandigarh, or by email to permission.pwrda@punjab.gov.in.” Welcoming the development, Amarjit Singh Swan, president of the Ludhiana Sewing Machine Industry Association, said, “This is the biggest relief of the year for the factory owners as applying for permission for extracting groundwater was very cumbersome process and the kind of formalities required for permissions were complex that we had to hire professionals and organise camps to apply for the permissions from the CGWA. Though the PWRDA will grant temporary permissions, we are okay with it as we have to apply for permissions locally at the Chandigarh office only, which means the officials will be easily accessible. Moreover, in case of permanent permissions too the same office will grant us the same once the guidelines are finalised.” According to Pradeep Wadhawan, former senior vice-president of United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA), “We are thankful to the state government and the PWRDA for taking a historic decision of providing interim permissions to the factories and commercial establishments for extracting groundwater on their premises. At the same time, we request the state government and the PWRDA to make the guidelines for seeking permanent permissions simpler. Besides, it should also keep those factories out of the purview of permissions which do not require water for any kind of industrial processes except for consumption of their workers.” Sukhwinder Singh , executive member of Ludhiana Business Forums, said, “This decision will benefit thousands of industrial units in Ludhiana on whom the danger of action by authorities was looming large as they did not have permission for drawing groundwater since they were not able to fulfil the formalities. Now, with the interim permission system started by the PWRDA, such units too would be able to get permissions. Even if it is temporary, but at least they will be able to buy some time to comply with the final regulations which will be decided by the PWRDA.” Box – How to apply for interim permissions Factory and commercial establishment owners interested in obtaining ad-interim permission under the draft guidelines may apply to the authorities concerned on the specified form available on websites irrigation.punjab.gov.in and www.punjab.gov.in. Application form, along with the required enclosures and specified fee can be sent either by registered post to permissions section, Punjab Water Regulation and Development Authority, SCO 149-152, Third Floor, Sector 17-C Chandigarh, or by email to permission.pwrda@punjab.gov.in. Queries can also be made on 8847469231 during office hours on working days or via email on query.pwrda@punjab.gov.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/interim-permission-to-factories-for-extraction-of-groundwater/articleshow/79376339.cms||Mohit Behl
November 24, 2020||Goa||Grant-in-aid under Swadhar Grehscheme for women upliftment||Panaji: Grant-in-aid under Swadhar Greh scheme will be given to institutions running shelter homes with a proven track record of working in the fields of women’s welfare. The scheme will set up in both districts. It will cater to the primary need of shelter, food, clothing, medical treatment and care of women in distress and who are without any social and economic support, to provide them with legal aid, and guidance to enable them to take step for their readjustment in family/society. Government agencies, including women development corporations established by the state governments, central or state autonomous bodies, municipal bodies, cantonment boards, Panchayati Raj institutions and co-operative institutions, public trusts registered under any law in force, civil society organisations such as NGOs, will be eligible for the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/grant-in-aid-under-swadhar-grehscheme-for-women-upliftment/articleshow/79377775.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 24, 2020||Delhi||Stubble burning to blame for Covid toll spike: Delhi minister||NEW DELHI: Even as the capital recorded 121 Covid-19 fatalities for the second day in a row on Monday, health minister Satyendar Jain blamed pollution caused by stubble burning for the high death rate. However, he added that he expected a downtrend within the next 2-3 weeks. On November 12, 104 people succumbed to Covid-19. Since then, the toll has crossed the 100-mark six times — 131 on November 18, the highest till date, 121 on Monday and Sunday, 111 deaths on Saturday and 118 deaths on Friday. November’s death toll has reached 2,001, with 87 deaths daily on average. The last time the toll was above 2,000 in a month was in June, which witnessed 2,269 deaths. The daily average in June was 75. “Pollution caused by stubble burning creates a lot of problems as it results in breathing problems and people get seriously ill due to this. Those who had Covid-19 inhaled the smoke, which aggravated the seriousness of the disease. Farm fires have reduced in the past 2-3 days and Covid-19 cases will also go down now, along with deaths,” the minister told reporters. Jain added that the effect of reduction in pollution on the death rate would take some time as the fatalities were of those who were infected 2-3 weeks ago. “The downtrend will come in the next 2-3 weeks. Compared with earlier this month, the positivity rate of novel coronavirus has slowly come down. Over the past 7 to 10 days, there has been a downward trend,” he said. In March, when Delhi reported its first Covid-19 case, two people succumbed to Covid-19. The next month, almost two fatalities were reported every day. May saw 414 deaths (13.3 deaths on average every day), but June recorded 2,269 fatalities, which came to 75.6 deaths on average daily. The death toll dipped to an average of 39.3 a day in July and 15.5 in August. However, the graph started going up from September, which saw 917 deaths (30.5 deaths on average daily). This figure rose to 37 in October and in November it stands at 87 on average daily for 23 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/stubble-burning-to-blame-for-covid-toll-spike-jain/articleshow/79377787.cms||Sidharatha Roy
November 24, 2020||Agra||Eight mths on, colleges in west UP reopen to empty classes||(AGRA/MEERUT/BAREILLY): Higher education institutes reopened in Uttar Pradesh on Monday after eight months of Covid-19 shutdown following the state orders. Attendance was, however, low in most of the colleges in western UP. Students, professors and other staff could be seen wearing face masks, maintaining social distance and trickling into the premises one by one on day one - getting used to the new normal. Low turnout of students were seen at Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar University and its affiliated colleges. Some of the colleges had inadequate arrangement for thermal screening and sanitization. Teacher's association also raised its objection to reopening of colleges in the middle of a possible Covid surge. Agra university PRO professor Pradeep Shridhar said, “A detailed directive has been uploaded on the varsity website. Only 50% students are allowed to attend class in one shift. Students are required to wear face masks. The attendance on the first day remained low." A postgraduate student at Agra college, Mridula Verma, said, “I'm happy to be back after eight months. Teachers are guiding us with the Covid protocol. However, the college administration didn’t make any arrangement for thermal screening. Sanitisation was also not done in classrooms." Federation of Uttar Pradesh University College Teachers' Association president, Virendra Chauhan, said, “The state's orders to conduct regular classes is insensitive. On the one hand, the government has reduced the number of guests at wedding ceremonies while on the other, it is taking a huge risk by reopening the campus. Experts have been warning of a Covid surge with the drop in temperature." Moreover, a clerk at Meerut College tested positive for Covid-19 on day one. Hardly 20% of the total students turned up in Meerut's colleges on Monday. In Bijnor, which has nearly 50 colleges, only 20% were present. Thermal screening was carried out. CM Jain, principal of Vardhman Degree College, said, “Around 15% students attended the college on day one.” While Prerana Mittal, principal of Shri Ram College in Muzaffarnagar, said, “Not many students attended the class today. Only 20% to 25% of students took the class. We are taking all necessary measures to keep the students safe. We are also maintaining social distancing and all students are being sanitised." Principal of Chaudhary Chhotu Ram Inter College in Muzaffarnagar said, "Not more than 30% students attended. We are trying to convince all students. Letters are being sent to parents, assuring them of safety during college hours.” In Bareilly, some colleges have sought approval letters from parents before allowing their children to enter the premises. AK Mishra, principal of Swami Shukdevanand College in Shahjahanpur, told TOI, “Most of the students seeking admissions turned up on day one. We had already sanitized the classrooms and places of gathering. The students were advised to maintain social distancing and take other precautions. Those with high temperature were turned back from the entry gate. The attendance of first year students was encouraging, overall it was satisfactory." The principal added, "The online classes are going on to ensure students don’t miss on their syllabus. The university is revising the syllabus due to the time lost during the pandemic."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/8-mths-on-colleges-in-west-up-reopen-to-empty-classes/articleshow/79375194.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Visakhapatnam||BPO, IT sectors generate 10k jobs despite lockdown woes||Visakhapatnam: Despite the odds placed by the pandemic and the nationwide lockdown, business process outsourcing (BPO) and information technology (IT) sectors in Visakhapatnam managed to generate around 10,000 direct employments from January to October 2020. A major proportion of these fresh graduates were recruited during the peak lockdown period between March and July. “Even with the pandemic and the resulting lockdown and economic slowdown, around 10,000 direct employments have been created at the IT and BPO industries in Visakhapatnam. We want to complete the year by creating 15,000 employments in all,” MP Dubey, in-charge of Vizag Software Technology Parks in India (STPI) and state nodal officer for India BPO Promotion Scheme (IBPS), told TOI. The IBPS was launched by the Union government to incentivise the BPO and IT/IN-enabled services (ITeS) sector in the country and to establish over 48,000 seats that would generate employment. Seats were distributed among states in proportion to their population. Around 15,000 seats had been allocated to Andhra Pradesh, of which 9,233 seats are allotted to the Port City and another 3,000 to neighbouring Vizianagaram city. “Altogether these 13,000-odd seats would generate 45,000 direct employments in the next three years. We are happy that despite the pandemic we are very close to reaching the target for first year. The scheme was also supposed to generate around 1,50,000 indirect or outsourced employment. However, we are not in a position to calculate the indirect employments it has created till now. An agency had been appointed to find out the figures,” added Dubey. Managements of the BPO and IT firms claimed that the pandemic and the subsequent lockdown actually acted as a blessing in disguise as it increased the scope for hiring manpower within the industry. RL Narayana, former president of IT Association of Andhra Pradesh claimed that unlike in metros such as Bengaluru or Kolkata, it is easier to connect with the government administration in a tier-II city like Visakhapatnam. The government ensured that the city’s BPO and ITeS industries ran smoothly, right from arranging daily passes for employees during the lockdown to addressing any issues that cropped up because of the pandemic. “And, we got the result immediately. There are international clients who wanted to enhance business with BPO and ITeS only if their business was being operated from Visakhapatnam. A company named Patra BPO actually shut down its operations at its Bengaluru headquarters and shifted to Visakhapatnam during the lockdown,” said Narayana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/bpo-it-sectors-generate-10k-jobs-despite-lockdown-woes/articleshow/79375182.cms||Arpit Basu
November 24, 2020||Ludhiana||3 burglars decamp with valuables, Rs 35,000||Ludhiana: Three unidentified burglars targeted the office of a web designer in C-block of Rajguru Nagar in the wee hours of Monday and escaped with cash and valuables. The accused barged into the office which was being run from a house by breaking open the main lock. The accused have been captured in the CCTV installed at the office. The matter came to light when the web designer, Hemant Kumar, 32, of Haibowal area reached the office. He saw the main lock broken and the office ransacked. In his complaint to the police Hemant said that he runs an office, Web Creations, at his house in Rajguru Nagar. On Sunday night, he left the house around 9pm after locking it. By Monday morning, when he reached there, he was shocked to see it ransacked. He added the accused escaped with a professional camera worth Rs 2.5 lakh, an Ipad worth Rs 1.75 lakh, Rs 35,000 and a mobile phone. The CCTV installed at the office has captured three burglars without masks. They entered the premises around 2.15am and escaped after 20 minutes. On being informed the Sarabha Nagar police reached the spot. Sub-inspector Madhu Bala, SHO of police station in Sarabha Nagar, said that a complaint had been lodged in this connection. The police have got information about one suspect who is from Thareeke village. Further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/3-burglars-decamp-with-valuables-rs-35000/articleshow/79376356.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Dehradun||JP Nadda’s 120-day tour to start from Doon on Dec 5||DEHRADUN: BJP national president JP Nadda is set to kickstart his 120-day nationwide tour from Dehradun on December 5, state party chief Bansidhar Bhagat said on Monday. Nadda’s tour is an attempt to strengthen the party at the grassroots level ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha polls, in pockets where the BJP has underperformed in the previous years. Briefing mediapersons at his residence, Bhagat said that the party president would be in Uttarakhand for three days and hold 14 meetings with ministers and workers in the state. “After Nadda’s visit, I will personally visit all the assembly constituencies in the state to know the mood of the people. We will fight the next polls on the plank of development and win more than 57 seats,” he added. “Despite the Covid-19 crisis, the party has trained 21,000 workers in 239 zones this year.” The Uttarakhand BJP chief also asserted that he is strongly in favour of legislation against ‘love jihad’ as proposed by several states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/naddas-120-day-tour-to-start-from-doon-on-dec-5/articleshow/79375196.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 24, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra reports 545 Covid cases, lowest in five months||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 545 Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking its cumulative caseload to 8,62,758. This was the lowest single-day case total in the last five months after recording 553 cases on June 25. The toll jumped to 6,948 as 10 more people succumbed to the disease. The daily fatality count, which peaked to an average 85 in August, has now come down to 8-10 range in the last three weeks, falling to a four-month low. Two deaths each were reported from Krishna and Visakhapatnam, and one each from Anantapur, East Godavari, Guntur, Kurnool, Nellore and West Godavari districts. As many as 1,390 patients were declared cured. There are currently 13,394 active cases with 8,42,416 cumulative recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of over 97%. Guntur reported 117 new infections, followed by East Godavari (104 cases). All 11 other districts reported less than 100 cases with Kurnool registering as little as 10 cases. There are less than 1,000 cases in eight districts. Other than Krishna, all other districts have achieved at least 95 per cent recovery rate. The state tested 47,130 samples on Monday with a case positivity rate of 1%, the lowest in several months. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-reports-545-cases-lowest-in-five-months/articleshow/79375215.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Kozhikode||Nationwide strike to be total, say TU leaders||KOZHIKODE: The leaders of the joint committee of trade unions have said that the nationwide general strike on November 26 will be total in the state. Speaking at a press conference here on Monday, the trade union leaders said that strike is against central government’s anti-worker policies, including the new labour codes which has made formation of trade unions difficult in the country and will also end the concept of permanent employment. “The labour codes do not grant social security or reasonable wages to the workers in the unorganised sector in the country,” CITU state general secretary and MP Elamaram Kareem said. The union leaders requested the owners of private vehicles to cooperate by keeping off the road. They said that farmers and agricultural labourers have expressed solidarity to the strike. Workers from all sectors except those involved in essential services including hospitals, media, milk distribution and tourism sector will participate in the strike. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/nationwide-strike-to-be-total-say-tu-leaders/articleshow/79376388.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Dehradun||Kumbh 2021: Integrated control centre, CCTV installation yet to get official nod||HARIDWAR: Even as the Kumbh Mela authorities are working in full swing to complete all the preparations ahead of the new year, a handful of major projects, including the Integrated Command and Control Centre and installation of around 600 CCTVs, are yet to get official nod, people in the know of the affairs said. According to the mela authorities, the deadline to complete all the arrangements for the religious event is December 31. However, they said that the projects like the Integrated Command and Control Centre for crowd control and installation of 600 CCTVs in Haridwar and Roorkee for effective surveillance are yet to get the go-ahead from the higher officials. Kumbh Mela IG Sanjay Gunjyal said, “The Integrated Command and Control Centre is an important project for an event like the Kumbh Mela. However, it is yet to be sanctioned by the higher authorities. We will make the necessary arrangements as soon as we get the approval.” Asserting that the works are going on in full gear, additional mela officer Harbeer Singh said, “We are working towards completing all the projects, especially the major construction works, well within the stipulated time. As far as the ICCC project is concerned, we have not received any sanction for it so far and it is likely to be cancelled.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kumbh-2021-integrated-control-centre-cctv-installation-yet-to-get-official-nod/articleshow/79375249.cms||MS Nawaz
November 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Ready to give nation direction, says Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao||HYDERABAD: TRS president K Chandrasekhar Rao said he may become a torchbearer for a new experiment in national politics as both the BJP and Congress have failed the country. “With nearly 50 years of experience in politics, I am telling that a radical change is required and give a direction to this country,” KCR said on Monday. He also said he is ready for any sacrifice in the interest of the nation. “Both the so-called the national parties (BJP and Congress) have proven to be utter flops. They have failed to give direction to the country and ruined the country’s economy,” he said. The TRS chief said the Centre was disinvesting central PSUs for funding. “For whose benefit, you (Centre) are selling central PSUs?” he asked. He said the TRS government had created wealth in the form of GSDP from Rs 1.12 lakh crore in 2014 to Rs 2.28 lakh crore now, whereas Centre’s GDP had crashed to minus 24%. “The wealth is being disbursed to the poor in the form of welfare schemes and pensions,” he said. The TRS chief reiterated a conclave would be convened in Hyderabad in December second week with like-minded parties on divestment of PSUs. He urged employees to support the TRS. “You know... if I take up an issue, how it is done,” he said, indirectly referring to creation of separate statehood for Telangana. On the recent floods in Hyderabad, the CM said metro cities like Chennai, Mumbai, Bengaluru and Kolkata had witnessed floods and termed them as ‘cities in waters’. Chennai was in water for 21 days and Mumbai for 14 days. “I requested the Centre to grant Rs 6,000 crore a year to six cities — Delhi, Chennai, Hyderabad, Mumbai, Kolkata and Bengaluru — by setting up a council to take up nala development and other activities. But, there was no response,” he said. Assuring to continue disbursement of flood relief after polls, KCR said his government already disbursed Rs 656 crore to 6.56 lakh families and is ready to spend Rs 200 crore to Rs 300 crore more.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ready-to-give-nation-direction-says-kcr/articleshow/79377783.cms||Koride Mahesh
November 24, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP leaders, workers told to sleep in slums||HYDERABAD: With GHMC elections not far away, BJP leaders and workers have been told to interact with slum-dwellers and sleep in slums (basti nidra) on Tuesday. In a telephonic conference with all the division leaders in the city, BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar asked the leaders to be in slums, interact closely with residents to know their issues and demands and sleep overnight. Sanjay said that he will also try to participate in the programme. He also directed the candidates who are contesting to continue taking part in basti nidra programme by staying in slums at least once a week if they win. Sanjay dared chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to campaign for TRS candidates in Old City. Addressing the party cadre during the ‘Change Hyderabad’ signature launch, he said if the TRS and AIMIM were not hand in glove, then the CM should campaign in the Old City. “When the Old City is voting like one unit, the new city should also vote on similar lines. Please get your family members to vote for the BJP,” he said in an appeal to voters. In a telephonic conference with all the division leaders in the city, BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar asked the leaders to be in slums, interact closely with residents to know their issues and demands and sleep overnight||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-leaders-workers-told-to-sleep-in-slums/articleshow/79377785.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 24, 2020||Agra||Murder or suicide? Mathura police may seek second opinion on couple found hanging||AGRA: The post-mortem report of the young couple, who was found hanging from a tree in Mathura a day earlier, has indicated murder as “strangulation” was cause of death. No FIR has been registered in the matter till date as police are planning to take a second opinion on the cause of death. Confirming this, SP (rural) Shireesh Chandra said the doctors who had conducted the post-mortem are being asked to clarify on this as no injuries were found on the bodies of the couple, except marks of the saree which was used for hanging. Besides, the families of both the deceased have not expressed any doubts of foul play. Guarav Grover, senior superintendent of police, told TOI that police are investigating the case further after receiving the autopsy report. “We will take a second opinion from state medico legal body, if required,” he said, adding that a two-member team of doctors conducted the post-mortem, which was video-graphed in order to maintain transparency. The deceased girl was pursuing graduation and the boy was preparing for the test to join the armed forces after completing his 12th. The duo was in a relationship for some time but the girl’s family did not approve of the match as they were distant relatives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/murder-or-suicide-mathura-police-may-seek-second-opinion-on-couple-found-hanging/articleshow/79375233.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Bareilly||Hundreds led by right-wing groups gherao collectorate over ‘missing’ girl in UP's Shahjahanpur||BAREILLY: Hundreds of people from the Sikh community along with some members of the right-wing groups such as Vishwa Hindu Parishad and Bajrang Dal staged a huge protest outside the collectorate premises in Shahjahanpur on Monday over the alleged disappearance of a 17-year-old girl. According to the police, the girl had “eloped” with a youth from another community in the Nigohi area on October 15. The protesters -- over 500 of them -- alleged that the girl was a victim of “love jihad” and had been abducted by the members of another community. Shahjahanpur SSP S Anand said, “We have sent teams to seven states and have questioned 18 people so far since the FIR was registered. The accused is a school dropout and knew the girl for the past few years. He had been living in Haryana’s Ballabhgarh since last year but has changed his location many times since. The girl is a minor and will turn 18 in January next year. There has been no activity in their phones or social media accounts and none of them have contacted their family in the past few days.” V P Singh, district president of Sikh Punjabi Mahasabha, told TOI, “We are concerned over the girl’s safety. The accused may be putting pressure on her to give a statement in their favour.” Rajesh Awasthi, VHP’s district president, said, “We have given a memorandum to the Shahjahanpur DM, which is addressed to UP CM Yogi Adityanath to intervene in the matter and form a law soon on ‘love jihad’ cases.” “We are taking orders from a local court to seize the moveable and immoveable assets of the accused and his family members booked in the case. Two persons have been sent to jail so far and we are expecting to have a breakthrough soon,” the SSP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/hundreds-led-by-right-wing-groups-gherao-collectorate-over-missing-girl-in-ups-shahjahanpur/articleshow/79373167.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 24, 2020||Ludhiana||SAD stages protest against non-registrastion of FIR against Bains||LUDHIANA: The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) led by its leaders staged a protest outside the mini-secretariat, demanding an FIR and arrest of Lok Insaaf Party MLA Simarjit Singh Bains after a woman levelled charges of rape against him. A big ruckus was witnessed on the main road outside the mini secretariat as the SAD leaders and workers tried to make their way towards the police commissioner’s office but were not allowed to do so by the heavy police force deployed on the spot. The protesters then sat outside the mini-secretariat and started raising slogans against Bains and others demanding police action. Senior police officials tried to pacify them and convince them to lift their dharna and even told them that a delegation of six SAD leaders can go and meet the CP to submit their memorandum. But they refused and later on handed over the memorandum to ADCP-3 Sameer Verma. Meanwhile, lashing out against Bains, Maheshinder Singh Grewal, senior vice-president of SAD, said, “We feel very pained and sad over the trauma being faced by the victim who is running from pillar to post to get justice, but no action is being taken by the police. Despite a written complaint by the victim on November 16, till date the police has not registered a case, which is in violation of the laws laid down by the Supreme Court. Non-registration of a case amounts to contempt of court and the police is violating all provisions of law by repeatedly taking the victim from her house to the Police Lines on the pretext of recording her statements and cross questioning her. No woman can be called to the police station for such purpose, and this is being done to allegedly humiliate her.” According to SAD MLA Sharanjit Singh Dhillon, “Non-registration of a case by the police against the accused is apparently at the behest of the top authorities of the government merely to help Simarjit Singh Bains to use all his might to threaten the victim, cause harm to her or to buy out the conscious of the victim. As per law, victim and witnesses should be protected from the accused , particularly when the accused is a powerful man, so that evidence is not tampered with. But here in this case the accused is being given a free run. Moreover, when the victim has clearly told the chief minister, DGP and commissioner of police how her life was being threatened and she was being pressurized to step back through brother of the accused (Pamma) and PA of the accused (Gogi Sharma), but still the police has not taken any action.” Gurdeep Singh Gosha, district president of Youth Akali Dal, said, “It is shocking that the police is adopting such attitude of shielding the accused, who already is so notorious. It is very strange that why chief minister Amrinder Singh is turning a blind eye towards this serious crime. May be he and other Congress leaders have some political compulsions to save Bains and is depriving the victim of her right to seek justice. Why doesn’t the CM adopts the same standards as he did in the rape case in Hoshiarpur, in which every action was done in a fast track mode. It is very shocking that local Congress leaders too have gone into hiding and refraining to utter even a single word against this heinous act committed by Bains and his associates.” Other SAD leaders and workers present in the protest included Harbajan Singh Dang,Gurmeet Singh Kular, Surinder Kaur Dyal, Kuldeep Singh Khalsa, Nirman Singh, Surinder Singh Chauhan, Angrez Singh Sandhu, Tanvir Singh Dhaliwal, Prabhjot Singh Dhaliwal, Bablu Lopoke, Rajesh Mishra, Kuldeep Singh Khalsa, Jagbir Singh Sokhi and Gurpreet Kaur Sibia. According to Gagandeep Singh Sunny Kainth, spokesperson of LIP, “The protest by Shiromani Akali Dal and their former coalition partner BJP is just a drama. The charges being levelled by them are totally baseless and it is a big conspiracy hatched by SAD against our leader Simarjit Singh Bains and they are habitual of doing such dirty politics. Earlier also, during their rule they registered dozens of false FIRs against our leader and this too is another attempt by them. But public is aware of everything and they will give them a befitting reply in the next elections for the low-level of politics they are playing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/sad-stages-protest-against-non-registrastion-of-fir-against-bains/articleshow/79376371.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag: Over 200 bikes seized in special drive against racing||VISAKHAPATNAM: Vizag police stepped up its drive against rash driving and bike races and seized 211 bikes over the past week, including high-end bikes, under relevant sections of the IPC and Motor Vehicles Act. A special focus of the drive was on Beach Road, where police seized over 150 high-end bikes on Saturday and Sunday. Many vehicles were found plying without number plates or incorrect plates or without documents. DCP (law and order) Aishwarya Rastogi said bike races and rash driving not only puts at risk the life of the rider but also of other fellow citizens moving on the roads. It was found that a majority of the motorists taking part in the races were in the age group of 18-25 years and are part of WhatsApp groups that organise these events. Police said they would call the families of the youngsters to give an undertaking that they would not allow their children to take part in bike races. “If the same person is caught again, he will be arrested,” they added. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/over-200-bikes-seized-in-spl-drive-against-racing/articleshow/79375261.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Nashik||Schools reopen in Nandurbar & Ahmednagar dists||Nashik: A large number of schools in Nandurbar district and few in Ahmednagar district of the Nashik division reopened on Monday. In Dhule, however, the district administration decided to keep the schools closed till November 30, while in Jalgaon district, schools will remain shut till December 7. Nashik district has already decided to not reopen schools before January 4, 2021. Nandurbar district has 314 schools for Classes IX to XII, and 250 of them reopened on Monday. The rest too are expected to open in due course of time. According to officials at the district collectorate, the Nandurbar administration had considered opening all schools on Monday. However, because there are some active Covid-19 patients in some of the villages, a decision was taken to postpone the reopening of schools there. These schools will now open after the stipulated period of treatment of the infected patients is over. Though the administration had expected roughly 16,000 students to attend the classes on the first day (going by the 50% attendance formula), only 2,766 had turned up, accounting for just about 17% attendance. The authorities believe the attendance figure will increase over time. “The administration has kept health teams ready and deployed ‘boat ambulances’ to rush to the schools if there are any reports of uneasiness among the students or school staff,” the officials said. In Ahmednagar district, only 278 of the 1,209 schools started on Monday and student attendance was less than 10%, a senior officer of the education department said. The officer pointed out that the administration had left the decision of school reopening to the heads of the respective schools, who were told to consider the local situation and take parental consent. “We are not in a hurry. The schools can open any time after November 23. While in some cases, parents allowed their children to go to the schools, in many cases, they did not. Till we get the consent of more than 50% of parents, we will not be opening schools. Besides, few schools also remained closed because of Covid-19 patients in the villages,” the officer added. Sources in the education office said the situation was likely to become normal in the next 10 to 15 days. The education officers in Dhule said that the administration has formed teams to inspect the preparedness of preventive measures in schools by November 30 and based on the report, a decision on the reopening of the schools will be taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/schools-reopen-in-nandurbar-ahmednagar-dists/articleshow/79375265.cms||Abhilash Botekar
November 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Discom donates 3 ambulances and 50 hand-sanitiser machines||NEW DELHI: With Covid-19 cases rising in the capital, BSES Yamuna Power Limited donated three ambulances and 50 hand sanitiser machines to Delhi government’s health department on Monday. Health minister Satyendar Jain handed over the relief material to the department after the keys to the ambulances were given to him by discom CEO P R Kumar. Jain also inaugurated two hand sanitiser machines at Delhi Secretariat and flagged off the ambulances to GTB, GB Pant and LBS hospitals. “I am thankful to BSES for gifting three ambulances. They have also donated 50 high-quality hand sanitisers and temperature monitors to mohalla clinics. The ambulances are fully equipped and people of Delhi will surely benefit from them,” Jain said. The government said the advanced life support ambulance service would have ventilators, oxygen, automated defibrillators, multipara monitors, femoral doppler, emergency medicines and accompanying paramedical staff. The service will be offered to patients suffering from heart attacks, respiratory problems, head injuries, fire injuries as well as newborns in severe cases of childbirth and victims of road accidents in an emergency. A BSES spokesperson said three ambulances would be handed over by BSES Rajdhani Power Limited (BPRL) CEO Amal Sinha for south and west Delhi. “These will be attached to the government’s CATS,” he said. BRPL-promoted self-help groups are stitching masks and 1,500 of these have been handed over to the district magistrate of West district. “Over the past few months, the discoms have provided over two lakh gloves, two lakh masks, 20,000 hygiene kits and 6,000 PPE kits,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/discom-donates-3-ambulances-and-50-hand-sanitiser-machines/articleshow/79377794.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad’s young brigade in fray||It was supposed to be her first day at work. But instead of signing her joining papers at a city MNC, TV Tapaswini was busy campaigning in a slum — in ward No. 141 — on Monday afternoon. “I decided to give up my job to serve people,” said the BTech graduate when TOI caught up with her during her door-to-door meetings. Tapaswini has big plans for the 51,000 voters who, she claims, are struggling because of poor civic amenities. “In Indira Nehru Nagar and BR Basti areas, there are several people who reside on a hilltop and have to travel almost two km downhill to fetch water. I will resolve this on war-footing once I am elected,” she said. But her one big plan: to set up a well-equipped school. “Education is important for young people to get ahead in life,” TV Tapaswini said. Age: 21 Party: INC Ward: Goutham Nagar, Malkajgiri After working hard for youth Congress for the past four-five years, Karthik Yadav had hoped the party leadership would reward him with a ticket for the GHMC elections. But when that didn’t happen, the final year degree student at Methodist College, Abids decided to part ways and try his luck alone. “People here know about my commitment since my NSUI days. I even went to jail for protesting against TRS’ failure to provide jobs to the youth. I am certain of getting 5,000 to 6,000 votes,” said Karthik, fighting on the football symbol. And what will he do if he becomes corporator? “Continue my crusade to ensure more youngsters get job, create a safe environment for women and give every young girl a two-wheeler so that they are independent.” --M Karthik Yadav Age: 21 Party: Independent Ward: Gudimalkapur Politics has always been a part of her life, thanks to her father. So, when an opportunity presented itself, Srilakshmi jumped at it. “It saddens me to see the plight of young children in my area. They live in homes running along a nala and spend all their day playing in the filth. Children deserve better,” said the BArch graduate. Given her education, she hopes to be able to put it to good use for her electorate of close to 60,000 people. “I also want to put an end to the flooding that happens here, every time it rains,” she said stressing that fixing the drainage system is an integral part of her agenda. She is also sure of making a mark on December 1. “That’s because people know that neither me nor my party, makes false promises,” Puligolla Srilakshmi said. Age: 24 Party: BJP Ward: Allapur, Moosapet Younger daughter of senior party leader Azam Khan, this youngster from Ward No. 67, isn’t perturbed by the fact that she is up against seasoned candidates. In fact, much like her father, even Asfiya believes she will emerge victorious. “My older sister contested from this seat the last time and got close to 6,000 votes — she was in second position. This time, whoever I have met so far, have said they want a change and will support me. So, I am sure this seat will come to TRS,” said the degree student from Sindhu Degree College for Women, Rethibowli. Her agenda: to continue her party’s good work to uplift members of the minority community. “In fact, I will ensure government schemes — be it education or housing — reaches every household without any discrimination,” Asfiya Khan said. Age: 22 Party: TRS Ward: Golconda One doesn’t need wealth, but will to make a change, believes Shyam, who is employed as an office boy in a private company. Son of a security guard, he said he was egged on by his neighbours and acquaintances to join the fray. “They heard me speak at a few public meetings where I raised issues with the ruling party and their lack of diligence. So, they thought I should contest the polls... I feel more people like me should join politics as they are more aware about the problems on the ground,” said the under-graduate. His motto, he said, is clear: Development of the area and jobs for the poor youth. Shyam is hoping that his ‘bat’ will show some magic on December 1. Kongara Shyam NarsingAge: 21 Party: Independent Ward: Meerpet HB Colony, Kapra||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyds-young-brigade-in-fray/articleshow/79378786.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
November 24, 2020||Dehradun||Schools violating RTE provisions, say parents; sent notice||DEHRADUN: Several people, whose wards study in private schools of Haldwani, have complained against the violation of the Right to Education (RTE) Act by the management of a few institutions. The parents allege that the schools are trying to tamper the process of admission through the RTE Act and in many cases, schools are asking for fees from the parents which is prohibited for students who have been enrolled through the RTE Act. The complaints have been registered by the parents on the RTE website. These violations ultimately delay the lottery system process through which admissions under RTE Act are given. Taking cognisance, the Block Education Officer (Haldwani) has issued an ultimatum to seven private schools based in Haldwani. “There have been several complaints against these seven schools by the parents of the students studying under RTE Act. The schools have been accused of asking for payment of fees from such parents. Some of the schools have also been accused of rejecting the RTE admissions outright. These are serious offences and if found guilty, we will take strict action against them. The schools have been given a few days to respond to the notice,” said an education department official. According to the law, the private schools are supposed to enrol 25% of the students in their respective institutes through the RTE Act and the students enrolled under the RTE Act should be taught without any fees as their cost will be borne by the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/schools-violating-rte-provisions-say-parents-sent-notice/articleshow/79375274.cms||Mohammad Anab
November 24, 2020||Chennai||Sacked transsexual doctor found begging in Tamil Nadu||MADURAI: A young doctor who graduated from the Madurai Government Medical College in 2018 has ended up begging on the streets with a group of transgenders as she was sacked from a hospital after undergoing sex change surgery. The doctor was among a group of transgenders who were rounded up by police recently following complaints that they were begging on the streets in the city and troubling passersby. Police inspector G Kavitha said she didn’t believe the doctor at first. “We checked her documents and spoke to doctors from Madurai Medical College, who confirmed the story. We were told that the doctor, who was a male in college, was brilliant in studies. It has been 20 days since I met her. She is now staying along with a transgender in the city,” she said. The inspector said that after working in a city hospital as a male doctor for a year, she underwent a surgery and became a woman. As a result, she lost her job. She needs to get her certificates changed so that she can start working as a doctor again, Kavitha said. She also wants to do post-graduation, the inspector said. “We are ready to help her as a student of our college. After he completed his house surgency, I heard he was undergoing sex reassignment surgery. After that I did not know what happened,” Dean of Madurai Medical College and Government Rajaji Hospital Dr J Sangumani told TOI. The police and medical lab owner are setting up a clinic for the doctor in Madurai, They’ve already got her a stethoscope and a doctor’s coat. Police sources said the doctor was a bit upset with all the publicity after her photo in the new coat and with the stethoscope went viral on social media. Inspector Kavitha said the doctor’s family had disowned her because she underwent sex change surgery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/sacked-transsexual-doc-found-begging-in-tn/articleshow/79377796.cms||V Devanathan
November 24, 2020||Agra||92 more Covid +ve cases in Agra, district tally 8,703||AGRA: At least 92 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Monday evening, taking the district tally to 8,703. The patients included two staffers of the district hospital and three staffers of the Agra Municipal Corporation. In the past four days, over 250 people have been tested Covid positive in Agra district. Also, a 83-year-old man died while undergoing treatment at the SN Medical College. The resident of Laxman Nagar colony was suffering from Parkinson's disease and pneumonia. According to the health department, the Covid patient died due to a co-morbid condition. So far, 162 deaths of Covid patients have been reported in Agra district. The current Covid sample positivity rate in the district is 2.6% and the fatality rate is 1.8%. Moreover, 41 Covid patients were discharged on Monday. Of the 8,703 cases reported in the district, 7,955 [91.4%] have been declared "cured and discharged". The number of active Covid cases in the district increased from 536 on Sunday, to 586 on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/92-more-covid-ve-cases-in-agra-district-tally-8703/articleshow/79375264.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Jaipur||Police to intensify campaign against illegal firearms in Raj||Jaipur: State police in order to curb firing incidents in Rajasthan will now focus on seizing illegal weapons which were purchased before cops started a campaign to seize them. With frequent instances of firing in various districts, including Jaipur, the DGP issued a fresh set of guidelines to find illegal weapons. DGP M L Lather, speaking about the firing incidents told TOI, “We have been running a campaign to seize illicit weapons in the state and now it is being intensified. While previously we were seizing a lot of weapons at the time when they are being transported, now the focus is on finding those illegal firearms which people have purchased and stored.” According to data, from September to November 1, a total of 716 weapons were seized and 686 people arrested in 588 cases. During this same time, while Dholpur had highest number of cases with 68 incidents, Bharatpur had 44 and Jaipur East had 38. In fresh guidelines, despite the campaign, if firing incidents happen, then action will be taken against police personnel incharge of that particular area. On a daily basis, strict checking should be done across the state and borders, especially of the vehicles which do not have the required papers. Back-to-back cases of firing in Bikaner last month had triggered the concern over illicit firearms. Apart from this, the instances in the last ten years where illegal firearms were seized, the vehicles of the accused as well as homes would be checked. History-sheeters will also be scanned in case they have illegal weapons. Senior officials also need to take a feedback on a daily basis along with the fact that the case officer need to follow the trials against the accused. A strict vigil must be kept on the interstate criminals lodged in Rajasthan prisons who are in touch with the local criminals in a bid to find out their communication network.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/police-to-intensify-campaign-against-illegal-firearms-in-raj/articleshow/79377798.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Bareilly||Lawyers in Pilibhit go on strike, demand FIR against Barkhera SHO; SP orders probe||Pilibhit: Lawyers of all three bar associations — the central, civil and joint — went on a strike on Monday protesting against alleged manhandling of their colleague by Barkhera police station SHO Kamal Singh and demanding a bribe of Rs 20,000 for allowing the lawyer to start construction work on his plot. After a joint delegation of lawyers met superintendent of police Jai Prakash Yadav, seeking suspension and an FIR against the SHO, the SP ordered an inquiry into the matter by the Bisalpur circle officer. The SP said Bisalpur circle officer Lallan Singh would probe the matter and file his report within two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/lawyers-in-pilibhit-go-on-strike-demand-fir-against-barkhera-sho-sp-orders-probe/articleshow/79373194.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Delhi||Umar Khalid veteran of sedition, used intellect to hatch riots conspiracy: Delhi cops||NEW DELHI: The chargesheet filed by police in the February riots case describes Umar Khalid, who is allegedly one of the main conspirators, as a “veteran of sedition” and the “point of convergence of twin lines of pan Islamism and ultra-Left anarchism”. Police claim he used his intellectual acumen to hatch the conspiracy. “The investigation established how far Khalid travelled from 2016 when he was the harbinger of the call ‘Bharat Tere Tukde Honge Inshallah Inshallah’ to the present criminal conspiracy to commit a terrorist act where the battle cry was ‘Tera Mera Rishta Kya La Ilaha Illalah’,” began the police report. It further stated, “While in 2016, there was grudging acceptance of the existence of India that was to be broken up, in 2020, all relations were based on the concept of Ummah, with total decimation for secular, national identities.” In the almost 1,000-page chargesheet, police have tried to back their claims with technical evidence, judicial statements, WhatsApp chats and analysis of internet protocol and call details records. They have listed transcripts of chats from a new WhatsApp group called “CAB Team”, which had select members of the core group. The document claimed that Umar’s role in the conspiracy was found in the “first tangible manifestation on December 5, 2019 when Sharjeel Imam formed the group called Muslim Students of JNU at his behest”. “Khalid, with his intellectual acumen, knew very well that a large majority of Indian Muslims would never subscribe to the perverted definition of Islam being espoused by him and his disciple Sharjeel Imam and be brainwashed into believing that CAA would question their nationality. So, they planned to rope in those who would join the chorus and play to his thoughts. Those who were most eager to cross the line had to be located and used for stoking communal frenzy,” police said. On the charge of “remotely controlling” the riots, police said Khalid was clear from the beginning that when Delhi would be thrown into the fire, he would be keeping a safe distance for a perfect alibi in case the conspiracy ever got exposed. As part of the plan, on February 23, he boarded an Indigo flight and left Delhi. He went to Samastipur and Begusarai on the pretext of addressing anti-CAA protesters. The “remote operations” were reportedly substantiated by a flurry of calls exchanged between Delhi-based conspirators and Khalid, who was shuffling between Samastipur and Begusarai in Bihar on February 24. Police claimed Khalid took all updates from co-accused Natasha Narwal and gave further instructions on February 24 at 5.02pm in a 720-second call. This was followed by short duration calls between other members. Among the calls exchanged around this time between the core group members, one was between a man and a woman discussing transportation of 300 women from Jahangirpuri to Seelampur on February 23. These women were allegedly involved in the mayhem at Chand Bagh where head constable Ratan Lal was killed, a DCP was critically injured and a dozen policemen sustained injuries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cops-khalid-veteran-of-sedition-used-intellect-to-hatch-riots-conspiracy/articleshow/79377822.cms||Raj Shekhar
November 24, 2020||Mysuru||HDSCL is the best agency among counterparts in Karnataka||HUBBALLI: Speedy execution of projects, coupled with visible progress in most of the initiatives undertaken by the agency has put the Hubballi-Dharwad Smart City Ltd (HDSCL) above the rest of its counterparts in Karnataka, while slotting in at the 13th position in the nationwide rankings. The smart city enterprises across the country are ranked by the Ministry of urban development, the results of which are released each week. For HDSCL, bagging the top rank in the state is a first – its best performance hitherto was securing the fourth slot among counterparts in Karnataka, and coming in 27th in nationwide rankings. HDSCL special officer SH Naregal said, “Of the 57 projects that we undertook, 10 have been completed, while work on 43 others is under way, while we are about to invite tenders for three more, while a detailed project report (DPR) is being drafted for the one other initiative.” Naregal said that the agency’s impressive performance was the result of its record in expediting work on projects. “This week, we issued orders for the replacement of conventional bulbs on streetlights with LED bulbs. This is a Rs 64-crore initiative, which is being executed under a public-private partnership (PPP) model,” he said. Naregal added that HDSCL had also fared well in fiscal discipline. “By the end of January, 11 more projects will be complete, while we are confident of finishing work on eight other initiatives by the end of June next year. By the time the year 2022 ends, 54 of the 57 projects that we have launched would have been completed,” the special officer said. Data sourced from HDSCL indicates that, of the corpus of Rs 386 crore allocated to the agency, Rs 154 crore has been utilised on the execution of various projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/hdscl-is-the-best-agency-among-counterparts-in-karnataka/articleshow/79374865.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
November 24, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra: Drone survey to start in Sinnar in December||NASHIK: The land records department will start a survey of gaothan areas with the help of drones in December and that Sinnar taluka will be the first to be covered, S Chokalingam, settlement commissioner of Maharashtra, said here on Monday. “The survey is one of the major challenges taken up by the state government. It will ensure authentic property document for the residents of villages and drones will help expedited the process,” said the official. Chokalingam, who was in the city on his way to Aurangabad, held a meeting with district collector Suraj Mandhare, zilla parishad CEO Leena Bansod and other officials. The British had conducted such land surveys in the country but had ignored villages or Gaothan areas, leaving the inhabitants without any property cards or documents. “Through the forthcoming drone survey, we will now provide city survey number to every property The survey is needed to define the boundaries,” said Chokalingam. The officer said rural department officials with the help of villagers will demarcate boundaries of properties and gaothan with ‘chuna’ (lime).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/drone-survey-to-start-in-sinnar-in-dec/articleshow/79375276.cms||Abhilash Botekar
November 24, 2020||Hubballi||11-month baby among three found dead in stream||KARWAR: In a tragic incident, three individuals, an 11-month-old infant among them, were found dead in the Ganeshpal stream in Yellapur taluk on Monday. Rajeshwari Narayan Hegde, 52, her daughter, 28-year-old Vani Prakash and the latter’s child have been identified as the victims. While Rajeshwari was a resident of Kalagodlu village in Yellapur taluk in Uttara Kannada district, her daughter, who had been living in Shivamogga with her husband, had returned to her maternal home for the naming ceremony of her child that was scheduled to be held next week. Yellapur police have registered a case in connection with the tragic incident. Cops are investigating the reason that may prompted the mother-daughter duo to take the extreme step, with a toddler in tow. The bodies of the three victims will be autopsied, said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/11-month-baby-among-three-found-dead-in-stream/articleshow/79374898.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Mangaluru||Kasaragod engineers emulate design of Dakshina Kannada farmer’s check dam||MANGALURU: Officials of the Kasaragod Development Package and those implementing Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) in the border district in Kerala have decided to replicate the model of a micro ring check dam built by Nitile Mahabaleshwara Bhat in Kodapadavu village, around 5km from Vittal in Dakshina Kannada. Inspired by Bhat’s design, officials in Kasaragod launched a project to build 3,000 micro ring check dams, of which 600 are slated for completion this year, 284 of which are very close to the finish line of the execution cycle. Special officer for Kasaragod Development Package EP Rajamohan pointed out that nine of the 44 rivers flowing through Kerala crisscrossed the border district. “In addition to these big rivers, there are three smaller ones and 650 streams. But Kasaragod is still plagued by acute water shortage, and there are no big dams here,” Rajamohan told TOI. He said that the initiative to build micro check dams was part of an overarching plan to put an end, once and for all, to the persisting problem of water shortage in Kasaragod. “We were inspired by the initiatives undertaken by the local farmers of Dakshina Kannada. Editor of ‘Adike Patrike’ Shree Padre, helped a team of our engineers visit Bhat’s farm,” said Rajamohan, adding that construction of a single ring-shaped check dam cost approximately Rs 40,000 to Rs 50,000. What makes Bhat’s design easy to emulate is the minimal resources it requires. A concrete ring is laid across the stream, while an iron shutter helps store water. The administration in Kasaragod is hoping, in the course of execution of the project, to replace the wooden bridges in the district. A modest Bhat said that his innovation was driven by necessity. “To visit my plantation, I had to cross a stream near my house, and construction of a bridge would have cost Rs 1.5 lakh. So, in 2008, I had a two-foot concrete ring with a diameter of eight feet placed across the stream. When Shree Padre launched his campaign for traditional check dams – kattas – I added an iron sheet with gunny beading at the edges, which served as a gate and helped recharge the groundwater aquifers. Many locals replicated the design,” he said. Shree Padre said, “This low-cost method can be replicated across the country since it is ideal for small streams fewer than 3m wide,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/kasaragod-engineers-emulate-design-of-dakshina-kannada-farmers-check-dam/articleshow/79375700.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
November 24, 2020||Vijayawada||Temple cities gear up for president's visit||TIRUPATI: Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) chairman YV Subba Reddy said the best of arrangements are in place for the visit of President Ram Nath Kovind to the temple cities of Tirumala and Tirupati on Tuesday. Accompanied by TTD EO KS Jawahar Reddy, Chittoor district collector Dr Narayana Bharat Gupta, TTD additional EO AV Dharma Reddy, Tirupati SP Avula Ramesh Reddy and other officials, YV Subba Reddy carried out inspections at the Tirumala temple, Sri Varaha Swamy temple, Sri Padmavathi guest house and other places at Tirumala on Monday. Speaking to reporters, the chairman said the TTD in coordination with the government and officials of the district administration, have made the best of arrangements at the Tiruchanoor and Tirumala temples. Meanwhile, the district collector reviewed the arrangements for the President’s visit with officials of the district administration at the revenue divisional office in Tirupati on Monday. Pointing out that chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy, governor Biswa Bhushan Harichandan and other elected representatives will receive the President, the collector directed officials to discharge their duties with utmost caution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/temple-cities-gear-up-for-prez-visit/articleshow/79375278.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
November 24, 2020||Nashik||Nashik mayor discharged||Nashik: Nashik city mayor Satish Kulkarni, who had tested Covid positive, was discharged from a city-based private hospital on Monday afternoon. The mayor had tested positive on November 18 and was admitted to a hospital. He had held several meetings with the civic administration and health officials of the civic body, asking them to ensure citizens follow the Covid safety norms. Kulkarni said he is in good health now. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-mayor-discharged/articleshow/79375308.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 24, 2020||Bengaluru||In most other countries, schools stay open even during lockdowns||BENGALURU: Several European countries including Germany, Ireland, France, and England may have tightened their lockdowns because of a fresh outbreak of Covid-19, but they have kept schools and childcare facilities open. While France imposed a month-long nationwide lockdown on October 28 and England followed suit on November 4, schools are exempt in both countries. Denmark was one of the first western countries to reopen schools on April 15 after a month’s lockdown. These countries decided on this stand by ensuring innovative and strict safety measures (ventilation, mask-wearing and outdoor classes in small bubbles) and considering socio-economic consequences (like domestic violence, educational interruption, poverty etc.). Some reports say medical experts in these countries supported the decision, pointing out that the rate of virus transmission in schools was low. As per a study by the European Center for Disease Prevention and Control, released in August, children accounted for less than 5% of all Covid-19 cases reported in 27 countries of the European Union and Britain. According to another report, following the summer vacation in Japan, children have been attending school on alternate days to make social distancing easier. Even Wuhan schools reopened on September 1. Schools in Russia, Ukraine and Belgium also reopened in September with masks mandatory for teachers and students. However, as per foreign media, cities like Detroit, Philadelphia, and Boston in US, are shutting schools and conducting online classes to prevent Covid infections. In Italy too, schools reopened in September after staying closed for six months, but moved to online classes within a week after a fresh outbreak. This led to a protest by a group of students in Italy’s Turin city. Spearheaded by 12-year-old Anita Iacovelli, the movement became a nationwide one with students sitting outside their schools, bracing the winter cold and studying via gadgets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/in-most-other-countries-schools-stay-open-even-during-lockdowns/articleshow/79375342.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Jaipur||Sanganer farmers using toxic drainwater for crops||JAIPUR: The long-standing issue of toxic farming with drainwater in Sanganer is yet to be resolved. The government had started constructing a Common Effluent Treatment Plant (CETP) in the area, but its now been halted due to financial problems. Farmers in Sanganer area for decades have been using the water being drained out by the nearby cloth factories. Sanganer is famous for its block printing techniques and the water used to make ink is thrown in the drains of the area. One of the biggest environmental hazards, this toxic water when used in farming becomes dangerous for health. Rajendra Kumbhaj, an environmentalist who has been working in this area, said there have been cases in the past when disabled children have been born in this area. “In the 1990s, the situation was really bad and we had to fight tooth and nail to get this CTEP plant sanctioned so that water would be treated. Now, when the plant is almost constructed, the problems remain,” said Kumbhaj. The CTEP plant constructed at a cost of Rs 170 crore has been funded 50% by the central government, 25% by state government and 25% by the stakeholder, ie the factory owners. Sanganer Kapda Rangai Chapai Association’s general secretary Rajendra Jeedgar said, “We had given our share and now it is up to the government to complete the work. The plant is almost ready and just a pipeline has to be constructed which will be done once the central government releases the fund.” According to a senior government official in Rajasthan industry department, applications have been sent to the ministry of textiles many times, but funds were yet to be released. Residents of Sanganer Brijvallabh said they were affected by this toxic farming directly. “Tomatoes, chillies, cucumbers and other vegetables grown here are cheaper because farmers use dirty water. Traders also purchase it from here which directly comes in our vegetable markets and food plate. This is toxic and hazardous to health. Why is the government not taking affirmative action against this farming. Farmers in the area know about the effects of these produce so they themselves do not consume their produce,” said Brijvallabh. Several petitions have been filed in Rajasthan High Court. In the PN Mandola vs State of Rajasthan case, the high court directed the government to seize the pumps through which polluted water is pumped into farmlands. However, farmers started using them again after a period of time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sanganer-farmers-using-toxic-drainwater-for-crops/articleshow/79377823.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Jaipur||JDA to recover more than Rs 20cr from defaulters||Jaipur: Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) continues to lose revenue as defaulters are not depositing lease money despite notices being served to them. According to JDA records, there are 1,693 lease money defaulters and out of which there is a list of 16 influential property owners who have to pay lease money more than Rs 50 lakh. An official said, “The JDA has to recover over Rs 20 crore from the defaulters. From 16 property owners, Rs 15 crore is pending.” In February, the JDA had prepared notices to recover the money, but efforts turned futile after pandemic hit. Like the JMC, the JDA earlier did not have the powers to seize bank accounts of defaulters evading urban development (UD) tax. After JDA acquired similar rights, it has decided to tigten the noose. “Now, as per the Public Demand Recovery Act, the bank account of defaulters can be attached. There are more than three dozen defaulters who have not deposited lease money since allotment. The JDA will soon expedite the process and decided to attach the bank accounts of the defaulters,” said the official. The JDA is desperate to earn revenue as it has to pay approximately Rs 30 crore installments against the loan taken from National Capital Regional Planning Board for Dravyawati River and Railway over-bridge. Moreover, it has to carry out several new projects worth Rs 1000 crore in it’s kitty. In the financial year 2020-2021, the JDA has proposed to earn Rs 1,500 crore after auctioning land. However, seeing the market condition, it looks nearly impossible to achieve the target.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jda-to-recover-more-than-rs-20cr-from-defaulters/articleshow/79377814.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 24, 2020||Nashik||Fresh drive against Covid rule violators||Nashik: The civic body has decided to intensify the drive against citizens and shopkeepers found without face masks or caught violating the social distancing norm in view of the state government’s alert on the possibility of a second wave of Covid-19. Municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav took the decision during a meeting with health officials and all six divisional officers and issued a directive. Jadhav instructed the officers to fine anyone found without masks in markets and at crowded places across all six divisions of the city. The civic body had conducted a ‘No Mask, No Entry’ drive during the Diwali festival, during which it fined over 1,000 citizens Rs 200 each and also penalised shopkeepers for not following the safety protocol, Civic officials said coronavirus cases are still under control but they don’t want to take any risks. “Wearing of face masks, maintaining social distance and washing of hands frequently with soap are the ways to keep Covid-19 at bay,” said an official. “We are surveying active containment zones as per the norms and tracing at least 30 high- and low-risk contacts of each positive patient. The swabs of around six-seven high-risk contacts are sent for testing daily,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/fresh-drive-against-covid-rule-violators/articleshow/79375303.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 24, 2020||Rajkot||Absconding Sonu Dangar gang member caught in Rajkot; firearms seized||Rajkot: An absconding member of the gang of lady don Sonu Dangar was nabbed and firearms were recovered from the possession of the accused from Bhavnagar Road in Rajkot on Sunday night.Police said the accused, Champu Vichhiya (40), was also booked under the Gujarat Control of Terrorism and Organized Crime (GCTOC) Act. “Vichhiya was lodged in Rajkot Central Jail after he was sentenced to life imprisonment for killing Bharat Lehri in Juna Savar village of Savarkundla taluka in Amreli district, following a financial dispute in 2011. The verdict of the life imprisonment was pronounced on September 17, 2013. He was released on parole on May 18, 2016. Vichhiya jumped the parole and had been absconding ever since,” said D B Basia, assistant commissioner of police, Rajkot crime branch. While he was absconding, Vichhiya also allegedly opened fire on Mehul Shaparia and Dhiru Khuman in Odiya village of Savarkundla taluka. The police recovered one country made pistol, one revolver and six cartridges from his possession. The police booked Vichhiya under the Arms Act. “We will be probing as to from where Vichhiya has procured the firearms and ammunition. Vichhiya will be sent to the Rajkot Central Jail from where the Amreli police will secure his custody through a transfer warrant,” added Basia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/absconding-sonu-dangar-gang-member-caught-in-rajkot-firearms-seized/articleshow/79375313.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Delhi||SC turns down police plea to cancel bail granted to Jamia scholar accused in riots||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Monday dismissed a Delhi Police petition seeking cancellation of bail granted to Faizan Khan, accused of supplying SIM card to Delhi riots accused and Jamia scholar Asif Iqbal Tanha without mandatory verification, and said the Delhi High Court had granted bail after considering all aspects. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R S Reddy and M R Shah refused to entertain the petition even though additional solicitor general S V Raju and advocate Rajat Nair claimed that the HC granted bail without even taking a look at the police case diary relating to the accused. At the time when Delhi HC granted bail to Khan, the police had not filed a chargesheet, which was submitted to the trial court later. When the bench asked why the police could not show the case diary to the HC, Raju said the HC did not ask for it even though it is mandatory under the law. “The police could not have divulged sensitive information prior to filing of the chargesheet in its status report that would have enabled the accused to gain knowledge of it,” the ASG said. The bench said, “The HC has elaborately considered all material produced before it by the police. You ought to have produced the case diary. Whatever you filed, the HC has considered it.” The SC dismissed the SLP but said its observations and dismissal of the petition would have no bearing on the trial. The HC had granted bail to Khan on October 23 and said, “The material on record and the investigating agency's status report do not disclose the commission of the offences under UAPA, 1967, except the bald statements of the witnesses.” The HC had also said there was no proof on record such as CCTV footage, video clip or chat record of Khan with any other accused, except the allegation that he provided SIM card on a fake ID in December 2019 and took a small amount of Rs 200 for the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sc-turns-down-police-plea-to-cancel-bail-granted-to-jamia-scholar-accused-in-riots/articleshow/79377843.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Nagpur||Clotting, heart attacks, strokes rising among recovered Covid patients||Nagpur: Hospitals in the city are witnessing a sharp rise in recovered Covid patients suffering from long term conditions like blood clots, heart swelling, heart attacks, and paralysis. Some doctors have attributed these to post-Covid GB Syndrome – a condition in which the immune system attacks the nerves, as well as pulmonary embolism. Doctors have also found that patients are coming in post-Covid rehabilitation centres with complains of sudden palpitation and even breathlessness but unable to explain the condition. To prevent clotting which is the trigger for other conditions, doctors are prescribing anti-coagulate for up to three months. Senior pulmonologist at KRIMS Dr Ashok Arbat said long term impact like clotting has become common in Covid recovered patients. “If blood becomes thicker and goes in brain it causes stroke, in heart then heart attack, and in any other part then that particular symptoms will occur. Even three to four months after recovery, patients are having difficulty in breathing. People as young as 27 are complaining of chest pain. Some are actual and some maybe psychological. We need to investigate if this is because of clot in lungs, brain or heart,” he said. Dr Arbat added that in emergency, patients can be treated by any doctor. “Long term management is the domain of pulmonologist,” he said. Meditrina Institute of Medical Sciences CMD and Neuro surgeon Dr Sameer Paltewar said patients with breathlessness, fatigue, secondary pneumonia, brain strokes and post-viral polymer neuropathy, also called GBS (Guillain-Barre syndrome), have increased. “Covid is turning out to a multi-system involvement disease. The novel coronavirus affects the thrombotic process in the blood. Thrombosis in any blood vessel can affect any part of the body. Hence, Covid-19 is not limited to lungs. In post Covid stage, it gives rise to thrombotic tendency. Thrombosis causes brain stroke, heart attacks, and mesenteric ischemia,” he said. Vasacular and cardiothoracic surgeon Dr Ashish Badkal said vascular thrombosis – blood vessel clotting – had increased among the recovered. “In 10 to 15 days, many cases of stomach and lower limb vessels’ vascular thrombosis have been reported. We had been prescribing heparin – blood thinning drug. Now we have started anti-coagulation medicines. Despite giving heparin, many patients are hit by gangrene. Every week, we are performing embolectomy (removal of clot) on recovered Covid patients,” he said. Dr Badkal said something was abnormal about clotting at molecular level. Kingsway hospital’s internal medicine and critical care specialist Dr Harshwardhan Bora said they had been advising regular diet, proper exercise, and positive mindset. “We also tell patient to immediately report any new symptom like chest pain, heart attack, paralysis. Heart swelling or failure, myocarditis and other heart ailments are on the rise among recovered patients,” he said. Seven Star Hospital’s Covid team in-charge Dr Mohan Nerker said they have seen very few of their over 1,000 Covid recovered patients suffering from any of clotting associated long-term problems. “I feel maybe we didn’t use plasma therapy, steroids as all of them were severe patients. On discharge, we counseled them properly and judged the vulnerable patients. We kept them on anti-coagulate for three months. One or two patients suffered pulmonary embolism though they were suspected of heart attack,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/clotting-heart-attacks-strokes-rising-among-recovered-covid-patients/articleshow/79377832.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
November 24, 2020||Jaipur||Civic bodies asked to implement bldg Act by Saturday||JAIPUR: The urban development and housing (UDH) has directed the civic bodies including Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) to implement the Rajasthan Urban Area Building Regulation, 2020 by November 28. A letter has been sent to the development authorities and Urban Improvement Trust (UIT) to issue the notification on the given date. An official at town planning wing said, “The department had earlier released the regulation; but implementation was pending as the model code of conduct was in place due to civic polls.” On November 12, civic bodies were given 15 days’ time for implementation of the regulation. In JDA, the rules will be implemented under Section 96 of the JDA, Act, 1982. Once implemented, a developer can construct a structure up to a height of 18 metre (5 storeys) on a plot sized 500 sq-mt or more. The minimum height for a building under the high-rise category has been amended to 18 metres from the earlier 15 metres. Multi-storey buildings will be permitted only if the road width is at least 40 feet wide. For the construction of flats, the plot size should be at least 750 square-metres and the road width at least 12 metre (40 feet). Similarly, the minimum width of the road should be at least 60 feet for construction of a coaching centre in big cities of the state. The requirement is 40 feet in smaller cities. The minimum plot size for the construction of a coaching institute should be 300 square-metres. The process for obtaining approvals of maps has also been simplified for plots of area up to 500 sq-metres. Now, an owner can begin construction immediately after submitting the respective site plan and fees to the local bodies. Previously, this provision was only available for owners who had a plot size of 250 sq-metres. The department has permitted small plot owners having a 90 sq-metre sized plot to build an additional floor. “This would facilitate more space within the same property and is beneficial since more than 60 per cent of the plots are up to 90 sq-metre in area,” an official said. Over an area of this size, one can presently build a ground floor in addition to one storey. Town planners, during the COVID-19 pandemic, have claimed that in smaller plots, the basic per-capita built-up area is lesser than the minimum average with regards to general health. Hence, it was necessary to augment the built-up area for small plot holders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/civic-bodies-asked-to-implement-bldg-act-by-saturday/articleshow/79377829.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Jaipur||Minor found to be pregnant after rape||Jaipur: A case of rape was registered in Jhotwara police station on Saturday, after a 12-year-old who complained of stomach ache was found to be five months pregnant. “When the child complained of stomach ache, her mother took her to the hospital where it was found that she was pregnant. According to the complainant, the girl was raped by an uncle when they were staying in a rented accommodation in Jhotwara around five months back,” said an official of Jhotwara police station. The accused was also staying in the rented house close to the survivor’s place. While the complainant alleged that the girl’s medical examination was not done despite the case being registered for two days, cops claimed that it had been done. The official said, “A day after the case was lodged, the girl’s medical examination was done and she again visited the hospital on Monday.” While the accused is on the run, sources close to the complainant said that the girl did not realise that she was pregnant and had kept quiet because of being threatened by him. Sources also claimed that they would approach the court to get the pregnancy terminated. A case under the Pocso Act and the SC/ST Act along with rape charge, has been registered. Additionally, Kardhani police arrested the accused who had raped a 7-year-old girl in July and then absconded. Just a few months back, the family of a 14-year-old girl had filed a rape complaint at Ramganj police station against a neighbourhood youth after their daughter became pregnant. For months, the girl kept silent about the rape until she became pregnant and told her parents about it. The girl did not tell about being raped to her parents as the youth had threatened her to keep mum. Just days before they lodged the case, the child had complained of abdominal pain and other issues which she discussed with her mother. When she was taken to a hospital, doctors told her parents that she was pregnant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/minor-found-to-be-pregnant-after-rape/articleshow/79377842.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 24, 2020||Rajkot||Cops come to the rescue of family stranded in night curfew||Rajkot: The road at Madhapar Chowkadi wore a deserted look. More than the curfew orders, the biting cold acted as a deterrent factor that forced the commuters to stay indoors in Rajkot on Sunday night. Apart from police vehicles patrolling the roads and stray dogs barking at them, no living being was visible. “The atmosphere was gloomy and dark. We had stopped our van at Madhapar Chowkadi. Suddenly, we saw an MUV arrive. Five persons alighted from it. There was a man, his wife and three toddlers. It was apparent that they had not violated the curfew orders on purpose,” said A K Vala, inspector with Gandhigram police station. “As the man and his wife picked up their children and started to walk, we went up to them. The man said that he and his family had gone to Jamnagar from where they returned to Rajkot and that they wanted to go to their residence near Bapa Sitaram Chowk on Raiya Road,” narrated Vala. “We realized that during the curfew, no means of transportation was available and leaving the family in that condition would be nothing short of leaving it in the lurch. Hence, I decided to send the family to its home in our PCR van,” said Vala, who had forgotten to ask the names of the man and his family members. At a time when the image of police is all about baton wielding, brow beating cops, the Rajkot police showed their humane face and became Good Samaritans for those in need.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/cops-come-to-the-rescue-of-family-stranded-in-night-curfew/articleshow/79375364.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Jodhpur||Petty issues trigger serious crimes in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Multiple cases have been reported in the recent past in which people have been killed for trivial issues. While senior officials said such cases have increased post lockdown, cops said there was no database to analyse the trend. Police however said low tolerance levels triggered by the pandemic was a possible reason for these crimes. DGP M L Lather said, “While we have not done any study on this aspect, it is true that people are becoming angry quicker over petty issues and executing serious crimes like murder. This was rare before lockdown and possibly the pandemic has had certain effect on the people’ mental health.” Officials also lamented that as compared to previous year, heinous crimes have reduced and petty crimes are becoming frequent. “It is fact that people have reduced tolerance level at present which could be a result of multiple reasons. During lockdown, people have lost jobs and due to unemployment, they are losing temper quickly and resorting to taking out their anger on others even when the issues are small”, added another senior official. A 47-year-old woman was mowed down in Sawai Madhopur on Wednesday morning over a dispute about Rs 500. After the incident, villagers took the body to the local police station demanding the arrest of the accused. Police arrested the main accused and detained two persons in the case. An official said, “In majority of such cases, the crime is not pre-planned due to which it becomes quite difficult to prevent them. Having said that, we take swift action against the accused and ensure that justice is served. It is extremely essential that people take care of their mental health and do no resort to crime.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/petty-issues-trigger-serious-crimes-in-raj/articleshow/79381233.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala Police Act: 118D slayer takes up legal fight against 118A||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Even with the state government deciding to withdraw the amendment to the Kerala Police Act (KPA), 2011 following public criticism, the legality of the ordinance could still be called into question. Anoop Kumaran, an activist who had opposed Section 118D of the KPA in the Supreme Court, resulting in its scrapping, has approached the high court against the ordinance. In his petition, Kumaran contends that Section 118A overlaps with central legislation, which renders it untenable under the statute. He argues that the ordinance provides penalty for defamation, which is already covered under sections 499 and 500 of the Indian Penal Code. The ordinance, unlike Section 499, does not provide for any exceptions. Moreover, the provision in the ordinance makes the offence cognizable, unlike Section 499, under which it is a non-cognizable offence. Thus the provision has, in effect, amended Section 499 of IPC, which is a central legislation by making the offence cognizable and increasing the punishment. The ordinance is beyond the power of the state legislature and is thus arbitrary and illegal, the petition said. Under Article 254 of the Constitution, no state-made law can surpass a central statute. Since defamation is already covered in IPC, in case of a conflict between a state law and a central law, only the central law will prevail. While Section 500 of IPC states that punishment for defamation is two years or fine or both, the state's ordinance makes it three years, which is in clear conflict with the central act. “The whole ordinance sounds like a hastily prepared one. If it was drafted well, at least the word ‘defamatory’ could have been avoided to avoid this funny scenario of two statutes punishing the same crime in two different ways,” a senior police official said on conditions of anonymity. Ordinance in force Though the chief minister has said the government would not implement the amendment, it would be legally impossible not to act if someone files a complaint, since it is a cognizable offence. In legal sense, the police cannot refuse to act on a complaint before the ordinance is withdrawn or repealed through due process. According to Article 213 (2) of the Constitution, under normal circumstances, an ordinance remains in force till six weeks from the date of assembly, or till the assembly passes a resolution disapproving it. However, the government is set to resort to the third provision in the article which says that the ordinance can be withdrawn anytime by the governor, on the basis of the recommendation of the cabinet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/118d-slayer-takes-up-legal-fight-against-118a/articleshow/79376468.cms||KP Saikiran
November 24, 2020||Udaipur||Petty issues trigger serious crimes in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Multiple cases have been reported in the recent past in which people have been killed for trivial issues. While senior officials said such cases have increased post lockdown, cops said there was no database to analyse the trend. Police however said low tolerance levels triggered by the pandemic was a possible reason for these crimes. DGP M L Lather said, “While we have not done any study on this aspect, it is true that people are becoming angry quicker over petty issues and executing serious crimes like murder. This was rare before lockdown and possibly the pandemic has had certain effect on the people’ mental health.” Officials also lamented that as compared to previous year, heinous crimes have reduced and petty crimes are becoming frequent. “It is fact that people have reduced tolerance level at present which could be a result of multiple reasons. During lockdown, people have lost jobs and due to unemployment, they are losing temper quickly and resorting to taking out their anger on others even when the issues are small”, added another senior official. A 47-year-old woman was mowed down in Sawai Madhopur on Wednesday morning over a dispute about Rs 500. After the incident, villagers took the body to the local police station demanding the arrest of the accused. Police arrested the main accused and detained two persons in the case. An official said, “In majority of such cases, the crime is not pre-planned due to which it becomes quite difficult to prevent them. Having said that, we take swift action against the accused and ensure that justice is served. It is extremely essential that people take care of their mental health and do no resort to crime.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/petty-issues-trigger-serious-crimes-in-raj/articleshow/79381235.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Jaipur||Petty issues trigger serious crimes in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Multiple cases have been reported in the recent past in which people have been killed for trivial issues. While senior officials said such cases have increased post lockdown, cops said there was no database to analyse the trend. Police however said low tolerance levels triggered by the pandemic was a possible reason for these crimes. DGP M L Lather said, “While we have not done any study on this aspect, it is true that people are becoming angry quicker over petty issues and executing serious crimes like murder. This was rare before lockdown and possibly the pandemic has had certain effect on the people’ mental health.” Officials also lamented that as compared to previous year, heinous crimes have reduced and petty crimes are becoming frequent. “It is fact that people have reduced tolerance level at present which could be a result of multiple reasons. During lockdown, people have lost jobs and due to unemployment, they are losing temper quickly and resorting to taking out their anger on others even when the issues are small”, added another senior official. A 47-year-old woman was mowed down in Sawai Madhopur on Wednesday morning over a dispute about Rs 500. After the incident, villagers took the body to the local police station demanding the arrest of the accused. Police arrested the main accused and detained two persons in the case. An official said, “In majority of such cases, the crime is not pre-planned due to which it becomes quite difficult to prevent them. Having said that, we take swift action against the accused and ensure that justice is served. It is extremely essential that people take care of their mental health and do no resort to crime.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/petty-issues-trigger-serious-crimes-in-raj/articleshow/79377847.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Ajmer||Petty issues trigger serious crimes in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Multiple cases have been reported in the recent past in which people have been killed for trivial issues. While senior officials said such cases have increased post lockdown, cops said there was no database to analyse the trend. Police however said low tolerance levels triggered by the pandemic was a possible reason for these crimes. DGP M L Lather said, “While we have not done any study on this aspect, it is true that people are becoming angry quicker over petty issues and executing serious crimes like murder. This was rare before lockdown and possibly the pandemic has had certain effect on the people’ mental health.” Officials also lamented that as compared to previous year, heinous crimes have reduced and petty crimes are becoming frequent. “It is fact that people have reduced tolerance level at present which could be a result of multiple reasons. During lockdown, people have lost jobs and due to unemployment, they are losing temper quickly and resorting to taking out their anger on others even when the issues are small”, added another senior official. A 47-year-old woman was mowed down in Sawai Madhopur on Wednesday morning over a dispute about Rs 500. After the incident, villagers took the body to the local police station demanding the arrest of the accused. Police arrested the main accused and detained two persons in the case. An official said, “In majority of such cases, the crime is not pre-planned due to which it becomes quite difficult to prevent them. Having said that, we take swift action against the accused and ensure that justice is served. It is extremely essential that people take care of their mental health and do no resort to crime.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/petty-issues-trigger-serious-crimes-in-raj/articleshow/79381236.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Meerut||Girl, 13, blackmailed, raped by two men in Bulandshahr||MEERUT: A 13-year-old girl in Bulandshahar district was raped allegedly by two men from her village after they filmed her while bathing and blackmailed her into submitting to them by threatening to make the clip public. An FIR against five named accused has been registered at Pahasu police station and four of them, including two main accused, have been arrested, said Santosh Kumar Singh, Bulandshahr senior superintendent of police (SSP). The incident came to the fore after the accused recently shared the video and it was seen by the family of the survivor. Her mother confronted the accused and their family but was allegedly attacked by them. The next day, she tried to lodge a complaint with police but was allegedly turned away by the SHO. Later, SSP Santosh Kumar Singh intervened following which an FIR against five named accused -- Pappu, Saleem, Najma, Bhuri and Dilshad -- was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/girl-13-blackmailed-raped-by-two-men-in-bulandshahr/articleshow/79375339.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Two complexes lead the way as building blocks of clean air||NEW DELHI: Amid concerns about pollution caused by construction work, Central Public Works Department (CPWD) is setting an example by generating little dust while erecting two pre-engineered buildings on Africa Avenue and K G Marg. The two complexes will be completed in 240 days, a third of the time it takes to put up similarly sized buildings using the usual reinforced cement concrete technology. The combined built-up area of the two complexes is 92,000 square metres, around the same as Nirman Bhawan. The prefabricated building components are being sourced from factories in Indore, Haridwar, Bawal and Palwal for assembly at the sites. This means more than 80% of the work on the two buildings — the African Avenue structure will have the ground floor plus seven floors and the other the ground floor plus eight storeys — is done away from the project site. CPWD officials added that special bamboo flooring will be used and will be brought from Meghalaya. The two projects, which started in August, have already achieved 35% completion. “The prefabricated technology has never been used in such big projects. Its success will demonstrate that construction of buildings in cities like Delhi can be done without damage to the environment,” said CPWD director-general Vinit Kumar Jayaswal. “Using conventional technologies, it takes two years to construct such complexes.” Government employees currently housed in the hutments near South Block will be shifted to the new buildings, which will together accommodate 15,000 people. The vacated areas will be used for the construction of a new office and residence of the Prime Minister and accommodation for the Special Protection Group. CPWD officials said only nuts and bolts are being used for erection of steel structural frames, and no welding is necessary at the site. They added that expeditious construction was possible because of dry wall construction technology, which uses light gauge steel frames for external and internal walls. These frames are covered with cement fibre boards on the outer side of the external walls, while the interiors use cement fibre boards and gypsum boards. Rock wool is filled in between for thermal insulation. Since this does require the use of water for curing concrete and plaster work, a substantial volume of water is saved. Vermiculite cement plaster used on the steel structures gives them the capacity to withstand two hours of fire exposure. Executive engineer Akhilesh Kumar told TOI that no underground parking has been planned and not a single tree will be felled. “We will build multistoried vehicle parking. The buildings have been designed to save trees,” he said. “Since steel comprises up to 80% of the main component of the projects, the life of these buildings will be over 100 years.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/two-complexes-lead-the-way-as-building-blocks-of-clean-air/articleshow/79377845.cms||Dipak K Dash
November 24, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Strike, reduced services to make commuting difficult in Avadi||CHENNAI: Ahead of heavy rain, Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) has reduced bus services in the western suburbs of the city. This, coupled with the upcoming nationwide trade unions’ strike, could make commuting difficult for residents. The MTC management, however, said the strike on November 26 will not have an impact on services as they have enough staff who will not participate in the strike. These staff belong to Anna Thozhil Sangam, a union affiliated to the ruling AIADMK. The corporation will run 2,500-odd buses in the city. “But around 10,000 workers in Chennai are expected to participate in the strike against the central government’s anti-labour policies,” said K Aarumugha Nainaar from CITU, which will join hands with the DMK-affiliated Labour Progressive Front, in Tamil Nadu for the strike. R M Swamy from SVS-AAP union, which has decided not to participate in the strike, said none of the political parties, which called for strike, tried to resolve the long-pending issues. “They were using workers as pawns for their political motives and gain,” he said. Asked about the withdrawn services on the outskirts, a senior MTC official said nine services have been stopped temporarily as their earnings per kilometre were below par. Of them, six were from the Avadi depot. These include routes 47D SP (Avadi-Thiruvanmiyur) and 104A (Avadi-Tambaram), introduced last month. These buses fetched around Rs 6,000 a day through ticket sales. T Sadagopan, a consumer rights’ activist from Avadi, said commuting will become expensive in the absence of buses. “There are no local trains and people here depend on MTC buses for commuting. With no buses, people will have to spend Rs 50-70 extra every day on share autos to reach Ambattur or Koyambedu.” MTC has already stopped operating services such as 71E (Broadway-Thirunindravur) because of traffic restrictions to facilitate construction of a bridge at Pattabiram. Residents who stay on the other side of Outer Ring Road have to take three buses to reach the city and spend at least three hours extra a day for travel, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/strike-reduced-services-to-make-commuting-difficult-in-avadi/articleshow/79377851.cms||Ram Sundaram
November 24, 2020||Meerut||Rs 500 fine on those not wearing mask in public places: Meerut DM||MEERUT: With the spike in coronavirus cases in the district, Meerut DM K Balaji has ordered imposition of a Rs 500 fine on those not wearing a mask in public places. He has also directed the health department to focus on the travel history of those who test positive for the disease. Balaji, said, “Strict action as per the law will be taken against the people who do not wear masks in public.” He called for stepping up surveillance of active cases and contact tracing of all those people who came in contact with the Covid patient so that they too are tested. He also emphasized on the need for maintaining social distancing at all times in public places. Meanwhile, regular inspections at LLRM Medical College and Anand Hospital are being carried out to ensure that good care is being taken of the patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/rs-500-fine-on-those-not-wearing-mask-in-public-places-meerut-dm/articleshow/79375341.cms||Ishita Bhatia
November 24, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Withdraw ordinance, Chennithala tells govt||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said on Monday that chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s statement that the ordinance on Kerala Police (Amendment) Act will not be implemented was a farce and the government should withdraw the ordinance. As the governor has already signed the ordinance, it has come into force and no one, including the CM, can now say that it will not be implemented. Vijayan’s statement is intended to fool people. The amendment – introduced through section 118A in the Kerala Police Act – violates human rights and fundamental rights assured by the Constitution. Even when government says that it will not implement the law, police can register cases under the Section till it is in force, Chennithala said. Despite civil society, media, personalities like Prashant Bhushan and the CPM central leadership citing the amendment as undemocratic, the government is challenging the people by not withdrawing the ordinance. There is no legal standing for the ordinance as it violates several orders of the Supreme Court, he added. KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran said it was unfortunate that the governor signed the ordinance that hampers media freedom. The governor’s job is not to sign the papers provided to him by the government. It is sad that the governor did not bother to seek legal opinion on the ordinance. Long ago, the Supreme Court had struck down the provisions that were included in the ordinance. The governor should recall the ordinance, he said. Protesting the promulgation of the ordinance, Chennithala, Ramachandran, UDF convenor MM Hassan, MLA VS Sivakumar and Thiruvananthapuram DCC president Neyyattinkara Sanal undertook a march from Martyr’s Column to the Secretariat without the presence of supporters and obeying Covid protocol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/withdraw-ordinance-chennithala-tells-govt/articleshow/79376486.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Form spl zones for resorts in Nilgiris: NGO||Udhagamandalam: Stating that the tourist resorts in the Nilgiris has mushroomed after the 1990s, a local NGO has written to district collector J Innocent Divya on the need to identify, earmark and create permissible zones for such properties in select areas without upsetting the ecology of the hill retreat. Pointing out that in the pre-colonial times there were separate paths or corridors for elephants, bisons and humans, Dharmalingam Venugopal, director, Nilgiri Documentation Centre, said, “As a result, there was only negligible incidences of man-animal conflicts. Today, there is a need for a path or corridor for tourism, which is one of the two main breadwinners for the Nilgiri people.” The NGO had earlier found that the tourist resorts were defying guidelines and regulations in their location of operation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/form-spl-zones-for-resorts-in-nilgiris-ngo/articleshow/79377873.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 24, 2020||Mysuru||Criminal case against middlemen, agents found cheating farmers||MYSURU: The district authorities have warned of strict legal action against middlemen and agents who bring the farmers’ produce to the government procurement centres. They will now be booked under criminal charges. The district administration has decided to open minimum support price (MSP) procurement centres in all the taluks to procure paddy. The Karnataka State Cooperative Marketing Federation has been made the agency to procure the paddy and farmers are requested to sell their produce directly to the centres. The centres will procure paddy for MSP of Rs 1,869 per quintal and Rs 1,888 per quintal for grade ‘A’ paddy. Farmers must register their names with valid documents before December 30 and procurement will be completed by March 20, 2021. A maximum of 40 quintals of paddy will be procured from registered small and medium farmers. “The farmers are advised to bring their produce to the centres without falling trap to the middlemen,” said deputy commissioner Rohini Sindhuri Dasari. Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangah (KRRS) general secretary Hosakote Basavaraj told TOI that the district administration has taken the right decision to prevent the middlemen menace. “The procurement centres will be opened in all the taluks in the district. The middlemen or agents bring the produce to the centres as farmers may have taken loans from them,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/criminal-case-against-middlemen-agents-found-cheating-farmers/articleshow/79376017.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
November 24, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala withdraws 118A under pressure from CPM leadership||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Hectic parleys among senior CPM leaders – including half a dozen politburo members on Sunday night and Monday morning – led to the LDF government’s decision of withdrawing the 118A amendment made to Kerala Police Act. Sources said the firm stand taken by CPM central leadership didn’t leave any room for the state leadership to even argue for a ‘wait-and-watch’ approach, which was the plan of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who had asked the state police chief to prepare a standard operating procedure to implement the act by eliminating chances of misuse. It is learnt that on Sunday night CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury had discussions with Vijayan and politburo members S Ramachandran Pillai and MA Baby who are stationed in the capital. CPI general secretary D Raja also spoke to Yechury and conveyed his party’s displeasure. The politburo –which has taken a strong stand against the government control mooted for digital media a few days ago – was upset over the storm in social media over the draconian amendment. As senior state leaders sensed the displeasure of central leadership, an available meeting of CPM state secretariat was convened on Monday morning. Vijayan held talks with senior leaders including state secretary (in-charge) A Vijayaraghavan at AKG centre and a decision was taken to withdraw the amendment. As the procedure involved technical complexities like issuing a fresh ordinance nullifying the amendment or introducing a fresh bill in the assembly, CM was authorized to take an appropriate route in consultation with the cabinet. The statement issued by the CM has promised a detailed discussion in the assembly hinting that the government will introduce a fresh piece of legislation in the assembly and subject it to a detailed debate. Minutes before Vijayan issued a statement, Yechury met reporters in Delhi and said the ordinance was being reconsidered. Following CM’s statement, Yechury said, “This is an issue on which there has been wide criticism, which we think is genuine. We take these opinions into account as a party and we had opposed Section 66A in the IT Act. That is why I said this move will be reconsidered. Now, CM has made a statement that is very clear”. The setback suffered by the government in the name of this draconian law has also exposed the flaws in LDF’s policy making system. Neither LDF nor CPM state secretariat was aware of the introduction of such an amendment to Kerala Police Act. Sources said Vijayan communicated about such a legislation during one of the meeting of the available secretariat in the third week of October but members were not given details. When asked about the consent of party and LDF for the law, Vijayaraghavan was evasive. LDF, which always wants assembly to discuss and frame serious legislations, casually opted to promulgate an ordinance. A better option would have been to introduce the bill in assembly and refer it to the select committee which would then hear all versions and fine-tune the legislation. Welcoming CM’s decision, D Raja said, “Our party’s principle has been to not issue ordinances, especially on matters such as these, which need to be discussed properly in appropriate fora.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/under-pressure-from-cpm-brass-kerala-withdrew-118a/articleshow/79376523.cms||B Sreejan
November 24, 2020||Jaipur||State govt asks teachers to visit students to give homework||Jaipur: The state government has asked teachers of Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education (RBSE) schools to visit students’ homes to give homework and collect it the next days as part of online education. The government has started an initiative ‘study from home’ indicating longer period of school shut-down. School teachers have been asked to send homework on WhatsApp groups and for students who are not able to access social media, teachers will have to visit their homes. A senior government official said, “This was done as we were getting complaints that many students in rural areas do not have any access to internet and smart phones. Teachers will make a portfolio of every child in their class, upload the homework on WhatsApp groups. Students will download the homework and upload the completed work later. Bur for students who cannot access it, teachers will have to go to their homes to give homework.” Many teachers are, however, are complaining about this order. Prashant Sharma (name change) posted at a government school in Barmer said it has become difficult for him to distribute homework to his students. “Most of the rural students do not have access to proper internet. Smart phones are a luxury and I appreciate that government wants to reach out to them. But in Barmer, there are many hamlets situated far away from each other. It is not possible to cover every house in one day and collect homework the next day as per the guidelines,” said Sharma. Similar concerns were expressed by government teachers posted in Jaisalmer, Jalore and in tribal belts of the state. Narayan Singh Sisodia, president of Rajasthan Shikshak Evam Panchayati Raj Karamchari Sangh, said that officials sitting in their government buildings have no idea what a teacher goes through on the field. “First, we have to finish our work at school and after 2 pm have to go and visit students. When cases are rising, it is not possible to visit every house which must be situated in different places. Government teachers are not machines,” said Sisodia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-govt-asks-teachers-to-visit-students-to-give-homework/articleshow/79377876.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Reopening schools: Educationists say Karnataka government promoting inequity||BENGALURU: Many educationists in the state have slammed the government’s decision to postpone reopening of schools. Over the past few months, several experts in the sector have pushed for schools to reopen as they say prolonged closure will lead to multiple problems including gaps in learning, a higher drop out rate, child marriages, child labour and malnutrition. These problems, they say, are especially pronounced in rural areas. Sources say the education department is all for reopening schools, while the health department is against it. On Monday, the government decided to go by the health department’s recommendation. “Unfortunately a one-size- fits-all strategy hurts the poorest children the most. We are driving inequity through this approach,” said Rishikesh BS, faculty, Azim Premji University. “It’s understandable the government is wary of a public fallout should children get infected, but that is the reason why school operations should devolve to the SDMC (school development and monitoring committee). The SDMC should decide when schools should open or shut. This will be a win-win for both disadvantaged parents whose children have had very little formal learning opportunities as well as the government, which will not have to face criticism from people.” Calling the decision unfortunate, Niranjanaradhya VP, Centre for Child and Law, NLSIU, said it “amounts to abdication of state responsibility”. “Clearly this is decision against poor and disadvantaged communities and their children,” he said. “It is difficult to understand why the chief minister is taking all decisions, bypassing and sidelining the education minister. The state has the primary obligation to uphold and protect the rights of children. It is a clear violation of a fundamental right under the Constitution (article 21A).” Gurumurthy Kasinathan, director, Centre for Education and Technology, IT for Change, who had also initiated a memorandum to resume regular classes, said, “The decision not to reopen will save lives at no financial cost, but the government is overlooking other terrible costs – that of malnutrition, child labour, early marriages, drop outs and learning loss. Together, these will cause the slow and sure death of children, especially from marginalized groups.” Children are back in school in many countries, pointed out Kavitha Gupta of Neev Academy who insisted the pandemic is a challenge to civilization and governments “should not make it worse for the next generation by compounding learning losses of the past few months”. “In some American cities, the public system is closed, but private schools are open,” Gupta said. “In Germany schools are open despite almost all other things being shut. The role of government is clearly defined in helping schools function. Schools in Singapore are running normally with full participation in academics, sports and extracurriculars. Government policy is clear on travel and quarantine to keep the community safe.” Many others questioned the government’s decision to keep schools closed but allow liquor shops and movie halls to conduct regular business.  Private schools’ associations have also condemned the decision. “This is a painful decision. The government is only considering opening or otherwise option, but is unworried about issues that go along with it — like retaining teachers, keeping budget schools afloat and continued schooling for children. The chief minister has not understood the real problem,” said D Shashi Kumar, secretary, KAMS (Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/reopening-schools-educationists-say-ktaka-govt-promoting-inequity/articleshow/79375396.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Vadodara||103 more test Covid-19 positive in Vadodara||VADODARA: With 103 more positive cases being reported in the city and district in the 24 hours till Monday evening, the number of total Covid-19 cases registered so far went up to 17,249. Monday also saw the discharge of 120 persons. As many as 3,639 persons were tested during the 24 hours ending at 5pm on Monday in the city and district out of which 103 persons were found positive. These included 40 persons in the rural areas of the district and the remaining 63 in the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) limits. Around 1,167 persons remained under treatment. Officer on special duty for Covid-19 in Vadodara and state education secretary, Vinod Rao, said that the bed capacity in the city was sufficient to handle the current number of patients. “The increase is not a major wave yet and is a small rise. If cases continue to trickle in in the coming days, we have plans in place for increasing the capacity,” said Rao. VMC has pressed 823 health teams into action for door-to-door surveys. The teams visited 93,079 houses on Monday and found 134 cases of fever and 244 cases of acute respiratory illness (ARI). Ill persons were referred to urban health centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/103-more-test-positive-in-vadodara/articleshow/79374221.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Mangaluru||Companies demand action against illegal water packaging units||MANGALURU: Packaged drinking water manufacturers have complained that illegal industrial units have been manufacturing and selling packaged drinking water without following safety standards. In a memorandum submitted to the district administration on Monday, Dakshina Kannada Packaged Drinking Water Manufacturers Association members stated there are about 30 such units in the district that sell packaged drinking water, and they have not got clearance from the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI). The delegation sought action against all such illegal packaged drinking water units. Association convener Shashidhar Bhat said while 18 drinking water plants have been functioning with necessary clearances from ISI and FSSAI, nearly 30 units are operating illegally in the district. “Those units have no valid licenses and they do not adhere to hygiene. Since they do not pay statutory fees and follow no standards, they are dumping the material in the market at a lesser price that we cannot afford due to our actual cost of production,” he said. The association has requested the district administration to verify and take necessary action against those illegal units.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/companies-demand-action-against-illegal-water-packaging-units/articleshow/79375734.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Jaipur||Youth rapes 58-year-old in Bhiwadi||JAIPUR/ALWAR: A 58-year-old woman was raped by a youth in Bhiwadi’s Shahjahanpur on Sunday night. Cops have arrested one accused in the case and sources claimed that he is the friend of the rape survivor’s son. Along with this a case was also registered in Bhiwadi in which a person tried to rape a three-year-old child on Monday. Investigation has been initiated in the matter. “According to the woman who is a widow, the 21-year-old accused went to her house on Sunday night and raped her. At the time of incident, the woman was alone at home as her son had gone out for some work,” said an official of Shajahanpur police station. The complainant alleged that as she thought that the accused was her son’s friend, she opened the door for him. The woman’s medical examination was done and officials said that she was doing fine health wise. The accused is being questioned to get more details in the case. In Bhiwadi a case was registered under POCSO Act for attempt to rape of a three-old girl. “The accused had taken the girl to his room where he undressed himself and when he was trying to undress the child, she started crying and shouting for help. As soon as her family arrived, the accused fled from the spot, we are trying to trace him,” said a police official. The National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report 2019 had also painted a dismal picture of the condition of women in Rajasthan with the state topping the list when it comes to cases of assault on women, domestic violence as well as attempts to rape. While 6,977 cases of assault on women were registered, highest in the country, the desert state had 18,432 cases of domestic violence. While Rajasthan is leading in the number of rape cases with 5,997 such incidents, it is also on top with 1,019 attempts to rape cases. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/youth-rapes-58-yr-old-in-bhiwadi/articleshow/79377860.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
November 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Radar to predict how much rain is likely in your area||NEW DELHI: An experimental radar-based rainfall estimating system has been developed by India Meteorological Department (IMD) to not only alert people about the possibility of rain in their area, but also predict the amount of rainfall in a particular region even if no weather stations exist there. Earlier, IMD could only give rainfall statistics from their existing stations. However, now readings from locations where no stations exist would be available with the help of a Doppler Weather Radar (DWR) system. Currently, two such systems are being utilised to display rainfall occurring in Uttar Pradesh and Delhi, in addition to the existing observatories. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head of Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, who developed the model, said earlier scientists had to rely on readings from the nearest weather station. However, with rainfall often varying substantially in a small area, the data was not accurate. “We will base the data on the readings of a nearby area, but radar usage will allow us to track the direction from where the clouds are coming and the locations they may have impacted majorly. This will allow us to give a rainfall estimate without a weather station,” added Srivastava. In Srivastava’s research, rainfall at desired locations was estimated from the precipitation accumulation product of DWR using image processing based on a python-based computer algorithm. After this, a linear regression model using the least square method was developed in R language. Estimated and observed rainfall data of July, August and September 2018 was used to train the model. After this, the model was tested on rainfall data of July, August and September 2019 and validated. The paper has been published in Journal of Atmospheric Science Research. While the system was in use last year too, it’s now being displayed on IMD’s regional website for Delhi to allow people to find out about the estimated rainfall occurring in their neighbourhood. IMD said it aims to refine this further before the next monsoon. “Chances of rain reduce during winter, but we can still use this period to improve the system. By next monsoon, we will be able to get accurate estimates of the areas impacted more by rain and the locations that received the most rainfall,” said Srivastava, adding that 35 locations across the NCR would be displayed on the website daily. More locations across Delhi can be added to the list. Delhi’s base weather is measured by the Safdarjung observatory. The four oldest stations are Palam, Ridge, Aya Nagar and Lodhi Road generally representing central, south and southwest Delhi. While more stations exist in the capital, including Delhi University, Jafarpur, Pusa, Pitampura, Sports Complex in east Delhi and Mungeshpur, data is not always available at these locations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/radar-to-predict-how-much-rain-is-likely-in-your-area/articleshow/79377849.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
November 24, 2020||Nagpur||Metro to install base of crown, wants road shut||Nagpur: MahaMetro has sought permission from traffic police to close the road connecting Rani Jhansi Square to Munje Square for a month to install the base of Crown of Nagpur atop Sitabuldi interchange metro station. Traffic police department is expected to give the green signal in a day or two. MahaMetro officials said the base is a rectangle of steel having 40 metre by 20 metre dimensions. “There are over 100 pieces having total weight of 250 tonne, manufactured in Butibori. We will assemble and install these pieces on the roof of the station using a 400-tonne crane, which is being brought from Pune,” said an official. The official said that work of lifting and assembling will take place between 8pm and 8am, when Metro trains don’t run. On installation of the actual crown, the official said, “The design is being finalized and it will be installed after we complete some more stations. So, it will take some time.” The height of the crown will be 9 metre and it will be mounted on a 3-metre high ring. The top of the crown will be about 50 metre from the ground. The structure will also have a polycarbonate dome.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/metro-to-install-base-of-crown-wants-road-shut/articleshow/79377881.cms||Ashish Roy
November 24, 2020||Mysuru||Chamarajanagar district admin to identify heritage sites for conservation||MYSURU: Two decades after the formation of Chamarajanagar district, the administration has initiated the process to identify heritage sites around major towns and city, along with kalyanis and temples located deep inside forest areas in the region. Deputy commissioner M R Ravi has constituted a heritage committee comprising structural engineers, architects and archaeology department officials to identify such sites and list them so that projects could be devised to preserve and promote them for future generations. The committee will be headed by deputy commissioner and the members include structural engineer Dr Syed Shakeeb-ur -Rahaman; architect Sunil Nayak; environmentalist Dr B Manojkumar; theatre personality K Venkataraju; heritage expert C P Hucchegowda; JSS College, department of botany, assistant professor Gayatridevi; assistant professor of history K S Mariswamy, department of archaeology, museums and heritage deputy director Nirmala Mathapati; Urban Development Authority planning director K Suresh; CMC commissioner Rajanna, Urban Development Authority commissioner Pankaja and Archeology Survey of India official Rangaiah, said sources. The committee will provide all necessary information from time to time to the district administration for the conservation of all cultural sites to ensure its sustainable development. Sources said the documenting and mapping of monuments gains significance at a time when several structures are being encroached. “Many of the heritage components are facing neglect. The exercise will help consolidate both the protected and the unprotected structures and help in their conservation in the long term,” they added. The exercise will also help demarcate the boundary of the land and the precincts where the monument is located and help the department establish its hold over the area which is not the case at present in many spots. “The committees plays crucial role in conservation of such spots. The mapping exercise also provides information on their current status whether they have been encroached, neglected,” said Dr Syed Shakeeb Ur Rahman, structural engineer and member of the committee. Apart from mapping, documenting and updating the list, the committee ascertains their present status by field visits and physical verification, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/cnagar-dist-admin-to-identify-heritage-sites-for-conservation/articleshow/79375993.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Hubballi||VC invites innovative ideas for overall development of Karnatak University||Dharwad: For the first time in the history of Karnatak University, the vice-chancellor has sought from the public, administrators, academicians and other stake holders innovative ideas for the all-round development of the university. In an appeal sent out on Thursday, vice-chancellor KB Gudasi has explained the achievements of the university over the past 70 years. He has recalled that imparting high quality education to thousands of students, the university has acted as a centre for intellectual, cultural, scientific and higher educational activities. He has also mentioned that the University has over the years produced Jnanpith awardees, poet laureates, musicians, scientists, Bhatnagar awardees, social activists, sports persons, political leaders and administrators, both at the state and national level. Gudasi said KU is the only university in the state to be selected by the DST under the PURSE programme in 2009 and 2016 providing high-tech scientific equipments for advanced research. In his appeal to the alumni, faculty, retired teaching and non-teaching employees, students, research scholars and the public he has sought new ideas, suggestions for enhancement of quality of research, learning, creation of student-centric environment, multidimensional collaborations, outreach programmes, academic collaboration with other institutions and employable skill development programmes among others. Ideas could be sent by e-mail to suggestions@kud.ac.in or by post superscribed as ‘suggestions for development of KUD’ to the vice-chancellor so as to reach before December 18, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/vc-invites-innovative-ideas-for-overall-development-of-karnatak-university/articleshow/79375004.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
November 24, 2020||Jaipur||Mount Abu freezes at zero degree||Jaipur: Mount Abu woke up to a shivering Monday as the temperature dropped below 0 degrees. The mercury has been dipping constantly for the last couple of days due to the icy northerly winds, the MeT department said. In most of the places, the maximum and minimum temperatures have dipped below by a few notches. In the plains, Churu remained the coldest place with a minimum temperature of 5.8 degrees Celsius, followed by Bhilwara 7 degrees Celsius. The dip in night temperature was steeper in Kota and Bhilwara by 6.3 and 5.6 degrees, respectively, compared to other areas in the plains. The Met office has forecast light rains in Jaisalmer, Nagaur, Bikaner, Ganganagar, Hanumangarh, Churu and adjoining areas of western Rajasthan due to a western disturbance during the next 48 hours. In Jaipur, maximum and minimum temperatures were 26 and 10.3 degree Celsius, which was below normal by 2 degrees Celsius. No major changes in weather was expected for the next couple of days. Pilani, Dabok, Sikar and Chittogarh recorded minimum temperatures of 7.1, 7.3, 7.4 and 7.6 degrees Celsius, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mount-abu-freezes-at-zero-degree/articleshow/79377885.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 24, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot DyMC tests positive||Rajkot: Rajkot’s deputy municipal commissioner C K Nandani tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. He is under home isolation, said officials of the Rajkot Municipal Corporation. (RMC).On Monday at least 85 people tested positive for coronavirus, while 91 were found infected on Sunday. The number of positive cases that had come down to 50 per day before Diwali festival shot up to 90 per day on Monday.According to RMC, on November 1, only 33 people had tested positive in city limits. RMC health officer Dr. Pankaj Rathod said, “The rise in cases is increased because of negligence of people during festival time. The next ten days are crucial in containing the spread of the virus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajkot-dymc-tests-positive/articleshow/79375400.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Delhi||How encroachments are threatening to derail Delhi's Chandni Chowk revamp plan||NEW DELHI: While the Chandni Chowk redevelopment project faces a December 31 deadline, several hurdles continue to pose a challenge to the completion of work. The North Delhi Municipal Corporation seems in no hurry to tackle these obstacles. Public Works Department, which is executing the pedestrianisation project, has sent a note to the corporation highlighting seven key issues that will decide whether the project finishes in time. These issues include removal of encroachments, including shifting the temple located on the right of way of main Chandni Chowk road; encroachments at Fountain Chowk, illegal vendors and water trolleys and shifting of unipoles and advertisement stands. Officials say the shifting of the temple is a big problem that needs to be tackled right away. In 2015, while taking stock of progress in the pedestrianisation of Chandni Chowk, Delhi High Court had learnt about five unauthorised religious structures there. The court refused to grant any relief and ordered the removal of the unauthorised temple in the middle of the main carriageway in Chandni Chowk, overruling the stand of Delhi government’s religious committee. While the shifting of the structure was expected on Sunday, nothing happened. Area traders recalled seeing police and municipal officials arriving but eventually postponing the shift. Sanjay Bhargav, president, Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal, insisted that all illegal structures and encroachments had to be removed for the pedestrianisation project to be successful. But while the deadline is just 37 days away, a corporation official said that no date had been fixed for the demolition or shifting of the temple. Work on the toilets on the stretch between Red Fort and Fatehpuri Masjid was also progressing very slowly. In its communication on key issues, PWD had asked the north corporation body to approve the new plans for toilet number 4, hand over the site for toilet number 3 and clear the work at toilet number 2 in Bhagirath Palace.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-encroachments-are-threatening-to-derail-chandni-chowk-revamp-plan/articleshow/79377864.cms||Paras Singh
November 24, 2020||Nashik||50% drop in retail price of vegetables in Nashik||NASHIK: The prices of green and other vegetables have fallen by almost 50% in the city’s retail markets over the past few days due to the increase in supply. Prices of fenugreek, spinach, radish, coriander, onion and other vegetables have all seen a significant drop. Moreover, demand from other parts of the state as well as neighbouring states of Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh have also reduced. Coriander leaves and spinach, which were selling for about Rs 20 a bunch about a fortnight ago, are now on sale for Rs 10 per bunch in the city’s retail markets. Fenugreek and radish prices have dropped from Rs 25 per bunch to Rs 15. Moreover, chilli prices have fallen from Rs 50 per kg around a fortnight ago to Rs 40 a kg now. “The supply of vegetables has been more compared to demand. This has led to an overall decline in wholesale prices,” said APMC official. With the drop in wholesale onion price, the retail price too has dropped from Rs 70 a kg in Nashik’s retail markets to Rs 40-50 per kg. “The arrival of onions has increased in wholesale markets after Diwali. Farmers have now started clearing their old stocks. The average wholesale onion prices have come down to Rs 3,400 per quintal now,” said an APMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/50-drop-in-retail-price-of-vegetables/articleshow/79375401.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 24, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: NCB team on undercover mission ‘attacked by mob’||MUMBAI: A Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) team, in Goregaon to nab a drug peddler, claimed it was attacked by a mob to foil its efforts on Sunday. But Goregaon police said three local residents got into a scuffle with the team. The three, two of them well-educated professionals, were arrested that day. A magistrate court remanded the three to judicial custody on Monday. NCB said zonal director Sameer Wankhede and five personnel were undercover to look for a peddler at a chawl at Goregaon’s S V Road. The team took the alleged peddler, Kerry Mendes, into custody when three men blocked their way. The men started to argue and assembled a mob of around 30 that surrounded the team. The mob manhandled two officers, vandalised an official vehicle and damaged a pair of handcuffs, an NCB source said. “The NCB team showed exemplary courage and thwarted the attempts of the attackers. The team calmed down the mob. Two NCB officers suffered minor injuries. Forty blots of LSD (considered large enough to be quantified as commercial) were seized from Mendes,” NCB stated. Goregaon police said the NCB team had not informed them before the operation. One of them dialled the police control room seeking our intervention. Vipul Angre (25), Yusuf Shaikh (24) and his father, Amin, were taken into custody for manhandling NCB officers. The complaint does not mention other attackers,” a senior officer said. Angre is with the merchant navy, Yusuf is a civil engineer and Amin a tailor. “We will check CCTV camera footage of the area to determine the sequence of events leading to the scuffle and what caused it,” an officer said. Angre, Yusuf and Amin were booked under Indian Penal Code section 353 for assaulting public servants. NCB superintendent V V Singh lodged a police complaint but did not undergo a medical examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ncb-team-on-undercover-mission-attacked-by-mob/articleshow/79377768.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Woman gets life imprisonment for letting 43-year-old lover rape daughter||COIMBATORE: A 38-year-old woman was sentenced to life imprisonment for not protecting her minor daughter from being sexually exploited by her lover, who was also awarded life term. A court source said the woman was residing with her 16-year-old daughter in an apartment at Sugunapuram after her husband left her because of her extra marital affair with Subramaniam, 43, a tea master from Venkittapuram in the city. The woman, the source said, used to take sedative pills as she was suffering from epilepsy. Subramaniam took advantage of the situation and raped the minor girl at her house on several occasions. “When she informed her mother, the latter did not take up the matter with police.” The girl was sexually assaulted from June 20, 2017 to September 2018. Unable to bear the torture, the girl approached her father, who took her to his house at Vadavalli and made her to lodge a complaint with the Perur all-woman police. Police registered a case against the girl’s mother for failing to protect her minor daughter and Subramaniam for penetrative sexual assault. The two were subsequently arrested and remanded in judicial custody. The case trial was held before the special court for the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act in the district. On Monday, the court concluded the hearing and sentenced the girl’s mother to life imprisonment and slapped a fine of Rs 6,000 on her. Subramaniam was also sentenced to life and a fine of Rs 5,000 was imposed on him. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/woman-gets-life-for-letting-43-yr-old-lover-rape-daughter/articleshow/79377879.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Rajkot||Rs 40,000 reward for tracing missing pets||RAJKOT: A Rajkot-based businessman Bhavin Mehta has announced a reward of Rs 40,000 for anyone who finds his two dogs that went missing from his friend’s house during Diwali festival. The pooches, three-year-old Leo of Lhasa breed and Bruno of Shih Tzu breed, have been missing since November 15 from the house of Mehta’s friend in Trikonbaug area of the city. The desperate Mehta family issued an advertisement in local newspaper announcing reward of Rs 20,000 for each dog. Mehta, who owns a factory in Shapar Veraval area had gone to Rajasthan to celebrate Diwali leaving his two dogs at his friend’s placein Trikonbaug area of the city. “As per our information our dog went missing on the night of November 15. We are trying to find them since then. This was my first dog and the family was attached to it, said Mehta. According to the family both Leo and Bruno had became friends and preferred each other’s company. They had been keeping each other company in the past also. The dogs seemed to have left the house at around 2am in the night when the gate of the premise was slightly open. Mehta who lives on Gondal road said that the dogs have been with his family since they were 25-days-old. However, the Mehta’s have not lodged formal police complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rs-40000-reward-for-tracing-missing-pets/articleshow/79375445.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Goa||‘Local producers of feni will lose out’||Bicholim: Cashew feni producers from Bicholim and Sattari taluka have also now come forward to oppose the modifications proposed by the government to the Excise Act, mainly to do way with auctioning of cashew zones/groves that pay way for seasonal distilling of cashew feni. Cashew feni producers from Bicholim and Sattari, under the banner of Goa State Cashew Feni Producers, Distillers and Bottlers Association, met at Bordem, Bicholim, on Saturday. They stated that the excise commissioner took a decision after consulting with only a selected few feni producers. They said that feni producers from rural areas were not taken into confidence, when, in fact, they produce the larger quantity of cashew feni. The association members demanded that the government look into the matter and not allow the excise commissioner to bring changes in the existing traditional auction procedure. They expressed fears that they could be staring at acute losses if the plantations are auctioned to larger industries. “The new amendments will benefit only companies, putting the local cashew producers into acute financial hardships,” said association president Gurudatta Bhakta. “We are also confused about the fact that why this sudden decision is taken,” secretary Ancel Vaz said. The members have decided to meet chief minister Pramod Sawant and other ministers to apprise them about their problems. Bhakta took suggestions from cashew feni producers at the meeting and decided to create awareness on the issue by organising more meetings of producers in North Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/local-producers-of-feni-will-lose-out/articleshow/79377895.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Delhi||At 6.3°C, Delhi recorded lowest minimum temperature since 2003 on Nov 23||NEW DELHI: As a cold wave gripped Delhi on Monday, the city recorded its lowest minimum November temperature since 2003 at 6.3 degrees Celsius, five notches below normal. On Sunday, it was 6.9° Celsius. According to the forecast of India Meteorological Department, the minimum and maximum temperatures are likely to rise marginally in the next seven days. The minimum temperature will hover around 7-8 degrees Celsius while the maximum will be around 25-26 degrees. However, Delhi-NCR may receive light rain on Thursday. The maximum temperature on Monday was 26.2 degrees Celsius as against 24.2 on Sunday. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head of Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “Delhi recorded its coldest night in November in 17 years”. On November 29, 2003, the minimum temperature was 6.1 degrees Celsius. Explaining the reasons behind the dip in the mercury, Srivastava said, “As the wind direction continues to remain northwesterly, the cold wind from snow-clad western Himalayan region, including Jammu and Kashmir, Himanchal Pradesh and Uttarakhand, is coming to Delhi. In the absence of cloud cover, the night temperature remains colder than normal.” Met officials said light rain might occur in Delhi-NCR in the morning of November 26 while mist/ shallow fog had been predicted for other days in this month. The capital is likely to have a colder November this year than in the past few years as the minimum temperature has remained lower than normal except one day this month, an official said. Delhi has already recorded the coldest October in 26 years this year. Meanwhile, Delhi’s air quality index was “poor” at 295 on Monday and is likely to deteriorate to “very poor” on Tuesday. System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research, a central forecasting body, said 149 fires counts were observed in neighbouring states on Sunday and the share of stubble burning to Delhi’s air was 6%. “Winds are forecast to slow down along with low ventilation. AQI is likely to deteriorate towards the high end of ‘very poor’ by Tuesday and likely to stay at the high end of ‘very poor’ on Wednesday. It may reach ‘severe’ in a few locations for a short period,” SAFAR stated. If farm fire counts increase, the capital’s air quality may further deteriorate, it predicted. “Marginal improvement is expected by Thursday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/at-6-3c-lowest-min-temp-since-2003/articleshow/79377874.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
November 24, 2020||Nagpur||BJP workers set energy bills on fire in Yavatmal||Yavatmal: BJP workers set on fire energy bills in front of Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) office here on Monday. BJP leaders claimed that Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government had earlier promised to give relief to the consumers. Energy minister Nitin Raut declared that no such concession is possible and the consumers will have to pay their energy bills in full, said the agitating workers. “It is betrayal by the government and we have set the energy bills on fire to register our protest,” said city unit president Prashant Yadav Patil. “Despite people suffering from severe financial crisis due to lockdown, MVA government is looting the electricity consumers. We won’t allow such arbitrary collecting of exorbitant energy bills,” said BJP’s district unit vice-president and corporator Pravin Prajapati. “We will intensify our ongoing agitation if the government failed to grant complete waiver,” said district general secretary Raju Padgilwar. Among those who participated in the agitation include corporator Amol Deshmukh, Amol Dhone, Mohan Jadhav, Raju Dange, Vijay Kotecha, Balasaheb Shinde, Shantanu Shete, Ajay Bihade, Dinesh Chindale, Maya Shere and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bjp-workers-set-energy-bills-on-fire-in-yavatmal/articleshow/79390095.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Winter gives break from malaria, but not dengue||NEW DELHI: While malaria cases have plummeted with the sudden dip in temperatures, a significant number of dengue cases still figure in the weekly vector-borne disease report of the municipal corporations. In the past week, 80 more dengue cases have taken the overall numbers to 901. However, just one malaria case was reported this week, which took the annual count to 223. The public health department attributed this significant difference in the diseases to various types of mosquitoes and their behaviour in the current environment. Parts of the city faced a cold wave on Monday with the lowest minimum temperature being recorded in the past 17 years. A senior health official from South Delhi Municipal Corporation said that Anopheles mosquitoes, which are primarily responsible for malaria, breed in muddy water and outdoor environments, while Aedes aegypti, which cause dengue, mostly breed in clear water and indoor environment sites, like plants and coolers. Another official said that mosquitoes as a species prefer warmer environments, above 30 degrees Celsius. “Once the temperature lowers to about 20 degrees Celsius, they become less active and do not function below 10 degrees Celsius,” he added. New malaria cases have almost stopped as outdoor temperatures have fallen to historic lows. However, dengue cases are being caused by mosquitoes living and breeding indoors. “Aedes aegypti mosquitoes are surviving in indoor settings where ambient temperatures are higher. We appeal to people to thoroughly clean their houses and surroundings and break this cycle. At this low temperature, mosquitoes cannot remain active outdoors,” said an expert. Out of the total dengue cases, 153 were of infection acquired from other states and in 36 instances the addresses could not be traced. Among the sub-divisions, Najafgarh topped the list, followed by west and central zones. Senior civic officials said that domestic breeding checkers found that outdoor open spaces for mosquito breeding were minimal and most positive sites were indoors. “Besides keeping doors and windows closed in the evening, people should periodically check potential breeding sites like money plants, water coolers, etc,” said the official. The corporation’s analysis of mosquito breeding data shows that peri-domestic containers — vases, flowerpots, bird pots — account for the largest chunk of sites (38%). Domestic water storage containers come second at 33% and desert coolers and overhead tanks came at third and fourth spots, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/winter-gives-break-from-malaria-but-not-dengue/articleshow/79377882.cms||Paras Singh
November 24, 2020||Nagpur||Almost all big brand CBSE schools not reopening this week||Nagpur: Though the permission to reopen schools in Nagpur rural from Thursday has been granted by authorities, almost all big brand and high enrolment CBSE schools are in no hurry. Majority of the big private schools are located just outside city limits and hence eligible to reopen from November 26. From the many schools that TOI spoke to, Delhi Public School (Kamptee Road) was the only one which has decided to go ahead with the reopening this week. Principal Ritu Sharma said, “Parents of our students have given their consent and we are ready with all the logistical arrangements. All of our staff, which will be present in school, has undergone Covid-19 testing and their reports are negative.” She added that around 10% of parents have provided consent. The school has, however, decided not to restart bus services immediately. State government too has urged parents to drop kids in personal vehicles, if possible. Bhavan’s BP Vidya Mandir (BVM) has two of its branches outside city limits. Annapoorni Shastri, director of BVM (Nagpur Kendra), said, “We have sent out online consent forms to parents and are in the process of collating the data. Final decision will be taken after that.” The other branches of BVM are inside city limits, which will remain closed till December 13. Modern School (Koradi) too has decided to wait and watch the situation for now. Rohan Kapai, the school’s manager, said, “We have sent consent forms to parents, but only 20% replied. We are urging others to reply, yes or no, so that we can get some tangible statistics.” Gautam Rajgharia, director of Delhi Public School Lava Nagpur said, “Considering that our students and staffers are from city, we have decided to keep the school closed now. Classes will continue in online mode as usual.” Anmol Badjatia, principal of Jain International School, said, “We are still waiting for parents’ consent forms. Only after the replies come and we go through the numbers, will we be able to take a call.” Jayshree Bhake, principal of Raisoni Vidya Niketan (CBSE), said, “Logistical challenges are also to be looked at. Almost 90% of my students are from Nagpur and arranging transportation is a problem. With the limited seating plan, it won’t be feasible to operate buses.” Reena Dargan, principal of Ira International, said, “Commute for staffers and city students is indeed a concern. We are located in Butibori and many of our students are from city. Staff also comes from Nagpur, so we need to first figure out a transportation plan. As of now, we are not rushing into the reopening phase.” Monica Ganguly, manager of Gaikwad Patil International School, said, “School won’t reopen yet. The consent forms we have received indicate that majority of parents are not in favour of physical classrooms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/almost-all-big-brand-cbse-schools-not-reopening-this-week/articleshow/79377987.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
November 24, 2020||Nashik||115 govt offices owe NMC Rs 4.5cr water tax||Nashik: The civic body has identified 115 central and state government offices that have defaulted on water tax dues, collectively amounting to Rs 4.5 crore. The dues with these government offices have been pending for over two-three years and in some cases, even five-six years. The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has prepared a list of defaulters following directives from municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav. “We are in the process of serving notices. Our objective is to collect maximum tax dues from the defaulters,” said the officials. NMC has been worried about the drop in its revenue due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The corporation earns its revenue from property, water and other taxes through its town planning department. The civic body has set a water tax collection target of Rs 111 crore for 2020-21 financial year, but it has so far collected only Rs 18 crore. There are 29,700 tax defaulters who have water tax dues in the range of Rs 5,000-9,999, and they have total water tax dues of Rs 21 crore. According to the officials, there are 13,800 defaulters who owe between Rs 10,000 and Rs 14,999 with collective tax dues of Rs 17 crore. Moreover, 9,200 defaulters owe between Rs 15,000 and Rs 24,999 and collectively owe Rs 16.94 crore. Around 2,950 defaulters owe 19 crore with individual dues of Rs 25,000 or more. NMC focus will be on recovery from the big defaulters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/115-govt-offices-owe-nmc-rs-4-5cr-water-tax/articleshow/79375424.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 24, 2020||Goa||Cabral to debate with AAP’s Valmiki tomorrow||Panaji: Power minister Nilesh Cabral on Monday accepted the Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) challenge for an open debate over the governance model in Delhi and Goa, particularly power. The debate will take place on Wednesday at the EDC hall at 4pm but will not be open to the public, said Cabral. “On Wednesday, at 4pm, at EDC hall there will be a debate with Valmiki Naik, who says that he wants to debate as an ordinary Goan,” said Cabral. Cabral said that the media will be allowed to cover the debate and no other individuals will be allowed to participate in the debate. Cabral had challenged the AAP for a public debate on the electricity models of the Arvind Kejriwal government in Delhi and the Pramod Sawant government in Goa. Accepting the challenge, AAP MLA Raghav Chadha flew to Goa on November 17 for the public debate but Cabral turned around and said that he had never issued a challenge. Later, Cabral said he is ready for a debate with the power minister of Delhi or with any Goan. This had prompted AAP to take a fresh dig at Cabral. Valmiki Naik said that Cabral was “scared” of debating and issued a fresh challenge to Cabral, which the minister has accepted this time. “The Goa government is doing a lot of work in the interest of Goa but there are many people who are trying to mislead people. I have organised the debate on Wednesday. He is welcome to come there,” said Cabral.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cabral-to-debate-with-aaps-valmiki-tomorrow/articleshow/79377926.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 24, 2020||Nagpur||Territorial, wildlife officials at crossroads on Mahendri sanctuary||Nagpur: The wildlife wing and territorial wing officials of the forest department are at crossroads over declaring Mahendri a sanctuary, in Warud range in Amravati circle. While Amravati chief conservator of forest (CCF) Pravin Chavan has submitted a negative report about the proposed sanctuary, Melghat Tiger Reserve (MTR) field director MS Reddy says Mahendri can change the fortune of the local people, and it will be a stepping stone for wildlife conservation. At the State Wildlife Board (SWBL) meeting on August 7, 2020, chairman of the board and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had granted in-principle approval to Mahendri sanctuary. On August 20, PCCF (wildlife) Nitin Kakodkar had asked Chavan to submit a report through APCCF & MTR field director on sanctuary proposal. After three months, during which a lot of negative propaganda was done against Mahendri by territorial employees, now a negative report has been presented to derail the move. The report says that the proposed 67 sq km sanctuary area is spread in two parts. One part comprises 49 sq km (10 compartments), and is honeycombed with private land around it and no forest land. The remaining 18 sq km can be a sanctuary as it connects neighbouring Madhya Pradesh forest. However, wildlife wing officials say the proposed area is a reserve forest connecting Melghat-Bor tiger corridor. It will be a stepping stone for wildlife and tiger conservation, and bring employment to the locals through ecotourism. Besides, there is only one village, Mahendri, inside the proposed area. This village is voluntarily ready to move out. “Why are the territorial officials worried about private land near the proposed sanctuary? It is also wrong to say that flora and fauna are found in only 18 sq km area and not in the remaining 49 sq km. Are territorial officials saying this on the basis of any scientific study?” asked Vishal Bansod, former honorary wildlife warden, Amravati. “There is a big quarry on revenue land outside the proposed area, and once a sanctuary is notified the quarry will have to shut shop once the eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) is notified. Hence, the forest officials are opposing the proposal,” alleged Sawan Deshmukh, another honorary wildlife warden. Deshmukh added, “Secondly, the CCF has said that 40 villages are dependent on the said forest for grazing cattle, and if the said forest is declared a sanctuary there will be a problem. If a senior forest official himself is supporting grazing, how can a forest be conserved?” “The CCF report also states that there is no political support for the sanctuary, and opinions and views of the people need to be taken. However, not all are opposed to the sanctuary proposal. Wardha MP Ramdas Tadas has already declared support for Mahendri. Most of the villages are ready and people want their doubts to be cleared, which has not been done by the foresters,” says Bansod. Chavan’s report states that in the last 10 years, employment for over 5.22 lakh man-days was generated by way of coupe working, tendu collection, and plantation, soil and water conservation works. The forest department generated revenue worth Rs7.16 crore during the period and sanctuary will deprive locals of employment. However, local leader Sachin Anjikar, supporting the sanctuary proposal, says, “Ecotourism can generate more revenue without damaging the environment. There is a lot of confusion created among the minds of the people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/territorial-wildlife-officials-at-crossroads-on-mahendri-sanctuary/articleshow/79377930.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
November 24, 2020||Mysuru||Resurgence of hospitality sector sees hotels rehiring fired employees in Mysuru||Mysuru: For Lokesh, life appears to have come full circle. Like many of his colleagues in the hospitality business in Mysuru, Lokesh, who has over 20 years of experience, was laid off when the lockdown was imposed in March. It was the beginning of a very difficult time for him and he had to relocate four of his family members to his hometown to make ends meet. Now that things are returning to normal, he has been rehired at the restaurant where he worked. Like Lokesh, many others in the industry in Mysuru are being rehired — albeit at a lower pay scale — now that the sector, which took a beating due to the lockdown, is finding its feet again. Occupancy rates in hotels have risen to 40%, while some restaurants are seeing 70-75% customers. C Narayanagowda, president, hoteliers’ association, Mysuru, says many employees were dismissed and some establishments even shutdown for good. “Times are still uncertain, but we are hoping things will get better soon,” he said. “About 25,000 people are directly or indirectly dependent on the industry in Mysuru.” Lava KG, F&B manager at a popular restaurant, revealed business has picked up to about 70% of what it was during pre-Covid times, while MD Harish Kumar Hegde, proprietor, Hotel Airlines and Shubhodini Convention Hall, said, “Despite the lockdown we didn’t lay off any of our employees or cut their salaries. The economy is showing signs of revival with room occupancy rising to 40% from zero during the lockdown.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/resurgence-of-hospitality-sector-sees-hotels-rehiring-fired-employees/articleshow/79375491.cms||Lawrence Milton
November 24, 2020||Jaipur||Daily cases spike in Jaipur, Jhotwara worst-hit area||JAIPUR: The Pink City is witnessing its worst Covid-19 outbreak. More than 75 different places in the city are continuously reporting virus cases daily. Jhotwara, Mansarovar, Sodala, Malviya Nagar and Vaishali Nagar have collectively reported 845 cases in the past seven days, accounting for 20% of infections reported from the entire city during this period. Jhotwara is the worst-affected area, with 214 persons found infected with the virus in seven days. This accounts for 5% of cases reported from the city in the same period. Mansarovar reported 4.2%, Sodala 3.7%, Malviya Nagar 3.6% and Vaishali Nagar 2.9% of Jaipur’s cases in seven days. Jaipur reported 4,276 cases in seven days between November 17 and 23. Meanwhile, after reporting biggest single-day spikes for four days in a row, the state witnessed a dip in new infections. Some 3,232 persons were found positive on Monday, with Jaipur remaining the worst-affected, reporting 599 new infections. This brought the state's overall tally to 2,47,168 cases. Health department officials claimed that they have sufficient beds for Covid patients. “The cases have increased as people did not wear masks during the festive period. Also, the winter has arrived, which has increased cases. There is no shortage of beds in hospitals. There are 52 hospitals in Jaipur providing Covid treatment. Half of the beds with oxygen facility are lying vacant. There is no shortage of ICU beds and those with ventilator support,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer, Jaipur-I. Dr Sharma said that they have increased number of testing from 5,000 samples average daily to 6,000. Apart from the spurt in new cases, deaths too from Jaipur have increased in the past three days. As many as 12 persons died in the past three days. Eighteen persons died across the state, taking the toll to 2,181. Jaipur reported four deaths, taking its Covid casualties to 416. Jodhpur too reported four fatalities, taking its toll to 220. Ajmer saw two deaths that took its toll to 165, while with two more fatalities, Kota's count rose to 125. Bharatpur reported its 101st casualty, Udaipur 84th, Sikar 74th, Hanumangarh 10th, Sriganaganagar 36th and Pratapgarh its 16th Covid death. The districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (599), Jodhpur (435), Alwar (276), Kota (275), Ajmer (187), Bikaner (182), Bhilwara (160), Nagaur (134), Sriganaganagar (102), Udaipur (100), Bharatpur (90), Hanumangarh (88), Pali (85), Barmer (59), Tonk (49), Jalore (48), Chittorgarh (47), Churu (47), Bundi (38), Baran (30), Sirohi (30), Sikar (27), Jhunjhunu (23), Dausa (22), Jaisalmer (20), among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/daily-cases-spike-in-cityjhotwara-worst-hit-area/articleshow/79377940.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Jaipur||Jaisalmer welcomes winged guests||JAISALMER: With winter setting in, a host of migratory birds have started flocking to Jaisalmer district. Migratory birds from various countries are being sighted in many areas of the district like Lathi, Dholia, Khetolai and Ramdeora. These birds have come from mid Asia, Europe and Tibet flying across the Himalayas. This time, a large number of vultures of rare species have also come to the desert district. Till now, seven species of vultures have been sighted, including the local species. Bird lovers and the locals are elated to see the birds. The forest department has increased patrolling for the security of these birds. Migratory species of endangered vultures have also been sighted in many places in Jaisalmer, especially in Pokhran, Sam and Dholia. Dr Divesh Kumar Saini, a birdwatcher from Pokhran said that every year, many species of vultures arrive from the Himalayan region. Vultures have many biological adaptations that make them well-suited to being scavengers. Most have excellent eyesight and a strong sense of smell. They use these keen senses to locate rotting carrion while they are soaring high over land. Unlike raptors, or birds that hunt, vultures have weak talons and beaks. Raptors use sharp talons and beaks to kill, while vultures do not need to overpower or secure their prey. Many vultures are also bald, meaning they have no feathers on their head. This prevents bits of carrion, which can carry toxic bacteria, from sticking to feathers and infecting the bird. He said, the arrival of these migratory vultures is a good ecological sign. “They start arriving in India in the beginning of October. these migratory birds will stay here for winter,” he said. Bird enthusiast Radheyshyam Pemani said these vultures have come here from mid Asia, Europe and Tibet across the Himalayas due to adverse weather conditions in those countries. Build vulture, kind vulture, white rumpad vulture, Himalayan gruffon vulture and Egyptian vulture come here, some of whom are in red list of IUCN. While Griffon vulture, Himalayan vulture and Sineriyus vulture are endangered. Their number is continuously declining. According to research, due to excessive use of pesticides and diclofenac, the vultures’ species are in danger. Excessive use of pesticides in crops reach into domestic animals and by them eating dead cattle, the pesticides reach into the vultures. Pesticides cause damage to their reproductive health because of which vultures have reached to the endangered category. Pemani said that the endangered species of vultures come to Lathi every year. Vultures are necessary for ecological balance. They keep the environment clean by eating dead animals. Jagdish Bishnoi, regional forest officer, Lathi said that rare species of vultures that are arriving are camping in Lathi, Dholia, Bhadaria, and other nearby areas. He said that forest department personnel have been deployed and patrolling has been increased for the security of these birds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaisalmer-welcomes-winged-guests/articleshow/79377927.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Aurangabad||Pvt coaching classes start in Aurangabad without nod||Aurangabad: The Association of Private Coaching Classes on Monday resumed academic activities even though the Aurangabad district administration has not given an official permission for the same, saying that it is the question of their survival now.Association head Pandurang Mandkikar said the classes would be following all Covid norms while alleging that the government was giving step-motherly treatment to private classes.“Earlier, the government asked schools and colleges along with private coaching classes to shut operations. Now, other educational institutions are allowed to reopen officially, but private coaching classes are left out without valid reason,” he said.Known as the educational hub in Marathwada, Aurangabad has over 1,000 private coaching classes.Mandkikar said the closure of coaching classes for almost eight months now has posed serious difficulties for all the stakeholders. “On one hand, students are suffering due to academic losses while on other, class owners and members of teaching and non-teaching staff have been facing survival issues. We are ready to face action, if any, but cannot bear more losses,” he said.In an internal communication to all its members, the association has shared standard operating procedures (SOPs) for reopening institutes such as Covid testing of staff, adequate arrangements for thermal scanning and sanitisation along with consent letters from parents. A section of parents justified resumption of private classes. Arati Gore, whose daughter is a std XII student, said the classroom teaching is no match to online classes. “My daughter will be appearing for the board exams and I was worried about preparations. There is no harm in starting coaching classes if safety measures are followed,” she said. District collector Sunil Chavan said he was considerate towards the issues faced by private coaching classes, but they should not bypass the district administration while arriving at any decision.“They should formally approach us and we can find some solution through discussion. However, any unilateral stand would attract action,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/pvt-coaching-classes-start-in-aurangabad-without-nod/articleshow/79375435.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 24, 2020||Kochi||A threat to free speech unless repealed||KOCHI: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has made it clear that his government would not implement the controversial Section 118A of the Kerala Police Act, but the statement may not mean much as the provision, which has been notified, would remain legally binding for a period of six months. "The ordinance needs to be repealed. They cannot say it won't be implemented and leave it at that," said Prasanth Sugathan, legal director, Software Freedom Law Centre (SFLC). Anyone would be able to approach a magistrate and get a directive for registration of an FIR under 118A. "The government would have to follow the same procedure -- of approaching the governor to withdraw it and then notifying it," he said. According to policy watchers it would have been better for the LDF government to engage stakeholders and experts before it took the ordinance route. "The report of Administrative Reforms Commission, Kerala Protection and Dignity of Women Bill, 2013 and the draft Delhi Women's Rights Bill, 2015 would have been initial reference points," said Arun P S, a lawyer and public policy researcher based in Kochi. The Kerala Protection and Dignity of Women Bill was piloted by Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan, when he was the home minister in 2013, and referred to the subject committee. "Instead of bringing in a draconian provision through the ordinance, they could have debated the bill on the floor of the House. But they did not allow it to see the light of day," said Radhakrishnan. “For a seven-year-old bill it was a step in the right direction but it would have to reflect legislation, including sexual harassment of women at the workplace and the 2017 judgment on privacy in K S Puttaswamy case," said Arun. Failure to repeal 118A would push many, including meme-makers, into self-censorship mode because it would continue to be a threat to freedom of expression. A former admin of International Chalu Union (ICU), a group of popular meme generators, was hauled up by police and asked to provide a written statement over a meme with political content in July. "We had published a meme that showed Modi projecting the shadow of a cow, while he visited Ladakh during the conflict with China. This was in response to another one published in RW sites that had altered the shadow to that of a lion," says Akhil Maloor, an admin with ICU, against whom a complaint was filed in Kasaba police station, Kozhikode. "They had registered a case under Section 120(o) of Kerala Police Act. If it was today I would have had to spend at least a day in the police station," he said.#||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/a-threat-to-free-speech-unless-repealed/articleshow/79376585.cms||Binu Karunakaran
November 24, 2020||Jaipur||Unidentified goons damage tehsildar’s car||Jodhpur: A government vehicle was damaged by unidentified people when officials tried to seize a sand dumper in Pipar near Jodhpur on Sunday. SHO (Pipar City) Babulal Rana said a case had been filed on the complaint of the tehsildar against the driver and some unidentified persons. “We have identified some persons apart from the driver who had attacked the tehsildar and the mining staff. Once all are identified, arrests would begin,” said Rana. A team of mining department along with the tehsildar of Bilara had raided a site at Binawas river in village Benan on Sunday morning. “They saw a sand dumper without any registration number. They asked him to stop, but he sped away, after which they began chasing the dumper,” said mining engineer SK Sharma. Around 10km away, the driver stopped the vehicle and fled from the spot. Suddenly, a group of more than a dozen villagers attacked the officials. The crowd attacked them with stones forcing them to back off before damaging the vehicle of the tehsildar. All of them present, had to rush or cover to escape the stone pelting. Later, the dumper was seized with the help of police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/unidentified-goons-damage-tehsildars-car/articleshow/79377990.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 24, 2020||Nagpur||331 tigers, 669 leopards recorded in Maha in 2020||Nagpur: Even though a series of tiger deaths due to electrocution in the last one month has come as a shock, the ‘Status of tigers and leopards in Maharashtra’ in 2020 during Phase IV monitoring has estimated 331 tigers and 669 leopards. The number of tigers may be over 350 and leopards over 700, say wildlife officials. As per the All India Tiger Estimation (AITE)-2018 final report released on Global Tiger Day on July 29, 2020, tiger reserves, national parks, and wildlife sanctuaries in Maharashtra recorded 312 tigers, with 270-354 lower and upper limit, respectively. The AITE is conducted every four years and in 2014, the report had put the number of tigers at 190. However, talking to TOI, PCCF (wildlife) Nitin H Kakodkar said, “Our independent estimation with the involvement of Wildlife Institute of India (WII) has recorded 331 tigers in Phase IV. The number will be 350-plus as due to Covid-19, the exercise was not conducted in tiger-bearing areas outside protected areas (PAs) under Nagpur circle comprising Bhandara, Nagpur, Wardha & Gondia, besides Jalgaon in Dhule circle. It was also not done in Sahyadri Tiger Reserve in Western Maharashtra.” “The number 312, as per 2018 estimation, cannot be compared with our estimation conducted in 2020. Though the figure of 331 tigers includes 2018 estimation for Central Chanda (23) & Chandrapur divisions (31) and Painganga sanctuary (1), the tiger numbers will go beyond 350 if left out areas in Nagpur circle and two in Chandrapur divisions are considered,” said Kakodkar. Similarly, Kakodkar said the number of leopards too will be more than the estimated 669 as the latest exercise has not been conducted in Central Chanda and Chandrapur divisions and Painganga sanctuary and areas outside PAs. “We have shared the reports with the respective field directors and have sought their remarks,” the PCCF added. State wildlife board member Kishor Rithe says, “The national estimation was conducted in 2018 and state-level in 2020, so there is possibility of increase in tiger and leopard numbers in two years. Like the AITE, if one-year-old cubs are included in the count, the numbers are bound to go up. Duplication of tigers from MP and Maharashtra Pench can also lead to an increase in numbers. The increasing number of tiger deaths also is an indicator of a growing population.” WII scientist Bilal Habib, who was involved in the exercise, says, “One-year-old cubs have not been included in the estimation. All tigers counted are independent of mothers. This time, we also evaluated the number of leopards.” “It is wonderful news. This trend of increasing tiger numbers, and of course the numerous tiger deaths in territorial fights calls for creation of more space for the big cats and better management of corridors to ensure safe passage of transient tigers. Fortunately, tigers themselves have shown the best passages between various protected areas. We only need to protect these and fill in the voids, if any,” said Nitin Desai, Central India director of Wildlife Protection Society of India (WPSI). However, wildlife conservationist Prafulla Bhamburkar said, “Barring Tadoba, I’m not ready to believe tiger numbers have increased. In areas like Tipeshwar and Bramhapuri, the department has estimated 23 & 53 tigers, respectively. The forest area is too small to hold these many number of tigers. Moreover, as per the AITE-2018 report, Tipeshwar has 5 tigers and Bramhapuri 39. So, which estimation is right? Secondly, Bor and Navegaon-Nagzira Tiger Reserve (NNTR) buffer has not been brought under the administrative control of wildlife, hence the numbers cannot increase.” TYGER, TYGER BURNING BRIGHT... Parks Tigers Leopards Melghat 50 | 131 Pench 39 | 63 NNTR 9 | 162 TATR 85 | 109 Bor 6 | 30 Tipeshwar 23 | 11 Karhandla 11 | 6 Bramhapuri 53 | 88 Central Chanda 23 | NA Chandrapur 23 | NA Painganga 1 | NA Shirur NA | 22 SGNP NA | 47 (Central Chanda, Chandrapur & Painganga figures are for 2018, rest are of 2020 estimation)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/331-tigers-669-leopards-recorded-in-maha-in-2020/articleshow/79377970.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
November 24, 2020||Jaipur||One-day workshop for BSF on drug abuse||Jaisalmer: A workshop was organised for Rajasthan, Gujarat and Punjab BSF Frontier officers and jawans on prevention of drug abuse on Monday. More than 100 officers and jawans participated in the programme that was inaugurated by Jaisalmer Sector South DIG Anand Singh Takshak. A BSF official said, “A Frontier level one day awareness programme on drug abuse prevention for police functionaries was organised at 18 Bn HQ Border Security Force, Dabla, Jaisalmer. Sector South DIG Anand Singh Takshak inaugurated and addressed the gathering and shared his views on drug abuse, its relevance in today’s scenario, need of acquiring knowledge on dealing with such cases and role of police functionaries in preventing abuse. Faculty instructors from Punjab. Krishna Kant Kumar, Deputy Commandant from 136 BN BSF and instructor from STC BSF Kharkhan conducted lectures on subject awareness programme. Further, Sector South Commandant Arvind Ghildiyal, 149 BN BSF Commandant Shivanand Yadav, Deputy Commandant Surinder Singh, also shared their views/experiences on drug abuse and gave expert lectures during the session. Various subjects like drug abuse, symptoms, remedies, legal issues and role of police functionaries were discussed. Trainees who attended the training session will further impart training and awareness on drug abuse prevention to defence personnel and civil population in their respective border areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/one-day-workshop-for-bsf-on-drug-abuse/articleshow/79377959.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 24, 2020||Rajkot||2 leopards found dead in Amreli, Visavadar||Rajkot: Two leopards were found dead in Junagadh and Amreli district that falls under the Gir (west) and Shetrunji divisions of the forest department in the last two days.A leopard aged 2-3 years was electrocuted in Jafrabad range of Shetrunji division on Monday. This animal was found dead in a farm in Mityala village. The carcass was sent to Babarkot center for post mortem. “Prima facia it looks as if the animla got electrocuted after coming into to contact with a transformer,” a statement by forest department said.In the second instance, carcass of a male leopard, aged 6-8 months was found in Visavadar range near Ambajal dam on Sunday evening. Canine marks were found on neck and back side of body, said forest officials. Also lion pug marks near the carcass indicated towards infighting. Dheeraj Mittal, deputy conservator of forest Gir (east) division said “It’s a very common in wildlife. Lion generally kill cubs and younger leopards because they are competing predators. It’s a natural behaviour. If a grown up leopard sees a cub of lion they will kill it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/2-leopards-found-dead-in-amreli-visavadar/articleshow/79375470.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Kolhapur||Concern among parents keeps students away||Kolhapur: As less than one-fourth of schools in Kolhapur district reopened on Monday, apprehensions among parents resulted in low attendance of students on the first day of school after almost eight months. Officials said of the total 1,054 schools in the district, 321 schools resumed operation. The number of students was also much less than expected by the authorities. Around 1,800 students of Classes IX, X, XI, and XII went to school out of 2.25 lakh students. In Kolhapur city, two schools were opened in the morning, however, the authorities of the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation asked them to shut down citing inadequate preparations. Meanwhile, the number of teachers and non-teaching staff testing Covid positive has increased to 46, of them, 28 are teachers. Throat swabs of around 8,900 teachers and non-teaching staff have been tested while 8,200 throat swabs are yet to be tested. The education department had issued a digital form to the schools’ heads to provide the details of students and teachers attending along with throat swab reports. Kiran Lohar, the district education officer said, “We have suggested the school operators to reopen schools only if all the measures like sanitisation, screening of students and testing of teachers and non-teaching staff have been done. Most schools have not completed taking the measures. Some of the schools, which opened on Monday, had many teachers who are yet to undergo the test. We have asked them to not let such teachers or staff come to work.” Most of the schools opened on Monday were private schools. The schools have been asked to sanitise buses and autorickshaw plying the students. “We are also going to take feedback from the schools opened whether they can continue with online classes for those unable to attend physically. We have found that most schools continue to be shut as the parents are yet to give the consent letter,” added Lohar. The school reopening in Solapur, Sangli and Satara districts also witnessed low attendance. Majority of the students were dropped by their parents and some came on bicycles.  The uneasiness, however, was seen at all the schools with reports of teachers and non-teaching staff testing positive. In Satara district, more than 6,000 throat swab tests of teachers were conducted, of which, 55 were positive. Officials said several reports are yet to be received and teachers have been asked not to conduct classes till reports are available.  According to rough estimates, around 2.50 lakh students were supposed to attend the class in three districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/concern-among-parents-keeps-students-away/articleshow/79375477.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Goa||‘Black matter off Keri & Benaulim not coal’||Panaji: Samples collected from Keri and Benaulim beaches have been tested by the Goa State Pollution Control Board (GSPCB) and have turned out to be charcoal and tarballs, respectively, and not coal, environment minister Nilesh Cabral, said on Monday. An irate Cabral demanded that environmental activist Claude Alvares, who in a video claimed he had found coal on Keri beach, should apologise for misleading people. He said the GSPCB is conducting a chemical analysis on the charcoal to try and determine its source. While coal is a natural mineral, charcoal is produced by exposing wood to high temperatures and limited supply of oxygen. Cabral displayed the various samples collected from the two beaches and also showed coal samples collected from stacks in the state. The minister, who has consistently defended the South Western Railway’s double tracking project, described environmentalists as sadists who want to stop tourism and local industrial growth. “The so-called coal that Claude Alvares found on Keri beach is charcoal, as per the GSPCB’s analysis,” Cabral told reporters. “Its preliminary and official reports state that it was not coal but charcoal that was found on the beach. Alvares is such a big environmentalist and he needs to ask for forgiveness because he has tried to confuse the people.” He appeared to suggest that the government may take action against the environmentalist for making wild allegations. “He should take back his statement. If he does not do so, I will file a report to the chief minister and the government can take action on it,” said Cabral. The minister further said that Benaulim fisherman Pele, was also wrong about coal washing up on the beaches. He said he would submit a report to the chief minister and that it was for the government to take further action. “In Benaulim there is Pele, who is not educated. He is a fisherman and has similar apprehensions (about the substance on the beach), but it is not so. But that is OK because his qualifications are not like Claude Alvares’,” Cabral said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/black-matter-off-keri-benaulim-not-coal/articleshow/79377996.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Coimbatore||School edu dept to reach out to dropouts in district||Coimbatore: The school education department has launched a survey to find out the number dropouts in the district and take steps to put them back in schools.A Samagra Shiksha official with the department said they had been collecting details of long-term absentees during the academic year 2019-20 from each school to visit their houses to understand the reasons for discontinuing studies and persuade them to continue schooling. To carry out the exercise, the official said, they had formed block-level teams comprising regular/special teachers, educational volunteers and members of non-governmental organizations. The survey, which commenced on Saturday (November 21), will conclude on December 15. The survey has been conducted annually since 2002. “It is usually conducted before the start of academic year (i.e., during April and May). But this year, the survey was postponed as the schools were closed because of the Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown,” the official said. Teachers say this year it is a challenge to identify the dropouts and persuade them to attend the school as many students, who do not have access to smart phones or televisions, have given up the studies. “Until the schools reopen and students start coming to schools, identifying all the dropouts would be difficult.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/school-edu-dept-to-reach-out-to-dropouts-in-district/articleshow/79378001.cms||Nivedha Selvam
November 24, 2020||Delhi||NDMC: Leave it to cops if people don’t pay fine||NEW DELHI: New Delhi Municipal Council has made alternative arrangements upon finding that people are refusing to pay the Rs 2,000 fine for violating Covid-19 preventive measures. The civic body’s health department has made arrangements for the fine to be paid by cards and advised staff to call 100 and leave it to the cops to take over whenever arguments became too hot to handle. “While we are making all efforts to sensitise the public on the behavioural changes and requesting them to assist us in our work to keep everyone safe, some people continue to defy measures like using masks and maintaining social distancing. Since the enhanced fine of Rs 2,000 for violations is fairly high, people resist paying it,” said an NDMC official. The official said that the monitoring teams have been given 10 point of sale machines to be used to collect the fine amount through debit or credit cards because people usually do not carry much cash on them. “But there always are arguments and incidents of defaulters misbehaving with our staff have taken place. We have asked our employees to take the help of police in such instances,” added the official. The New Delhi district administration, NDMC and the Connaught Place traders’ association have also launched a campaign and installed banners at the entrance and exit of each block to promote sanitisation, social distancing and wearing of masks. Amit Gupta, executive member, New Delhi Traders Association, revealed, “We have launched the SMS campaign where S stands for sanitisation, M for mask and S for social distancing. We request shoppers and shop owners alike to follow these ardently. The drive aims to remind people again about how we can save themselves by checking the spread of Covid infection.” Gupta said the step had been taken on the direction of the sub-divisional magistrate, New Delhi district, who took a round of the commercial hub on Friday. “We have sent a circular to each business entity to ensure a thermal scanner and hand sanitisers on their premises. They have also been asked to paste a copy of the DDMA Covid guidelines at their entrances,” said Gupta. New Delhi Traders’ Association had shared their unhappiness at the chaos created by illegal vendors with the lieutenant governor and civic authorities. “The authorities are now taking more steps to implement the Covid norms, but as far as the removal of encroachers or illegal hawkers is concerned, the problem is not getting resolved,” said a shop owner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/carrot-and-stick-to-make-violators-pay/articleshow/79378006.cms||Vibha Sharma
November 24, 2020||Goa||Govt should stop meddling in feni industry: Kamat||Panaji: The state government must stop interfering with Goa’s traditional feni industry, opposition leader Digambar Kamat said on Monday as he expressed concern over the excise department’s move to change the cashew auction system. Pointing out that small scale businessmen and entrepreneurs depend on the cashew crop and production of feni, Kamat said that any change in the existing plantation auction system will result in economic insecurity, and have a detrimental effect on the traditional industry. “Feni has a tradition of production process and needs to be preserved along with the auctioning of cashew groves and setting up of pot stills, which is unique,” said Kamat. “Government must refrain from changing excise laws to facilitate entry of liquor barons and commercialisation of the heritage drink of Goa.” In 2013, Goa’s famed alcoholic beverage feni was granted a geographical indication (GI) tag which gives local producers exclusive brand protection. The excise department has begun the process to stop the auctioning of cashew groves across the state while also bringing in new rules. The new rules, the Congress MLA said, will allow big companies to purchase the cashew and leave the small distillers out. “It appears that the BJP government is all out to commercialise everything, killing age-old traditions and occupations. They want to change the rules for the market and. This is an industry that benefits the small people, small businessmen and under no circumstances should the government try to disturb the existing process,” Kamat said. He said that the state government should consult feni producers, particularly the All Goa Cashew Feni Distillers and Bottlers Association, before attempting to change any law. “Any change to the existing excise act or rules will bring about cultural disarray, economic insecurity, confusion and monopolistic culture, which will have a lasting detrimental effect,” Kamat said. After a few stakeholders were informed about the proposed changes by excise commissioner Shashank Mani Tripathy on November 18, the All Goa Cashew Feni Distillers and Bottlers Association wrote to the excise commission stating that they are not in favour of the proposed radical changes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-should-stop-meddling-in-feni-industry-kamat/articleshow/79377966.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 24, 2020||Aurangabad||M’wada: Low attendance on Day 1||Aurangabad: Schools in the rural areas of Aurangabad, Latur and Osmanabad districts among other parts of Marathwada had few students attending classes on the first day of schools reopening as a section of parents chose not to send their wards. Different teachers’ association said the average student turnout was in the 10-50% range in schools and junior colleges on Monday. Kailas Gaikwad, the Aurangabad district general secretary of the state-level teachers’ association, said besides Covid-related fears, many students and their parents had gone out of town during Diwali. This too led to low attendance. “Compared to urban centres, the prevalence of Covid has been relatively lower in rural areas. Moreover, online classes have not proved to be effective in these parts. Therefore, schools in the rural areas are expected to witness normal functioning soon,” he said. Schools in fringe areas of the city, which officially fall in the category of rural institutes, witnessed low attendance. Surekha Shinde, the principal of Bhairavmal Tanwani Vidya Mandir in Bajaj Nagar, Waluj, said only 5% of the students turned up on Monday. “We have allowed 20 students per batch.,” she said. Latur, which is one of the few districts where schools have begun in urban and rural areas, reported 12% attendance on average. “Of the 908 registered schools, 746 resumed work. The remaining schools are also expected to start once Covid testing of staff is done,” Latur district education officer Audumbar Ukirade said. The Aurangabad zilla parishad has started surprise visits to schools. ZP education officer S P Jaiswal said the surprise visits would evaluate schools on various parameters including 100% Covid testing of staff, sanitation compliance, social distancing and others||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/mwada-low-attendance-on-day-1/articleshow/79375453.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Jaipur||Teaching aspirants don’t want academic record norms||Kota: Many aspirants for the 918 posts of assistant professors who are to be recruited by Rajasthan Public Service Commission (RPSC) have demanded removal of Good Academic Record (GAR) norm. The aspirants have argued that Rajasthan is the only state in the country to have applied GAR norm for recruitment. They added that the applied GAR norms are not even in line with the UGC’s minimum eligibility for assistant professor recruitment. Good academic record means an average of at least 55% marks in three examinations preceding Masters degree. According to GAR, an aspirant is eligible for the post of assistant professor if he/she has an average of at least 55% marks in three exams before Masters degree along with at least 50% marks in graduation and in one of Secondary/High School, High Secondary/ Senior Secondary examinations. Rajasthan Public Service Commission (RPSC) recently released an official notification for recruitment for 918 vacancies for the post of assistant professor in various subjects in colleges across Rajasthan. The online application process for the vacant posts began on November 9, 2020 and will and conclude on December 8, 2020. “A large number of aspirants have cleared National Eligibility Test (NET) and finished PhD. Despite this we are out of the eligibility criteria for the post of assistant professors because of the GAR criteria,” said Dr Hem Singh Gour of Jodhpur, who is also the president of Rajasthan Private College Teachers’ Association. ‘ “GAR norms appear illogical as RPSC is already conducting written examination and interview for recruitment, it is illogical to test the aspirant’s eligibility on the basis of his performance in past examinations of class 10th and 12th,” said Pramila Mirdha, another aspirant. However, convener of Rajiv Gandhi Study Circle in Kota, Anuj Williams, recommended marking scheme implemented by UGC in Bihar, where Bihar State University Service Commission (BSUSC) invited applicants for 4,638 posts of assistant professor. GAR norms, as per UGC guidelines, were applied only in interview and score of total marks obtained. Government should allow all the students in the exam and implement marking scheme of GAR in line with Bihar, Williams said. The GAR norms were introduced in 2015-2016 assistant professor recruitment on nearly 1200 posts but GAR norms were challenged in Rajasthan High Court referred the matter to Supreme Court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/teaching-aspirants-dont-want-academic-record-norms/articleshow/79378017.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 24, 2020||Goa||‘K’taka MLA as in-charge won’t affect BJP’s stand on Mhadei’||Panaji: BJP state president Sadanand Shet Tanavade said on Monday that the appointment of Karnataka MLA C T Ravi as in-charge of the party’s Goa desk would not create any pressure as far as its stand on Mhadei is concerned. “We will not be pressurised on the Mhadei issue by the appointment of Ravi,” he said. Goa and Karnataka have been fighting for Mhadai for the past three decades. Tanavade also said that the Mhadei issue was not discussed between Ravi and the state BJP state core committee, as the matter is before court. On Sunday, Ravi said that both Karnataka and Goa would abide by the Supreme Court’s decision on Mhadei. Ravi arrived in Goa on Sunday to discuss various issues with party leaders and left the state on Monday. Ravi said that BJP is a national party, and both Karnataka and Goa are equal to it. Speaking to reporters, Ravi said he discussed how to strengthen the party in the state. When asked about how Karnataka continues to divert water despite the court order, Ravi said, “It is your feeling”. In October, the Goa government filed a contempt petition in the Supreme Court against Karnataka for illegal diversion of the Mhadei’s waters to the Malaprabha river basin, and sought a direction for a joint inspection of the Kalasa site under an independent assessor. The state has sought a direction to restore the natural flow of the Mhadei river towards Goa. The plea has also stated that due to Karnataka’s contumacious acts, there is a sharp reduction of water flow to the Surla nullah that passes through the Mhadei Wildlife Sanctuary and is a violation of the Wildlife Protection Act. The plea has sought an “order directing the contemnors/respondents to take remedial and curative actions to make good the loss of water to the state of Goa pursuant to their acts of diversion and to further restore the natural flow of the Mhadei river towards the state of Goa.” Tanavade said that during the visit of BJP national president J P Nadda on December 21 and 22, he will meet MLAs, core committee members and office bearers to galvanise the cadre for the next elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ktaka-mla-as-in-charge-wont-affect-bjps-stand-on-mhadei/articleshow/79378025.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Goa||AAP: DGP views on Mollem is politicising of police force||Panaji: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has taken strong exception to Goa director general of police (DGP) Mukesh Kumar Meena questioning objections by Goans to the railway double-tracking project and termed this as “an example of politicising of the police force” in Goa. AAP spokesperson Surel Tilve said, “Goans know what is best for Goa and we do not need bureaucrats from other states telling us what development is.” Tilve added, “Mukhesh Kumar Meena is free to broaden railway tracks and roads in his home state and let Goans decide for themselves.” He also said, “Police are to protect people while upholding the law and they are not required to be his master’s voice,” referring to the DGP’s statement two days ago that the police would take strict action if people continue to obstruct national project works. “The police force has been, time and again been pressurized to silence Goan voices. Even our volunteers had FIRs filed against them only because they stood for Goa. But chief minister Pramod Sawant needs to remember that Goans aren’t afraid of such tactics and the voice will only get louder.” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aap-dgp-views-on-mollem-is-politicising-of-police-force/articleshow/79378038.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Rajkot||Man stabbed to death over trivial issue in Gujarat's Savarkundla||RAJKOT: A man was stabbed to death by four assailants over a trivial issue in Savarkundla of Amreli district on Sunday night. Police said the accused, Ayub Chauhan, his father Usman Chauhan, his cousin Afsana Chauhan and Irfan Vaghela, had allegedly killed Jahid Sheikh (35) in Maninagar locality of Savarkundla. The murder was the result of an altercation between Sheikh and Ayub over the issue of walking in the lane. Ayub had asked Sheikh not to walk in the lane near his house, triggering a fight between them. “On Sunday night, Ayub called Sheikh to strike a compromise near his house. When Sheikh reached the spot, Afsana allegedly threw acid on his face and Ayub and the co-accused attacked Sheikh with swords, knives and iron pipes,” said R R Vasava, inspector with Savarkundla town police station. Sheikh was rushed to Savarkundla Civil Hospital where he was declared dead on arrival. Sheikh’s friend Siraj Dhandhukia and Sheikh’s brother Hanif were also injured in the attack when they tried to intervene. While Hanife’s hand has been fractured, Dhandhukia is battling for his life in a seriously injured condition at Bhavnagar Sir T Hospital. Meanwhile, the police have launched a manhunt for the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-stabbed-to-death-over-trivial-issue-in-savarkundla/articleshow/79375499.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Goa||Aldona youth start Mollem slogan contest||Panaji: As a part of the movement to protect Mollem National Park and Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary from three Centre-funded infrastructure development projects, the youth of Aldona have organised a slogan competition for children aged below ten years. Participants have to choose either one of the three topics — nature for our future, the forests and us, and green Goa-clean Goa and have to record a video of them saying the slogan in 10 to 15 words in English, Konkani or Marathi. They must dress up as any of the species found in the Mollem forests while delivering the slogan.Last date for submission is November 27. Winners will receive a cash prize and certificate, in addition to a Save Mollem t-shirt. All participants will also receive an e-certificate. Entries have to be mailed to youthofaldona@gmail.com along with their full name, age and address.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aldona-youth-start-mollem-slogan-contest/articleshow/79378057.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Absence of footbridge makes life hard for Palanisamy Colony folk||Coimbatore: The city corporation is yet to reconstruct the footbridge that it demolished at Palanisamy Colony near Ponnayarajapuram in the city in September to unclog an outlet channel of Muthannankulam after water flooded houses in the locality.Following the incessant rainfall, officials had then opened the sluice gates of Muthannankulam to release excess water into the outlet channel. As the channel was filled with debris and water hyacinth, water had flooded 10 houses at Palanisamy Colony.N Chinnasamy, a resident, says, “Many people, especially women, were using the footbridge to reach their workplace in and around Ponnayarajapuram. It was also the shortest path to the nearest bus stand. If we take alternative paths, we have to travel an additional 2km.” He says people were forced to cross the canal by walk until a week ago, when the city corporation workers placed wooden slabs across the canal. “More than 1,000 people are crossing the canal daily.” Vanitha, a commuter who works at Gandhi Park, says, “I will reach the nearest bus stop in less than 10 minutes if I walk through the canal. Otherwise, I have to walk an additional 10 minutes. Cyclists also use this path.”Pointing out that the city corporation had laid foundation stone for reconstructing the footbridge in January and removed electric poles along the tank bund, she says the construction works were delayed because of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Taking the inconvenience caused to the public into consideration, they should ideally have started the work by now. But we don’t know what is stopping them.”A source with the city corporation says the plan is to widen the footbridge, for which more land is required. “We are in talks with the nearby house owners.”When contacted, corporation officials said they would commence the work at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/absence-of-footbridge-makes-life-hard-for-palanisamy-colony-folk/articleshow/79378043.cms||Nivedha Selvam
November 24, 2020||Delhi||Cows claim right of way on Delhi roads||NEW DELHI: The lack of enforcement in capturing stray cattle and shifting illegal dairies to the city’s outskirts during the pandemic has brought the menace of stray bovine back on the arterial roads. These past few days, TOI found cattle roaming on the roads and feeding on plastic bags and garbage in Govindpuri, East of Kailash, Greater Kailash, Sadar Bazar, Ghazipur, Patparganj and Anand Vihar. In Govindpuri, the median of the road going to Tughlaqabad has become particularly troublesome in this regard. In East of Kailash, there is a public spot where people feed cows. In Sadar Bazar, cows can be eating plastic bag and rags at the garbage dump, an indication that the ban on plastic as well as the effort to control stray cattle had failed in Delhi. Times ViewStray cattle are a public safety menace. They cause traffic jams, accidents. In many cases, cattle owners just let them loose allowing them to loiter on the roads. This is unacceptable and they should be fined. That's apart from action against them for running illegal dairies where that's the case.Chetan Sharma of Greater Kailash, who heads the Confederation of NCR RWAs, was concerned at the resurfacing of the stray cattle problem. “Numerous cows can be seen on the roads at Alaknanda, NRI Colony and Govindpuri any time of the day. They gather to eat domestic waste,” Sharma said. He said that if the municipal corporations were indeed sincere about tackling the problem, they should capture the animals from the dhalaos and feeding points, where they create unsanitary conditions and impede traffic movement. The situation was particularly worrisome in places like Anand Vihar, Ghazipur and Patparganj in east Delhi, where herds encroach into the arterial road, increasing risks of accidents. Krishna Nagar resident B S Vohra, president, East Delhi RWA Joint Front, said that while most illegal dairies had been relocated to Ghazipur, stray cattle continued to be a bane in the area. “Clearly, people are secretly using residential areas to raise cattle for commercial purposes,” Vohra alleged. The municipal corporations spend big sums every year to tackle stray cattle on the roads, and yet more than 100 accidents related to the animals are reported annually. The plight of plastic-ingesting stray cattle along with the threat they posed to motorists had even caught the attention of Delhi High Court last year. All captured bovines are sent to one of four cow shelters in the city: Gopal Gausadan which can accommodate 3,200 animals, Sri Krishna Gausadan (7,600), Manav Gausadan (500) and Dabur Hare Krishna Gaushala (4,000). Delhi government and the civic bodies give the gaushalas a grant of Rs 20 per cow per day. In July, some of these shelters had threatened not to take in more captured cattle unless their dues were cleared. An SDMC official claimed, however, that no dues were pending to the cow shelters. A veterinary department official maintained that the restrictions caused by the pandemic had affected operations. “But we have now restarted the drive to get the strays off the roads and the changes will be visible on the ground soon,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cows-claim-right-of-way-on-delhi-roads/articleshow/79378091.cms||Paras Singh
November 24, 2020||Jaipur||9 mths on, elephant rides at Amber Fort to resume today||Jaipur: After a gap of nine months, elephant rides at Amber Fort will resume from Tuesday. For tourists, the ride will be organised between 8am and 11am with strict conditions. Department of archaeology and museum order dated November 23 reads, “It would be mandatory for mahouts and tourists to wear face masks. Also, thermal screening is a must before the ride. Before and after, the tourists and mahouts have to sanitise their hands.” As tourist’s footfall is comparatively less in pandemic times, mahouts have decided to implement self-imposed roster on a daily basis.Mahout Ballu Khan said, “There are a total of 100 elephants. Initially, we have decided to divide them into 50-50 batches. One batch of 50 elephants will go on first day, the remaining would go the next day.” On November 21, TOI under the headline ‘Debt-ridden Jaipur mahouts demand to resume jumbo ride at Amber’ highlighted the plight of mahouts and elephants in absence of employment. Following this, on November 22, state BJP president Satish Poonia, who represents Amer constituency, wrote to chief minister Ashok Gehlot to resume elephant safari at Amber Fort. Tourism at Amber Fort resumed on June 2, but elephant rides continued to be restricted. The pandemic has severely affected the earnings of the mahouts at Hathigaon in Jaipur as mahouts were facing immense difficulties to pay school fees of children and meet their day-to-day expenses. During the tourist season, elephant owners earn around Rs 6,000 to 8,000 per day from tourists who visit Haathigaon. The abrupt shutdown of elephant village had affected the lives of these captive animals and their caretakers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/9-mths-on-elephant-rides-at-amber-fort-to-resume-today/articleshow/79378069.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Jaipur||Unemployed youths stall Delhi visit, give govt ultimatum||Jaipur: Representatives of Berojgar Ekikrit Mahasangh on Monday met officials of various departments at the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) to discuss issues related to conducting REET 2020 examination and other recruitments pending since 2013. Meanwhile, the education department on Monday forwarded the file pertaining to REET examination to the state election commission for its clearance as the model code of conduct is in force. Also, chief secretary Niranjan Arya on Monday directed the officials to send details of candidates with regard to new admissions in the respective departments to the Rajasthan Public Service Commission (RPSC) and RSMSSB so that the advertisements for these admissions could be issued. He also directed to the officials declare the results of school lecturers’ admission 2018 soon and asked them to appoint candidates selected in December in the coming year. The Mahasangh gave an ultimatum to the government to resolve the issues of unemployed youths within a month and decided to stall their plans to visit New Delhi on November 24 with the objective of meeting former Congress president Rahul Gandhi. They also threatened to launch an agitation if their demands are not met within a month. The government may announce the dates for REET 2020 examination any moment. The chief minister had on Sunday asked education minister Govind Singh Dotasara to conduct the examination at the earliest. The other demands include ensuring job quota for bona fide residents of the state; computer teacher’s recruitment; ANM GNM nursing admission 2013; panchayati raj LDC admission, 2013; admissions of 1534 laboratory assistants; junior accountant recruitment 2013; Rajasthan police recruitment 2018; senior teacher’s recruitment 2016-2018 and 2013; to regularise recruitment of 7,000 students in Ayurved nursing admission; panchayati raj JEN recruitment and other recruitments. “We had a discussion with the officials of the departments concerned today (Monday). I also had a meeting with the education secretary with regard to REET 2020 admission. They said, they will require a few days to take a decision on the REET examination. On new admissions, they assured us of announcing the dates soon. We’ve also given them information with regard to examinations that were cancelled by the current government,” said convenor of Mahasangh Upen Yadav. “These admissions include: school assistant recruitment (33,000 posts), recruitment of pharmacists (1736 posts) and police telecommunication admission (233 posts). These admissions were announced during BJP’s rule in the state,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/unemployed-youths-stall-delhi-visit-give-govt-ultimatum/articleshow/79378074.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 24, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Nikhil Donga booked for extorting Rs 1 crore from cellphones trader||RAJKOT: One more case was registered against history-sheeter Nikhil Donga on Sunday evening for allegedly extorting a cellphone trader from Gondal sub-jail. Donga along with his aide Shaktisinh Chudasama, who too was booked for the crime, was brought to Gondal through a transfer warrant from Sabarmati Central Jail in Ahmedabad. The custody of the third accused in the case, Navghan Shiyal, was secured from Gondal sub-jail. All the accused trio has been arrested under the Gujarat Control of Terrorism and Organized Crime (GCTOC) Act. The accused trio was produced before a GCTOC court here which sent them to 20 days remand. According to the details of the case, Nilay Mehta lodged a complaint against Donga and his 16 aides including Chudasama and Shiyal, accusing them of trying to extort Rs 1 crore from his brother. Of the accused, 12 have been booked under the GCTOC, of them seven have been lodged in different jails of Gujarat. “Mehta’s brother had taken cellphones worth Rs 1 crore from Satish and Vimal, the owners of Ram mobile shop, Raju, the owner of Krishna mobile shop and Rohit, the owner of Samrat mobile shop, six months ago. When Mehta’s brother could not repay the amount, the creditors approached Donga in Gondal sub-jail and gave him a contract to collect money from Mehta’s brother,” said S M Jadeja, inspector with Gondal city police station. “Donga asked his men to bring Mehta to the jail. When Mehta was produced before him, he asked Mehta to either repay the amount or give his property to him. Donga allegedly threatened to kill Mehta, if he did not obey. Two months ago, Donga’s men again approached Mehta and threatened to kill him, if he did not repay the amount. They asked him to transfer the ownership of his paan shop and the house to Donga,” added Jadeja. Donga faces as many as 14 criminal cases including murder and extortion lodged against him. Meanwhile, the police have booked the owners of the cellphone shops under sections 387 and 506 (2) of Indian Penal Code dealing with extortion and issuing threats, rioting and the Prison Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/donga-booked-for-extorting-rs-1-cr-from-cellphones-trader/articleshow/79375564.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Goa||To keep dengue in check, building contractors to get workers tested||Panaji: The Candolim primary health centre, which struggled to bring dengue cases under control within its jurisdiction over the past few months, has managed to convince construction contractors to ensure their labourers are tested for the vector-borne disease first. There are at least 900 construction workers and 100 active construction sites within the health centre’s jurisdiction. While Candolim registered four to five cases of dengue a day during August and September, the frequency has now dropped to one to two cases a week. Medical officer Dr Roshan Nazareth, however, said the health centre does not want to leave anything to chance. He said a meeting was held with building contractors on Monday, during which they agreed to bring their labourers in for testing as soon as a new batch came in. While all workers have to be issued health cards for which they (contractors) have to get their workers tested, not all comply. Health cards are also issued to workers engaged by shack operators. The Covid-induced lockdown witnessed a spurt in dengue cases due to mosquito breeding mostly at construction sites, and at places where garbage was dumped. Alarmed by the rise in infections in Calangute and Candolim, the directorate of health services sent a team to probe. “Mosquito larvae were found even in small cups, underneath coconut palms and in places where they could not be detected easily,” Nazareth said. Once the problem was detected, people were educated about dengue with the active involvement of the respective panchayat members. The panchayat of Calangute also bought two fogging machines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/to-keep-dengue-in-check-building-contractors-to-get-workers-tested/articleshow/79378123.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Kangeyam local body stares at Rs 1.41cr fine for polluting groundwater||COIMBATORE: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board to conduct a detailed study and take appropriate action against Kangeyam municipality in Tirupur district if it had failed to implement the solid waste management rules, 2016, and polluted the groundwater at Veeranampalayam village. The tribunal has also ordered the pollution control board to recover Rs 1.41 crore from the municipality if found guilty and utilize the amount for restoring the damage caused to the environment in the area. The directions were given on Friday while disposing of a petition filed by charcoal units at Veeranampalayam in 2013 against the closure order issued by the village panchayat. According to K V Ponnaiyan, president, Tamil Nadu Swadeshi Farmers’ Association, six charcoal units in the village had been following underground pit technology to extract carbon. As a result, he said, the groundwater in the locality was polluted. After farmers started protesting against the units, then village panchayat head Gandhimathi had served closure notice on them. The tribunal had formed a high-level committee to study the reason and level of pollution in the village. The panel confirmed that the charcoal units had polluted the environment. It also found Kageyam municipality had been dumping solid waste near a well in that locality for about 15 years, polluting the groundwater. The panel recommended a penalty of Rs 1.41 crore on the municipality, said a source privy to the development. The NGT has directed the charcoal units not to follow the underground pit technology any longer as it was polluting the environment and asked them to embrace the above ground level technology. “The designs need to be approved either by the Indian institute of technology or Anna University.” The charcoal units were asked to pay a sum of Rs 4.65 lakh to four farmers, who were most affected most in the village, Rs 12 lakh to restore the damaged groundwater sources and construct two water tanks, and Rs 3.50 lakh to the pollution control board for conducting a study within three months, the source said. The NGT has asked district collector K Vijayakarthikeyan to recover the amount from the units within six months, if they failed to pay within the stipulated time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/kangeyam-local-body-stares-at-rs-1-41cr-fine-for-polluting-groundwater/articleshow/79378109.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Hospitals allow family members to visit patients in ICU, but with riders||BENGALURU: Families of Covid-19 patients battling for life on ventilators in ICUs are in a quandary. While hospitals say that it is just not safe for kin to be trooping into the highly infectious environs of ICUs, the desire to see their loved ones — sometimes for one last time — is overwhelming. As a result, hospitals get multiple requests for visits every day. Doctors admit these visits can boost morale of patients and aid recovery, but they also say it is very risky. The concern stems from the fact that family members could be exposed to the virus and asymptomatic carriers could then infect even healthcare workers in the hospital, besides family. There were 470 Covid patients in ICUs across the state on Sunday, including 237 in Bengaluru. However, hospitals sometimes make allowances. After multiple requests to staff at the private hospital, a woman was allowed to visit her 79-year-old father, a Covid patient on ventilator, on Friday. The man died two hours later. “I just held my father’s hand for a while and he looked at me. That was our last meeting,” recalled the daughter who had to don PPE for the visit. Dr Rajesh Mohan Shetty, consultant, critical care medicine, Manipal Hospitals, Whitefield, said since most family members would be wearing PPE for the first time, they would need assistance to wear it properly. “If all family members want to visit a patient, it becomes difficult for the hospital,” Dr Shetty said. “Many patients communicate through smartphones, but in some cases we allow one family member to visit, especially when the patient’s condition is critical and many not survive. A hospital staffer is deputed to accompany the visitor and also ensures s/he wear the PPE properly. It takes a lot of time and effort for the hospital too.” Dr Shetty said most requests for visits were turned down in previous months since the caseload was high and doctors needed more time to treat patients. “But yes, we understand the concerns of family members,” he said. Some hospitals go so far as to allow one family member to stay with the patient, but some like Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute have cut out visits altogether. “We do arrange video calls between patients and family members,” said Dr Smita S Segu, nodal officer, Covid-19 core committee, BMCRI. “We have set up a help desk which families can call for updates. The medical team also updates kin on the progress patients are making.” At state-run Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases (RGICD), visit requests have to be made in writing. “We explain the risks involved to family members. Many withdraw their request when possible consequences are explained. If they still want to visit, we ask for a written undertaking,” said Dr C Nagaraj, director, RGICD. The undertaking states the visitor is “well aware of the consequences and risk of infection while meeting a Covid patient in ICU and the hospital will not be held responsible”. A nurse accompanies the patient’s relative. In Apollo Hospitals, Jayanagar, a family member is allowed to meet the patient but only on rare occasions. “Special approvals are given in some cases,” said Dr Yateesh Govindaiah, chief of medical operations. “We check if the family member has had a Covid infection and if she has recovered. They are then given access and all precautionary measures are taken. A nursing staff accompanies the visitor.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/hospitals-allow-family-members-to-visit-patients-in-icu-but-with-riders/articleshow/79375559.cms||Sunitha Rao R
November 24, 2020||Jaipur||More families shift from Sariska||Jaipur: Sariska Tiger Reserve (STR) administration is continuously shifting families from villages situated in the critical tiger habitat (CTH). On Monday, two families of Haripura village were rehabilitated in Lonj Kanpura. A senior forest official said, “A total 14 families of Haripura village has given consent to shift, while 29 families have not shown willingness. Efforts are on to convince the villagers for voluntarily relocation.” According to records, the forest department has partially relocated Panidhal village after rehabilitating villagers to Dabali recently. “Out of 24 families in Panidhal, five have shifted and remaining will be relocated before December 10, once the wedding season is over. After the village is entirely razed, the area can be occupied by the big cats including male ST-13, tigresses ST-10 and ST- 12 and their progenies.” The STR administration plans to shift six villages including Sukola, Devri, Kankwari, Kraska and Pilapani within a year. “Majority of the families that had shifted opted for land packages as it’s beneficial for them. The package includes 6 bighas of agriculture land, 60 x 90 square-feet plot and electric connection for agriculture. The villagers who moved out earlier has witnessed an increase in land value in Tijara, Kanpura and other areas. This has motivated people to shift out,” said a district administration official. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/more-families-shift-from-sariska/articleshow/79378107.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Nagpur||BJP workers burn power bills||Nagpur: BJP workers under the leadership of former minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule and MLC Pravin Datke burned power bills at 180 places in the city to protest U-turn by incumbent energy minister Nitin Raut on power bill waiver for lockdown period. Datke addressing the workers said Raut had thrice assured to provide rebate in power bills, but retracted his offer every time. “People’s livelihood has been badly hit due to the Covid lockdown and they are no longer in a position to pay full bills. In spite of knowing this, Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has decided to recover the entire amount from the consumers. Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) has already started sending disconnection notices. If the company staffers or their contractors try to disconnect anyone, BJP workers will prevent them from doing so,” he added. MLAs Krishna Khopade, Vikas Kumbhare and Mohan Mate, former MLC Anil Sole, former MLA Sudhakar Deshmukh, Shivani Dani, Dayashankar Tiwari, Chandan Goswami and others participated in the agitation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bjp-workers-burn-power-bills/articleshow/79378191.cms||Ashish Roy
November 24, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS manifesto a bundle of lies: Mohammed Ali Shabbir||HYDERABAD: The Congress on Monday termed the GHMC election manifesto of the ruling TRS a bundle of lies and demanded that chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao should explain to the people why the promises made by the TRS in 2016 GHMC polls have not been implemented so far. Former minister Mohammed Ali Shabbir and TPCC media committee convenor for GHMC polls Aamer Javeed said the list of promises made by KCR and those unfulfilled is long. “People should not trust the promises being made by TRS in its GHMC poll manifesto,” he said. Citing examples of unfulfilled promises of TRS, they said that KCR had promised to develop Hyderabad like Dallas and Old City like Istanbul. Now he is promising Musi river to be developed on the lines of Thames river in London.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-manifesto-a-bundle-of-lies-shabbir/articleshow/79378131.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Delhi||25 volunteers at Delhi's Sarojini Nagar market to enforce norms||NEW DELHI: A day after fresh orders were issued for not removing vendors in Sarojini Nagar market and focusing on implementing Covid-19 norms, 25 civil defence volunteers along with market association staff were deputed at five entrances for thermal screening, sanitisation and maintaining social distancing. Taking note of the increasing congestion at the market post Diwali, the SDM office of New Delhi district on Saturday issued an order stating that strict measures should be taken to decongest the place. However, this order was withdrawn on Sunday and a fresh one issued. “According to Clause 3(3) of Street Vendors Act, 2014, no street vendor shall be evicted, or as the case may be, relocated, till their survey is completed and certificate of vending issued to all. Therefore, the November 21 order is withdrawn and the shops or street vendors at Sarojini Nagar market shall be permitted to operate subject to following directives and standard operating procedure issued by Government of India and Delhi Disaster Management Authority from time to time,” stated the fresh order. Ashok Kalra, general secretary, Sarojini Shopkeepers’ Market Association said, “The new order doesn’t mean that action won’t be taken against illegal vendors encroaching on space. We expect the authorities to continue action against those leading to chaos to streamline the situation.” The new order has asked New Delhi Municipal Council and Sarojini Nagar Market Association to ensure thermal screening, provide sanitisers or hand washing stations, distribute face masks and have dedicated information activities at the market. We are extending all support and providing guards at all five entrances to support the civil defence volunteers. We will also supply sanitisers and make other arrangements. The civic agency and local police are regulating footfall and coordinating one way movement of vehicles effectively,” said Ashok Randhawa, president, Mini Market Traders’ Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/25-volunteers-at-sarojini-market-to-enforce-norms/articleshow/79378156.cms||Vibha Sharma
November 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Rural police trace 48 missing people in a week, drive on||Coimbatore: Of the 283 people who went missing in the rural parts of the district from January to November 16 this year, police have traced 48 of them in the past one week alone, thanks to the special drive launched by the west zone police. Rajesh Das, special director general of police (law & order) in the state, had on November 16 directed all the police officials to conduct ‘missing persons tracing mela’ to trace the missing children, youths and adults. Subsequently, district superintendent of police (SP) Ara Arularasu had formally inaugurated the special drive on Sunday when around 108 people, who had lodged complaints on missing people with the rural police, visited the respective police stations. “Our focus is on tracking the missing people. Most cases pertain to elopements though.” It is to be noted that photos of missing people would be uploaded on the crime and criminal tracking network and systems (CCTNS) website once a case is registered. As per the data available with the rural police, 138 men, 106 women, five boys and 34 girls had gone missing from their jurisdiction till November 16 this year. At least 48 of them were traced during the special drive till Sunday. There are 235 people yet to be traced. Pointing out that photos of unclaimed dead bodies of people, who were drowned, killed in road accidents or found dead on roadsides, would also be uploaded on the CCTNS website, the officer said such photos were shown to the 108 petitioners who turned up as part of the drive on Sunday. “It helped us solve two cases by establishing the identity of two of the dead elderly people.” The rural police have a record of 126 unclaimed dead bodies. The SP said they would bury the unclaimed dead bodies a week after their recovery with the help of NGOs. “We have to trace the identity of 126 unclaimed dead bodies.” The west zone comprises eight districts - Coimbatore, Nilgiris, Tirupur, Erode, Salem, Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri and Namakkal. The special drive has helped trace 173 missing people in the zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rural-police-trace-48-missing-people-in-a-week-drive-on/articleshow/79378139.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 24, 2020||Rajkot||SU postpones first semester exams||Rajkot: Saurashtra University postponed all the exams for first semester of academic year 2020-21 that were scheduled from December 1. The varsity took this decision on Monday in wake of the rising coronavirus cases in Rajkot and other towns of Saurashtra. The decision was conveyed to all the affiliated colleges and head of departments. Over 55,000 students were set to appear in the exams of various graduate and post graduate courses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/su-postpones-first-semester-exams/articleshow/79375599.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Jaipur||CM asks officials to make arrangements for Covid vaccination||Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday directed officials prepare for the storage of Covid vaccines by developing cold chain facilities and distribution system. He said frontline Covid warriors, the medical fraternity, will be given priority in vaccination. The chief minister was reviewing steps taken by the government to control the spread of the virus with the officials via video conferencing on Monday. He said the government had taken some tough measures recently as the situation could turn grave. Gehlot attributed the recent spurt in Covid cases to the crowding of markets during Diwali, cold weather, participation of people in marriages and panchayat and municipal elections. He said despite strict directions from the government and state election commission, the heath protocols were not properly followed during the elections. He appealed to political parties and candidates to follow the protocol and set an example for the common people. Medical and health secretary Siddarth Mahajan informed that people and business community are fully cooperating with night curfew imposed in eight district headquarters, which had emerged as the hotbeds of Covid cases. Considering the marriage season, it was directed that the cap of 100 people be strictly implemented. He said 1,850 additional beds were committed by 40 private hospitals across the state to treat Covid cases. He informed that so far 41.79 lakh Covid tests had been conducted. SMS Medical College principal Dr Sudhir Bhandari said the delay by patients with symptoms of Covid getting tested and taking timely treatment complicates the case and thereby delay recovery. He said about 80% of the patients come to hospital with one or two weeks after symptoms were noticed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cm-asks-officials-to-make-arrangements-for-covid-vaccination/articleshow/79378200.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Out on bail, Maoist alleges threat from cops||Coimbatore: Maoist C Veeramani, who came out on conditional bail in August, on Monday petitioned the district collector alleging that he was being closely monitored by police in plainclothes despite adhering to conditions laid out by the court. Veeramani, 71, came to the collectorate with his wife to submit the petition. He said that he has been residing in a rental house near Ukkadam and the Q branch police. “Police are taking photographs of me and it is an offence. I am closely monitored by police who are in plainclothes,” Veeramani told reporters after submitting the petition. Veeramani has been directed to put his signature before the Q branch office at Peelamedu at 10am and 5.30pm daily until further order. He has taken a rental house at Pullukadu at Ukkadam in the city to put his signature daily in the Q branch office. “Police personnel who were in plainclothes met my house owner and threatened him to vacate us and they also tortured my neighbours in the name of inquiry. The police personnel have been monitoring me round the clock and often taking photographs. They also took photographs of people who talked to me,” Veeramani said. “Such police personnel from the intelligence agency should be punished,” he added. His wife Kairunisha said that police should not disturb them and allow them to lead a peaceful life. Veeramani, of Rayanallur in Cuddalore district, was arrested by the Q Branch-CID police in May 2015. He got conditional bail and came out of the Coimbatore central prison five years later in August 2020. Veeramani and his accomplices Roopesh, Shyna, Kannan and Anoop Mathew George were arrested by the Coimbatore rural Q Branch-CID police at a bakery at Karumathampatti on May 5, 2015. They were lodged at the Coimbatore central prison. Shyna obtained bail from court and came out of the prison more than two years ago. Her husband Roopesh is spending his days behind the bar at Thrissur in Kerala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/out-on-bail-maoist-alleges-threat-from-cops/articleshow/79378164.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Door-to-door survey at hotspots 50% complete||NEW DELHI: The massive door-to-door survey of nearly 58 lakh people living in Covid-19 hotspots, which was started by the district authorities on November 20, is more than 50% complete, say government sources. “Over 60% of the target population living in the hotspots of South district has been surveyed. The exercise is going on well. However, the number of people found symptomatic is not as high as was initially expected,” said a district official, who didn’t share the exact number of people found symptomatic during the survey. “In fact, the number of symptomatic people is not very high across all districts,” he added. An official from North West district, which has the second highest population among all 11 districts, said they had already surveyed more than half of the target population in the hotspots. “Despite the large population, we have managed to complete more than half of the survey that is being conducted in areas like Kanjhawala, Saraswati Vihar and Rohini,” added the official. “Initially, there were some problems and we also found that thermal guns and oximeters didn’t always help in completely detecting cases as many infected people didn’t have high temperature or low oxygen saturation levels. That is when we changed our strategy and our teams started asking more questions about other symptoms. Now, we are getting more patients than earlier,” said the official. The official added that symptomatic patients were sent to the local dispensary for testing and health check-up. “The list of such people has also been shared with the dispensary and the district medical teams are calling them to come for tests,” he said. The South district official said that apart from sending symptomatic people for testing, mobile vans had also been deployed so that everybody got tested. “We are also carrying out aggressive contact tracing of those found positive,” he added. “It seems that Covid fatigue has set in. Our teams faced some resistance initially, but we carried on with zeal. The best thing about increased testing is not just finding Covid-positive patients and their contacts, but these vans and camps help in spreading awareness too,” said the official. Officials of South West and East districts said even they had completed over 50% of the survey despite some initial teething problems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/door-to-door-survey-at-hotspots-50-complete/articleshow/79378260.cms||Sidharatha Roy
November 24, 2020||Chandigarh||No rollback of MBBS fee hike, new policy beneficial to students: Haryana||CHANDIGARH: Even as authorities involved in MBBS admissions in Haryana are yet to compile data of new students, the state government on Monday announced that the new policy — which entails a hiked Rs 40-lakh fee during the four-year course — had been implemented to incentivise students to opt for government service while retaining the option to work anywhere, instead of imposing compulsory government service. A spokesperson ruled out the possibility of withdrawal of policy. He insisted that the policy had provision for relief to candidates even if they do not get employment despite sincere efforts. The move had been implemented to meet growing need for doctors in public healthcare in Haryana. On Saturday, the department had allocated of seats of Haryana quota in government and private colleges, after completing first round of counselling. Second round of counselling is likely to be held on Wednesday or Thursday. The new policy has triggered resentment among students as well as their parents, on the account of inception of furnishing of bonds of Rs 10 lakh per annum. As per the policy, a candidate selected for MBBS degree course, at the time of admission, shall have to pay an annual bond amount of Rs.10 lakh minus annual fee paid. The candidate will have the option of either obtaining an education loan from a bank duly facilitated by the state government or pay the entire bond amount without recourse to the loan. No candidate shall be refused or denied the education loan if he or she so desires, said the official. The state government will provide a credit guarantee to the extent of 100% of the loan amount to every student availing the education loan facility, so that the candidate is not denied loan for any reason. There will be no need for the candidate to furnish any security or collateral for obtaining the loan. For this purpose, the state government has notified the higher education loan credit guarantee scheme, said the spokesman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-rollback-of-mbbs-fee-hike-new-policy-beneficial-to-students-hry/articleshow/79378149.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Shimla||Manali gets season’s 2nd snowfall, several roads blocked||MANALI: Higher regions of Himachal Pradesh, including Manali and Lahaul-Spiti, have received another spell of snowfall, which has brought the day temperature further down and blocked a number of roads. While this is the fifth spell of snowfall in Lahaul valley, it is second in Manali. Kothi and Solang valley have received 10cm snow each, while the snowline has come down till Nehru Kund, 7km from Manali town. Atal tunnel, Gulaba, Marhi and Rohtang Pass have received 15cm to 30cm fresh snow. Most parts of Lahaul-Spiti district have also received snow. While Keylong received 5cm snow, Darcha received nearly 20cm. The peaks of Chamba, Shimla, Kinnaur and Kangra also received snow on Monday and some areas of the state witnessed rain throughout the day. The fresh snowfall has blocked many roads in Kullu and Lahaul valley. The Manali-Leh highway is again blocked. The vehicular movement in Lahaul has been restricted to Stingri, 5km from Keylong. A few vehicles that had left Keylong for Leh returned from midway as the area received heavy snowfall. Lahaul-Spiti SP Manav Verma said the area beyond Keylong is receiving heavy snow. “Vehicles are not being allowed to go towards Baralacha Pass. The road has become very slippery with poor visibility,” he said. In Kullu, the police are not allowing people to go towards the higher regions. Tourists have been advised not to go towards Atal tunnel and Gulaba. The Kullu-Jalori-Luhari highway has also been blocked. Kullu SP Gaurav Singh said, “Vehicles are not being allowed to go beyond Solang towards Atal tunnel. Movement towards Gulaba and Rohtang has been stopped at Palchan. There is a forecast of heavy snowfall in the upper areas.” Most parts of Himachal are expected to receive snow and rain on Tuesday and Wednesday, the Shimla meteorological centre has forecast. The western disturbance will remain active in Himachal till Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/manali-gets-seasons-2nd-snowfall-several-roads-blocked/articleshow/79378195.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Ranchi||Defections or merger: Speaker begins hearing in JVM-P case||Ranchi: Speaker Ravindra Nath Mahto on Monday took up suo motu cases of defection against Babulal Marandi, Bandhu Tirkey and Pradeep Yadav, all former JVM-P MLAs, during the first hearing of their claims of the merger with BJP and Congress under the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution. In his show-cause notices to the trio in the first week of November, Mahto had fixed Monday for hearing and had asked them to be present either in person or through their official representatives during the hearing of the cases. While Mandar MLA Tirkey appeared in person, Marandi and Yadav appeared through their representatives. The case relates to Tirkey and Yadav’s claims of merging JVM-P with Congress even as Marandi said the party was merged with BJP. Marandi’s counsel R N Sahay told TOI that his client has already filed a writ petition in the Jharkhand high court to challenge the notice. “Since the petition is yet to be heard by the high court, we sought time from the speaker,” he said. The petition challenged the speaker’s notice arguing that the matter does not qualify to be dealt under the Tenth Schedule and should not be considered as defection. “The petition was filed on November 12 but the court went for the festival vacation and could not take up the matter,” Sahay added. Tirkey and Yadav also filed their responses to the notice. Mahto concluded the proceedings concluded within half an hour after the three MLAs filed their replies and fixed December 17 as the next date of hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/defections-or-merger-speaker-begins-hearing-in-jvm-p-case/articleshow/79376925.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
November 24, 2020||Ranchi||Recovery rate past 97%-mark, Covid toll rises to 953 in Jharkhand||Ranchi: Jharkhand recorded two Covid deaths, 219 new cases and 304 recoveries on Monday. In a major milestone, the recovery rate crept past the 97%-mark. The two deaths, reported from Ranchi and Dhanbad, took the state’s toll to 953. The casualty rate through the pandemic in the state 0.88%. As per government data, Jharkhand has a caseload of 1,07,688, of which 1,04,533 (97.07%) have recovered while 2,202 are still battling the infection. On Monday, 17 of the 24 districts in the state recorded fresh infections in single digits, with Pakur and Khunti reporting zero cases. Ranchi, Bokaro and East Singhbhum reported the highest with 68, 29 and 27 new cases respectively. The seven-day growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.16% against the national average of 0.42%. The doubling rate of the virus in the state stood at 434.08 days against the national figure of 164.2 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/recovery-rate-past-97-mark-covid-toll-rises-to-953-in-jharkhand/articleshow/79377103.cms||Gaurav Pandey
November 24, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag: Scientists caution against AMR in fisheries||VISAKHAPATNAM: Scientists engaged in fisheries research are calling for greater awareness regarding use of antimicrobials during World Antimicrobial Awareness Week (WAAW) observed November 18–24. According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), antimicrobials include antibiotics, antivirals, antifungals and anti-parasitic drugs. Antimicrobial resistance (AMR), that is, the ineffectiveness of disease fighting agents or medicines in fisheries in growing and transmission of AMR bacteria from fish to humans can pose health risks. Scientists say that there is a need to find ways to mitigate AMR in fisheries. In this context, the Central Institute of Fisheries Technology (CIFT)-Vizag centre is working on a project titled ‘Support mitigation of AMR risk associated with aquaculture in Asia’ in association with UN’s Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR). CIFT is studying the antimicrobial resistance profile and aquaculture practices in the farming of freshwater fish and brackish water shrimp in Andhra Pradesh. The study is expected to provide base line information on the level of AMR in the aquaculture system and provide inputs for implementing AMR mitigation strategies. Scientist-in-charge, CIFT, R Raghu Prakash said, “People should use antibiotics only under doctor’s supervision and avoid over-the-counter purchase. There are fewer drug options available for mankind as no new class of antibiotic has been added in the last 30 years.” “Inappropriate use (overuse, misuse and non-label use) of antibiotics is the single largest driver of AMR. The emergence of multidrug resistant (MDR), extensively drug resistant (XDR) and pan-drug resistant bacteria (PDR) is a huge threat to human and animal healthcare systems,” Raghu Prakash added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/scientists-caution-against-amr-in-fisheries/articleshow/79375639.cms||Sulogna Mehta
November 24, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Bar benched, small lawyers till family land for survival||RANCHI: A large section of lawyers across the state are struggling for survival due to the Covid pandemic and thousands of them have sought aid from Jharkhand State Bar Council (JSBC) to meet the crisis. JSBC officials said while the pandemic has impacted the entire lawyer fraternity, about half of the 30,000-odd lawyers in the state have been affected very badly. Lawyers at Ranchi district court said as many as 90% of them are almost jobless. Rekha Verma, an independent lawyer at Ranchi civil court, said, “As of now, district courts are hearing only criminal and urgent matters. Since I practice on civil disputes, there has been no work for me for eight months. It has become very difficult for me to support my family under these circumstances.” Former general secretary of Ranchi District Bar Association Sanjay Vidrohi said a large section of junior lawyers were earning through miscellaneous works, like filing of affidavits, which has stopped completely. He said, “After the prolonged period of joblessness and no income, many lawyers have taken up various other jobs to support their family. Many lawyers are in acute crisis, but not expressing it in public” Another lawyer, Deepesh Nirala, said even though online court is going on, a significant section of lawyers living in semi-urban and rural areas are facing hindrances as they do not have laptops, smartphones and internet connectivity. Even though JSBC and the Advocate Welfare Fund Trustee Committee are implementing a scheme to provide financial aid to needy lawyers, they have provided support to a small group owing to financial constraints. JSBC chairman R Krishna said, “We received an amount of Rs 45 lakh from the Bar Council of India. Almost the entire amount has been distributed with each beneficiary getting Rs 1,000. A verbal demand for more money has been raised with the BCI.” In addition, around 1,100 lawyers have got aid from the Advocates Welfare Trustee Committee headed by the advocate general. Around 4200 had applied for aid under the scheme. However, monetary aid ranging from Rs 1,000 to Rs 5,000 is not enough for them to meet their requirements for months. Earlier, JSBC had asked the state government to provide financial aid of Rs 20,000 to every lawyer but the request was ignored. Under the prevailing circumstances, lawyers and associations have started making demands for restarting physical courts in order to increase their work and income.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bar-benched-small-lawyers-till-family-land-for-survival/articleshow/79376888.cms||Sanjay Sahay
November 24, 2020||Ranchi||Case against SAIL subsidiary in Dhanbad for illegal sand mining||Sindri: The Dhanbad district mining department has lodged a certificate case against Chasnala colliery of SAIL subsidiary ISP for realization of Rs 13.30 crore fine slapped on the company on charges of illegal mining of sand from the Damodar river. District mining officer (DMO) Ajeet Kumar on Monday said, “The department had slapped a fine of Rs 13,29,49,634 in August, but as the company failed to paying the penalty within the stipulated time, the department has filed a certificate case for realization of the amount.” According to reports, the DMO visited Chasnala on July 2 and found sand being mined illegally from the Damodar and being transported to the Chasnala and Jeetpur colliery through a conveyor belt even though the colliery had no permission to do so. “A show-cause notice was served to the colliery and when we found the reply was not satisfactory, we decided to impose the fine,” Kumar said. “Of the 11 sand leases in Dhanbad, only two are operational at the moment. We are awaiting environmental clearance for making at least four more sand leases operational soon. If collieries need sand, they should buy it from the leased areas or from the neighbouring states. But mining sand illegally can neither be permitted nor does it suit a central public sector undertaking,” he added. Meanwhile, Praveer Kumar Ojha, joint general secretary of INTUC-affiliated Colliery Karamchari Sangh, in a letter to chief vigilance officer of SAIL has demanded a high level probe into the alleged irregularities in procuring sand and stern action against the guilty officials. The mining department action has exposed the ongoing loot in the name of procuring sand and making payment to the contractors through forged papers, he said adding that it was a blot on the image of a Maharatna company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/case-against-sail-subsidiary-in-dhanbad-for-illegal-sand-mining/articleshow/79376722.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 24, 2020||Ranchi||Rebound hopes recede over 2nd wave fears||Ranchi: With several states re-imposing curbs while others exploring the possibility for a restricted lockdown in view of second wave of Covid-19, business and hospitality sector in Jharkhand are again on the tenterhooks fearing a slump in the days ahead. After cases began dipping in the state, Jharkhand began reopening major sectors from September to reboot the economy. The latest to resume was interstate transport from November 8, a week before Diwali. However, after Chhath Puja last week, where devotees congregated in large numbers across riverbanks and ghats, the state health department has issued an alert to all districts to step up vigilance foreseeing a possible second wave of the pandemic in Jharkhand. As per the bulletin, state’s has 2289 active cases currently, but the number is expected to soar as the state machinery has initiated mass testing and tracing drive across districts. The business community in the state is keeping its fingers crossed. Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI)’s secretary Dheeraj Taneja said, “We are on the edge, unsure about how things will pan out in Jharkhand. Going by the current national trend of new Covid cases, mainly in big cities, the trade sector is tense about the situation.” He added that after unlocking, economy and trade activities are yet to return on track. “While some sectors such as automobile, electronics, IT, computer, phones and peripherals are doing roaring business, tourism, hospitality, printing and an array of other segments are bleeding,” he said. The onset of winter is also an occasion when tourism is at its peak in Jharkhand with many ancillaries associated with it depending on this segment for their annual trade and livelihood. While there are no curbs on interstate travel at the moment, but the hospitality sector said inbound tourists are shying away from visiting this year. Ranjeet Rajpal, chairman of FJCCI’s hotels and banquet sub-committee, said, “Tourism industry this year is staring at a lull as few tourists are coming to Jharkhand. Whatever little tourism is happening is only intra-state, which means lodging at hotels is not happening much.” Sudhir Mishra, general manager of BNR Chanakya, a prominent hotel in the city, agreed. “Hotel accommodations are still to hit pre-Covid level, but restaurant business has improved significantly as people are ready to eat out provided they are sure of their safety. We are mostly getting repeat customers in our restaurants,” he said The month-long marriage season will begin on November 24 and the hospitality sector is pinning hope for survival on the coming four weeks. “The one month wedding season is the only ray of hope for us to do some business to sustain operations for a couple of months,” Mishra said. According to Taneja, even if Jharkhand manages to stay clear of any curbs, trade and commerce will take a severe beating with reintroduction of restriction in big cities. “Lockdown or night curfews in places like Delhi, Maharashtra, Bengal will hamper movements of goods and people, affecting trade in Jharkhand too as they are big business centres,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rebound-hopes-recede-over-2nd-wave-fears/articleshow/79376806.cms||ASRP Mukesh
November 24, 2020||Vijayawada||Guntur: Man live streams sex video with wife, held||VIJAYAWADA: Police on Monday arrested a 32-year-old man in Guntur town for allegedly live-streaming a sexually explicit video of him and his wife over video call. Speaking to the media, Guntur urban SP RM Ammi Reddy said that the police received a complaint from the wife who said that the accused had harassed her into shooting a video of her in a state of undress. Police said that the accused had recently lost his job at a Hyderabad-based cargo flight company and was doing this to earn a quick buck. Police added that the accused live-streamed the sexually explicit content using a video calling application. A 35-year-old man, B Siva Kumar, has been arrested for paying Rs 300 to watch the video. Police further said that two months after the incident, the woman went to stay at her mother’s place in August. Eventually, she lodged a complaint with the Disha police station. The woman’s family has further alleged that her husband used to force her to have sexual relations with a friend. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/man-live-streams-sex-video-with-wife-held/articleshow/79375721.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Amaravati||Amaravati: CBI inspects quarries as part of probe into limestone scam||AMARAVATI: A Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) team inspected mining quarries in Gurazala as part of the investigation into excavation of Rs 800 crore worth limestone without permission during the TDP government’s tenure. The CBI team questioned several locals and agents of prime suspects. CBI has so far booked 17 people in the case. Sources said CBI has satellite images of the quarries to verify the quantum of exploitation. Officials from revenue, mines and geology accompanied the CBI team during the inspection. The team is planning to record the statements of the licenses of the region and local limestone processing mills to connect the evidence. CBI is also looking into the money trail from bank accounts of the accused to the prime suspect. Sources said several fake invoices were created to show the entire quantum of limestone was sold to local mills while the stock was allegedly transported outside the state. Last week CBI said it had carried out searches in 25 places including at the residence of former MLA Yarapathineni Srinivasa Rao and his close associates in Guntur, Gurazala and Hyderabad. The agency said it recovered several incriminating documents, mobile phones, material objects and cash during the searches. CBI is now looking for more scientific evidence to tighten the charges against the accused. The accused allegedly carried out illegal and unauthorised mining, quarrying and transportation of limestone in Konanki village of Piduguralla mandal, Kesanupalli and Nadikudi villages of Dachepalli mandal of Guntur district for several years and caused massive revenue loss to the exchequer. A local mining licencee, who was allegedly tortured by the former legislator’s followers to give up his licence, had brought the illegal activities to the light when he filed a petition in the high court. Then MLC and YSRC leader TGV Krishna Reddy extended his support to the complainant and fought against the illegal miners by providing evidence before the court. Taking serious note of the fraudulent practices resorted to by the accused to exploit natural resources, the high court had issued notices to CBI and almost decided to handover the case to the agency. Promising a fair probe, the then TDP government ordered a CID investigation into the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/cbi-inspects-quarries-as-part-of-probe-into-limestone-scam/articleshow/79375737.cms||Samdani MN
November 24, 2020||Vijayawada||Online Spandana launched in Prakasam||ONGOLE: Prakasam district SP Siddarth Kaushal launched online Spandana through video-link on Monday. The new facility helped people interact with the SP via video-link from their local police station and submit grievances. While avoiding to go into civil disputes, the SP asked field officials to take appropriate action in criminal cases. Prakasam is the first district in the country to have dedicated internet and video-link with all police stations from the command control room located in the SP office. The SP resumed the district-level Spandana, which was suspended about eight months ago, on Monday. “We have launched online Spandana to allow people submit grievances through video-conferencing facility. People can go to any police station, CI or DSP office without coming to district HQs and take part in the online Spandana,” said the SP. He said that complainants received through online would be treated as if they were given at the off-line Spandana in Ongole and required legal action would be taken. The SP said that differently abled and elderly persons should make use of the opportunity by calling on 9121104792/9121102266/9121102123 or through mail to siitct@gmail.com to post their grievances. Every petitioner had been given a timeslot prior to the commencement of the video-conference and they were allowed to interact with the SP during the specific duration to avoid inconvenience to the others. Online Spandana programme would be held every Monday from 02:30 pm to 4 pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/online-spandana-launched-in-prakasam/articleshow/79375754.cms||Samdani MN
November 24, 2020||Vijayawada||17-year-old intermediate student kills self in Vijayawada||VIJAYAWADA: Unable to cope with online classes, an intermediate second year student committed suicide by consuming pesticide at his residence in Ibrahimpatnam area of the city. The incident happened on Friday but came to light on Sunday night after he breathed his last while receiving treatment at Guntur government general hospital. Ibrahimpatnam police said the deceased, identified as Nadakuditi Dinesh (17), was an MPC student in a private college in Gollapudi. Dinesh was reportedly depressed after his friends teased him over his poor performance in academics. However, his family members said Dinesh was a good student, but somehow could not perform well as he couldn’t cope with online classes. Cops said Dinesh may have taken the extreme step after feeling humiliated by his friends’ comments. A case under section 174 of CrPC (unnatural death) was registered in this regard at Ibrahimpatnam police station. Further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/17-year-old-inter-student-kills-self/articleshow/79375745.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Vijayawada||Anantapur MP’s followers stop minister’s convoy||TIRUPATI: Municipal administration minister Botcha Satyanarayana’s convoy was obstructed for a brief while by followers of Anantapur MP Talari Rangaiah near Kalyandurg in Anantapur district on Monday. The incident happened following a tussle between followers of Kalyandurg MLA K V Ushashri Charan and Rangaiah over erection of flexies on Sunday night. Rangaiah’s supporters, who were enraged after his flexies were removed by the MLA’s followers, tried to obstruct Botcha’s convoy before police intervened and cleared the road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/mps-followers-stop-mins-convoy/articleshow/79375778.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Vijayawada||Foundation stone for RUB laid||TIRUPATI: Tirupati MLA Bhumana Karunakar Reddy laid the foundation stone for a road underbridge at Rayalacheruvu railway crossing in the city on Monday. The Rayalacheruvu railway gate located close to Tirupati railway station has been a major traffic bottleneck for several decades now. Rs 15.3 crore would be spent on the RUB, out of which Rs 7.5 crore will be contributed by railways, while the remaining Rs 7.8 would be borne by the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/foundation-stone-for-rub-laid/articleshow/79375807.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Harsha Kumar rejoins Congress||RAJAHMUNDRY: Senior Dalit leader and two-time MP GV Harsha Kumar rejoined the Congress in the presence of AP Congress in-charge Oommen Chandy in Rajahmundry on Monday. Speaking on the occasion, Oommen Chandy said that Harsha Kumar has very good track record in politics and fought has for the Dalit cause on many occasions. APPCC president Sake Sailajanath hailed the return of Harsha Kumar into the Congress fold.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/harsha-kumar-rejoins-congress/articleshow/79375823.cms||Samson Raj
November 24, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Special trains to clear holiday rush||VISAKHAPATNAM: Railways will operate additional special trains to clear rush of passengers in view of the holiday season. The special trains include 02643/02644 Ernakulam-Patna- Ernakulam bi-weekly, 02659/02660 Nagercoil-Shalimar- Nagercoil weekly, and 02641/02642 Trivandrum-Shalimar- Trivandrum bi-weekly. The trains, which will have AC-2, AC-3, sleeper and general second class coaches, will run till further notice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/special-trains-to-clear-holiday-rush/articleshow/79375829.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Visakhapatnam||2,000 candidates register for job fair in Vizag||VISAKHAPATNAM: A mega job mela was held at Avanthi Institute of Engineering and Technology on Monday. The job fair was organised in association with Andhra Pradesh State Skill Development Organisation (APSSDO). Tourism minister M Srinivasa Rao, who graced the inaugural session, said placements were provided to about 820 candidates in the previous job fair. Over 20 companies participated in the job mela, while 2,000 candidates registered their names for the interviews.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/2000-candidates-register-for-job-fair/articleshow/79375839.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Delhi||Objectionable content: Delhi HC says need to find permanent solution||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court on Monday said a victim of objectionable online content cannot be expected to keep on looking for fresh links and make complaints each time and a permanent solution has to be found to this problem. The observation by Justice Navin Chawla came during hearing of a man's plea claiming that his deceased wife's photograph was being wrongly depicted on social media platforms as the Hathras rape victim. The counsel appearing for the man told the court that while the earlier links sent by him to the ministry of electronics and information technology (MEITY) have been removed/blocked, he recently found 80 more fresh links. The lawyer said his client cannot be expected to keep looking for links forever and then make complaints each time to the ministry and the social media platforms, like Facebook, Google and Twitter, ought to monitor and remove such content or links themselves. Facebook, represented by senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, told the court that it cannot monitor and remove content or links on its own. He said that Facebook needs an order from MEITY, the courts or investigating agencies like police to remove or block such content. Rohatgi, however, agreed with the court that a victim cannot be expected to keep monitoring for the objectionable content.PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/objectionable-content-delhi-hc-says-need-to-find-permanent-solution/articleshow/79379656.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Delhi||Felling of trees for south Delhi colony: HC seeks govts' reply||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court on Monday sought the response of the Aam Aadmi Party government and the central government on a public interest litigation challenging an order by the state's forest department permitting felling and transplantation of around 315 trees for redevelopment of a south Delhi colony. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan issued notice to the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change , Delhi government's deputy conservator of forests and the National Buildings Construction Corporation (NBCC) seeking their stand on the plea against felling of trees for redevelopment of Ayur Vigyan Nagar on August Kranti Marg in south Delhi. The petitioner, Abhishek Dutt - a councillor of South Delhi Municipal Corporation, sought setting aside of the forest department's September 14 order and contended that the decision had been taken "without any application of mind" and no reasons were given for approving the project. Dutt urged the high court bench to stay the felling and transplantation of trees till the next date of hearing, on December 11, but the court declined to pass an order without listening to the stand of authorities. The petitioner claimed that the process of transplanting trees is not effective or successful, especially in India and planting of saplings would not be sufficient to compensate the loss of green cover. "Planting 10 saplings for each tree that is felled is not enough considering the large size, ecological impact of larger trees and poor survival rate of saplings," the plea stated. The petitioner submitted that the forest department order allowed large-scale destruction of vegetation and tree cover in the capital for the purposes of government redevelopment, wholly ignoring the issue of air pollution and environmental concerns that affect the health of the citizens of the city. "Planting of saplings in a different location would be absolutely no substitute for the trees that are being cut. The record of tree authority, recent news articles and CAG report all point to the utter failure of the respondents in ensuring that compensatory plantation in its present form is not adequate and a mere excuse to damage the green cover of the National Capital Region to make way for concrete jungles," the plea claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/felling-of-trees-for-south-delhi-colony-hc-seeks-govts-reply/articleshow/79379672.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Mumbai||Merge Pakistan, Bangladesh in Akhand Bharat: MVA’s swipe at BJP||MUMBAI: A week ago, when a Shiv Sena activist tried to intimidate the owner of city-based Karachi Sweets to dispense with ‘Karachi’, he may not have realised the row would give state politicians an opportunity to re-imagine India’s boundaries. Former CM Fadnavis had said, “BJP is in favour of Akhand Bharat. The day is not far when Karachi will be part of India.” Taking a dig at him, Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Raut said BJP must regain PoK first, while NCP’s minister Nawab Malik took it further, saying if Germany could become one, “BJP should not find it tough to merge Pakistan and Bangladesh in Akhand Bharat”. Regain PoK, it will be a real achievement for BJP: RautShiv Sena’s Sanjay Raut and NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik were the other stalwarts who weighed in on the idea of an enlarged India with Karachi on its map. Raut reacted to Fadnavis’s statement with even more bombast, saying former the CM should first think of regaining areas under Pak-occupied Kashmir first. “In my opinion, before thinking of Karachi, he must first concentrate on bringing back PoK, only then will it be a real achievement for the BJP,’’ Raut said. Skill development minister Nawab Malik was the next to wade in. He said there was no reason to stop at PoK either; the BJP should make efforts for the merger of India, Pakistan and Bangladesh as well. “Only then will it realise an Akhand Bharat. The BJP should take a lead in that direction in the interest of the country,” he said. Malik said if the Berlin Wall can be razed for the merger of East and West Germany, it should not be difficult for the BJP to merge all these countries to achieve its goal of Akhand Bharat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/merge-pakistan-bangladesh-in-akhand-bharat-mvas-swipe-at-bjp/articleshow/79379667.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
November 24, 2020||Goa||Goa police bring help to fingertips of women suffering from violence||PANAJI: Goa police on Monday launched a Whatsapp helpline number aimed at providing a 24-hour facility for women affected by violence. Now any women in distress or anyone wanting to inform the police about any crimes against women can send a WhatApp message to 7875756177. The helpline number will facilitate immediate response and intervention of the police. Speaking at the launch of the facility, chief minister Pramod Sawant said the state government has set itself a zero percent target for crimes against women. Further, he encouraged every woman owning a smartphone, including visitors to the state, to save the number. “We want to bring the crime against women in the state down to zero. We will not tolerate any types of crimes against women and Goa police is working in this direction. I appreciate their work,” he said Sawant also said that adequate publicity should be given for the new helpline number. “Sometime helpline numbers do not reach the target audience. People need to to know this number. It should also be published in schools, colleges and anganwadi as well as at the airport, railway stations and bus stands,” he said Complimenting the police for efficient crime detection, he said that in the last two months, the police have been able to crack some cases in a span of just 24 hours. “Over the past couple of months, the crime detection rate is the highest in the state,” he said. Further, he said that in a first, the police have successfully seized and confiscated drugs worth Rs 3 crore in the state. He said that with regular instances of drug busts, the general perception is that the drug trade in the state has grown. “There is no increase in the drug trade, but there have been more seizures,” he said. Sawant also took the opportunity to assure the police of the construction of a new police headquarters. Meanwhile, Goa Shipyard Limited handed over a fully-equipped ambulance to the police. Minister for state of defence Shripad Naik said that public sector units in the defence sector will donate more to the states in the future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-police-bring-help-to-fingertips-of-women-suffering-from-violence/articleshow/79377459.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Goa||Narcotics worth over Rs 6L seized from 3 locations||Panaji/Poinguinim: For the past couple of days, police have been tracking drug peddlers in the state and have made four arrests. The anti-narcotic cell (ANC) of Goa police conducted a search at a flat in Santa Cruz on Sunday and arrested two people in the age group of 20 to 23. Police said that they had information that the two youths were involved in the drug trade. Police said that the duo had 625gm ganja and a perforated sheet containing 20 squares suspected to be LSD weighing about 0.2gm worth around Rs 1.6 lakh. In another case, ANC, acting on specific information, conducted a search near the parking lot of St Diogo’s Church, Guirim, on Monday and caught one native of Bihar, Mitlesh Das, 21, for being in possession of 1.1kg ganja worth Rs 1.1 lakh. Police said that the accused had come to deliver the drugs to a customer. Police said that the accused works as an electrician and further investigations are on. In the wee hours of Monday, a Canacona police station team, led by inspector Pravin Gawas, conducted a search at Ourem, in Palolem, and arrested a native of Tamil Nadu, Kallicharan, 35. Police recovered 3.6kg ganja worth over Rs 3.5 lakh. The accused had come to the location to strike a deal, police said adding that he was staying at a hotel at Patnem-Colomb. Director general of police (DGP) Mukesh Kumar Meena on Saturday said that Goa police want a drug-free state as narcotics tarnish the state’s image. Asked why the police force does not reach the source of the drugs, Meena said that instructions in this respect have been given to the force, and in some cases, they have done it. “Our emphasis is on tracing the sources,” the DGP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/narcotics-worth-over-rs-6l-seized-from-3-locations/articleshow/79377496.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Goa||Govt issues order to withdraw curbs on hiring, infra works||Panaji: The state government on Monday issued an office memorandum to pave the way for departments to start recruitment process and infrastructure works from December 1. “Due to lifting of lockdown restrictions and subsequent rise in economic activities, the expenditure restrictions imposed will stand withdrawn with effect from December 2, 2020,” under secretary finance Pranab Bhat stated in the office memorandum. Over the last two to three months, the economy has started recovering. If one takes GST collections as a barometer for economic recovery, October saw GST collections nearly match the Rs 311 crore collected a year ago. The revival of tourism, along with the periodic release of funds to meet the GST compensation gap has buoyed the state’s coffers. “Following the finance department’s review, it was decided to speed up work. We have asked the departments to take up new projects from December 1,” chief minister Pramod Sawant had told reporters on November 19, while also announcing that defreeze on government recruitment. Sawant had said that the process to recruit over 10,000 people — one of the largest recruitment drive — will begin from December 1. An office memorandum issued by then finance secretary Daulat Hawaldar, in March, had stated, “defer recruitment in all the government departments, autonomous bodies/state PSUs/local bodies receiving grants from the state up to December 2020”. The memorandum had stated that the government will stop granting expenditure approvals for infrastructure projects till December even if the project has received administrative approval. This had a bearing on projects initiated by government departments, as well as corporations, state undertakings and panchayats and municipalities, except projects partly or wholly funded by Centre or deposit works.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-issues-order-to-withdraw-curbs-on-hiring-infra-works/articleshow/79377650.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Goa||Goa to provide aid devices to disabled: CM Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: The state government will provide necessary aids and assistive devices to the disabled, chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Monday. There are around 11,500 disabled people in the state Sawant told reporters that 15 camps will be organised across the state to identify the requirements of the disabled. Further, they will be given unique disability cards and within three months, necessary equipment will be provided to them by the social welfare department. Sawant said that all panchayats should make necessary arrangements to bring the disabled in their areas to the camp. He also said that a contact number will be publicized wherein people wishing to participate in the camp will be able to seek a prior appointment. Sawant also said that the state government has decided to act against those heads of departments not maintaining an office roster.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-to-provide-aid-devices-to-disabled-sawant/articleshow/79377679.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Goa||Partially burnt Cunchelim man’s body found in Mapusa||SALIGAO: The partially burnt body of Cunchelim-resident Rajesh Shetkar, 49, was found at Karaswada, Mapusa, on Monday afternoon. Mapusa police arrested two suspects — Rupesh Mahale, 32, Salim Nadaf, 24, both from Cunchelim— in the murder case within three hours. Police sources said that the duo admitted to their involvement in the crime during interrogation, police said. Previous enmity between the accused and the victim was the cause of the murder, police sources said. The Goa police control room in Panaji received information around 12.53pm on Monday about a body lying near the Sai Baba Temple in Karaswada. Mapusa police personnel shifted the body to a medical facility. The identity of the deceased established later. Different police teams were formed under SDPO Mapusa Ganjanan Prabhudesai and Mapusa PI Tushar Lotlikar. DySP North Edwin Colaco along with Lotlikar visited the spot with a sniffer dog, source said. North Goa SP Shobhit Saksena also visited the site to oversee the investigations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/partially-burnt-cunchelim-mans-body-found-in-mapusa/articleshow/79377710.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Goa||Disqualification plea: Congress moves SC for urgent hearing||PANAJI: Congress has filed an interlocutory application before the Supreme Court seeking early hearing of the writ petition related to the disqualification proceedings initiated against 10 former Congress MLAs before the speaker of the Goa Legislative Assembly. In the interlocutory, state Congress president Girish Chodankar has also complained about the delay by the Supreme Court registrar in listing the Congress party’s petition. According to Chodankar’s application, the delay in taking up the case comes despite a bench led by Chief Justice S A Bobde explicitly asking, on August 11, for the matter to be listed after two weeks. Chodankar had filed a writ petition before the apex court asking it to direct Goa Assembly speaker Rajesh Patnekar to expedite his decision on the disqualification of the Congress MLAs who had switched over to the BJP en masse in July 2019. The petition has been pending since August 2019. In an application filed on November 20, Chodankar said that his petition was listed 18 times in the tentative cause-list, but never made it to the final listing of cases. “Why is the Supreme Court not hearing the matter moved by Congress president Girish Chodankar,” said Goa desk in-charge Dinesh Gundu Rao. “Why is the registry unnecessarily delaying? Is it wilfully done?” Chodankar’s advocate-on-record Sahil Tagotra produced documents to show that he reached out on multiple occasions to registry officials seeking listing of the case. The application noted that the matter was reflected in the tentative list for hearing once in August, five times in September, seven times in October and on four times in November. It was supposed to be taken up on Monday but was dropped from the final list just two days earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/disqualification-plea-cong-moves-sc-for-urgent-hearing/articleshow/79377719.cms||---
November 24, 2020||India||Just PR won’t help, Rahul says on reports of China build-up||NEW DELHI: Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Monday took a dig at the Modi government over reports about Chinese build-up near the Doklam faceoff site and said tackling the neighbour required more than headline management. Tagging a news report about growing Chinese military presence and infrastructure in Doklam, the MP from Wayanand,Kerala, tweeted, “China’s geopolitical strategy cannot be countered by a PR-driven media strategy. This simple fact seems to elude the minds of those running GOI (Government of India).” Congress spokesman Pawan Khera accused the BJP government of sacrificing the strategic interests of the country by making bad policies with no clarity on who is in charge of foreign policy. He said the country is paying for BJP’s constant desire to link critical strategic issues to domestic politics and the Prime Minister’s “constant need” for applause at home “to build his muscular image”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/just-pr-wont-help-rahul-says-on-reports-of-china-build-up/articleshow/79379717.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Bengaluru||No reopening of schools, PU colleges in Karnataka till December end||BENGALURU: Schools and Pre-University colleges in Karnataka will not reopen before December end, following a meeting on Monday chaired by CM BS Yediyurappa. The meeting discussed starting classes for students facing the board exams in classes 10 and 12 and decided to adhere to the health & family welfare department’s recommendation not to reopen educational institutions. “Education and health experts opined that we shouldn’t start any classes in schools or PU colleges till December end, and a decision should be taken after that. In the few degree and engineering colleges that resumed classes, the attendance is under 5%. We’ll meet again in third or fourth week of December and take a decision according to the situation,” said Yediyurappa. On Sunday, the technical advisory committee for Covid-19 decided to recommend to the Karnataka government not to reopen schools in December. The meeting was attended by 13 health experts and the spike in cases in states like Delhi, Haryana, Gujarat and Rajasthan was discussed. Besides, cold weather in December and January are conducive for the spread of respiratory infections, including Covid-19. Min: Govt has no plans to revive Vidyagama for nowThe epidemiological perspective based on the survey in September is that there may be a spike in cases in the districts with low prevalence, observed the committee. “Covid-19 in the state is showing a declining trend with around 1,700 cases and 20 deaths being reported daily. It’s important to consolidate this gain... In this context, after extensive deliberations it was unanimously resolved not to reopen schools in December. However, the scenario of Covid-19 in the state will be reviewed in the last week of December to consider reopening at an appropriate time subsequently,” said the committee chaired by MK Sudarshan. Primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar said: “There are social issues of child labour and child marriage and have to be tackled. But health is more important. We decided to go by the health department’s recommendations. Even though cases are few in places like Yadgir, the committee said there’s a fear of spread and fluctuation. Learning will continue through Samveda (TV classes), You-Tube and WhatsApp programmes.” The government has no plans now to revive continuous education of Vidyagama. Primary classesWhile the meeting was about higher classes, the minister said there’s no plan to reopen schools for classes 1-8 immediately. SR Umashankar, principal secretary, primary and secondary education department, said: “The education department had not even considered reopening schools till Class 8 in December. We were thinking about Classes 8 and above and now, it doesn’t look possible until January. Reopening schools for children in Classes1to 7 will be delayed even after January.” Asked if this will be called a zero year, the minister said there’s no such concept. “Until last year, there were no exams till Class 9. But it didn’t mean they were zero years. There was teaching and learning happening then, and it’s happening now through various modes. This year cannot be called a non-learning year as no student is deprived of learning opportunity.” Schools have been allowed to collect first instalment fees. While managements have requested for permission for secondterm fee, SR Umashankar, principal secretary, said, "Though schools are in trouble as they couldn’t collect fees not just for this year but also of last year, parents are also in trouble. Some aren’t paying even though they can afford it. It's a difficult situation for everybody.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/no-reopening-of-schools-pu-colleges-in-karnataka-till-december-end/articleshow/79379670.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Goa||Child found dead in pool at Benaulim||COLVA: A 4-year-old boy died on Monday after allegedly drowning in a swimming pool of a resort cum residential complex in Benaulim. Police stated the child’s mother, a resident of Calconda, Margao, had come to Benaulim for a stay at the complex with her relatives. She had left her son and husband behind at home, police said. After the child was repeatedly asking for his mother, the husband brought him to the complex at Benaulim. Police said that despite the mother’s refusal to heed to her son’s demands to enter the pool, the child somehow managed to slip out of the room and ventured into the pool. He was later noticed in the pool by some other residents who raised an alarm. The child was rushed to Hospicio, Margao where he was declared dead on arrival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/child-found-dead-in-pool-at-benaulim/articleshow/79377786.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Goa||Siolim locals stir over lack of water supply||SALIGAO: Residents of Guddem in Siolim, on Monday led a protest march to the Public Works department (PWD) water supply sub-division office at Mapusa, complaining of lack of proper water supply for the last 15 days in their area. The Siolim residents directed their anger at junior engineer Shanti Parab stating that she had failed to ensure sufficient supply of water to Guddem for the last one year. “Only on festival days we have proper water supply. Otherwise we have to suffer every day. We suspect this is due to our water being diverted to other areas. It has caused a lot of suffering to residents of our area,” said president of a voluntary organisation Samarthan Sanghatana, Nilesh Vernekar. A memorandum was also submitted to the assistant engineer of the water supply sub-division in Mapusa calling for strict action against those responsible, demanding that regular water supply be restored to residents of Guddem. They also told the assistant engineer they were receiving hefty water bills despite the poor supply which they said is insufficient to meet their household requirements. The assistant engineer assured the locals that the water supply issue would be solved at the earliest. The residents also demanded separate operators for Marna-Siolim and Oxel water tanks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/siolim-locals-stir-over-lack-of-water-supply/articleshow/79377791.cms||---
November 24, 2020||India||In message to dissidents, Cong says seniors should adhere to ‘basic modicum of discipline’||NEW DELHI: Amid persistent criticism by senior leaders about the drift in the party, with leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad renewing the debate, Congress on Monday said seniors should desist from airing private views in public and observe discipline which is a must for any organisation to work coherently. Facing a barrage of questions about Azad’s comments about the prevalence of a five-star culture in the party and the Gandhi family lacking genuine feedback, AICC spokesman Pawan Khera said, “Discipline is an important ingredient in any party or institution’s functioning. There has to be a basic modicum of discipline.” With G23 members Azad and former minister Kapil Sibal persisting with their criticism even after three panels were announced that sought to accommodate some of the dissenters, Congress avoided getting into specifics of comments like Azad's “clean chit for now” to the Gandhis, which meant a temporary, and somewhat condescending absolving of the “first family” from the responsibility for poor performance, or his demand for internal elections to every post. “I have not seen the interview,” Khera said. Congress leader and Haryana MLA Kuldeep Bishnoi accused Azad of hatching a conspiracy to split the party at the behest of BJP. He said Azad had no credibility in asking for elections to party posts, saying he has grown politically by being nominated to every post starting with as J&K Youth Congress president. “What is your history? In entire life, you have won only three polls. Are you giving advice to the Congress Party. Are you talking against the Gandhi family which nominated you to the Rajya Sabha on five occasions,” Bishnoi said. However, the party appeared embarrassed as also peeved by the strong jibes from the senior leader who has held several organisational posts and been a minister in Congress governments, as Khera let out some sarcasm in his plea for discipline. “These are senior leaders who are nominated members to the CWC and have enjoyed nominated positions in the party and the government. We have learnt good lessons about discipline from them,” he said. The underlining of “nominated” positions is loaded as the dissidents like Azad have flagged “nomination” of office-bearers as the reason behind the weakening of the party and demanded that elections be held to all posts. At the same time, AICC said that these leaders should also give their views about elections to the Youth Congress. It appeared an attempt to flag contradiction in the demand of “G-23” as Rahul Gandhi’s experiment of internal polls in Youth Congress and NSUI has been criticised by them. Khera said he had not encountered any five-star culture in the agitations that Congress held recently to “secure justice for the Hathras Dalit family or for farmers against draconian laws”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-message-to-dissidents-cong-says-seniors-should-adhere-to-basic-modicum-of-discipline/articleshow/79379736.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Goa||After facing flak, PWD starts building laterite wall at Dumanem culvert||POINGUINIM: Following widespread criticism on social media, PWD started constructing a retaining wall with laterite stones on either side of a culvert in Dumanem, in Canacona. The culvert, located after a sharp curve in the road, makes it a dangerous spot for commuters. At least 13 accidents have been reported at the spot in the recent past, but the PWD had only erected a bamboo fence. This drew ridicule on social media platforms. After the criticism, Canacona MLA Isidore Fernandes said that land acquisition was in progress to construct a new culvert across the rivulet at Dumanem.  The foundation stone for road widening work was laid here six months ago, but the work did not start. According to police sources, during the last 10 to 12 years, 13 accidents have occurred on this stretch with four fatalities. Some vehicles have directly landed in the rivulet which is about two to three metres deep. Assistant engineer of PWD (internal roads) Muraleedhar Aribhenchi said that the proposal for the road-widening work and construction of a new culvert at an estimated cost of Rs 65 lakh is in the process of being approved. He said that the land acquisition process is facing hurdles from one land owner in the area. New retaining walls for protection are being constructed as a safety measure for commuters, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-facing-flak-pwd-starts-building-laterite-wall-at-dumanem-culvert/articleshow/79377812.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Business||ED summons original complainant in TRP scam||MUMBAI : The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has summoned Hansa Research Group’s deputy general manager, Nitin Deokar, for his statement in the money laundering case registered in the Television Rating Points (TRP) manipulation scam. Deokar is the original complainant in the case with the Mumbai police. He has accused a former employee of his company, Vishal Bhandari, of manipulating TRP. The ED case is based on the Mumbai police FIR. Sources said that after recording Deokar’s statement, the agency will summon other senior executives of his company. ED will examine their statements along with the collected details before summoning others in the case. An official said, “The investigation will be mostly about suspicious financial transactions that took place between the suspects.” ED will collect and examine the financial transactions of the suspects in the case along with the companies they are associated with. It had collected the FIR copy from Mumbai police recently before registering the money laundering case or ECIR (Enforcement Case Information Report) last week. The agency has requested Mumbai police to provide other case-related documents. At present, ED has named only Bhandari in the money laundering case. In the Mumbai police FIR, it was alleged that Bhandari had offered money to households where BARC barometers were installed for watching specific channels. Broadcasting Audience Research Council (BARC) has given contract to the Hansa group for installing barometers on selected households.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ed-summons-original-complainant-in-trp-scam/articleshow/79379596.cms||Vijay V Singh
November 24, 2020||Mumbai||Lieutenant Kanika Rane fulfils martyred husband’s dream||MUMBAI: “I had never run even 100 metres before coming here and now I’m running 40 km,” said Lieutenant Kanika Rane on being commissioned into the Indian Army on Saturday. Over two years after her husband Major Kaustubh, a Mira Road resident, was martyred in an encounter with terrorists in Kashmir, his wife Kanika, got the Army stars on her shoulders. Kanika (30) was among the 230 cadets—181 men and 49 women—who were commissioned at the Officers Training Academy (OTA), Chennai. In a video released after the commissioning ceremony, Kanika said while her husband always wanted her to pursue her dreams, she is here to fulfil the dreams he has left behind. “I know that had our places been switched, he would have done the same,” said Kanika, who lives in Colaba with her four-year-old son Agastya. Kanika had cleared the Service Selection Board (SSB) exam last year in the first attempt under the ‘widows of defence personnel who died in harness’ category. The Mira Bhayander Municipal Corporation (MBMC) had offered her a job, but she was keen to keep her husband’s dream alive. After completing 49 weeks of a gruelling training regimen, Kanika says the physical endurance required comes only from motivation, determination and resilience. While the Covid-19 pandemic prevented her parents and in-laws from attending the ceremony, they watched it live from their homes. “It was a recap of Kaustubh’s ceremony in 2011. We had seen his excitement on becoming a Lieutenant and found the same excitement in Kanika’s voice,” said her mother-inlaw Jyoti, who is waiting to see her in uniform. Proud of her daughter-inlaw’s achievement, Jyoti said she had proved how determined she was by clearing the exam less than a year after the tragedy struck them. Kanika’s brother had relocated to Mumbai to help her pursue her dream of joining the Army, said Jyoti. In January, Kanika had collected the gallantry medal for her husband during the Investiture Ceremony at Udhampur, Jammu& Kashmir. In March, 33-year-old Virar resident Lieutenant Gauri Mahadik donned the uniform as a tribute to her husband Major Prasad, who was killed in a fire in Tawang near the China border in December 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/lieutenant-kanika-rane-fulfils-martyred-husbands-dream/articleshow/79379739.cms||Sandhya Nair
November 24, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Woman dies as toilet wall crashes in Kurla||MUMBAI: A 55-year-old woman died after the wall of a public toilet block collapsed when she was inside at Kurla (W) early on Monday. Droupadi Rawle, from Navpada slum, was trapped under the debris and firemen removed her after an hour. Firemen took her to civicrun Rajawadi Hospital, where she was declared dead on arrival. MLA Dilip Lande said there is a proposal to construct a new toilet there. “Workers had demolished half of the structure used by men but left the remaining part following objections from residents. BMC should have barricaded the area. I did not find any board warning residents not to use the toilet, although BMC claimed it put up a board,” he said. The partition between men-women sections was imbalanced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-woman-dies-as-toilet-wall-crashes-in-kurla/articleshow/79379750.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Thane||Thane MNS party worker shot dead by two on bike||THANE: A Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) officebearer from here was allegedly shot dead by two bike-borne assailants in the bustling Rabodi market on Monday afternoon. Police said the motive was being investigated but party colleagues of Jameel Shaikh (49) alleged it was a fallout of political rivalry, as he had apparently opposed some work in the area, including cluster redevelopment. Video: A Maharashtra Navnirman Sena officebearer from Thane was allegedly shot dead by two bike-borne assailants in… https://t.co/NH2wS47nMZ— TOI Mumbai (@TOIMumbai) 1606188540000Additional commissioner of police (crime) Sanjay Yenpure said around 2pm Shaikh was on his way to office on his two-wheeler when two men trailed him. A CCTV grab shows the rider wearing a helmet while his pillion is seen firing a shot at close range in his head from behind, following which the victim collapsed. A relative rushed to his help and he was taken to a private hospital, where he was declared dead on arrival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/thane-mns-party-worker-shot-dead-by-two-on-bike/articleshow/79379760.cms||Shrutika Sukhi
November 24, 2020||Visakhapatnam||BPO, IT sectors in Vizag generate 10,000 jobs despite lockdown woes||VISAKHAPATNAM: Despite the odds placed by the pandemic and the nationwide lockdown, business process outsourcing (BPO) and information technology (IT) sectors in Visakhapatnam managed to generate around 10,000 direct employments from January to October 2020. A major proportion of these fresh graduates were recruited during the peak lockdown period between March and July. “Even with the pandemic and the resulting lockdown and economic slowdown, around 10,000 direct employments have been created at the IT and BPO industries in Visakhapatnam. We want to complete the year by creating 15,000 employments in all,” MP Dubey, in-charge of Vizag Software Technology Parks in India (STPI) and state nodal officer for India BPO Promotion Scheme (IBPS), told TOI. The IBPS was launched by the Union government to incentivise the BPO and IT/IN-enabled services (ITeS) sector in the country and to establish over 48,000 seats that would generate employment. Seats were distributed among states in proportion to their population. Around 15,000 seats had been allocated to Andhra Pradesh, of which 9,233 seats are allotted to the Port City and another 3,000 to neighbouring Vizianagaram city. “Altogether these 13,000-odd seats would generate 45,000 direct employments in the next three years. We are happy that despite the pandemic we are very close to reaching the target for first year. The scheme was also supposed to generate around 1,50,000 indirect or outsourced employment. However, we are not in a position to calculate the indirect employments it has created till now. An agency had been appointed to find out the figures,” added Dubey. Managements of the BPO and IT firms claimed that the pandemic and the subsequent lockdown actually acted as a blessing in disguise as it increased the scope for hiring manpower within the industry. RL Narayana, former president of IT Association of Andhra Pradesh claimed that unlike in metros such as Bengaluru or Kolkata, it is easier to connect with the government administration in a tier-II city like Visakhapatnam. The government ensured that the city’s BPO and ITeS industries ran smoothly, right from arranging daily passes for employees during the lockdown to addressing any issues that cropped up because of the pandemic. “And, we got the result immediately. There are international clients who wanted to enhance business with BPO and ITeS only if their business was being operated from Visakhapatnam. A company named Patra BPO actually shut down its operations at its Bengaluru headquarters and shifted to Visakhapatnam during the lockdown,” said Narayana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/bpo-it-sectors-generate-10k-jobs-despite-lockdown-woes/articleshow/79375594.cms||Arpit Basu
November 24, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag civic body to complete waste-to-energy plant by December||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) is planning to complete construction works on the 15 megawatt waste-to-energy plant by this December. As the Swachh Survekshan team would visit the city in January, 2021 for direct observation, the GVMC wants to achieve five-star rating under certifications category by completing the works of this plant, which is coming up in the premises of Kapuluppada dumping yard, by then. After the GVMC entered into an in-principle MoU with the Jindal Group during the Partnership Summit in January 2016, both the parties signed a concession agreement in February 2016. The GVMC will shoulder the responsibility of delivering 950 metric tonnes of waste on a daily basis for the plant. The Andhra Pradesh Eastern Power Distribution Company Limited (APEPDCL) will procure power from the plant for 25 years. The total area available at Kapuluppada site is about 110 acres. Apart from the plant area, the GVMC allotted some land for the scientific landfill. According to experts, scientific landfill is one of the best suitable options for disposal of inert residues generated from the waste to energy plant. The process of land filling involves scientific disposal of waste in an eco-friendly manner to protect the environment. GVMC additional commissioner Dr V Sanyasi Rao said that the private agency, which is developing the waste to energy plant, is asked to deliver the project by this December. “The GVMC wants to make the city find a place in the top-five cities list in the 2021 Swachh Survekshan by completing the plant and through other solid waste management initiatives,” said Dr Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vizag-civic-body-to-complete-waste-to-energy-plant-by-dec/articleshow/79375612.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
November 24, 2020||Kolkata||Enforcement Directorate notice to 3 accused in Narada case||KOLKATA: A year after it asked for a set of investment documents from Narada case accused, the Enforcement Directorate sought property and investment details from three of the accused persons — Madan Mitra, Prasun Banerjee and Firhad Hakim. The agency has been probing the money laundering aspect of the Narada sting operation, which was conducted in 2014 and aired in 2016. According to sources, ED officials sent a notice to the three early this month, seeking investment/asset details from 2013. They also asked for income tax returns since 2013. In July, the central investigating agency had sent notices to some Trinamool Congress leaders in connection with the Narada probe. It had sought their bank account and other financial details. Trinamool had then termed the move vendetta politics carried out before the 2021 West Bengal assembly polls. “I received the letter from them early this month and submitted the documents despite these being the same set of documents. Since this is an investigation by a central investigating agency, we will surely cooperate with them,” Banerjee said. Mitra’s lawyer Niladri Bhattacharya said they had received a request for a similar set of documents last September. “We will surely comply but there is nothing new we can give them,” he said. Hakim said that the ED has sought financial details of a club from him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ed-notice-to-3-accused-in-narada-case/articleshow/79378610.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Kolkata||AIMIM leader Anwar Pasha takes TMC flag||KOLKATA: Trinamool Congress on Monday handed the party flag to All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) leader Anwar Pasha, saying he was the “face and the pillar of AIMIM in Bengal since 2013”. AIMIM rebutted this, claiming Pasha, like others, was a party worker and his defection would not harm the party’s organisation in Bengal. Buoyed by Bihar poll results, AIMIM has indicated its keenness to replicate that success in the 2021 elections in Bengal. State minister Bratya Basu, addressing media along with cabinet colleague Moloy Ghatak, said: “Bengal is now at a political crossroads. It is a fight against hatred and violence. Bengal has always been a land of compassion, tolerance and inclusivity. There are some powers who are trying to drive a wedge.” “We welcome Pasha, who has been AIMIM’s face in Bengal,” Basu added. “Along with him, AIMIM party workers and supporters from various districts have also joined our party. It is on their shoulders that AIMIM wanted to expand its base in Bengal.” Reacting to the AIMIM defections, Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh said: “Perhaps they feel more comfortable with TMC and its policies in Bengal.” Pasha said: “Bihar election results made us question AIMIM’s real intentions. They had fought in 20 seats in Bihar and won 5. But the damage they caused in other seats by polarising voters was evident in the BJP win. We do not want this to happen in Bengal.” He added: “We do not believe that the Trinamool government does appeasement politics. If the government gives doles to maulanas, they also give doles to priests. Mamata Banerjee is the only leader of her stature who has protested in the streets against CAA/NRC. And we would like to caution AIMIM not to plan any misadventure in Bengal.” AIMIM’s Syed Asim Waqar said Pasha was not a senior party office-bearer; he was a party worker. “His leaving will not impact the organisation,” Waqar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/aimim-leader-takes-tmc-flag/articleshow/79378675.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Kolkata||Remembering a great battle barely 100km from Kolkata||KOLKATA: There is a memorial across the border in Bangladesh but none on the Indian side to remind people of a famous battle fought exactly 49 years ago, barely 100km from Kolkata. This was a battle involving the Infantry supported by tanks that is unlikely to ever take place again so close to the city. Yet, only a few would remember the Battle of Garibpur that was a precursor to the 1971 Indo-Pak War, leading to the liberation of Bangladesh. A movie on it is expected to be released soon. Mukti Joddhas from East Pakistan (now Bangladesh) would cross over into India for training after skirmishes with the Pakistan army. The Pakistan army would make incursions into India till troops of 14 Punjab (Nabha Akal) were entrusted to take over Garibpur. The attack was to be a surprise but a patrol of 14 Punjab had an encounter with Pakistani troops on the night of November 20, and the Pakistan army, that had a strong presence in Jessore, was well prepared by the evening of November 21. The Indian infantry battalion was supported PT-76 light tanks of the 45 Cavalry. “The Pakistani side had US-made Chaffee tanks and attacked Indian positions. The Indian light tanks were not considered a match for the far more advanced Chaffees. The Pakistani infantry was also supported by heavy artillery. There was a close-quarter battle through the night and the Pakistanis were forced to retreat by the morning of November 22. They left behind 11 destroyed Chaffee tanks and three in running condition. The Pakistanis followed this up with air strikes by Sabres till IAF Gnats brought down two of them over Bongaon and forced another one to fly back,” a senior Army officer said. Kolkata has two Chaffee tanks, their turrets pointing towards the ground to signify that they are war trophies. Officers believe they are from Garibpur. According to one of them, the Battle of Garibpur may have been fought well before the actual war was declared on December 3 but it played a very important role in affecting the morale of Pakistani troops based in Bangladesh. It is believed that Pakistan lost nearly 300 men in the battle. “Tactically, it also forced the Pakistanis to vacate Chaugacha and cleared the road to Jessore. India’s 9 Infantry Division proceeded along this road towards Jessore, which was a Pakistan army stronghold. Maybe we should have a memorial on the Indian side of the border to commemorate this great victory,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/remembering-a-great-battle-barely-100-km-from-kolkata/articleshow/79378560.cms||Jayanta Gupta
November 24, 2020||Kolkata||3rd-gen EVMs start arriving in Bengal dists||Kolkata/Midnapore: The Election Commission has started commissioning the third-generation Mark 3 or M3 EVMs from different states and these are being sent to Bengal districts for testing. The current term of the Bengal assembly ends in May 2021. An official said around 1,500 units have been sent to Kharagpur and more units are being sent to other districts. “It is tamper-proof. If anyone tries to forcefully open it, the machine will automatically get locked. The election dates are yet to be announced, but we are prepared to conduct polls within a short notice,” an EC official said. The latest batch of machines used in Bihar will be used for the first time in the Bengal assembly polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/3rd-gen-evms-start-arriving-in-bengal-dists/articleshow/79378490.cms||Saibal Gupta
November 24, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal: BJP’s outreach only for show, says Mamata Banerjee at Bankura rally||KHATRA (BANKURA): Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday took a dig at Union home minister Amit Shah’s eating lunch with an Adivasi family in Bankura’s Chaturdihi village earlier this month, saying it was only for cameras. “Bahar khana banake Dalit ke ghar me khana khaya (The minister got his food cooked from outside and ate it there). He (Shah) ate basmati rice cooked in a five-star hotel and posto bora, while women members of the family were seen cutting vegetables and coriander leaves. His having lunch there was just for show,” Banerjee said at a public rally held in Bankura’s Khatra, 18 days after Shah’s visit that attempted to give a push to BJP’s outreach in the Adivasi belt. The CM also pointed to the home minister’s statue gaffe to assert how he insulted Adivasis. “You all know how he garlanded the statue of an Adivasi hunter thinking it was of the iconic leader Birsa Munda. I have all respect for a hunter, but this is what it is. They went and vandalized the Vidyasagar statue, and offered tribute to a hunter and not Birsa Munda. They insulted Adivasis,” Banerjee said while declaring the anti-colonial leader’s birthday a state holiday. In the same breath, the CM announced 100% scholarship coverage for Adivasi students. Before the rally, Banerjee visited a Dalit family at Sardarpara in Bankura. Sitting on a chaupai, she asked family members about delivery of government services — free rations, quality of ration rice and also about the Covid situation in the village. A woman member told her they were yet to get a dwelling unit under government scheme. “We have released orders for building 10 lakh houses this year while our population is 10 crore. It will come to you in phases,” Banerjee said. The feedback prompted the CM to take the government to the doorstep. At the Khatra rally, Banerjee turned to chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay and said: “Government delivery will reach your doorstep. From December 1 to January 31, all government departments as a whole will hold camps in every block. They will release pending pension, scholarship, bicycles on the spot.” She also announced a new scheme, Kormoi Dharma, for 2 lakh rural youths engaged in rural marketing. “Youths here carry fish in boxes tied to their bicycles. Others carry potatoes, onions or even garments to the market. We will provide motorbikes to 2 lakh youths in this trade, with funds from cooperative banks,” the CM said. Banerjee took the opportunity to point out how potato and onion prices were hitting the roof due to the Centre’s “faulty policies” . “The Centre has taken away potato, onion and cooking oil from the list of essential commodities. Black marketers under the new farm law are taking away all potatoes from our state. The government in Delhi is in their favour looting Adivasis, Dalits, minorities, farmers,” she said. The CM hinted at worse if BJP took office in Bengal. “You are witnessing how prices are rising. If they come to power, they will introduce National Register of Citizens (NRC) in the state and ask for certificates of your forefathers,” she said. Banerjee then touched on the Bengali asmita chord against a party that had been “insulting” people of Bengal. “I won’t allow defaming of Bengal. There may be one or two rotten potatoes in the party, but they are not the majority. Eight of the 10 people here are good. Those who cry foul over misuse of Rs 2 here are silent about corruption to the tune of Rs 2 lakh crore elsewhere. I will form a new team to take care of the state,” the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bjps-outreach-only-for-show-says-mamata-at-bankura-rally/articleshow/79378325.cms||Falguni Banerjee
November 24, 2020||Kolkata||In a 1st, Bengal govt to train Kolkata BPOs, IT firms in global privacy laws||KOLKATA: The Bengal government, in a first-of-its-kind initiative, has roped in IT and legal experts to coach BPOs and software firms on current international privacy laws and the dos and don’ts of tele-calling and personal data-handling. The decision follows numerous cases of spamming that have brought even genuine call centres, working out of the Kolkata-Sector V-New Town belt, under the scanner of local, national and international law-enforcing agencies. Cases like these often lead to smaller firms, which do not have the resources to fight protracted legal battles, shutting down. This can prove catastrophic in the current situation, when the pandemic has resulted in an economic trough. “For Indian ITES, BPO and pharmaceutical giants, Europe has always been a potential market, which now has the most stringent privacy law in place. Non-compliance can lead to a stupendous fine, which can even force smaller companies to shut down ultimately leading to further job loss. Hence, awareness in handling data of European citizens and those of other parts of the world is the need of the hour. We will train IT heads of all small and bigger companies in the city on current privacy law compliance and the way forward,” said Bivas Chatterjee, special public prosecutor of Bengal for cyber law and e-evidence. We will train the IT heads of all small and bigger companies in the city on current privacy law compliance and the way forward,” said Bivas Chatterjee, special public prosecutor of Bengal for cyber law and e-evidence. As part of the process, the department of IT Information Technology & Electronics, Government of West Bengal, in collaboration with NASSCOM (National Association of Software and Service Companies) and CIO Klub, Kolkata Chapter, will host a webinar this Wednesday which will be attended by representatives of all major IT and ITES firms in Sector V, New Town, Salt Lake and Kolkata, an IT department official said. The primary topic of discussion, the official said, will be General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) – a set of data-protection law framed by the European Union that defines how personal data of EU citizens, including names, addresses, email addresses, location data or computer IP addresses — is protected and limits their use by companies and individuals across the world. “GDPR makes it mandatory for all companies to adhere to the guidelines related to sharing and use of such data and failure to comply with the GDPR requirements can attract administrative fines of up to 20 million Euros or 4% of global turnover of the preceding financial year, whichever is higher, depending on the nature of provisions breached,” said Chatterjee, who would be the chief speaker at the webinar. In the last two years, Kolkata has been the focus of multiple cybercrime investigating agencies in India as well as London and Germany. Call centres involved in phishing scams in India are mostly based in Jharkhand or even Noida. But the Kolkata ones specifically target overseas clients. Last year, during their visit to the city, London police had claimed over 23,000 fraud cases originating from the city were registered with them in a little over a year. “It’s a shame that because of the wrongdoings of a few, the entire industry is getting tarnished. Hence, all IT and ITES – especially SMEs now need to gear up and understand the dos and don’ts they need to comply with while handling overseas residents’ data. Failure to do the same can land them in big trouble. Hence this sensitization session is extremely important as no company is in a position to afford any more financial loss in this pandemic-hit economy,” said Nirupam Chaudhuri, regional director (eastern India), NASSCOM. Beside the EU, UK, Japan and the US too have upgraded their privacy laws. While US has state-specific laws to curtail unauthorised data breach, Japan has also formulated an act to prohibit any misuse of data for individuals and institutions without their prior consent. Senior employees of multiple small and medium IT companies that TOI spoke to admitted that they are still in the process of preparing privacy law guidelines. “We are in the process of upgrading our system as per the updated compliance levels but it is far from complete,” said a senior official of a BPO in Sector V, who will be participating in the training programme this week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/in-a-1st-state-to-train-city-bpos-it-firms-in-global-privacy-laws/articleshow/79378797.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
November 24, 2020||Kolkata||TMC talks to Suvendu Adhikari again, stalemate on||KOLKATA/HALDIA: A private meeting between rebel Trinamool leader Suvendu Adhikari and a senior Trinamool MP in Kolkata held for the second time on Monday has kept the line of communication open. TMC MP Saugata Roy gave a patient hearing to Suvendu’s grouse and told him about the party’s views even as a solution didn’t emerge from the meeting. “I will listen to Suvendu Adhikari and tell him about the party’s view,” Roy said before the talks, days after Suvendu said at a public rally at Ramnagar he is still an active member of a political party and a member of the Mamata Banerjee cabinet. Roy, while responding to a question if he was hopeful about a solution, said: “I will communicate to the party about what transpires. I am not losing hope.” Suvendu, during the first round of talks, had raised questions over the party organizational hierarchy and given his suggestions over ways to change it. According to Trinamool sources, the party didn’t yield to his suggestions on the grounds that it gave him “importance” by inducting him in the seven-member core committee. The TMC rebel, on the other hand, is going ahead with his public outreach programme and has a meeting at Khejuri and Haldia on Tuesday, three days after Yuva Trinamool held the Haldia rally on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tmc-talks-to-suvendu-again-stalemate-on/articleshow/79378640.cms||---
November 24, 2020||Guwahati||Tarun Gogoi: True people’s representative who revived economy, ended militancy||GUWAHATI: Assam’s longest serving chief minister Tarun Gogoi’s 5,487 days in office spanning over three continuous terms (2001to 2016) had many highs and few lows. But he remained a true representative of the people till his last breath. In the summer of 2001, when he was sworn in as the chief minister of the state for the first time, he had to start with empty coffers and a troubled situation due to militancy — an issue left behind by the previous Asom Gana Parishad government. The state was bankrupt, government employees were without salaries and the Reserve Bank of India had banned government transactions after overdrafts crossed the limit. Gogoi’s biggest and first achievement was that he ensured a complete turnaround of the state’s finances and laid the foundation of a robust economy on which the present government stands. While pulling up the economy, Gogoi simultaneously had to deal with a bigger hurdle — militancy. The numerous militant groups that were active in the state were the biggest factors that destabilized both peace and economy alike in Assam. Gogoi’s first success came with the signing of the Bodo peace accord in 2003 with the erstwhile Bodo Liberation Tiger that set the stage for the state to embark on road to peace. After this, the biggest breakthrough came with Ulfa, which joined the peace process in 2010. In 2013, the signing of ceasefire with Ranjan Daimary faction of NDFB took place after the NDFB-Progressive faction joined the peace process. Altogether 16 different outfits laid down arms during Gogoi’s tenure, leaving just a couple of factional groups outside the peace process, including Ulfa (I) led by Paresh Baruah. In his second term from 2006 to 2011, Gogoi set the agenda for addressing the state’s biggest problem of illegal migrants from Bangladesh. The National Register of Citizens (NRC), which is one of the most potent electoral weapon in BJP’s arsenal now, was Gogoi’s ‘baby’, as he would proudly say.  In 2010 Gogoi ordered the pilot project for updating the NRC in two places, which was suspended following violence in one of the places. On the flip side, Gogoi’s lows ironically violence in the form of terror strikes and ethnic cleansing. In 2008 came the serial blasts by NDFB that left over 100 dead and several hundreds injured, some of them maimed for life. In 2012 and 2014, ethnic cleansing in Bodo heartland shook the Gogoi administration. Politically, his biggest setback was in the 2016 assembly when Congress under his leadership slipped and paved the way for BJP to form its first government in the state.  It was more of a battle between Gogoi and once his Gujarat counterpart who was the Prime Minister then, Narendra Modi, in which the latter succeeded. But being a true representative of the people, Gogoi, on November 4, sent out a recorded audio of his voice from the ICU where he said it was his aim in life to serve the people of the state till the end and he will continue to do so in whatever way he can. He died as an MLA from Titabor assembly constituency in Jorhat, the seat he has been representing since 2001.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/guwahati/tarun-gogoi-true-peoples-representative-who-revived-economy-ended-militancy/articleshow/79392257.cms||Prabin Kalita
November 24, 2020||Kolkata||Dilip hits out at ‘5-star’ lunch jibe||Jhargram/Kolkata: Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh on Monday debunked chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s claim that Union home minister Amit Shah took “food cooked at five-star hotel” while having lunch with an Adivasi family during his Bankura visit. “You all saw Amit Shah sitting on the mud floor during lunch. I was with him. We ate rice, dal, vegetables, potato and brinjal fries that women of the village had cooked for us. Didimani says food was brought from a five-star hotel. Do you believe all this?” Ghosh said at a Jhargram gathering on Monday organized on the occasion of Jagaddhatri Puja. He also targeted Didi’s “outsider” jab at Shah and said: “Does anybody invite an outsider to his house?” “The CM has been insisting that Jangalmahal is smiling when people here are suffering. She can’t fool Jangalmahal people anymore. You have given her a rebuff in the panchayat polls and will do so in the coming assembly polls,” he said. The BJP leader then referred to the plight of rebel Trinamool leader Suvendu Adhikari. “They (Trinamool) have started pushing and shoving Suvendubabu to the BJP camp when he hasn’t said that he is joining BJP. Our party doesn’t have a dearth of leaders. But we have kept our doors open for someone willing to come,” he said. Ghosh also went soft on People’s Committee Against Police Atrocities-turned-Trinamool leader Chhatradhar Mahato. “Chhatradhar is the son of Jangalmahal. Didimani had used him to come to power. Then she jailed him for eight years. She released him and gifted him a party post. The trick won’t work this time.” Bengal BJP vice-president Raju Banerjee, on the other hand, sparked a controversy by asking organizers of a Jagaddhatri Puja at Baranagar to distribute “weapons to households” against the asuras (demons) roaming free with pistols and bombs. TMC North 24 Parganas district observer Nirmal Ghosh took it as a “direct provocation” to violence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dilip-hits-out-at-5-star-lunch-jibe/articleshow/79378339.cms||Sujay Khanra
November 24, 2020||Kolkata||Love & jihad never go hand in hand: Nusrat||Kolkata: Actor and Trinamool Congress MP Nusrat Jahan on Monday hit out at those against interfaith marriages, saying ‘love’ and ‘jihad’ did not go hand in hand. She urged such people not to make religion “a political tool” in India. Venting her ire over proposed laws against ‘love jihad’ to prohibit “forced conversions” in some BJP-ruled states like UP, Madhya Pradesh and Assam, the first-time MP from Basirhat stressed that it was “a personal choice” who one wanted to be with. “Live and let live; just be in love or start falling in love with each other,” she said. The 30-year-old actor herself married into a Hindu family. She has time and again rejected the radical mindset of fundamentalists who criticise her for wearing mangalsutra and vermilion to Parliament; for practising customs of a Hindu married woman and for attending pujas. Last Saturday, she inaugurated a Jagaddhatri Puja pandal in the city and participated in prayer rituals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/love-jihad-never-go-hand-in-hand-nusrat/articleshow/79378355.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 24, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: SSG Hospital suffers first casualty of corona warrior||VADODARA: Staffers of state-run SSG Hospital in Vadodara bid a tearful farewell to one of hospital’s corona warriors on Monday. Dayaram Vasava, a 44-year-old male nurse, who had tested Covid-19 positive before a week, passed away due to Covid-19 related complications on Sunday. Vasava’s is the first death of a corona warrior from a public hospital in Vadodara. The government hospital’s nursing staff, doctors and other employees lined up to offer flowers and bid farewell to Vasava outside the post-mortem room of the hospital, the biggest government hospital of Central Gujarat. “He was a very dear friend to me. After he tested positive of Covid-19 on November 17, he was under home quarantine. But on Sunday, he suddenly developed some complications and faced breathing problems after which he was on his way to hospital. He was brought to emergency ward of the hospital but doctors declared him brought dead,” said nursing association’s secretary Kamlesh Parmar. Vasava, who worked as male nursing assistant, had served the government hospital for 15 years. “In June, he was also sent on deputation to Ahmedabad for Covid duty and even at SSG Hospital, he had handled Covid duties a couple of times,” said Parmar. According to the state government’s announcement, the health worker’s family will receive Rs 50 lakh as compensation. As per the policy, kin of health workers who die due to coronavirus infection in the line of duty are paid the compensation in the form of insurance pay-out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/ssg-hospital-suffers-first-casualty-of-corona-warrior/articleshow/79375412.cms||---
