November 25, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru's aquatic centres look deserted as strict SOPs deter swimmers||A little over a month since pools were allowed to resume operations, the city's aquatic centres still seem to be struggling with minimal footfalls. Pools have been allowed to re-open with a string of SOPs in place and now, the burden of overhead costs is looming over aquatic centres across the city. M Satish Kumar, secretary, Karnataka Swimming Association (KSA), who also runs Swimlife Swimming Academy in the city adds, "Things have not picked up at all and we currently have 13 admissions at our centre." Children losing out because of downtimeAquatic centres want the government to relax norms and not restrict entry to professional swimmers alone, but also allow recreational swimming and swimmers under 12 years as well. "Under the new norms, children below 12 are not allowed and the majority of our students are under 12. In Karnataka, swimmers between the age group of 8-12 is the highest and if that lot is not allowed, then it will affect our chances at future competitive games. Unless the government gives us some kind of relaxation and starts recreational swimming, then we would soon go out of business," says Satish. Dronacharya Awardee Nihar Ameen of Dolphin Aquatics says, "While it is great for a few swimmers to come back, not allowing children below 12 years to get back to swimming means a generation of children would lose out because of the downtime." He adds that their centre is barely hitting 50 now, whereas earlier numbers would cross 200. Meanwhile, costs increase...The new SOPs require aquatic centres to ensure proper sanitisation, including increasing the amount of Chlorine (from 1 ppm or 1.25 ppm, pools now need to be fed 2 ppm of chlorine) that needs to be regularly fed into the pool water. "Swimming pools are an expensive infrastructure and with the new safety norms, a huge amount is being spent on sanitisation on a daily basis. Routine chlorination of pools and water filtration are pushing our overheads up and limiting the number of swimmers. Also, the public is not allowed to use pools yet and it is affecting our ability to pay bills, rentals and salary," says Nihar. "I have had to move to another campus where I cater to 15 swimmers on an hourly basis. That is working for me in the current scenario."- Shreesh Reddy, Ekalavya Awardee and senior swimming coach for competitive swimmers||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengalurus-aquatic-centres-look-deserted-as-strict-sops-deter-swimmers/articleshow/79392134.cms||Joyeeta Chakravorty
November 25, 2020||Business||Cabinet decided to provide 40% fund as 'viability gap' for social sectors, says Gadkari||NEW DELHI: Union road transport and highway minister Nitin Gadkari on Tuesday announced the Union Cabinet's decision to provide 40 per cent fund in the form of viability gap to the social sectors including medical college, universities, airports among others. "Today we have passed a note in the cabinet that now not only infrastructure but even in the social sector--medical college, universities will be provided with 40 per cent fund in the form of viability gap. Today in the Cabinet meeting it has been decided to provide 40 per cent of the viability gap to social sectors, this applies to medical college, universities, airports, social sector, water ports etc..these projects can be built at any place where there is no economic viability," Gadkari said. The Union minister participated in the event 'Symbiosis Golden Jubilee Lecture Series' through video-conferencing and delivered a lecture on the topic of 'Atmanirbhar Bharat'. "Agriculture sector and allied services contribute 16-17 per cent of the GDP, the manufacturing sector contributes 22-23 per cent of the GDP and service sector contributes 52-54 per cent of the GDP. Agriculture sector's contributions need to be brought up to 30 per cent," said Gadkari. "If we have to reach 30 per cent, we will have to stop migration from rural areas to the cities. Why will people come to cities if they are provided jobs in their hometown, why will they come to the city? In order to become an "Atmanirbhar Bharat", every sector will have to work in alignment to this vision," he added. The Union minister further said that the conversion of knowledge into wealth was the future of India. "If we're setting goals for the next 25 to 30 years, we will have to work with a particular vision in rural and agriculture sectors. From our department, we have decided that in the next two years, the turnover of the village industry will be taken to Rs 5 lakh crore," Gadkari said. "I am happy that today we have started good work in the agriculture sector and rural areas. I am happy that many pending projects in Maharashtra have been completed now. Gradually, we will have to make many changes in the agriculture sector and we have started working on the same," he said further. "About 1,000 industries in the country can run on ethanol then why are we importing petrol? Why are we contributing to pollution? If we make an ethanol economy worth Rs 2 lakh or Rs 3 lakh crores, then we will have jobs at least for 50 lakh people in rural India. There are so many ways by which we can help increase employment in rural areas," he added. Gadkari said, Jhojhila tunnel is being constructed in Kargil, it's earlier cost was Rs 11,000 crores for which the tender was issued thrice but he did not sign it and returned the file. "You will be surprised to know that we have saved Rs 5,000 crore and the tender has been given to a good company now," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cabinet-decided-to-provide-40-fund-as-viability-gap-for-social-sectors-says-gadkari/articleshow/79396204.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Congress condemns Telangana BJP chief's comment of surgical strike on old city of Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Former minister Mohd Ali Shabbir of the Congress on Tuesday strongly condemned BJP state president Bandi Sanjay's comments that the saffron party will conduct a surgical strike on the old city after winning GHMC elections. "As a Member of Parliament, Bandi Sanjay must know that surgical strikes are conducted in enemy land and not on our own brethren in our own country. Is Sanjay trying to say that the Old City of Hyderabad is not part of India? He is stooping to low level just to win a few seats in GHMC elections. Such statements have the potential to create a divide in the society on the basis of religion and it is highly regrettable that neither the Election Commission nor the Hyderabad police are taking any action against him for such provocative statements," Shabbir Ali said. Stating that the issue of Rohingya should be dealt with by the central government, Shabbir Ali said the BJP state president should question his own party (BJP) which is in power for the last six years at the centre, why it failed to resolve the Rohingya issue. By terming Old City as hub of terrorism, Sanjay is questioning the capabilities of Union home minister Amit Shah, Shabbir Ali said. The BJP leader has been making provocative statements without showing any respect for the law or the Model Code of Conduct. "Instead of inciting communal hatred, Bandi Sanjay must explain what the BJP Government did for Hyderabad in the last six years. He should give details of how much funds were released by the Modi government for the development of Hyderabad, relief amount during Coronavirus pandemic and lockdown period and the assistance given to the flood affected people. By giving provocative statements he is trying to cover up the fact that the BJP Government at the Centre did nothing for Hyderabad," he said. The Congress leader also charged MIM President Asaduddin Owaisi with polarizing votes on religious lines. Both BJP and MIM are two sides of the same coin who want to win elections on the basis of polarisation of votes on religious lines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/congress-condemns-telangana-bjp-chiefs-comment-of-surgical-strike-on-old-city-of-hyderabad/articleshow/79396205.cms||Roushan Ali
November 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana reports 2,329 new Covid-19 cases, 33 deaths||CHANDIGARH: Haryana on Tuesday reported 2,329 new Covid-19 cases and 33 deaths surpassing its all previous records of single-day fatalities. The latest figures took state’s overall coronavirus tally to 22,2292 cases and pushed toll to 2,249. Despite having recorded the highest number of casualties in a day, the death rate remained stable at 1.01% while positivity rate in the state has gone up to 6.89%. Recovery rate was recorded at 89.65% as 1,943 recoveries were reported in the past 24 hours. The state now has 20,765 active Covid-19 cases, including 445 critical patients who are on oxygen support as well as ventilator support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-reports-2329-new-covid-19-cases-33-deaths/articleshow/79396336.cms||Manvir Saini
November 25, 2020||Hubballi||Haveri college owes Rs 35 lakh to Hescom, hostel owner and lecturers||HAVERI: Working on a tight budget, Haveri Government Engineering College owes more than Rs 35 lakh to guest lecturers, towards electricity supply and rent for the girl students’ hostel building. Twenty-nine guest lecturers at the college have not been paid for seven months, and the dues have crossed Rs 8 lakh, sources said. Over 1,000 students are doing engineering in the college, set up in 2007, and it has 75 teaching and non-teaching staffers. Hubballi Electricity Supply Company (Hescom) hasn’t disconnected power supply in students’ interest though the dues of two years have breached Rs 15 lakh. Hescom assistant executive engineer CB Hosamani said they have sent many reminders to the college to pay up, but the principal made an appeal that power supply should not be snapped as it would inconvenience students. “However, the college must clear the bills at the earliest,” he added. Similarly, the college is buying more time in paying the pending rent of Rs 12 lakh for three years for the girls’ hostel in Haveri city. College principal KB Prakash admitted to receiving Hescom notices on the pending bills. “I have requested the department of technical education to release grants so that we can pay off the teachers, hostel rent and electricity bill,” he said. Vijay BP, joint director, department of technical education, said they will release funds to the college soon after the government makes an allocation in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/haveri-college-awaits-govt-funds-to-pay-bills/articleshow/79396406.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
November 25, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: ‘Prospective groom’ cheats woman of Rs 10 lakh and valuables||BENGALURU: A 32-year-old woman working in a financial services firm was cheated of Rs 10 lakh and valuables worth Rs 1.7 lakh by a man whom she met on a matrimonial site recently. Rupam Kumar Das, 33, of New Delhi allegedly took money from Reeta (name changed) of Kannamangala near Whitefield on various pretexts, including financial problems and mother’s death, and also stole valuables from her residence last week. After her profile was uploaded on the site in April, Reeta’s sister received a call from a man— Dileep Kumar— who claimed his son Das was willing to marry Reeta. Reeta was informed by her sister about the proposal. Reeta and Das exchanged phone numbers and started to communicate through WhatsApp and video calls from April 21. “When Das shared his financial problems, Reeta transferred Rs 1.2 lakh to him. Within a few weeks, he told her that his mother had expired and she gave him Rs 20,000. The duo met at Guwahati in September and she gave him Rs 23,000 there,” police said.  Das visited her house in Bengaluru recently. The duo went to Mysuru on November 14 and returned on November 17. Next morning, Das was missing when she woke up. Later, she found Rs 7.9 lakh, her laptop, cellphone, three watches, camera, camera lens and other valuables were also missing. She tried to contact Das over the phone, but in vain. She approached police on Sunday. Das has been booked under IPC sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating). tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/prospective-groom-cheats-woman-of-10l-and-valuables/articleshow/79396413.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru girl among Rhodes scholars this year||BENGALURU: Shreya Singhal, a Bengaluru girl, is among the handful of Indians who have won the prestigious Rhodes Scholarship this year. The student of London’s Imperial College is due to graduate in biological sciences in June 2021. An alumna of The International School Bangalore, Shreya, 20, plans to study biochemistry at Oxford University. Rhodes Scholarship is awarded to students for pursuing postgraduation at the famed varsity. An excited Shreya told TOI: “This happened last weekend and it’s still sinking in.” “When I was small, I used to read a lot of fantasy books. Real life is half as interesting without dragons and other fantasy creatures! But it gets so much more exciting under a microscope as there is much more in the world than what meets the eye. That is what makes biology interesting,” she said. “The most valuable part of my undergraduate degree is lab techniques. The masters of research in biochemistry course at Oxford is uniquely technique-focussed. I’m looking forward to adding more tools to my toolbox,” she added. “My focus is to help bridge the implementation gap between research and real life. I want to explore the research pathways in using microbes to solve global environmental challenges. Environmental biotechnology solutions are the need of the hour,” said Shreya. A volunteer-tutor, Shreya teaches at underserved schools in London and first-year students on her campus. “I work with the Pimlico Connection, an outreach programme at Imperial College London that focuses on government schools with a significant proportion of students on free school meals. Its objective is to generate interest in and empower students to pursue higher education in general and STEM degrees in particular. I also used to work with small groups of students weekly, allowing them to get individually tailored sessions and ask questions.” She is also the co-founder of Synthesea, a company that aims at making acqua-farming more sustainable. “There’s a huge sustainability issue with the current format of aqua-farming as the feed for these farm fish is mostly fish from the sea. We’re looking at developing a synthesised alternative for the same,” explained the trained Odissi dancer. Shreya is currently at her home in Sarjapur, with her parents who run a consulting firm. “I came to Bengaluru before the first lockdown. I was only supposed to be visiting but ended up staying. I miss my friends, the labs and the hustle and bustle of campus life, but as of now the university remains mostly closed. The five-and-a-half-hour time difference can be quite challenging but classes usually start at 2:30pm (IST) and go well into the night. Much of the teaching is asynchronous though. So I can choose when I complete the assignments within a certain window,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bluru-girl-among-rhodes-scholars-this-yr/articleshow/79396990.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
November 25, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: 1,500 schools adopted in state scheme||BENGALURU: The school adoption programme launched by the state government — a first-of-its-kind initiative — has proved a big hit, with 1,500 schools coming under the care of ministers, MLAs, academics, philanthropists and universities for development of basic infrastructure. CM BS Yediyurappa has taken up 10 government primary schools in his constituency, Shikaripura. Deputy CM, education minister & MLC adopt five govt schools eachDeputy CM Govind Karjol has adopted five schools in Mudhol taluk of Bagalkot. Announcing the programme in his budget for 2020-21, the CM had made it mandatory for MLAs to adopt at least three schools in their constituencies. There are about 53,000 government schools in the state and 85% of students are dependent on them. Social welfare minister B Sriramulu, school education minister S Suresh Kumar and MLC Srikanthaiah have adopted five schools each. At an event on Tuesday at the Vidhana Soudha, Yediyurappa handed over adoption letters for 34 government primary and secondary schools to his colleagues, some individuals and institutions. “This is the first time that such a programme has been launched in the country. It has given a new lease of life to government schools as they now have basic infrastructure and modern teaching equipment,” said Yediyurappa. He also appealed to philanthropists to visit the schools they have adopted to guide their development. “We must invite the parents and interact with them about good parenting so that students become productive citizens in the future. Only then, the purpose of adoption is achieved,” he said. Suresh Kumar said many schools which were on the verge of closure due to poor infrastructure and other problems have been revived. “Many people have been suggesting that the Karnataka government develop schools on the lines of Delhi government but it’s impossible since they need not spend on irrigation which we have to,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/dycm-edu-min-mlc-adopt-5-govt-schools-each/articleshow/79396995.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Forums seek impartial probe into Akshaya Patra funds||BENGALURU: Members of civil society groups have given a representation to the Karnataka chief secretary demanding a probe into use of funds with regard to Akshaya Patra Foundation’s midday meal scheme. The groups sought an impartial inquiry against the foundation and to initiate criminal proceedings if charges of misuse and diversion of government funds are found to be true. Pending inquiry, all contracts with the foundation should be cancelled and no disbursal of government funds under any scheme be permitted, read their memorandum. Since the foundation receives substantial funds from international donors, possible violations of provisions under Foreign Contribution Regulation Act and Rules also need to be investigated, the memorandum read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/forums-seek-impartial-probe-into-akshaya-patra-funds/articleshow/79396996.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Businessman loses Rs 3 lakh in bid to double it||BENGALURU: A 45-year-old businessman from Lalbagh Road was cheated of Rs 3.2 lakh by two miscreants who promised him that his money would be doubled in 20 days. On Monday, Central CEN Crime police registered a case of cheating and cybercrime against unknown persons based on a complaint by Shiva Kumar. On November 10, Kumar received calls from Vishwanath and Abhishek who claimed to be representatives of a trading app. “They promised to double my investment amount. Trusting them, I transferred Rs 2 lakh to the trading app’s wallet and Rs 1,18,000 to a bank account number provided by them. They promised to send me documents related to my investment, but became incommunicado,” he told police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bizman-loses-3l-in-bid-to-double-it/articleshow/79397003.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Business||Cars24 drives into unicorn club with DST Global leading $200m funding||BENGALURU: Global technology investment firm DST Global, which has backed Indian startups like Swiggy, Udaan, Ola and Byju’s, is leading a $200 million funding in Cars24, making it the latest entrant to the much coveted unicorn club, those with a valuation of over $1 billion. This means the online platform for selling used cars has doubled its valuation in about a year since it last raised $100 million at a valuation of $500 million. Cars24 is the fifth startup to emerge as a unicorn during the pandemic. The total number of unicorns created this year now stands at eight. In 2019, India saw nine new unicorns. Cars24 co-founder and CEO Vikram Chopra told TOI the company has surpassed pre-Covid-19 sales. Sales are now 20% higher than in February. It will use the new capital to build more services - enable sale of two-wheelers and provide after sales services. Other startups whose valuation reached $1 billion or more this year include fin-tech ventures Pine Labs, Zerodha and Razorpay, software venture Postman, ed-tech venture Unacademy, e-commerce firm FirstCry), and beauty store Nykaa. The new funding round saw participation from Cars24's existing investors including Exor Seeds, Moore Strategic Ventures, and Unbound. Started in 2015, it is currently clocking annualised sales of $600 million, compared to around $480 million in February, said Chopra. “We are now at around 4% market share in the used car space in India, while it’s around 12% in New Delhi. Our agenda is to grow our overall market share to double digits,” he said. Because of massive tailwinds, he said, this is a great time to get into other categories that will complete the value chain. "Most obvious one is two-wheelers. We launched it a few months ago and are seeing better traction than cars. Then we would like to get into servicing,” Chopra said. The Gurgaon-based firm also offers financing through its NBFC arm and is aiming to scale up its financing programmes further, for both dealers and consumers. For new cars, financing penetration is around 80%, while for used cars it's only around 15%. “It’s because the market is unorganised,” Chopra said. Its competitors include firms like Olx, CarDekho, and Spinny. It buys cars from sellers in around 130 cities but sells those vehicles in around 400 cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cars24-drives-into-unicorn-club-with-dst-global-leading-200m-funding/articleshow/79397440.cms||Digbijay Mishra
November 25, 2020||Business||43 new Chinese apps banned, 267 in all||NEW DELHI: The Centre on Tuesday launched a fresh offensive against Chinese apps, blocking another 43 new apps, amid continued tension at the border. With the latest move, India has banned 267 apps in addition to getting countries such as the US to follow suit. Those ordered blocked include some top ones such as AliExpress, Taobao Live and CamCard. They join other big ones already banned such as TikTok, PUBG, UC Browser, WeChat, CamScanner, Baidu Search and Weibo in being disallowed in India’s thriving digital eco-system. The government said the action was taken under Section 69A of the IT Act, as it accused the Chinese apps of engaging in activities prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order. “Ministry of electronics and IT has issued the order for blocking the access of these apps… based on the comprehensive reports received from Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Center, Ministry of Home Affairs… Government is committed to protect the interests of citizens and sovereignty and integrity of India on all fronts and it shall take all possible steps to ensure that,” the government said. The government has decided to squeeze the influence and sway of Chinese apps in India in view of the growing tensions between the two countries, especially as they have been accused of misusing the data of Indian citizens and businesses, surveillance and engaging in anti-India activities. Those ordered blocked in the previous rounds had been served notice by the IT Ministry, and were asked to provide details with regards to their operations in India, their subscribers, their data collection and information processing practices, among other things. The long list of questions also sought details about “unauthorised data access” by the Chinese companies to having weak security features leading to espionage/ surveillance through unauthorised data access. Sources told TOI the IT ministry has prepared a preliminary report that has been submitted to the Home Ministry for further directions. “The responses of the Chinese companies were factored in the preparation of this report, and a final decision on the fate of the companies will be taken at the highest echelons of the government,” sources said. The Chinese companies are so far playing a wait-and-watch game while also keeping an eye on the growing tensions between the two neighbours over worsening border dispute. Officials at many top Chinese companies say that they are yet to take a final decision on challenging the Indian government’s order in courts. “The legal option is always open to us. However, we would like to first present our case and try and convince the Indian government that their allegations are baseless and not based on facts,” a senior official with a leading Chinese company said, requesting anonymity. The IT ministry has said previously that it has received many complaints from various sources, including several reports about misuse of some mobile apps available on Android and iOS platforms for stealing and surreptitiously transmitting users’ data in an unauthorized manner to servers which have locations outside India. However, a section of internet and civil society activists have termed the government’s action as “arbitrary and opaque”, alleging that the move has been taken in a non-transparent manner. “There is little in terms of evidence on how these apps are threatening the sovereignty, integrity, and defence of India,” Gurshabad Grover, research manager at Centre for Internet and Society, told TOI previously. “Arbitrary government power has been exercised here. Remember, if today Chinese apps can be banned, tomorrow nothing stops them from banning Indian apps in a similar non-transparent manner,” Grover said. Udbhav Tiwari, public policy advisor at Mozilla who has previously worked with Google, also raised similar concerns. “It is hard to directly provide how they infringe the sovereignty of India. Maybe they collect data. But these risks exist from any other apps as well, including the American ones.” Kazim Rizvi, founder of policy think-tank The Dialogue, said that India currently lacks a robust cyber security regime. “Ideally, an independent data protection authority ought to assess apps which violate individual privacy and threaten national security,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/43-new-chinese-apps-banned-267-in-all/articleshow/79397633.cms||Pankaj Doval
November 25, 2020||India||IMA: Withdraw Ayush surgery notification||NEW DELHI: The Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Tuesday demanded withdrawal of a Central Council of Indian Medicine (CCIM) notification authorising postgraduate Ayurveda practitioners to be trained to perform general surgical procedures, saying the move was a ‘khichadification’ or a confused mix of medical education and practice. The November 20 notification by the CCIM, a statutory body under the Ayush ministry to regulate the Indian systems of medicine, listed 39 general surgery procedures and around 19 procedures involving the eye, ear, nose and throat by amending the Indian Medicine Central Council (Postgraduate Ayurveda Education) Regulations, 2016. The IMA on November 22 had condemned the move, describing it as a ‘retrograde step of mixing the systems’. In a statement issued on Tuesday, the Indian Medical Association said that the long list of modern medicine surgeries that have been enlisted under Shalya Tantra and Shalakya Tantra squarely fall under the ambit, authority and jurisdiction of the modern medicine practice. While the Ayush ministry issued a clarification claiming that the technical terms and modern developments are a common heritage of mankind, the IMA rejected their clarification as being ‘deceptive camouflage of mixing the systems of medicine’. “The entire modern medical profession of the nation feels betrayed by the level of violation and encroachment by the Central Council of Indian Medicine,” Indian Medical Association national president Rajan Sharma said. Seeking an emergency session, the central working committee of the IMA has directed all 28 state branches to hold their state working committees. The quantum and timing of the first all-India response to the situation is being determined which, the IMA said, it ensures will not be later than December 2. Questioning if Ayush have their own anaesthesia drugs and procedures, the IMA asked whether the pre-anaesthetic medication would be named as Ayush drug, and the Ayush doctors would be termed as Ayush anaesthetists. “It is obvious that Ayush is dependent on modern medicine doctors, anaesthesia, antibiotics and equipment to perform modern medicine surgical procedures. It fails the test of logic behind such irresponsible initiative placing thousands of gullible patients at risk,” the doctors’ body said in the statement. It questioned what about postoperative care and infection control and how will a system not subscribing to microbial theory find a way to control sepsis. Meanwhile, the Resident Doctors’ Association of Maulana Azad Medical College has written to the Union health ministry saying if Ayush practitioners were more competent than the fourth- and fifth-year medical undergraduate students, then they should be deployed in the hospitals for Covid-19 management.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ima-withdraw-ayush-surgery-notification/articleshow/79397870.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Goa||After ISL, time for Masters badminton in Goa||Panaji: If the Indian Super League (ISL) is now being played in Goa with players inside a bio-secure bubble, other sports too are making a return. It may not be with the strict bio-secure bubble restrictions, but organisers of the Enthu Sports Carnival say adequate precautions necessary to prevent the spread of Covid-19 will be taken. Goa will see around 120 Masters players (35+ and above age groups) from all over India take part in Enthu Sports Carnival, which will be held at Campal from November 26-28. The badminton matches will be played in an innovative league-cum-knockout team format. "The whole idea is to build camaraderie and kinship in our community. We want people to play the sport they love, at the same time have a great time and return home with wonderful memories," said Bibhash Chatterjee, a founding member of Enthu Cutlets who has been promoting badminton for the Masters. Several have raised their eyebrow over the timing of the tournament. The organisers, however, said there was nothing to worry. "We are following the government guidelines to the hilt. Our badminton courts are safer than any popular area in Goa. Ever since we have resumed training following the Unlock guidelines, we have been vigilant. “Every day, there are seven courts used with four players on each court. The tournament will see usage of four courts only. In fact, there will be less people at any given time compared to regular days," said Sandeep Heble, secretary of Goa Badminton Association and Panjim Badminton Club. One of the participants, Allan Remedios, 57, has high hopes from the tournament. "I see no reason to be worried. I have played here today and saw things are in order compared to outside. In fact, I fear outside the stadium more than inside," said Remedios. The organisers said players will be checked with temperature guns and oximeters at the venue. “Practice sessions have also been spaced out between early morning and evening sessions. At no point we will permit more than 50 players inside the stadium”, said Chatterjee. Stressing reasons for conducting such a tournament, Heble said, "Some months back, sports minister Kiren Rijiju had said that ‘resumption of sporting events will boost the confidence of our athletes'. It’s good to see some innovative offline badminton activity of this nature being held here along with the ISL.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-isl-time-for-masters-badminton-in-goa/articleshow/79398254.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Business||Nifty tops 13K, sensex 44.5K for the first time||MUMBAI: A global rally on positive news about Covid vaccines which was further boosted by the news that former US Federal Reserve Chairperson Janet Yellen could be the next US Treasury Secretary, lifted investor sentiment on Dalal Street on Tuesday. As a result nifty on the NSE scaled the 13K mark for the first time and closed at 13,055 points, up 129 points on the day. On the BSE, the sensex rallied past the 44,500-point mark for the first time and closed at 44,523 points, up 446 points. On Monday, after AstraZeneca-Oxford combine released its primary data on its vaccine trials with over 70% efficacy, there was news that US President-elect Joe Biden has decided to select Yellen as the next treasury secretary, who market players believe will work to revive the economy, irrespective of political push & pull. Wall Street, which was rallying on vaccine news, finally settled nearly 400 points up on the Yellen news. The gains in the leading indices came on the back of a Rs 4,563-crore net buying by foreign funds, BSE data showed. With the day’s inflow, the total net FPI buying in November went past the Rs 55,000-crore mark, an all-time monthly high, official data showed. The rally in the market also made investors richer by Rs 84,000 crore with BSE’s market capitalization now at Rs 173.1 lakh crore, an all-time high. The day’s session came on the back of strong buying in financial stocks, along with Reliance Industries and ITC. On the other hand, selling in HDFC limited the gains in the index, BSE data showed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nifty-tops-13k-sensex-44-5k-for-the-first-time/articleshow/79398263.cms||---
November 25, 2020||India||Prefix a ‘0’ to call mobiles from landlines from January 1||NEW DELHI: From January 1, you will need to prefix a ‘0’ before dialling any mobile number from your landline. In order to open up fresh number series for mobile callers, the telecom department has cleared the proposal, accepting sectoral regulator Trai's recommendation for having the '0' prefix for calls to mobiles when the calling is from landline. The Department of Telecom (DoT) in a circular on ‘modification of dialling pattern from fixed line numbers to cellular mobile numbers’ said in order to ensure adequate numbering resources for fixed line and mobile services, Trai’s recommendations dated May 29 this year has been accepted. “Following may be implemented... Fixed-to-mobile calls shall be dialled with prefix ‘0’. Suitable announcement may be fed in the fixed line switches to apprise the fixed line subscribers about the requirement of dialling the prefix ‘0’ for all fixed-to-mobile calls,” DoT said in a circular dated November 20. This announcement should be played whenever a subscriber dials a fixed-to-mobile call without prefixing ‘0’, it said. “All the fixed line subscribers should be provided with ‘0’ dialling facility, that is, STD dialling facility,” said the circular on DoT’s website. DoT said time till January 1 is allowed to all the telecom service providers to implement this new system. It is pertinent to mention here that in May this year, Trai had recommended dialling prefix '0' for a call from fixed line number to mobile number. The regulator had, however, stated that the introduction of a dialling prefix for a particular type of call is not akin to increasing the number of digits in the telephone number.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/prefix-a-0-to-call-mobiles-from-landlines-from-january-1/articleshow/79398072.cms||---
November 25, 2020||India||Contribution of stubble-burning to PM2.5 levels in Delhi-NCR went up from 10% in 2019 to 15% this year||NEW DELHI: Average contribution of stubble burning to the concentration of PM2.5 in Delhi-NCR during peak phase has increased from 10% in 2019 to over 15% this year with Punjab reporting an increase of 48% in fire incidents while these declined by 28% in Haryana. An analysis by the environment ministry done on the basis of inputs from the CPCB and institutions of the ministry of earth sciences also shows that the number of days observed with more than 10% contribution of stubble-burning to PM 2.5 has increased from 21 days in 2019 to 26 days this year. The maximum contribution of 42% was observed on November 5 this year. The period to analyse the contribution of biomass burning in overall air pollution varies marginally, considering early beginning of peak phase linked to harvesting and stubble-burning this year. Though isolated events of biomass burning are still being reported, their contribution to overall air pollution will not be significant as both Punjab and Haryana have completed the harvest of paddy and covered nearly 50% of the areas with Rabi crops – wheat, oilseeds and pulses. Stating that crop residue burning in northwest regions as “one of the sources of air pollution for Delhi-NCR during October-November”, the ministry noted that Punjab during September 21-November 22 period reported substantial increase of over 46% in its total count of active fire events (AFE) this year compared to the corresponding period in 2019. On the other hand, Haryana almost during the same period (September 25-November 22) reported a decline in cases of stubble-burning by over 28%. “Though both states this year reduced their respective acreages of non-Basmati paddy, the increase in number of cases of stubble burning in Punjab is something which needs to be examined,” said an official. Non-Basmati paddy straw is not used as fodder as it contains high silica that animals can’t digest. Instead of using in-situ management of stubble that entails costs, farmers prefer to burn it as an easy solution, leading to increase in air pollution in Delhi-NCR. Increase in cases of stubble burning in Punjab is, however, a clear indication of poor enforcement of ban on biomass burning, which has always been considered politically unpopular move, particularly this year when the state witnessed protests agaist central farm laws leading to possibly slack enforcement. “It needs to be probed why farmers in Punjab resorted to stubble-burning in a big way this year after reporting consistent decline in such episodes in past three years,” said an official. “In 2020, all the districts of Punjab except SBS Nagar have shown an upward trend in their AFE contribution, witnessing the lack of ground level implementation of the Central supported scheme,” said the ministry in its analysis. In Haryana, on the other hand, districts such as Fatehabad, Kaithal and Karnal continue to be major AFE contributors but still show a reduction by 40% in comparison to 2019. Other key paddy-cultivating districts such as Palwal and Kurushetra have shown major reduction by 50-60% this year. In order to support farmers, the Centre had in 2018-19 initiated a scheme for in-situ management of crop residue. The scheme is meant to support states for extending subsidies to individual farmers and custom hiring centers (CHC) for buying machinery and other in-situ farm implements to manage stubble-burning. During 2018-19 and 2019-20, over Rs 1,178 crores of funds were released under the scheme. Even during 2020-21, release of Rs 600 crore has been approved by the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/contribution-of-stubble-burning-to-pm2-5-levels-in-delhi-ncr-went-up-from-10-in-2019-to-15-this-yr/articleshow/79398288.cms||Vishwa Mohan
November 25, 2020||India||As Farooq’s name crops up, Abdullahs deny land grab||NEW DELHI: J&K government’s probe into largescale misappropriation of valuable public land has thrown up alleged evidence of the involvement of former chief minister and National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah, with J&K government sources claiming that he had encroached upon more than 7 kanals of prime state and forest land in Sunjwan, Jammu. Sources said inquiry had found that Abdullah bought 3 kanals of land in 1998 from different owners on a private khasra number 21 situated in a different location in Sunjwan village. However, instead of taking possession of the 3 kanals of this private land, he encroached upon more than 7 kanals of nearby state and forest land. Farooq Abdullah denied the charge and said, “Neither my house in Srinagar nor in Jammu is on land availed under Roshni Act”. His son, former CM and NC vice president Omar Abdullah, also rejected the charge. “The news attributing to sources that Farooq Abdullah is a beneficiary of the Roshni Act is completely false and is being spread with a malicious intent. Both his houses in Jammu and Srinagar have nothing to do with the said Act,” he said. “The fact that they are using sources to plant this story shows that it has no legs to stand on,” he added. Sources, however, stuck to their guns about Farooq allegedly encroaching upon public land even as they stressed that they have not accused the former CM of taking over land under Roshni Act. “The private residence built by the former chief minister is on public/forest land. The market value of the encroached land is around Rs 10 crore as per the prevalent land valuation,” a source claimed. “This represents a case of not just encroachment but misrepresentation and fraud,” a J&K government functionary added. The “intriguing” modus operandi adopted by Abdullah, sources said, was unravelled by a probe conducted by the revenue department on a direction of the J&K High Court to look into usurpation and encroachment of state land by influential politicians, bureaucrats and businessmen. Another alleged beneficiary of Roshni Act identified by the J&K government is Farooq Abdullah’s sister Suraiya Mattoo, with the land given away measuring 3 kanal and 12 marla. The Rs 1 crore required to be deposited by her for regularisation and mutation attestation has not been deposited, an officer said. Incidentally, even the properties of National Conference in Jammu and Srinagar are built on land given away under Roshni Act provisions, a J&K government functionary told TOI. This includes Sher-e-Kashmir Bhawan of NC in Jammu involving state land of 3 kanal 16 marla and Nawai Subah Trust of NC in Srinagar, again on 3 kanal 16 marla of state land, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farooq-named-in-jk-scam-dismisses-charge/articleshow/79398472.cms||Bharti Jain
November 25, 2020||India||Haryana to seal borders to prevent ‘Delhi Chalo’ stir||CHANDIGARH: The Haryana government on Tuesday said it will seal borders with Punjab on November 26-27 to prevent farmers of that state from marching into Delhi for their "Delhi Chalo" protest event in the national capital. This comes even as the Modi government extended an invitation to the Punjab farm unions for a second round of talks in Delhi on December 3. Farmers from Punjab and Haryana plan to march to Delhi on the call of All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC). Punjab’s 30 farm bodies, slated to participate in the Delhi agitation, have decided to head towards Delhi from all possible routes from Wednesday, nevertheless. “We don’t find the ‘Delhi Chalo’ March of the farmers justified. Law and order situation remains under control, police and administration have planned some strict measures in the state. We appeal to people to avoid taking Punjab-Haryana border routes and travelling on GT roads, as we have planned some strict measures. Similarly, people should avoid going on Delhi-Haryana borders on November 26 and 27,” chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said. He also advised farmers to avoid travel to New Delhi because of the Covid threat. “I must tell all farmers that the ‘Delhi Chalo’ call given by some outfits has no meaning because the three laws which the Centre enacted are pro-farmer. We will increase the number of mandis and the MSP will continue as earlier,” the CM added. The Haryana police detained a large number of farm leaders across the state, late on Monday night and in the early hours on Tuesday, as part of preventive arrests to ensure law and order and to prevent the spread of Covid-19. In midst of all the action taken by Haryana, the farm groups in Punjab are yet to make their intention clear about the next round of talks with the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/haryana-to-seal-borders-to-prevent-delhi-chalo-stir/articleshow/79398503.cms||---
November 25, 2020||India||India sends 24 home to Pakistan after jail term||AMRITSAR: India on Tuesday repatriated 24 Pakistani nationals — including 21 fishermen and three civilian prisoners — via Attari land border upon completion of their jail terms. This is the first repatriation of Pakistani prisoners after the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. Earlier, India had repatriated eight Pakistani nationals on March 14. Fishermen are often arrested after they enter Indian territorial waters while fishing in the high seas during stormy weather.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-sends-24-home-to-pakistan-after-jail-term/articleshow/79398554.cms||---
November 25, 2020||India||SC: Why not cap RT-PCR test price at Rs 400?||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Tuesday sought the Centre’s response to a PIL which sought capping of RT-PCR test for Covid-19 at Rs 400 for both government and private labs and hospitals, saying the cost of the kits have come down to Rs 200 now. Petitioner Ajay Agrawal told a bench, headed by CJI SA Bobde, that while in Delhi RT-PCR test costs around Rs 2,400, it varied from Rs 900 (in Haryana) to Rs 3,200 (Meghalaya) in other states. “There is a big loot by the laboratories and they are minting money to the tune of crores. The margin of profit is as high as 1400% in Andhra Pradesh and 1200% in Delhi. The RT-PCR kits are available for less than Rs 200 in the Indian market. There is no other cost involved in conducting the test,” he said. The bench sought response from the Centre in two weeks and tagged it along with another PIL filed by one Sachin Jain.He had sought affordable health care and curbing the private hospitals’ tendency to exploit the situation by overcharging patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-why-not-cap-rt-pcr-test-price-at-400/articleshow/79398696.cms||---
November 25, 2020||India||Sputnik’s ‘efficacy at 95%’, to be cheaper than US vaccines||MUMBAI: Russia’s Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine, that reported an efficacy of over 95%, will be twice as cheap as those by Pfizer and Moderna with similar positive results. Sputnik V, developed by Gamaleya Institute and RDIF (Russian Direct Investment Fund), will be priced under $20 per person for the two doses in global markets, including India, and may be available here by February. The vaccine is still to undergo trials in India and will be manufactured by domestic companies. Hyderabad-based Dr Reddy’s and RDIF have entered into a partnership to conduct clinical trials and distribute it in India. Though the vaccine has a price advantage against the above two firms, there could be a challenge in its distribution as it requires a specialised cooling chain, experts say. The efficacy of the Sputnik V vaccine is 91.4%, based on the second analysis of interim data obtained 28 days after administering the first dose (7 days after the second dose). Preliminary data obtained 42 days after the first dose indicates an efficacy above 95%, a statement said. Sputnik V, a two-dose vaccine on the human adenoviral vector platform, will soon initiate Phase II clinical trials on 100 subjects in India, while Phase III trials will involve 1,500 participants. In October, Dr Reddy’s and RDIF received approval from the Drugs Controller General of India to conduct adaptive phase II/III human clinical trials for the vaccine in India. As part of the partnership, RDIF will supply 100 million doses of the vaccine to Dr Reddy’s. The first international deliveries of the Russian Sputnik V vaccine will be made in January 2021 based on the existing partnerships with foreign manufacturers, the statement adds. Details about the vaccine, trials and manufacturers in India are still sketchy. “There are two forms of the vaccine, one of which requires -18°C (liquid) and must be transported in special refrigerators. Second form is lyophilised (freeze-dry) and can be stored at +2 to -8°C. We expect that the freeze-dry version will be supplied in large quantities to many countries including India in February,” a RDIF spokesperson told TOI. “The uniqueness of the vaccine lies in the use of two different vectors based on the human adenovirus, which allows for a stronger and longer-term immune response as compared to vaccines using one and the same vector for two doses,” the statement added. The existing agreements between RDIF and leading foreign pharmaceutical companies allow the Sputnik V vaccine to be produced abroad for 500 million people per year, starting from 2021. Watch Covid-19: Sputnik’s ‘efficacy at 95%’, to be cheaper than US vaccines||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sputniks-efficacy-at-95-to-be-cheaper-than-us-vaccines/articleshow/79398837.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
November 25, 2020||India||States told to gear up for post-inoculation checks||NEW DELHI: In an effort to boost preparedness for Covid-19 vaccine delivery, the health ministry has asked states and UTs to strengthen surveillance of adverse events after immunisation against Covid-19 to ensure people’s confidence in safety of vaccine is maintained. “You may be aware that preparations are underway for conducting Covid-19 vaccinations in states and districts, starting with certain priority groups,” health ministry said in a letter, underlining steps must be taken to strengthen adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) surveillance after Covid-19 vaccinations to “maintain confidence in safety of vaccines”. It has identified initiatives which are essential to further strengthen the existing AEFI surveillance system. The Centre has asked states and districts to ensure adequate stocks of adrenaline injection for use in anaphylaxis kits — emergency kits that are deployed when people suffer a severe allergic reactions in response to some medicine or food. “The Covid-19 vaccinations will be given to adults, many of whom may have comorbidities. Events due to pre-existing comorbidities (like strokes, heart attacks, etc.) may be reported as AEFIs following Covid-19 vaccinations,” the letter said suggesting the membership of state AEFI committees should be revised to include neurologists, cardiologists and respiratory medicine specialists who can recognise such events and differentiate them from events related to vaccines or vaccinations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/states-told-to-gear-up-for-post-inoculation-checks/articleshow/79398867.cms||Sushmi Dey
November 25, 2020||India||India’s active Covid cases up again||Active Covid cases in India rose again on Tuesday, the third increase in the past four days, as fresh infections recorded in the country outnumbered recoveries by more than 5,500. This was the highest single-day increase in active cases since October 1, a sign that the pandemic could be on the rise again in the country. Active cases had been falling since October 1 as Covid-19 cases decreased steadily. The decreasing trend was first broken on November 14, and then again last Saturday. India’s tally of active cases currently stands at 4,47,391 (the actual number is slightly lower due to migrations etc). The country recorded 44,188 fresh cases on Tuesday taking the overall caseload to 92,22,665, as per TOI’s data collated from state governments. The death toll, however, remained below 500 for the second day running, with 478 fatalities recorded in the past 24 hours. Recoveries stood at more than 86,40,000, accounting for 93.7% of all cases. Delhi continued to lead the daily tally of cases and fatalities in the country. It reported 6,224 fresh cases and 109 deaths. This was the ninth straight day when Delhi’s count of new cases was the highest in India, and the fourth day running when the capital recorded the highest death toll from the virus. However, fresh cases in the capital had shown a slight decline last week as compared with the previous week. Rajasthan reported 3,314 new infections on Tuesday, the state’s highest single-day tally so far. Rajasthan’s previous highest daily count was 3,260, recorded just two days ago, an indication of surging numbers in the state in recent days. Eight districts of the state are contributing majorly to daily count. Among those, Jaipur is the worst-affected. It reported its biggest single-day jump of 656 cases on Tuesday. In Maharashtra, with testing numbers rising on Tuesday, the number of Covid-19 cases detected too increased. In all, 5,439 new cases were found, taking the tally to 17,89,800. Mumbai, too, saw a fluctuation with 939 cases coming to light, a marginal rise from 800 diagnosed on Monday. Prior Watch India's active Covid cases rise again||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indias-active-covid-cases-up-again/articleshow/79398875.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Patna||Jewellery worth Rs 15L stolen from Aurangabad mall||AURANGABAD: Unidentified thieves stole jewellery worth Rs 15 lakh from a mall situated near the Block More on Old GT Road under the Aurangabad Town police station area on Monday night. According to police sources, two thieves entered the mall by cutting the entrance door made of iron for staff, around 1.40am. Wires of close circuit television cameras (CCTVs) were also found snapped. The thieves after entering the mall, went to the jewellery counter and broke the glasses of the showcase and stole gold jewellery worth Rs15 lakh. At around 9:30am on Tuesday, department manager Apoorva Srivastava and a staff Sangeeta Devi reached the mall and found the entrance door open. They then informed the police. DSP (headquarters) Vijay Kumar, Town police station officer incharge Anjani Kumar, sub- inspector Dhananjay Kumar and other cops reached the spot and started an investigating into the theft. Police have detained the mall’s guard Puneet Shukla for interrogation. The guard was deputed about three months back and lives in a rented house near the mall. Manager of the mall, Saurabh Suman, is on leave for the last three days. Mall’s department manager Apoorva assisted the police to access the CCTV footages. This is the second major incident of theft within a week in the town. Earlier, Rs 22 lakh was stolen from a bank ATM on November 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jewellery-worth-rs-15l-stolen-from-aurangabad-mall/articleshow/79395036.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Business||Failure to stem office toxicity can harm even successful cos||By Prabir JhaToxicity is not the preserve of a failing company. It exists even with successful ones. However, it corrodes the organisational vitality from within till the time it is acknowledged, often a little too late. Pessimism, low trust, declining sense of self-worth, poor politics and falling standards of integrity are typical symptoms of a workplace getting toxic. What really makes an organisation turn toxic? What could be the early warning signals, almost the fire alarms, for us? And, most of all, what are some quick ways of healing the toxicity in time? From my own corporate and advisory experience, I observe some clear signs of toxicity. These are signs that could be sensed easily enough, if we were willing to and not scoff away in blind denial: * The leader at the top: In most cases, the problem is at the top. The personality and behavioural style of the promoter or the CEO has the biggest impact on the culture of a workplace. If that behaviour is deviant — dismissive, patronising, autocratic, non-inclusive, yelling, threatening, controlling, micro-managing — there are greater chances of this behaviour getting replicated down the line. Everyone seems to know and talk over lunch tables, but no one — neither the board nor the leadership team — dares bell the cat. Ignorant of how one’s behaviour is causing permanent damage to one’s own firm, Nero continues to fiddle. * Dysfunctional leadership team: This is another common reason for toxicity that I have observed, aggravated by a partisan leader. Group think is terrible to have at the top. But the inability to move the mindset to a ‘shared destiny’ from a set of siloed satrapies is worse. To encourage plural thinking without turf obsession is a challenge for most teams. This is largely to do with the talent ecosystem that has been in existence for long. When tenure and personal loyalty indeed are more important and divergent perspectives played up as secessionist, the waters get toxic. People stop raising honest differences and the toxic relationships flow down the line. * Pathetic peer relationships: Yet another very common reason for toxicity in firms flows from low trust, poor mutual respect and bitter struggle for the spoils of war. A poor leader only makes it worse. Organisation structures add to confusion and not everyone plays well in a matrixed world. Often the cascade and alignment of goals is far from acceptable. The effort for resource mobilisation almost degenerates into aggrandisement, alienating any pretence of trust and collaboration. While it seems so basic, the toxicity in companies rubs off on so many in a variety of ways. And those caught in the crossfire either quit as poor brand ambassadors or become embittered but conflicting camp followers. * Zero-transparency cultures: I have found Many employees in companies are sympathetic to their organisational challenges and are willing to help resolve them. But most toxic places complain of having no honest conversations, an absence of engaging dialogue and a surfeit of grapevine. I remember a promoter once questioning why a communication on a major leadership transition needs to be shared with the entire firm. In the absence of upfront and trust-building conversations, much organisational energy is wasted in speculating about the whispers in the corridors. In such companies, no one really asks any “honest” questions, if they ask any at all. One can sense this spirit in an hour at a workplace. Wonder how those within cannot or would not? Certain metaphors of culture — a varied seating layout, separate lifts or washrooms, the way of addressing or even standing — are all obvious beacons to sense potential toxicity. * Reward & recognition philosophy: Irrespective of any formal articulation, The way people get celebrated or reprimanded can influence the degree of toxicity in a firm. What is typically celebrated? Are the fire dousers rewarded or the fire preventers? Are people of a certain seniority, tenure, location or function typically recognised with near exclusion of others? Are the rewards appropriated more by the leaders irrespective of impact? Is the rewards’ distribution more inclusive or exclusive? In my experience, it is not as much the quantum but the spirit of perceived fairness that matters. Disappointments don’t build toxicity, the indifference to acknowledge them does. Engagement surveys and random mood polls may or may not fully reveal the extent of toxicity. In some real toxic environments, people are scared to even opine or are too detached to even care. Many toxic environments need intensive help to both strategically architect the treatment and then systematically administer it. This calls for significant honesty, vulnerability and humility of the top leader(s) — something that is missing in many places. Till that happens, we just need to remind ourselves organisational toxicity needs a rehab, not a band aid. (The writer is the founder & CEO, Prabir Jha People Advisory)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/failure-to-stem-office-toxicity-can-harm-even-successful-cos/articleshow/79398526.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Business||RBI vetoes Muthoot’s plan to buy IDBI MF||TNN Mumbai: Kerala-headquartered NBFC major Muthoot Finance on Tuesday said that the RBI has declined permission for its plans to acquire IDBI Mutual Fund. The initial deal between IDBI Bank and some of its arms and Muthoot Finance was signed exactly a year ago, subject to regulatory approvals. However, the NBFC’s request “for a no-objection certificate was not acceded to by the RBI on the ground that, ‘the activity of sponsoring a mutual fund or owning an asset management company is not in consonance with the activity of an operating NBFC’,” it said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-vetoes-muthoots-plan-to-buy-idbi-mf/articleshow/79397208.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Patna||Patna University unlikely to resume classes anytime soon||PATNA: The postgraduate departments and colleges of Patna University (PU) may have reopened after Diwali and Chhath vacations, but regular academic activities are not likely to resume anytime soon. Classes have been suspended since March 16 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. In an advisory issued this month, the University Grants Commission had advised the universities to start regular academic activities with all precautions. However, no official communication regarding resumption of classes has yet been issued by the state government. “Normal classes are unlikely to start in December. PU is busy finalizing the undergraduate (UG) admissions that began in the second week of October and will be completed in mid-December,” PU students’ welfare dean N K Jha told this newspaper. Besides, the postgraduate (PG) admissions will start in the first week of December as the last date for submission of applications is November 30. “Direct admission to the UG and PG courses at PU’s Directorate of Distance Education will also end on November 30,” Jha added. Meanwhile, the counselling for admission to the BEd programme in different teachers’ training colleges of PU began on Monday. “A counselling session for admission to Patna Training College was held on Monday and that for admission to Patna Women’s College and Women’s Training College will be conducted on Tuesday,” Jha, who is the nodal officer for BEd admissions in PU, said and added that admissions to the BEd course were being made on the basis of the results of the state-level combined entrance test conducted by Lalit Narayan Mithila University. Meanwhile, PU is gearing up to complete all its pending UG and PG examinations. While the Degree Part II exams will begin this week, the examinations of Degree Part I and PG (semesters II and IV) students will start in the first week of December.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pu-unlikely-to-resume-classes-anytime-soon/articleshow/79395387.cms||B K Mishra
November 25, 2020||Patna||Nitish Kumar to PM Modi: Bihar ready for Covid-19 vaccine distribution||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar, during the review meeting on Covid-19 convened by PM Narendra Modi on Tuesday, said the state government was making preparations for the vaccine distribution, once it is manufactured and available for people. State health minister Mangal Pandey and senior officials also attended the meeting through videoconferencing. NITI Aayog member (health) Dr Vinod Kumar Paul made a presentation on the development of Covid vaccine. Later in the meeting, Nitish said Bihar government was working with all alertness for prevention of further spread of Covid-19 pandemic. “Arrangements are being made by the state government for the vaccine distribution among people upon its availability,” he said. BJP, which has formed the NDA government in Bihar again, had pledged in its state election manifesto that Covid vaccine would be distributed for free. Senior BJP functionary and Union minister of state for health and family welfare Ashwini Kumar Choubey, who was also present in the virtual meeting on Tuesday, said the meeting was held in two phases — first with the CMs of eight worst affected states, followed by another meeting with CMs of all states and governors of union territories. “The second meeting was related to distribution of Covid vaccine, its storage and other measures,” he said. “Few states have seen spurt in Covid cases in the last few days. Accordingly, instructions were issued for increasing the vigil and keeping tab on further spread of the disease,” he added. Choubey said the government will ensure that Covid vaccine is made available to everyone in the country after successful trial. “Framework in this regard is being prepared. Feedback is also being taken from stakeholders concerned, so that nobody faces any hassle later,” he said. Going by the government data, Bihar has been so far doing comparatively better in terms of Covid cases. As per the health department bulletin on Tuesday, Bihar had 97.30% recovery rate. Altogether 1,233 people have died due to Covid in Bihar. The state government has initiated fresh steps to curb further spread of the virus in the ongoing winter season. The district magistrates and SPs, in a meeting of the crisis management group on Monday, have been instructed to conduct special drive against people not wearing marks or violating other precautions, including physical distancing. Civil surgeons and other officials concerned have been asked to conduct random tests at crowded places, including bus stands, airport and vegetable markets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-to-pm-bihar-ready-for-covid-19-vaccine-distribution/articleshow/79395417.cms||Piyush Tripathi
November 25, 2020||Kolkata||Park Street in focus for cops’ New Year crowd-control plan||KOLKATA: As the city takes a break in the festive season, the cops want to utilize the time to chalk out its strategy to ensure social distancing in and around central and south Kolkata for Christmas and New Year celebrations. As a first step, police are likely to speak to all stakeholders in and around Park Street-Camac Street-Shakespeare Sarani to fix their plans. “Though it’s still some time away, this part of Kolkata has not faced crowd issues unlike some other areas of the city in the past 30-40 days. The crowd variety, too, will be different given that local trains have restarted operations. So a foolproof plan must be ready,”said an officer at Lalbazar. According to sources, the government will announce some restrictions. “But before that, we get information about how the shops and restaurants are preparing. We cannot allow too many people blocking up road space. This is a very basic step towards strategizing — on the same lines that we spoke to traders at Gariahat and New Market before Durga Puja or traders at Burrabazar before Diwali,” explained an officer. Police sources maintained that there was no plan — as of now — to ban or restrict some bigger private parties. “The Covid scare is still there. Unlike Durga Puja, where the crowd is spread, maximum pressure will be in this belt. Hence, we have to ensure physical distance and take precautionary measures so that a pre-Durga Puja-like crowd surge at markets can be countered in central Kolkata. While we will not be restricting people’s movement, we will try to channelize them,” explained an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/park-street-in-focus-for-cops-new-year-crowd-control-plan/articleshow/79395805.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 25, 2020||Patna||As winter nears, doctors in Patna ask people to stay safe, ward off coronavirus||PATNA: With a gradual plunge in temperature and a likelihood of increased transmission of coronavirus during the winter season, health experts have advised Patnaites, especially elderly people, to be cautious and prevent seasonal ailments. Altogether 194 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Patna on Tuesday. The city’s minimum temperature was recorded at 10 degrees Celsius, three notches below the corresponding normal. Doctors, therefore, urge people to follow all safety guidelines issued by the government while stepping out of their houses. Indian Medical Association (Bihar) senior vice-president Dr Ajay Kumar told this newspaper, “It is difficult to differentiate between the symptoms of normal cold or influenza and Covid-19. Hence, it is important to follow social distancing norms, wear masks and use sanitizers.” The doctor also asked people to “build a strong immunity to ward off infections”. Aware of the havoc Covid-19 has created across the globe, many health conscious Patnaites are already taking necessary precautions to ensure their safety. 27-year-old Vishal, who works with a private firm, said, “Covid-19 is likely to become more lethal as the winter season approaches. I am, therefore, staying indoors.” Even the authorities are taking steps to prevent the spread of the virus. The Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) has set up night shelters for the homeless in the city. “We have established three permanent night shelters and are likely to build six more. However, people, who wish to stay at the shelters during the winter season, will have to follow safety protocols in order to avoid the spread of Covid-19,” PMC’s public relations officer Harshita said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/as-winter-nears-doctors-ask-people-to-stay-safe-ward-off-coronavirus/articleshow/79395323.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Business||Chandrasekaran to chair Tata Chemical board||MUMBAI: Tata Sons chairman N Chandrasekaran has finally taken charge of the board of Tata Chemicals. It was one of the key listed Tata operating companies whose board Chandrasekaran, 57, did not chair after he was appointed as Tata Sons chief in February 2017. Tata Sons holds about 30% in Tata Chemicals, which recently sold its packaged foods business to sister company Tata Consumer Products. The board restructuring follows Tata veteran Bhaskar Bhat’s resignation from Tata Chemicals as its director on Tuesday. Bhat, also a Tata Sons board member, had been the chair of Tata Chemicals for the last three years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/chandra-to-chair-tata-chem-board/articleshow/79397012.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Patna||Fan sacrifices another finger, his fourth, to mark Nitish win in Bihar||PATNA: Anil Sharma, an avid supporter of CM Nitish Kumar, did it once again on Monday. He chopped off the fourth finger of his left hand and offered it to a local deity after Nitish was sworn-in as the chief minister for the fourth consecutive term. It’s not that Sharma, (45), a resident of Vaina village under Ghosi block in Jehanabad district, has sacrificed his finger to a local deity Goriaya Baba for the first time to express his happiness over Nitish’s victory in the state assembly polls. Residents of Kako and Ghosi areas said Sharma chopped off his fourth finger and offered it to Goraiya Baba on Monday. “He visited the village temple and offered his finger to the deity as thanksgiving for showering blessings on Nitish,” a local resident Sanjay Kumar said. Sharma, who worked as a gardener in Chennai, reached home after the results of the recently concluded state elections were declared. “I had promised to Goraiya Baba to sacrifice my finger if Nitish was voted to power once again,” Sharma told a select group of mediapersons. Sharma, popularly known as Ali Baba, feels that Nitish is the only leader in Bihar who can bring development with justice. “Though I have not met Nitish Ji, I am a great admirer of him for his development policies,” he said, adding that he (Nitish) returned to power due to divine blessings of the deity. The residents of Vaina village revealed that Sharma had been doing it (chopping off his finger every time when CM becomes CM) since 2005. “Locals called him a senile when he sacrificed one of his fingers for the first time following Nitish’s success in the 2005 assembly polls,” recalled Mritunjay Kumar, a resident of Ghosi in Jehanabad. When asked about the reason for sacrificing his fingers for the sake of a leader who he never met, Sharma said, “I am happy and this is how I show my happiness.” He promised to repeat the exercise in future also. In 2015, Sharma had made an abortive attempt to meet Nitish after offering his third finger to Goraiya Baba. “I am his great fan. It is up to him to take a final call,” he had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/fan-sacrifices-finger-again-for-nitishs-4th-term-as-cm/articleshow/79395629.cms||Ramashankar
November 25, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Education department in no hurry to open schools||PATNA: The Private School and Children Welfare Association wrote a letter to newly appointed education minister Ashok Choudhary on Monday, requesting him to reopen educational institutes as they are reeling from financial crunch amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The body also sought suggestions for ensuring everyone’s safety. “Private schools are finding it difficult to pay salaries to their teachers and non-teaching staff. They are ready to follow the standard operating procedure for Covid-19 management and other safety protocols,” association president Shamael Ahmed told this newspaper and urged the minister to release the pending funds under the Right to Education Act. The education department, however, seems to be in no hurry to reopen schools. Choudhary said, “The department will analyse the situation and seek health experts’ advice before conducting a high-level meeting. We have to be careful because the number of Covid cases is increasing in other states. The safety of students is a matter of concern.” Asked how the education department would compensate for loss of classes during the current academic session, the minister replied, “Online cases are still going on, but we will explore more options to minimize academic loss to the students.” Meanwhile, parents have hailed the decision of the education department, saying the safety of kids comes first. Boring Canal Road resident Namrat Thakur, whose daughter studies in Class VII, said, “Sending kids to schools amid a pandemic is quite risky.” Another parent, Basant Kumar, pointed out, “The news of numerous kids getting infected by coronavirus in other states has freaked me out. I cannot send my children to attend school right now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/education-dept-in-no-hurry-to-open-schools/articleshow/79395351.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 25, 2020||Patna||30 teams to keep eye on Covid protocol violators in Gaya||GAYA: With a view to checking the transmission of Covid-19, altogether 30 teams have been constituted in Gaya to make sure that people wear masks and follow social distancing norms. They will keep an eye on public places like shops, malls, vegetable markets, railway stations and bus and auto stands and collect a fine of Rs 50 from the violators. At a meeting held on Tuesday, district magistrate (DM) Abhishek Singh asked the officials concerned to collect random samples at the railway station or the airport. He also discussed how better health services could be provided to the people and directed the civil surgeon and medical officers to ensure that every patient, who arrived for treatment at the outpatient department of the government hospitals, was tested for Covid-19. “When it comes to controlling Covid-19, the situation of Bihar is better than other states. Maintaining this trend is our topmost priority,” the DM said, adding that Covid patients above 60 years of age should not opt for home isolation. Singh also sought details of all the health workers like auxiliary nurse midwives, accredited social health activists, paramedical staff and doctors by the end of November so that they can be vaccinated against coronavirus. Meanwhile, altogether 6,58,495 tests have been conducted across Gaya district so far. Of these, 6,807 people tested positive for corona. While 6,690 recovered, 60 died during treatment. At present, there are 49 active cases in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/30-teams-to-keep-eye-on-covid-protocol-violators-in-gaya/articleshow/79395493.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Patna||GA legislators meet to chalk out strategy||PATNA: Amid the speculative question doing the rounds in political circles if the grand alliance will finally withdraw its candidate for the post of state legislative assembly Speaker before the start of the election process on Wednesday, the RJD and its opposition alliance held legislature party meeting on Tuesday, but did not give an inkling of any shift in its decision on the matter. The grand alliance has fielded six-time RJD MLA Awadh Bihari Choudhary against NDA’s Vijay Kumar Sinha, a three-time BJP MLA from Lakhisarai, for the Speaker’s post. The convention is that the Speaker is elected by consensus, even as the election was contested twice, in 1967 and 1969. The MLAs of RJD, Congress, CPI(ML), CPI and CPM comprising the grand alliance decided to field Choudhary as their candidate for the Speaker’s post. Senior RJD MLA Bhai Birendra said the agenda for the legislature party meeting held at the residence of former CM Rabri Devi was three-fold. The RJD members of the state assembly should remain united and take part in the proceedings of the House. Further, the RJD also decided to give one-month reprieve to the Nitish Kumar government to improve the situation on various fronts, including law and order and transparent functioning of the government. Failing this, the RJD will launch its agitation against the government on the burning issues facing the people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ga-legislators-meet-to-chalk-out-strategy/articleshow/79395554.cms||Abhay Singh
November 25, 2020||Bareilly||UP: Husband booked for abusing, torturing wife||PILIBHIT: A 45-year-old man — a medical store owner — was booked on Monday evening for alleged cruelty, voluntarily causing hurt and criminal intimidation to his wife at Awas Vikas Colony in Pilibhit city, said police. Pilibhit kotwali SHO Shrikant Dwivedi said the accused, Vishwajeet Trivedi, was booked under sections 398 A (subjecting a woman to cruelty by husband), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation) after the victim, Mamta Trivedi, produced a video of atrocities by her husband that was captured by their minor daughter. According to the victim, her husband abuses and tortures her by accusing her of being in an illicit relationship.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/husband-booked-for-abusing-torturing-wife/articleshow/79395098.cms||Keshav Agarwal
November 25, 2020||Business||Block foreign legal firms under FEMA: RBI to banks||MUMBAI: The RBI has directed banks that deal in foreign exchange to not grant approval to foreign legal firms to set up any office in India under the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA). This follows a Supreme Court decision in the matter. The central bank has also asked banks to report any foreign law firms that do business here. In September 2015, in the case of the Bar Council of India versus A K Balaji and others, the apex court had directed the RBI not to grant any permission to any foreign law firm, on or after the date of the interim order, for opening of a liaison office (LO) in India. After this order, the RBI told banks not to grant fresh permission or renew permission for liaison offices of foreign law firms. On Tuesday, the RBI said that the Supreme Court, while disposing of the case, held that only advocates enrolled under the Advocates Act, 1961 are entitled to practice law in India. “As such, foreign law firms/companies or foreign lawyers or any other person resident outside India are not permitted to establish any branch office, project office, liaison office or other place of business in India for the purpose of practising legal profession,” the RBI said. Last year, the Society of Indian Law Firms had recommended to the government that foreign law firms be allowed in the country in four phases. However, the association was opposed to the big four consulting firms offering legal services. If foreign law firms have to be allowed in India, the government would need to amend the Advocates Act. The Bar Council of Delhi and other bar councils had, however, strongly opposed the entry of foreign law firms in the country. Many international law firms are keen to open shop in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/block-foreign-legal-firms-under-fema-rbi-to-banks/articleshow/79397048.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Business||Nifty tops 13k, sensex 44.5k for the first time||Mumbai: A global rally on positive news about Covid vaccines, which was further boosted by reports of former US Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen possibly being confirmed as the next US Treasury secretary, lifted investor sentiment on Dalal Street on Tuesday. As a result, the Nifty on the NSE scaled the 13k mark for the first time and closed at 13,055 points — up 129 points on the day. On the BSE, the sensex rallied past the 44,500-point mark for the first time and closed at 44,523 points, a gain of 446 points. A day earlier on Monday, after the AstraZeneca-Oxford combine released its primary data on its vaccine trials with over 70% efficacy, there were reports that US President-elect Joe Biden has decided to select Yellen as the next Treasury secretary. Market players believe Yellen will work to revive the economy, irrespective of political push & pull. Wall Street, which was rallying on vaccine news, finally settled nearly 400 points up on the Yellen news on Monday night. Even on Tuesday, US stocks reached a historic milestone as hurdles were removed from Biden’s path to the White House in January. The Dow surged past 30,000 points for the first time as receding US political uncertainty and hopes for coronavirus vaccines offset worries over spiking Covid-19 cases. The gains in the leading domestic indices on Tuesday came on the back of a Rs 4,563-crore net buying by foreign funds, BSE data showed. With this inflow, the total net FPI buying in November went past the Rs 55,000-crore mark — an all-time monthly high, official data showed. The rally in the market also made investors richer by Rs 84,000 crore with the BSE’s market capitalisation now at Rs 173.1 lakh crore, another record. Tuesday’s session was supported by strong buying in financial stocks, along with Reliance Industries and ITC. On the other hand, selling in HDFC limited the gains in the index, BSE data showed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nifty-tops-13k-sensex-44-5k-for-the-first-time/articleshow/79398552.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Patna||CBI ‘surrenders’ in Navruna case, submits closure report||PATNA: The CBI has submitted closure report in the sensational Navruna kidnapping and murder case of Muzaffarpur as the probe agency failed to collect evidences to nail the culprits even after more than six years of its investigation. . Navruna Chakraborty, a Class VII student of a Muzaffarpur-based school, had gone missing from her Jawaharlal Road residence on the intervening night of September 17/18, 2012. Her father had then lodged a missing case with the Muzaffarpur Town police station. Almost a month later, the girl’s skeleton was found from a drain near her Chakraborty Lane ancestral house. The NDA test later confirmed that the skeleton was of the missing girl. The CBI started investigation in the case in September 2014. The CBI DSP and chief investigator Ajay Kumar submitted the closure report in the special court at Muzaffarpur on Monday, more than a month before the deadline set by the Supreme Court for submitting the chargesheet and action taken report in the case. Though Ajay refused to divulge anything about the case, sources in the probe agency said the 40-page report contained details of 60 witnesses, including seven suspects who had undergone brain mapping, polygraph and narco-analysis tests. The agency also mentioned in the report that it had carried out investigation in the case on 86 points. Sources said the investigating agency failed to corroborate the allegations against 10 people who were earlier arrested and sent to jail in the case. The agency had also announced a bounty of Rs10 lakh for the people sharing vital information about the case, but to no avail. But Navruna’s father Atulya Chakraborty still sees a ray of hope in the Supreme Court. “There is nothing unusual in it. The investigating agency’s findings have come on the expected lines. It was evident from the very beginning. It’s repeated petitions seeking extension of dates from the court showed it all,” he said. The SC had given the CBI extension in the case for the 10th time recently and set December 31 for submitting the chargesheet and action taken report. Chakraborty, a former representative of a pharmaceuticals company, said he was anticipating it because of the involvement of some local land mafia, politicians and influential bureaucrats. “But I have full faith in the apex court, which is monitoring the case,” he told this newspaper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cbi-surrenders-in-navruna-case-submits-closure-report/articleshow/79395051.cms||Ramashankar
November 25, 2020||Patna||Rajgir zoo safari gets nod, may open for public soon||PATNA: The Central Zoo Authority (CZA) has given its nod to the ‘zoo safari’ at Rajgir, state environment, forest and climate change department additional chief secretary Dipak Kumar Singh said on Tuesday. The CZA team had visited Rajgir for inspection in mid-October and the ‘zoo safari’ is expected to open for common people in a month or two, he added. Gopal Singh, conservator of forest, Patna, said the CZA team had submitted its report to a central government committee on November 19. “The committee comprises senior officials, guideline and technical experts. After getting satisfied with the requirements, the team gives its approval,” he said. First-of-its-kind in Bihar, the Rajgir ‘zoo safari’ is spread across 480 acres of land. Animals in this zoo safari can roam freely in big enclosures ranging from 50 to 80 acre areas, while tourists will be taken inside a closed vehicle. Officials said construction of all the five enclosures are completed and four buses have also been procured for tourists to take them inside. The first enclosure spread over 80 acre will have herbivores. Other enclosures in 50 acre each will have leopards, tigers and lions. Stone walls have been erected around the enclosures to give a natural look. The enclosures are ready and now only animals have to be brought in there. Even a veterinary hospital has been set up for the animals. There will also be an aviary spread across five acre with varieties of birds and a butterfly garden. The entire area has been divided into two parts — a portion related to animals and a facilitation zone for tourists. This zone will have waiting areas, ticket counters, restaurant and information centre. Salient features Area: 480 acre Number of enclosures: Five Estimated cost: Rs177 crore Animals in enclosures: Different species of herbivores, leopards, tigers and lions Aviary: Spread over five acre with varieties of birds Butterfly garden: To be developed in lab and released in the garden||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rajgir-zoo-safari-gets-nod-may-open-for-public-soon/articleshow/79395009.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 25, 2020||Patna||‘Grand Democratic Secular Front to play active role as opposition’||PATNA: After Mahagatbandhan, the Grand Democratic Secular Front (GDSF) has decided to take up issues related to public interest which includes unemployment, migration, education, flood and drought etc in the House. Senior leaders of alliance partners, which consists of RLSP, AIMIM, Samajwadi Janata Dal Democratic led by Devendra Prasad Yadav and BSP met on Tuesday for the first time after the election results to prepare their future course of action. RLSP chief Upendra Kushwaha, who is heading this alliance said, they have decided to give voice to the suppressed section and will play an active role as an opposition. He also extended greetings to AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi for his party’s victory in the assembly election and asked the party state incharge Akhtarul Iman to raise the issues inside the House. Iman said their alliance had fought with dedication and people have seen them as an alternative, even though the results were not up to the expectations. “We will not remain quiet. We will fight for the right of people,” he said. While talking to TOI over the phone after this meeting, Devendra said there was a need of tripolar politics, not only in Bihar, but across the country and their alliance is coming up as an alternative. “Several political experiments have begun from Bihar and tripolar politics has started from here and will reach to other parts of the country as well as in the Centre.” He said their alliance will unitedly fight the elections in West Bengal and then move towards Uttar Pradesh. Devendra also said regional like-minded parties, who wish to join them in other states will be accommodated in the alliance. RLSP national spokesperson Fazal Imam Mallick and AIMIM youth wing head Adil Hasan Azad also addressed this meeting. CPI-ML legislators stage protest on Day 2: On the second day of the winter session, CPI(ML) legislators protested outside the assembly over Vaishali incident and kidney scams. Led by Balrampur MLA and ML legislative party leader Mehboob Alam, legislators demanded immediate action against the culprits and criticized the government for trying to give this murder a ‘suicide colour’. They also demanded a probe into the alleged kidney scam reported from a private hospital of the city. A day before, Congress MLAs had protested over the Vaishali incident outside the assembly and demanded compensation to the victim’s family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/grand-democratic-secular-front-to-play-active-role-as-opposition/articleshow/79395609.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 25, 2020||Patna||Cardiac cases spike due to dip in temperature||PATNA: The sharp fall in temperature in the last few days has increased the number of patients in the city’s two big hospitals — Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) and Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH). Dengue cases are also reported, but most of these patients prefer to seek only medical advice and line of treatment to be followed at home instead of getting admitted to the hospitals. Patna civil surgeon Dr Vibha Kumari Singh said 246 dengue cases were reported in the district this season till Tuesday. The cases were reported from both urban and rural areas. She said the number of dengue cases was likely to drop with the fall in temperature. “No casualty due to dengue was reported in Patna district as most of the patients reaching the government hospitals recovered by medication or after a few days of admission for treatment in the wards,” she said. However, there has been about 50% rise in the number of patients with asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) in the daily OPD of the NMCH,” said its deputy superintendent Dr Satish Kumar. He said the worst sufferers of respiratory problems and COPD were those who came out in early winter morning on Chhath or keep morning stroll in cold weather. Dr Satish said though some cases of dengue fever also reached the NMCH last week, there was nothing serious about them and all the 30 beds of dengue ward were lying unoccupied. “Patients having no marked decline in the platelet counts, no dehydration or symptoms of multi-organ failure were prescribed medicines and the line of treatment in dengue cases,” he added. The PMCH has been getting higher number of patients with ailments caused by the sudden fall in morning and evening temperatures. Chief medical officer of PMCH casualty and central emergency, Dr Abhijit Singh, said about 25% of the patients reaching the emergency from different parts of the state after Chhath were of COPD, myocardial infarction (MI), commonly called heart attack, and bronchial asthma. Winter affects many systems but blood pressure and functioning of respiratory tract are more susceptible to changes. In MI cases, the patients complain tightness of chest, neck and back with other symptoms, he said. The head of PMCH medicine department, Dr Madan Pal Singh, admitted rise in the cases of allergic bronchitis, upper respiratory tract infections and acute COPD in the OPD. He said cold, coupled with polluted air, aggravates many diseases and both children and elderly people are advised to take utmost care in the winter. Besides, the onset of winter has also added to orthopaedic problems. Dr Subhash Chandra, director of the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Hospital, said frequent complaints of joint pain and rheumatoid arthritis were pouring in after Chhath. “We advise elderly people to avoid morning stroll as it may lead to stroke,” said Dr Chandra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cardiac-cases-spike-due-to-dip-in-temperature/articleshow/79395305.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Patna||40 more assembly members take oath||PATNA: Pro-tem Speaker Jitan Ram Manjhi on Tuesday administered the oath of membership of the state legislative assembly to minister Jiwesh Kumar and 39 other newly elected MLAs. He, thereby, constituted the House to facilitate the election of the Speaker in the pre-lunch session on Wednesday. On Monday, Manjhi had conducted the oath taking ceremony for eight ministers and 190 MLAs, while the remaining 44 MLAs, including Jiwesh, were to do it on Tuesday. However, four of the MLAs — Amarjeet Kushwaha of CPI(ML), Anant Singh of RJD as well as JD(U) members Anirudh Prasad Yadav and Narendra Kumar Neeraj alias Gopal Mandal could not take oath on Tuesday. Kushwaha and Singh are in jail and could not be brought to the House. As to the two JD(U) MLAs, the party sources said they have not been able to reach the state capital in time for the oath taking ceremony. As a result, the effective House strength will get reduced to 239, including the pro-tem Speaker. Accordingly, 239 of the 243 MLAs will take part in the election of the Speaker — through contest or unanimous, whatever it is. Nonetheless, if the four absentee MLAs manage to arrive, the pro-tem Speaker can administer the oath to them in his chamber. Among the prominent faces who took oath of membership of the House were eight-time BJP MLA from Gaya Town and former minister Prem Kumar, as well as Shreyasi Singh, also from the BJP and Commonwealth Games gold medallist in shooting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/40-more-assembly-members-take-oath/articleshow/79395579.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Business||Used auto e-portal Cars24 vrooms to $1 billion valuation||BENGALURU: Global technology investment firm DST Global, which has backed Indian startups like Swiggy, Udaan, Ola and Byju’s, is leading a $200-million funding in Cars24. This would make the online platform for selling used cars the latest entrant to the much coveted unicorn club — those with a valuation of over $1 billion. The move has helped Cars24 double its valuation in about a year since it last raised $100 million at a valuation of $500 million. Cars24 is the fifth startup to emerge as a unicorn during the pandemic. The total number of unicorns created this year now stands at eight (see graphic). In 2019, India saw nine new unicorns. Cars24 co-founder and CEO Vikram Chopra told TOI the company has surpassed pre-Covid sales. Compared with February, sales are now 20% higher. It will use the new capital to enter the two-wheeler arena and provide after-sales services. Other startups whose valuation reached $1 billion or more this year include fintech ventures Pine Labs, Zerodha and Razorpay, software venture Postman, edtech venture Unacademy, e-commerce firm FirstCry, and beauty store Nykaa. The new funding round saw participation from Cars24’s existing investors including Exor Seeds, Moore Strategic Ventures, and Unbound. Started in 2015, it is currently clocking annualised sales of $600 million, compared with around $480 million in February, said Chopra. “We are now at around 4% market share in the used car space in India, while it’s about 12% in New Delhi. Our agenda is to grow our overall market share to double digits,” he said. Because of massive tailwinds, he said this is a great time to get into other categories that will complete the value chain. “Most obvious one is two-wheelers. We launched it a few months ago and are seeing better traction than cars. Then we would like to get into servicing,” Chopra said. The Gurgaon-based firm also offers financing through its NBFC arm and is aiming to scale up its financing programmes further, for both dealers and consumers. For new cars, financing penetration is around 80%, while for used cars it’s only about 15%. “It’s because the market is unorganised,” Chopra said. Its competitors include firms like Olx, CarDekho, and Spinny. It buys cars from sellers in about 130 cities but sells those vehicles in around 400 cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/used-auto-e-portal-cars24-vrooms-to-1bn-valuation/articleshow/79397338.cms||Digbijay Mishra
November 25, 2020||Patna||Bihar govt gets state machinery ready for any fresh spurt in Covid-19 cases||PATNA: Taking a lesson from fresh spurt in Covid-19 cases in some states, the district administrations across Bihar has launched a massive drive against people not wearing masks or flouting social distancing norm in public transport. Even the number of RT-PCR test per day has been increased from 14,750 to 18,100. Health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh, after the crisis management committee meeting chaired by chief secretary Deepak Kumar on Monday, instructed all the DMs and civil surgeons to ensure that samples are tested as per the revised target. Sources said the chief secretary, through videoconferencing, had asked the officials to keep a watch for the next 15 days. Even the health department principal secretary instructed the civil surgeons and hospital heads to be ready for any emergency situation. “While infected people above 60 years will be under institutional quarantine, others will be asked for home quarantine,” an official said. AIIMS, which covers four districts, had been testing 1100 samples through RT-PCR. But it has to test 1400 samples per day. RMRI’s target has been revised from 3,400 to 3,800, IGIMS’s from 2,750 to 3,400, PMCH from 500 to 700 and NMCH from 500 to 800. When asked whether the government was planning to increase the amount of fine for not wearing a mask, Deepak said it is not the solution. “Rather, we have to create awareness,” he said on Tuesday A senior IAS officer said many people came recently to participate in festivals from cities like Delhi and Mumbai, which have high caseload. “We have to ensure they do not pass on the virus to others. Slight increase will not be much of a problem, but sudden rise can pose danger,” he said. Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Agarwal said a special drive was conducted on Tuesday and it will continue for two weeks. “We are also increasing the number of tests and focusing on contact tracing and identifying containment zones, the way we worked initially in order to curb the spread,” he said. In Patna district, 433 people were fined a total of Rs21,650 for not wearing masks. Patna DM Kumar Ravi appealed to people to maintain social distancing in public places and use sanitisers. Nalanda DM Yogendra Singh said apart from massive drive in the district headquarters, officials had also been appointed to ensure implementation of Covid-19 norms in 20 blocks. Singh said nearly Rs40,000 was collected as fine from people found violating Covid-19 norms. He said the officials are to ensure that commuters and shopkeepers wear masks. Even Gaya administration collected nearly Rs61,000 on Tuesday. Gaya DM Abhishek Singh said nine public transport vehicles (autorickshaws and vans) were seized for seven days for the violation of Covid norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-gets-state-machinery-ready-for-any-fresh-spurt-in-covid-19-cases/articleshow/79395464.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 25, 2020||Patna||Bihar: AIMIM pleads for unanimous assembly Speaker||PATNA: The AIMIM led by Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi has proposed to unanimously elect the state legislative assembly Speaker and avoid confrontation on party lines. AIMIM state president Akhtarul Iman said on Tuesday that his party has urged the leaders of the ruling and opposition parties to unanimously elect the Speaker. Iman’s statement assumes significance as both the NDA and the RJD-led Mahagathbandhan have fielded their respective candidates for the Speaker’s post. While BJP has fielded three-time MLA from Lakhisarai, Vijay Kumar Sinha, RJD made its Siwan MLA Awadh Bihari Choudhary as its nominee for the post. Iman, an MLA from Amour in Purnia district, said he urged the leaders of both the political groups to reach consensus on the Speaker and Deputy Speaker posts in the House. “We have also sent our proposal to our party chief for his approval. The party chief’s reply is awaited,” Iman said, adding that the AIMIM would officially make its stand clear only after Owaisi’s consent. The AIMIM has five MLAs in Bihar. Iman said a meeting of the AIMIM’s allies BSP and RLSP was held on Tuesday to discuss the strategy on the issue. BSP has one MLA in the new House.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/aimim-pleads-for-unanimous-assembly-speaker/articleshow/79395535.cms||Ramashankar
November 25, 2020||Patna||Tobacco, cellphones recovered in simultaneous raids on jails in Bihar||PATNA/CHHAPRA: Simultaneous raids were conducted in all the 59 central jails, district jails and the sub-divisional jails across the state early on Tuesday morning. A few packets of khaini (tobacco), nine cell phones, mobile chargers, scissors and some cash were seized during the operation. The searches began at around 4 am when most of the prisoners were asleep in their respective prisoners’ wards. Even special cells in which hardened criminals and Maoists are lodged were not spared by the members of the raiding teams each of them headed by respective DMs, SSPs and SPs. IG (prisons) Mithilesh Mishra, who was monitoring the operation, said that it was a routine exercise and such searches were conducted in jails from time to time. “The details about the searches from the jails are being collected,” he said, adding that complaints would be lodged if anything objectionable was found inside the jails. According to authoritative sources, five mobile phones with chargers, a pen drive and packets of ‘khaini’ were recovered during the search operation in Chhapra district jail. Similarly, 14 packets of khaini, and a pair of scissors were seized from the prisoners wards of Shahid Khudi Ram Bose central jail at Muzaffarpur. In addition, a mobile charger and Rs.3600 in cash were recovered from Supaul district jail. Chilams (pipe used to consume ganja) and a small size scissor were found in Khagaria district jail. However, nothing objectionable was found from the Beur Central Jail in Patna. Sources said that the home department issued a directive to carry out searches in jails after a video showing some prisoners consuming ‘ganja’ went viral on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tobacco-cellphones-recovered-in-simultaneous-raids-on-jails-in-state/articleshow/79395106.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Patna||Bihar records 653 new Covid cases||PATNA: Altogether 653 new Covid-19 cases were registered in Bihar on Tuesday, taking the tally to 2,31,697. Officially, six deaths were reported as the toll mounted to 1,233. As per the health department data, five deaths were reported from Patna and one from Purnia. AIIMS-Patna reported the death of a 68-year-old male of Munger and another 80-year-old man from Sundarpur village in Bhojpur. While 15 patients were admitted, five were discharged on Tuesday. Among those admitted were Covid patients from Mitramandal Colony, SK Vihar Colony, Kanti Factory locality in Kankarbagh, Mithapur, and Bikhna Pahari in Patna. Hospital’s nodal incharge for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar said former Union minister Dr CP Thakur’s health was improving. He further said 55 patients were in ICU, including 31 on ventilator and nine on high-flow nasal cannula. Patna again the maximum 194 cases, taking the district tally to 40,823. However with 38,978 recoveries and 319 deaths, there were only 1526 active cases. Covid-19 cases were reported from some other districts, including Begusarai (38), Saran (30), Supaul (30), Muzaffarpur (29), Purnia (24), Gaya (20), Kishanganj (20) and Katihar (19). Health minister Mangal Pandey tweeted that 746 people had recovered in the past 24 hours and the state’s recovery rate was 97.30%. In the same time period, 1,27,704 samples were tested in Bihar in the past 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-records-653-new-covid-cases/articleshow/79395427.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Financial consultant granted bail on health grounds||KOLKATA: Three days after he was arrested, financial consultant Govind Agarwal was granted interim bail by special fourth court judge Kumkum Sinha on Tuesday on health grounds. The court asked him not to leave his present address and to be cooperative with the investigating agency. “Amid the current pandemic situation, it is not favourable or advisable to keep the accused either in police or judicial custody. Thus, I am inclined to enlarge the accused on interim bail only on his medical ground," the judge wrote in the order. The bail was granted against two sureties worth Rs 10,000 each. Earlier, the prosecution had objected to the bail petition after the end of two days of judicial custody. They had, in fact, asked for police custody of Agarwal based on various documents seized from his Mangoe Lane office during the search operation in 2017. "The initial probe has found that he is linked with several people. These links need further probe. If he is granted bail now, we will be prejudiced," said chief public prosecutor Tamal Mukherjee. When the court raised the matter of Agarwal’s health conditions, the prosecution said that the court's discretion is final in this matter. “He was asked to get treated at home and go out only when there is a medical reason. He has also been asked to cooperate with the police. Agarwal appeared before the police even on August 18 and his statement was recorded. The next day he had submitted written answers to some questions. There is no reason for the police to allege that he has not been cooperating with the investigation,” his lawyer Biplab Goswami said. The cops have also moved the court to allow the recording of statements of a witness in this case before a magistrate under provisions of CrPC 164.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fin-consultant-granted-bail-on-health-grounds/articleshow/79395779.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 25, 2020||Kolkata||KMC pumps out water from flooded North Kolkata areas||KOLKATA: The civic body on Tuesday pressed into service portable pumps to drain out water from several inundated areas in and around Nilmoni Mitra Row. A major pipe in the area had developed a crack on Sunday, flooding streets and premises of RG Kar Medical College and Hospital. Though the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) water supply and drainage department could pump out accumulated water from most parts of the RG Kar complex, residents of several areas around the Tallah tank had to wade through waterlogged streets on Tuesday. According to an official, the colossal waste of filtered water from the 60-inch water pipe was also a worrying factor. “Our engineers are trying to locate the point of breach. We hope to do so within the next two days. We will shut down Tallah water reservoir on Saturday to facilitate the pipe repair,” said an official. According to plans, the KMC will stop supplying filtered water to north and central Kolkata from 9am on Saturday and restore supply by Sunday morning. Alternative arrangements will be made to deal with emergency situations. “We will supply water tanks to hospitals if need arises,” a civic official said. Water supply to south Kolkata will, however, remain undisturbed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-pumps-out-water-from-flooded-n-kol-areas/articleshow/79395812.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Kolkata||Jadavpur University VC steps in after dean of science’s quit threat||KOLKATA: The admissions to the postgraduate programmes in the science stream of Jadavpur University (JU) could not begin due to the ongoing tussle between the authorities and students’ council. On Tuesday, dean of science Subir Mukhopadhyay offered to resign by sending a letter to vice-chancellor Suranjan Das, which was put on hold. Das later said, “I have requested the dean to hold back the resignation. We have initiated discussions with the students and hope to resolve the matter soon.” Trouble started after the science faculty students’ union members tried to convince the admissions committee members in the science faculty of JU to allow all the outgoing final-year UG students get seats in the PG (day) programmes by omitting the state’s resolution of following the 80-20 reservation. After initial talks failed and students could not pass their demand of increasing the PG seats, they started an agitation to scrap the proposals of the admissions committee. The dean was allegedly humiliated by the students council members over phone. “In some of the science departments, there are fewer seats in PG than in UG. Can’t the students who don’t get admission in the day programme take up seats in the evening courses? The students who humiliated the dean had also forced the last dean to resign over other trivial issues,” said a science faculty teacher. The UGC has set a November-end deadline for the PG admissions to be over. “The process has to start now else, we can’t meet the deadline,” said Partha Pratim Roy, teacher of the physics department. Jadavpur University Research Scholar Association (JURSA) condemned the dean’s humiliation. “JURSA feels that repeated humiliation is an insult to the entire university framework,” said JURSA secretary Subhadeep Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ju-vc-steps-in-after-dean-of-sciences-quit-threat/articleshow/79395794.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Techie loses Rs 32 lakh in cyber fraud||Vijayawada: Cyber criminals allegedly cheated a software engineer of Rs 32 lakh here in Vijayawada. According to inspector of cybercrime police station K Srinivasa Rao, the Hyderabad-based techie had been working from home since the start of the lockdown at his residence in Vijayawada. Explaining the modus operandi of the criminals, Rao said the techie received a call from a person who briefed him about a scheme that assured him double the amount that he would invest. “Initially, the victim invested a small amount into a private account, and as he noticed that the investment doubled, he felt confident and began to invest more. But, he later realised that the entire account opened on a website https://www.excelencia8.com/ was a fraud,” Rao told TOI. The techie invested around Rs 32 lakh and police are investigating the case with a priority on recovering the amount. Cops said such scams are attracting techies and white-collar professionals. An FIR was registered at Ibrahimpatnam police station. While police said that they managed to trace some of the accounts in north India, further investigation is on to ascertain the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/techie-loses-rs-32-lakh-in-cyber-fraud/articleshow/79395102.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Goa||Second Sharada Mandir campus at Kadamba Plateau soon||Panaji: The Sharada Mandir Trust will open its second school on Kadamba Plateau and admissions will be open to this sister-institute from 2021-22 academic year, the Trust has announced. This school will function as a full-day school and run five days a week. It will have classes for two Saturdays as month for half a day. Meals and safe transportation will also be on offer for students, the Trust has stated. Sharada Mandir School is an ICSE Board, co-ed school. The Miramar institute was established in June 1966. The new sister-institute will be headed by Auria Fernandes, the current vice-principal at Sharada Mandir School, Miramar. “It is with great pleasure that we announce that Sharada Mandir School, Kadamba will be open for admissions next year. This new school will continue in the footsteps of Sharada Mandir School, Miramar,” said Dattaraj V. Salgaocar, chairman of Sharada Mandir Trust. Students at Sharada Mandir School, Kadamba, will be evaluated continuously, while also having opportunities to participate in performing arts and a variety of indoor and outdoor sports, the Trust has said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/second-sharada-mandir-campus-at-kadamba-plateau-soon/articleshow/79398471.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Varanasi||‘SP fighting MLC elections for respect of teachers’||Gorakhpur: Samajwadi Party state president Naresh Uttam said his party is fighting the MLC election in Gorakhpur for respect of teachers.Addressing party workers in Gorakhpur on Tuesday, he claimed the Samajwadi Party has done more for teachers than any other party. “We have the support of people and are contesting all the 11 seats of Vidhan Parishad. Our candidate is Awdhesh Yadav,” said Uttam.“There is chaos in the state under the BJP government as the party only believes in politics of hatred. People are waiting to elect SP back to power in 2022. Pension system will be revived, Urdu, Sanskrit and Hindi teachers will get honour,” he added.The fate of 16 candidates in fray for MLC election from Gorakhpur-Faizabad block will be decided by 39,772 voters on December 1. Among the 17 districts in Gorakhpur-Faizabad block, maximum 6,077 voters are in Gorakhpur district and minimum 821 are in Shravasti. Dhruv Kumar Tripathi of Madhyamik Shiksha Sangh has won two elections in a row and is in the fray again.Congress has fielded Nagendra Dutt Tiwari while SP gave ticket to Awdhesh Yadav. BJP has not given ticket to any candidate but the Yuva Kalyan Parishad vice-president Vibhrat Chand Kaushik is contesting as Independent and is using pictures of PM Narendra Modi and CM Yogi Adityanath on his posters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/sp-fighting-mlc-elections-for-respect-of-teachers/articleshow/79397559.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra govt hints at interim brakes on inter-state bus travel||PUNE: Inter-state travel on MSRTC and private buses might temporarily come to a halt following the recent increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in various states, including Maharashtra. “We are studying the number of Covid-19 cases, the increase and all aspects related to the pandemic. Based on the survey, we will discuss various options, including temporary suspension of inter-state bus services, till the virus spread is controlled again. The recent increase in the Covid-19 cases is a cause for concern. Some strict measures are needed to curb further spread of coronavirus,” state transport minister Anil Parab told TOI on Tuesday. Inter-state travel on the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) buses had resumed in the middle of September to its full capacity. The state government had approved the private bus operators to resume operations around the same time. Since then, the MSRTC has maintained that the passenger load on the inter-state, inter-district and the intra-district routes has been “decent and growing”. Parab said the government was not only concentrating on road transport via buses. “There are other modes of travel too, like air. On Monday, a decision was taken that people reaching airports in Maharashtra from Delhi, Rajasthan, Goa and Gujarat needed to have an RT-PCR negative test report, failing which they have to undergo the tests at the airports on arrival. More additional norms could be added in near future.” The MSRTC buses ply in states such as Gujarat, Telangana, Goa, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka. At the Pune division alone, more than 35 buses are currently plying to these neighbouring states. On Monday, the Maharashtra government in its notification stated that the collectors of land border districts would make arrangements to ensure that the passengers travelling via road from Delhi, Gujarat, Goa and Rajasthan would be tested for symptoms. It stated that the passengers with Covid-19 symptoms would have the option to return or they would be segregated and made to undergo the antigen test. If the test report is negative, they will be allowed to enter the state. However, passengers testing Covid-19 positive will be sent to the Covid care centres for further care. The cost has to be borne by the passengers. “It is a difficult job considering that a person travelling from Delhi has to travel through many states before reaching the Maharashtra border. Almost all people entering the state by road need to be checked and this makes the chances of a slip wider,” a transport department official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/govt-hints-at-interim-brakes-on-inter-state-bus-travel/articleshow/79396162.cms||Joy Sengupta
November 25, 2020||Pune||One held for robbing tour operator of smartphones in Pune||PUNE: The Hinjewadi police on Monday arrested a 28-year-old man for robbing two smartphones, worth Rs80,000, belonging to a tour operator on the Katraj-Dehu Road bypass at Bavdhan in the early hours of Sunday. A police team took the suspect Amit Niranjan Singh of West Bengal into custody on Monday evening, while he was attempting to sell the stolen smartphones near Wakad bridge. Tour operator Rahul Sambrekar (47) of Nashik had gone to Goa with two friends last week. On their way back, they reached Bavdhan around 3am on Sunday. Sambrekar decided to park his car along the service road so he could rest. “I was feeling sleepy as I had been driving the car for the entire night,” Sambrekar said. He parked his car outside an automobile dealership firm in Bavdhan and slept for some time. “I had locked the car from inside. But one of the passengers went out around 3.30am. After returning, he forgot to lock the car and slept,” Sambrekar said. He added, “Around 4.30am, I woke up after sensing something and saw one person picking up my smartphone from the dashboard. Before, I could stop him, the suspect pushed me and ran. Later, we found out that he had stolen another smartphone from the car. I had to rush to Nashik as one the passengers had to catch a flight. On Monday, I returned to Pune and checked the CCTV footage from the dealership. We found that the man had first come to the car around 4am and carried out a recce. He returned after sometime and stole one smartphone. Around 4.30 he came back and robbed my smartphone too.” Assistant sub-inspector of the Hinjewadi police station Mahesh Waybase said that Sambrekar lodged an FIR on Monday evening. “We got a tip-off that one person was selling high-end smartphones near Wakad bridge. We laid a trap and took Singh into custody. We have recovered the robbed smartphones,” Waybase said. On November 18, Singh had come to Pune in search of a job. “When he did not get any job, he decided to rob smartphones,” Waybase said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/one-held-for-robbing-tour-operator-of-smartphones/articleshow/79396166.cms||Mihir Tanksale
November 25, 2020||Trichy||Trichy police reunite eight missing people with their families||TRICHY: Efforts by the city police to trace missing people has yielded results as eight people were reunited with their families recently in a special camp. As part of the weekly special grievance camps rolled out by Trichy police commissioner J Loganathan, police officers from all the four ranges – Cantonment, Srirangam, Golden Rock and Fort - jointly organised a programme at two marriage halls in the city on November 22. The objective of the camp was to expedite investigation and solve cases of missing of men, women, minor girls and boys. Police took 99 petitions of missing people in four ranges into consideration. Family members of 55 people turned up at the meeting. Police showed them pictures of unidentified bodies of people in other districts and other states through crime and criminal tracking network systems (CCTNS). Not only the dead, but those alive could also be traced in the system. “When the pictures were shown to them, family members easily identified them. It helped us get missing people back home,” said an intelligence officer. Police managed to trace 10 people, of which eight were reunited with their family members while one was dead in Velliyanai police limit in Karur and another one refused to reunite with the family. A police officer said that most of the incidences of missing can be attributed to love affairs while reasons such as disagreement with family and mental illness were also stated by a few. In cases where the person is an adult and unwilling to reunite, police leave it to their decision, but in cases of minors, they will be brought back home at any cost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/police-reunite-eight-missing-people-with-their-families/articleshow/79397562.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Varanasi||Varanasi to get facial recognition cameras||VARANASI: Completion of a Rs 125 crore project, under which a network of 3,000 CCTV cameras is being developed by incorporating 700 points of the city under the Smart City project, will make the movement of criminals riskier for them as this network also contains automated facial recognition cameras (AFRS) as per the norms fixed by national crime records bureau (NCRB) under Crime and Criminal Tracking Network and Systems (CCTNS). The project is expected to get completed by April 2021 end. Talking to TOI on Tuesday, the chief executive officer of Smart City project and municipal commissioner Gaurang Rathi said, “The project of advanced surveillance system with an investment of Rs 125 crore had been started in the city in July. Under this project, 500 km optical fibre is being laid to provide connectivity at 700 points of the city while all police stations are also being connected with this network. This network will have 3,000 close circuit television cameras in 14 categories including AFRS at 22 vital points. This project is being executed by an Austrian company through its Indian subsidiary, said Rathi adding that the advanced technologies in use in Europe, US and India have been incorporated in this project of advanced surveillance system. “We are also connecting all police stations through the network of optical fibre of this network,” said Rathi adding that the AFRS will be operated as per the norms fixed by NCRB to help identify people by matching digital images, photos and video feed with an already existing database. The AFRS to be installed at city crossing will be a web-based application hosted at the NCRB data centre in Delhi, said the officials adding that as it will be connected with police stations through the CCTNS, the countrywide database of suspects and people wanted for investigations will be accessible to identify or verify a person from various kinds of photo inputs from a digital image file to a video source. The system will offer logical algorithms and simple graphical user interface for facial matching, they said. The advanced surveillance systems command centre will be created separately from integrated command centre of Smart City, said Rathi adding that both the command centres will run on the campus at Shahid Park. Currently entire traffic related exercises are being monitored through integrated command centre of Smart City for which adequate number of policemen have been deployed there, said SSP Amit Pathak, mentioning with the arrival of advanced surveillance system, which will improve the process of tracing or locating suspected persons or criminals for police, required man power will be allocated from department at the new command centre to run it efficiently after getting proper training in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/city-to-get-facial-recognition-cameras/articleshow/79397567.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Pune||Passengers in connecting flights within RT-PCR ambit||PUNE: A senior AAI official on Tuesday said passengers reaching Pune or other airports of Maharashtra by flights connecting Gujarat, Delhi, Goa and Rajasthan would have to either carry the RT-PCR negative test reports or have to undergo the diagnosis on arrival. Worried by the prospect of a post-Diwali surge in Covid-19 cases, the Maharashtra government on Monday imposed stringent restrictions on people travelling to the state from New Delhi, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Goa, all of which have recently seen a spike in numbers.  “The Maharashtra government stated that passengers flying in from the four states need to have a negative RT-PCR test report or they will be tested at the airports on arrival. The order did not state anything on the connecting flights. For example, if a passenger has boarded a flight from Patna, which stops over in Delhi and then comes to Pune, she or he with either need to have the negative test report, failing which a test at the Pune airport will be a must,” the Airports Authorities of India (AAI) official told TOI. “Since the flight is coming from Delhi to Pune, the passengers on board will need to carry the RT-PCR negative test report or will be within the ambit of test on arrival. We have requested the state to clarify its stand on the connecting flights,” he said. Pune airport officials stated that the flyers opting for RT-PCR test on arrival at the facility would have to pay Rs1,600 each. “The flyers will have to pay through plastic cards or e-wallets,” an airport official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/passengers-in-connecting-flights-within-rt-pcr-ambit/articleshow/79396164.cms||Joy Sengupta
November 25, 2020||Pune||34 days later, Gautam Pashankar found in Jaipur hotel||PUNE: A city police team on Tuesday afternoon traced prominent two-wheeler dealer and businessman Gautam Pashankar (65) to a hotel in Jaipur, 34 days after he went missing from near his house off Ganeshkhind Road on October 21. Deputy commissioner of police (crime) Bachchan Singh told TOI, “Working on specific leads that Pashankar had travelled out of Maharashtra, our unit-1 team headed by inspector Sunil Takawale and sub-inspector Sanjay Gaikwad tracked him at hotel Chandragupta in Jaipur around 3pm today (Tuesday). We have informed his family.” Singh said, “Our team, along with Pashankar, is expected to return to Pune on Wednesday. All Covid-19 protocols that the state government has introduced for travellers coming to the city from other parts of the country would be followed.” Singh said, “Pashankar told our team on Tuesday evening that he kept travelling from one city to another all these days, without any purpose, after leaving Pune. He was carrying substantial cash and spent a day or two in hotels at each of the cities he visited.” The DCP said, “From Pune, he first reached Kolhapur by hiring a cab. He then took a bus to Bengaluru, spent a day or two there, before taking a train to Madurai.” “From there, he took trains to Hyderabad, Kolkata and to Delhi. He checked into the Jaipur hotel on November 20,” the DCP added. Pashankar, the chairman of Pashankar Auto, a two-wheeler dealership firm, had left behind a note stating that nobody should be blamed for his action. He wrote that he had been suffering business losses for the past two-three years and his children were suffering because of his decision. The Pune police had launched an extensive search for Pashankar, who also has interests in fuel stations and real estate. Police teams had gone to Kolhapur, the Konkan region and Goa. Pashankar’s son, Kapil, told TOI that he got a call from the crime branch officers giving him the “good news”. “I have not spoken to him (father) yet but shall speak soon. I saw his photo, along with the policemen, circulating on social media. His health appears to have deteriorated a bit. He is a heart patient and I am a bit worried about his health. We are waiting for his arrival here.” Kapil said his family had no links with Jaipur and he had no idea why his father went there. Gautam Pashankar had started with a poultry business in the early 1980s before buying fuel stations and getting into the real estate business. He owns a chain of two-wheeler showrooms and had the four-wheeler dealership for GM and Audi cars.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/34-days-later-pashankar-found-in-jaipur-hotel/articleshow/79397570.cms||Gitesh Shelke
November 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Chief minister to launch Jagananna Thodu today||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy will launch the Jagananna Thodu scheme on Wednesday which aims at providing a helping hand to small and petty vendors across the state. Interest-free loan of Rs 10,000 would be provided to small and petty vendors under the scheme and nearly 10 lakh vendors have applied to avail the scheme. The chief minister will be releasing Rs 1,000 crore and the amount will be credited into beneficiaries’ bank accounts. The scheme took shape after Jagan Mohan Reddy saw the plight of small and petty traders during his 3,648-km long Praja Sankalpa Yatra. The scheme is to free vendors from paying heavy interest to the loans taken from private parties and falling into debts. The banks will be providing loans to all the eligible members and the government shall pay the interest of the loan amount to banks, by reimbursing it to beneficiaries’ accounts. The state government had also started a special web portal to coordinate with banks and to implement the scheme giving no scope for corruption. The beneficiaries will also be provided with QR based smart ID cards and the scheme will be monitored by SERP, MEPMA officials. Vegetable vendors, fruit vendors, small shopkeepers, pushcart vendors, and traditional artisans are eligible to apply for the scheme. The volunteers of the village/ward secretariat have identified the beneficiaries in the recent survey and the list of beneficiaries is being displayed at secretariats for social audit. If any eligible person was not covered in this scheme, they can still apply through volunteers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/chief-minister-to-launch-jagananna-thodu-today/articleshow/79395133.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Pune||Extension likely for tax amnesty scheme||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is contemplating on extending the amnesty scheme for property tax defaulters. The scheme has got poor response from defaulters. Only around Rs195 crore has been collected from them. The civic body had set aside a target of around Rs1,000 crore. Over Rs4,000 crore is yet to recovered from tax defaulters. As per the PMC officials, the deadline for payment is November 30. Only around 76,000 taxpayers have paid the dues. The total number of defaulters is nearly 4.5 lakh. The total recovery includes Rs2,500 crore as interest and Rs2,000 crore of actual tax. It was launched around two months back. According to PMC officials, property tax is one of the biggest income sources for the civic body. Specially after other income sources like octroi, local body tax have been abolished. Around Rs1,500 crore is expected from tax in the current fiscal. “The extension can be given after due approval of the committees. They include standing committee and general body. The proposal for extension will be given based on the recommendations or demands from elected members,” said a senior official of the PMC. As per the PMC data, the 10.5 lakh properties are entitled to pay property tax. The number of properties had gone up in 2017 after the inclusion of 11 villages in municipal limits. Around 2 lakh properties have been added in the tax limits after that merger. The PMC provides discount to property tax payers who pay tax before May 31 every year. “We are hoping to receive more response from defaulters. The PMC has publicised the initiative across civic areas. The scheme may be extended in the days to come,” said Hemant Rasane, chairman of the standing committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/extension-likely-for-tax-amnesty-scheme/articleshow/79396165.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Trichy||Flood-prone roads to be identified in Trichy||TRICHY: The Trichy Corporation has deputed teams across the 65 wards here to map inundation prone roads, junctions and streets after the India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued a heavy rainfall warning due to the cyclonic storm Nivar. After collating the data, the civic body has planned to install cost-effective roadside rainwater harvesting (RWH) structures in low-lying areas to divert the runoff water to recharge the groundwater. The move come after the pilot roadside RWH structures yielded successful results. An official from the engineering department said the RWH structures, which require less than 50sqft space, will be installed at vacant spaces adjacent to the roads for channelising the surplus water. The civic body will install three to six parallel PVC perforated pipes for a depth of 10-12m and cover them with gravel and sand over which perforated slabs will be positioned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/flood-prone-roads-to-be-identified/articleshow/79397575.cms||Deepak Karthik
November 25, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Flyers ground their plans over test mandate||PUNE: The Maharashtra government’s order on the requirement of a mandatory RT-PCR negative test report to enter the state for flyers from Goa, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Delhi has not only compelled travellers to and from Pune to ground their journey plans to these destinations, but has also left them a confused lot. Travel companies estimated about 10%-50% cancellations and rescheduling of Christmas and New Year plans to these states. Business travellers questioned the requirement of an RT-PCR test, as such trips involved only a day of travel. City resident Akash Sukhwani told TOI, “We are confused with the new norms. We are travelling to Dehradun for my sister’s wedding. While coming back, we have a hopping flight via Ahemdabad to Pune. Airports authorities in Maharashtra have not confirmed whether or not we have to do an RT-PCR test before or upon reaching Pune. Ahmedabad is only a transit stop for us.” Another passenger questioned the state police authorities on social media, “What is the policy for air passengers using Mumbai airport as transit ? Somebody flying from Goa to Jabalpur via Mumbai with two hours’ transit at Mumbai airport will also need a test? And what about those passengers using Delhi airport to reach Pune, but have not stayed in Delhi?” Vikas Agarwal, director of VT Travel, said, “One of my clients was going to Delhi from Pune to pick her grand daughter in December. She called me on Tuesday and told me to reschedule her tickets to January, as it would now not be possible for her to go on account of the negative RT-PCR test requirement on return to Pune. Getting tested in Delhi or on return in Pune is a big hassle for her. At our travel firm, around 50% travellers bound to these states have decided to cancel their trips, 25% are rescheduling their plans and the rest are just gauging the situation.” Agarwal said plans to Rajasthan and Goa have been affected in particular as people were travelling to these locations for leisure, during the Christmas and New Year period. Shaishav Parekh, partner, Panam Tours and Travels, said travel companies were awaiting more clarity on the order. “There’s confusion among business travellers bound for Goa and Delhi, as they are wondering if the requirement for an RT-PCR test holds true even for those who return to Pune within a day. It’s impractical to get an RT-PCR test done at the end of a trip that starts in the morning and concludes in the same city in the evening.” Rishikesh Pujari, director of Vihar Travels said plans for Goa, which was the top destination, were the worst affected due to the mandatory testing requirement. “Many people were travelling to Goa by road, but the antigen test requirement for those (with flu-like symptoms) returning from Goa to Maharashtra is another spoiler. Around 10% of my clients have cancelled their Goa plans after the state’s decision on mandatory testing and symptom check-ups on those returning from any of the four states mentioned in the order,” Pujari said. He said plans to visit Maharashtra temple towns such as Shirdi were also likely to be shelved. “Many people visit Shirdi from the southern parts of the country and Delhi, among other places. But the mandatory negative RT-PCR test requirement will dissuade people from visiting the state,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/flyers-ground-their-plans-over-test-mandate/articleshow/79396170.cms||Neha Madaan
November 25, 2020||Bareilly||Pilibhit DM orders Covid testing of travellers coming from Delhi||PILIBHIT: With the national capital reeling under the third wave of novel coronavirus infections, Pilibhit district magistrate Pulkit Khare has ordered Covid-19 testing of all travellers coming from Delhi. Following the order, three joint teams of health personnel, civil police and traffic police constituted to carry out testings round the clock at Lalaurikhera — the main entrance to Pilibhit from Delhi. According to the DM, the move is aimed at preventing further spread of Covid-19 infection in the district. “Each health department team comprises a lab technician, an assistant technician and a helper and two constables for all three shifts have been deployed on special duty. One traffic police inspector will, however, supervise the stopping of roadways buses and private vehicles coming from Delhi for sample collection of the travellers,” said additional chief medical officer CM Chaturvedi. The DM said, “From Wednesday, joint teams will also start functioning at two more entry points — Churra Sakatpur village on Bisalpur-Bareilly road and Guladia Bhindara village on Bareilly-Hardwar national highway.” According to the health department, a total of 3,916 Covid-19 positive cases were reported in the district till November 22, of which 3,738 recovered. Of the remaining 178, 104 active cases are undergoing treatment at different Covid-19 facilities, while 74 succumbed to the deadly virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pilibhit-dm-orders-covid-testing-of-travellers-coming-from-delhi/articleshow/79395145.cms||Keshav Agarwal
November 25, 2020||Meerut||Hastinapur Ganga conservation model to be extended up to Prayagraj||Meerut: Plans are afoot to replicate the Hastinapur Wildlife Sanctuary model to conserve ecosystem of the river Ganga all along 1,200 km downstream up to Prayagraj in UP after some 3,000 turtles, many of them endangered, were released into the Ganga at the sanctuary over the past eight years. The success is a result of a joint initiative by UP forest division and World Wide Fund for Nature-India (WWF India). According to the forest department, the River for Life Programme of WWF was launched in 2012. It envisaged Ganga as a healthy river system rich in biodiversity, providing long-term water security to communities and nature. Initially, it was a five-year programme. Later, it was extended. Turtles, the natural scavengers of the river, play a vital role in the Ganga's eco-system.Riverbed farmers were crucial to the sustenance of this programme. Over the years, they have become saviours of the turtles. But it took time for expert teams to sensitise the riverbed farmers of Makhoompur area of Hastinapur about how important the endangered turtles are in preservation of the river. The teams approached around 10 villages located on the river banks that encompass a stretch of 50 km. These villagers informed the teams about 53 nests which had a total of 578 eggs in 2014. These eggs were then placed in specially developed hatcheries on the riverbank and hatchlings transferred to the turtle pond at Hastinapur forest training centre. After four months, they were released back into Ganga. Over a period of time, this community-driven programme has resulted in the release of over 3,000 turtles. A majority of the turtles released belong to three species -- Three striped turtle Batagur Dhongoka, Brown Roofed Turtle ‘pangshura smithii’ and ‘pangshura tecta’ (Indian roofed turtle). At present 350 Ganga mitras (villagers trained in conservation) are involved in the conservation and the same formula is set to be replicated all along the river up to Prayagraj as riverbed farming takes place till Prayagraj. Speaking with TOI, chief conservator forest, Aligarh division, Aditi Sharma, said, "We have plans to extend conservation efforts beyond the sanctuary. Recently, a meeting had taken place in this regard in Kasganj also. Hastinapur sanctuary model of conservation has been very successful and the same strategy of involving riparian communities will be deployed there as well."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/hastinapur-ganga-conservation-model-to-be-extended-up-to-prayagraj/articleshow/79395127.cms||Sandeep Rai
November 25, 2020||Varanasi||MLC graduate constituency polls bring out Cong internal rifts in open again||Varanasi: Infighting between the two lobbies in Congress, one led by former MP Rajesh Mishra, and the other by former minister Ajay Rai, has resurfaced with both fielding their own candidates in MLC (graduate constituency) election. Rai, who enjoys the backing of late Pt Kamlapati Tripathi’s family, has galvanized party’s district and city units behind Nageshwar Singh, while Mishra has opened office of Sanjeev Singh at his residence. Interestingly, both candidates are contesting as Independent. Mishra claims Congress support had been promised to Sanjeev at the time of his joining the party about 10 months ago. He told TOI on Tuesday, “When Sanjeev had joined, a letter was issued by Congress general secretary Mukul Wasnik making it clear that he has been authorized by party’s interim president Sonia Gandhi to contest MLC election from Varanasi. So, Sanjeev worked hard and filed his nomination.” Rai said, “Sanjeev was not given authorization letter by UPCC president and state election in-charge and has filed nomination as Independent.” He justified his support to Nageshwar claiming he had bagged over 13,000 votes in the last MLC election as Independent. The party’s city chief Raghvendra Chaubey said Sanjeev had been alerted in September that he was not putting his best, and hence the district and city units preferred Nageshwar and admitted Congress did not allot party symbol to any candidate only in Varanasi constituency. Rai claims 90% of party leaders and workers are supporting Nageshwar while Mishra vouches for a good show by Sanjeev. The two lobbies have separated after presenting a united face over the last four-five years. For over five decades, the family of Congress stalwart, late Kamlapati Tripathi, has maintained its dominance in Varanasi region. The blessings of Tripathi family in Aurangabad House were a must for any leader till Mishra won MLC and Lok Sabha election in 2004. Tripathi lobby brought Rai in party after he quit BJP and contested 2009 parliamentary election on Samajwadi Party ticket. Rai was fielded against PM Narendra Modi in the 2014 election. Before the 2017 assembly elections, Congress high command handed key responsibilities to both Tripathi’s grandson Rajeshpati Tripathi and Mishra to bring them together, but the façade of unity has crumbled with the beginning of MLC election process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/mlc-graduate-constituency-polls-bring-out-cong-internal-rifts-in-open-again/articleshow/79397572.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Pune||Pune: Bank finds card skimmer, camera on ATM in Camp||PUNE: The Cantonment police removed a card skimmer and a camera found attached to the cash dispenser of a cooperative bank’s automated teller machine (ATM) in Camp on Monday. “The skimmer and the camera unit were detected before anyone could use their card at the ATM,” senior inspector Ashok Kadam of the Cantonment police said, Police said the bank officials sensed something was wrong with the ATM, downed the shutters and called the police immediately. “We removed the skimmer and camera,” Kadam said. A skimmer is used to capture a card’s data from its magnetic strip, while the camera was set up in such a way as to record the user keying in the PIN. This way, fraudsters duplicate/clone cards and use them. “The duplicate cards contain all the information and can be used to withdraw money from an individual’s bank account,” Kadam said. “A very small camera is attached to a plastic surface and looks very similar to the cash dispensing unit. It is placed just above the ATM’s keypad, while the card reader is attached to the ATM’s card slot,” Kadam explained. The camera and the skimmer have a three-hour battery life. “In that period, the suspects harvest card data from the ATM,” Kadam said. “Before inserting cards into an ATM machine, people should always check if it has an extended or enlarged card reader. If so, they should immediately report it to the bank authorities or the police,” Kadam said. Last month, the Sinhagad road police found a skimmer and camera installed on an ATM operated by a private bank in Anandnagar. In a bid to catch the crooks who installed these devices, the police staked out he ATM. However, when the fraudsters never showed up, the police removed the skimmer. In January, a Nigerian citizen living in Pune landed in the police net for allegedly installing a card cloning device and a pinhole camera on an ATM in Undri. The same month, three petrol pump attendants in Camp and their handler were arrested for installing skimmers and using the data to siphon off money from people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bank-finds-card-skimmer-camera-on-atm-in-camp/articleshow/79396197.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Goa||Including Old Goa in Kadamba plateau ODP will spell doom for conservation areas: Sardesai||Panaji: Goa Forward Party (GFP) president Vijai Sardesai on Tuesday said that the government’s move to include Ella village in Old Goa in the Greater Panaji PDA area under Kadamba plateau ODP will spell doom for the conservation areas of the Old Goa churches. Sardesai said if the Old Goa village is included in the PDA area, the permissible building height will be about 30m in various commercial zones (C1) as opposed to the 9m height restriction currently allowed in panchayat areas under the regional plan. The former town and country planning (TCP) minister alleged that the BJP government wants to make Old Goa into Dubai with high rise buildings. The entire development will be close to the world heritage monuments in the former Portuguese capital, he said. Addressing a press conference, Sardesai said that when he headed the TCP department they had proposed only 1.5km on either side of the Kadamba plateau road to be included into the PDA, not interfering with the conservation area. He said that at a time when the protests of double tracking and coal expansion are going on in the state, the government is clandestinely trying to bring the Old Goa area under the PDA alleging Rs 1,000 crore scam. He claimed that many Delhites have bought land in Old Goa. He further said that the Bainguinim garbage treatment plant also being set up in the area is not being planned for Panaji city, but for this new city, which will develop around the PDA. Last week, TCP board said that they would consider the suggestion of the Old Goa panchayat to bring those areas under the Greater Panaji Planning and Development Authority.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/including-old-goa-in-kadamba-plateau-odp-will-spell-doom-for-conservation-areas-sardesai/articleshow/79398475.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Pune||PMC clarifies no charges for water meter installation||PUNE: The civic administration has clarified that citizens will not be expected to pay any charges against installation of water meters as part of the 24X7 water supply project. The administration made the clarification after it received complaints about demand for money to fix meters.  Over 23,000 meters have been installed across the city so far. The target is to install 3.18 lakh meters. Meetings are also being held with local corporators to avoid opposition by residents. The administration has appealed citizens to cooperate in the installation process. Citizens have been urged to register complaints with the water supply department in case of demand for money. The water meters are being fixed as a component of the 24X7 water supply project that aims at equitable distribution of water across the city. The administration is also working on laying pipelines and constructing over 80 water storage tanks to ensure adequate availability across the city. An official from the water supply department said, “We had received some complaints from citizens about demand for money by unidentified persons for fixing of meters. Taking cognisance of the complaints, an appeal has been issued that the administration has not been collecting any charges. We have also asked local ward offices to clarify doubts, in case citizens approach them with complaints. Contractors executing the water supply projects have also been asked to check if anyone is demanding money from citizens.” Meanwhile, the administration has said that the targeted installation of 3.18 lakh water meters includes commercial and domestic connections. The administration will check the functioning of meters and not collect any charges based on meter readings initially. “We have not started imposing water bills based on the meters. That process is yet to be undertaken,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-clarifies-no-charges-for-water-meter-installation/articleshow/79396206.cms||Sarang Dastane
November 25, 2020||Surat||Surat: Teen attempts to rape eight-year-old girl||SURAT: An eight-year-old girl was sexually assaulted by a teenager on the terrace of the residential building in Godadara where they lived. Police booked the accused identified as Vikramsinh Rajput (19) who had sexually assaulted the minor on Monday evening after luring her with ice cream. When the girl screamed for help, Rajput fled there fearing that he would be nabbed, said police. “We have identified Rajput’s location and he will be nabbed soon,” said police. Rajput works as a labourer in a metal fabrication shop near his house. The minor’s father is also a labourer in a powerloom unit. The survivor’s family is from Bihar. Rajput has been booked for rape and sections of Protection of Children From Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/teen-attempts-to-rape-eight-year-old-girl/articleshow/79395168.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Bareilly||Woman, paramour booked for killing husband||Pilibhit: A woman and her paramour — a journalist — were on Tuesday booked for killing the former’s husband, following the chief judicial magistrate’s order. In his complaint, Devendra Kumar Agnihotri of Hussaipur Khurd village under Puranpur kotwali stated that he had married his only son, Ankit, to Deepali Tripathi of Kashi Ram Awas Vikas Colony under Pilibhit kotwali on February 24, 2018. His daughter-in-law had an illicit relationship with the journalist, Sudhir Dixit, and they killed his son by giving him poison on June 15, 2018, alleged Agnihotri. Deepali Also damaged her mobile phone and left his house to stay with her parents, said Agnihotri. Suspecting his daughter-in-law’s behaviour, he had once checked her mobile phone and was shocked to find her photographs with Dixit and their love messages, alleged Agnihotri. Puranpur kotwali SHO SK Singh said an FIR was registered against Sudhir Dixit and Deepali — both on the run — under section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and they would be arrested soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/woman-paramour-booked-for-killing-husband/articleshow/79395160.cms||Keshav Agarwal
November 25, 2020||Vijayawada||2 dead in bike car collision||Vijayawada: Two men died while one suffered grievous injuries after a car rammed against a two-wheeler in Nidumolu village under Movva mandal in Krishna district on Tuesday. The deceased were identified as M Srinivasa Rao (48), a truck driver from Kalapatnam village and Mohammed Imtiaz (27) from Penugudi village. According to sub-inspector of Kuchipudi police station Satyanarayana, the accident took place early in the moring at around 5 am when three persons were travelling on two bikes. Cops said a car heading from Machilipatnam to Vijayawada crashed against the bikers while trying to overtake a cyclist. Cops said that J Srinivasa Rao (40) who was riding one of the bikes suffered injuries as he lost control of the vehicle after the collision. Upon information, cops reached the spot and shifted J Srinivas Rao to government general hospital. Imtiaz succumbed to his injuries on the way to the hospital while M Srinivas Rao died on the spot. “The two deceased were shifted to the mortuary for post-mortem. A case has been registered under section 304A of IPC,” Satyanarayana said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/2-dead-in-bike-car-collision/articleshow/79395181.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Bus services to delta districts suspended||TRICHY: The usually busy Central bus terminus here wore a deserted look on Tuesday as people chose to be cautious and avoid any travel ahead of cyclone Nivar, expected to make landfall on Wednesday. Although bus services including private fleet were suspended only by noon, transport corporation officials said that the patronage was poor even in the morning. “It seems people following the cyclonic storm updates have either postponed or cancelled their travel. Since Tuesday morning, we saw a significant dip in demand for buses in the central region,” a senior TNSTC official said. Buses to Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam, Pudukkottai and Viluppuram were suspended by the government as a precautionary measure. Except for incoming buses that have started from their destinations before the suspension of services, other buses were moved to the depots at Cantonment. “If there is a significant crowd waiting for a particular destination, we were told to operate a bus to help the passengers reach their respective places,” a TNSTC official at the Central bus stand said. As only mofussil buses to districts where heavy rainfall is anticipated were suspended, city and intra-district buses continued their services. In Thanjavur, people faced hardships due to suspension of bus services as several passengers who arrived at the New Bus Stand in Thanjavur from various parts of the state could not get connecting buses to proceed to Kumbakonam, Papanasam and Tiruvarur. Passengers were clueless about the situation as they were unaware of the announcement made by the government to suspend bus services in select districts. Many passengers were waiting at the bus stand hoping that at least private mofussil buses would come. TNSTC staff at the bus stand explained the government’s announcement and asked them to hire private vehicles to continue their journey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bus-services-to-delta-districts-suspended/articleshow/79397585.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Surat||Special train to bring back 1,300 Odisha workers||Surat: Amid fears of another exodus of migrant workers, a special train to Odisha will bring back nearly 1,300 powerloom units workers who are desperate to return and start earning a living but are helpless due to severe financial crunch. Aptly named ‘Powerloom Workers Express,’ the train has been arranged by Pravasi Shramik Suraksha Manch (PSSM), a city-based association of Odisha labourers, with the help of Aajeevika Bureau, a voluntary organization. The train will reach Brahmapur station on Wednesday evening and bring back 1,296 workers to Surat on Friday morning. All these workers are natives of Ganjam district. “A large section of powerloom workers had returned to Surat in the last two months. PSSM identified hundreds of them from Ganjam district who had no savings to even pay for return tickets. Moreover, tickets that cost Rs 700 were being sold for Rs 3,000 by agents,” said Sanjay Patel, coordinator of Aajeevika Bureau. Financial assistance for the initiative was provided by Home First, a micro-finance organisation. A door-to-door mapping was done in the villages of Ganjam to identify vulnerable families who would benefit from the free tickets. Later, a passenger list with complete ID documentation was prepared. “The return of these workers is crucial so that they can start earning for their families after a crippling lockdown. Surat’s powerlooms are the backbone of the city’s economy, so workers’ return will play a crucial role in the economic recovery,” Patel added. Several migrant-dominated areas of the city had witnessed unruly scenes during the lockdown and rioting had also broken out as they desperately demanded transportation back home. Out of nearly 25 lakh migrant population, a large number of workers from Odisha, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, and Rajasthan,||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/special-train-to-bring-back-1300-odisha-workers/articleshow/79395093.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
November 25, 2020||Kanpur||2 brothers electrocuted, kin protest||Kanpur: Two brothers were electrocuted after they came in contact with a live wire at Pachor village in Chaubeypur area of the district on late Monday night. The family members and residents on Tuesday morning placed the bodies and staged a protest and blocked the busy GT Road in Mandhana following the mishap and alleged that the negligence of the power staff led to the death of the youths. The deceased have been identified as Ajay Kumar Gautam (22) and his brother Karan (20), residents of Pachor village in Chaubeypur. SP (Rural) Brijesh Kumar Srivastava said the incident occurred late on Monday night, while they were on their way back home when they allegedly came in contact with a live snapped wire in their village. The locals who heard their screams, rushed to see what happened and after finding the victims entangle in wire alerted the police and power department. The power department after taking shut down rushed to the spot and removed the victims from the wire. The locals then rushed them to a hospital in Kalyanpur, where doctors pronounced them dead on arrival, said the SP further. Irked over the incident, angry villagers took the bodies to GT Road in Mandhana and staged a blockade demanding that suitable compensation be given to the family of the deceased, besides strict action against guilty power department employees. The villagers claimed that the incident was not mere an accident, rather it was a case of death due to negligence on part of the power department. The villagers had at around 7 pm on Monday repeatedly complained about the live snapped wire lying in the village and had asked local sub-station employees for those wires to be removed or fixed from pole to avoid people from getting electrocuted. But the power department staff had ignored it. Monday night’s tragedy which resulted in the death of the siblings because of the same live wires, left the villagers furious. Senior district and police officials later assured the protesters of strict action against the guilty persons following which they called off the road blockade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/2-brothers-electrocuted-kin-protest/articleshow/79397581.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Meerut||Hastinapur Ganga conservation model to be extended up to Prayagraj||MEERUT: Plans are afoot to replicate the Hastinapur Wildlife Sanctuary model to conserve ecosystem of the river Ganga all along 1,200 km downstream up to Prayagraj in UP after some 3,000 turtles, many of them endangered, were released into the Ganga at the sanctuary over the past eight years. The success is a result of a joint initiative by UP forest division and World Wide Fund for Nature-India (WWF India). According to the forest department, the River for Life Programme of WWF was launched in 2012. It envisaged Ganga as a healthy river system rich in biodiversity, providing long-term water security to communities and nature. Initially, it was a five-year programme. Later, it was extended. Turtles, the natural scavengers of the river, play a vital role in the Ganga's eco-system. Riverbed farmers were crucial to the sustenance of this programme. Over the years, they have become saviours of the turtles. But it took time for expert teams to sensitise the riverbed farmers of Makhoompur area of Hastinapur about how important the endangered turtles are in preservation of the river. The teams approached around 10 villages located on the river banks that encompass a stretch of 50 km. These villagers informed the teams about 53 nests which had a total of 578 eggs in 2014. These eggs were then placed in specially developed hatcheries on the riverbank and hatchlings transferred to the turtle pond at Hastinapur forest training centre. After four months, they were released back into Ganga. Over a period of time, this community-driven programme has resulted in the release of over 3,000 turtles. A majority of the turtles released belong to three species -- Three striped turtle Batagur Dhongoka, Brown Roofed Turtle ‘pangshura smithii’ and ‘pangshura tecta’ (Indian roofed turtle). At present 350 Ganga mitras (villagers trained in conservation) are involved in the conservation and the same formula is set to be replicated all along the river up to Prayagraj as riverbed farming takes place till Prayagraj. Speaking with TOI, chief conservator forest, Aligarh division, Aditi Sharma, said, "We have plans to extend conservation efforts beyond the sanctuary. Recently, a meeting had taken place in this regard in Kasganj also. Hastinapur sanctuary model of conservation has been very successful and the same strategy of involving riparian communities will be deployed there as well."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/hastinapur-ganga-conservation-model-to-be-extended-up-to-prayagraj/articleshow/79395173.cms||Sandeep Rai
November 25, 2020||Bareilly||UP: Suspecting adultery, man kills wife, dumps body in cane field||BAREILLY: Police claimed to have cracked the murder mystery of a woman whose naked body packed in a sack was found dumped in a cane field in Simaria Sahaspur village in Kaanth area of Shahjahanpur district on November 21. Police said during investigation it came to fore that the woman was killed by her husband on the suspicion of her being in an illicit relationship. After committing the crime, the accused lodged a complaint that his wife had eloped and took away all jewellery, said police. Police arrested the husband and his father for murder and hiding evidence. The couple had got married in February, while the woman was killed on November 6, said police. Victim Neha (20) was married to Vedpal, a farmer, on February 16, but Vedpal took his wife home on October 20 allegedly over dowry issues. On November 6, Vedpal saw Neha talking to a cousin over the phone and suspecting her of being in an extramarital relationship, he strangled her, said police. Shahjahanpur SSP S Anand said, “It was a tough case to crack, but after Neha's father identified her body, the case became wide open. During questioning, the accused and his father accepted their crime. We have booked them under relevant sections of IPC. They were sent to jail on Tuesday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/suspecting-adultery-man-kills-wife-dumps-body-in-cane-field/articleshow/79395170.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 25, 2020||Lucknow||Now, Ayodhya airport named after Shri Ram||LUCKNOW: The Ayodhya Airport has been named Maryada Purushottam Shri Ram Airport. The decision was taken by the UP cabinet on Tuesday. The cabinet decided to send the proposal to the civil aviation ministry. Meanwhile, the cabinet approved a proposal to give relief to farmers and traders and reduced mandi fees from 2% to 1%. Now, for trading within a mandi, one will have to pay 1.5% fees against 2.5%, which includes 0.5% as development charges which remain unchanged. The move will encourage trade within the mandi, especially in light of the new agricultural laws under which farmers need not sell their wares within a mandi, said an official. Currently, 1% is the lowest that the government can charge as mandi fees. As per the Agricultural Produce Market Regulations of 1964, the mandi fees has to be within the 1-2% bracket. The cabinet also cleared the UP State Court Video Conferencing Rules, 2020. The rules had been proposed by the high court to allow work in courts through video conferencing, necessitated by Covid-19 pandemic. The cabinet approved a proposal to promulgate the UP Education Institutes (Reservation in Academic Cadre) Ordinance, 2020. Under this, UP will follow the recruitment reservation system which is being implemented by higher education institutes under the Centre. Under this, 10% reservation for economically weaker sections will be incorporated. For the purpose of reservation, a university will be considered as a single unit, as will aided degree colleges. However, all government degree colleges will together be considered as a single unit. This rule will not be implemented in minority universities. The cabinet has approved phase 2 of organic farming scheme in Hamirpur district. The first phase of the scheme was implemented from 2016 to 2019. The second phase is proposed to start from this year and will cost Rs 14.28 crore. In another decision, Punvarka college will be absorbed in Saharanpur university. With this, the 91 acres of the college and its buildings will be included in Saharanpur University. The teaching and non-teaching staff of the college will be absorbed by other colleges and all vacant posts will be cancelled. No new admissions will take place in the college in 2021-22 session. A decision was also taken to revise the salaries of teachers and vice-chancellor of UP Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay Veterinary Hospital and cow research centre in Mathura as per the seventh pay commission rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/now-ayodhya-airport-named-after-shri-ram/articleshow/79398476.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Lucknow||6,000 women in UP bag jobs to manage community toilets||Lucknow: About 6,000 women from self-help groups have been appointed to manage community toilets constructed in gram panchayats in the state. The government aims at providing jobs to another 52,000 women as and when more toilets are completed. On directions of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, each woman will be paid Rs 6,000 per month. “Community toilets are being constructed in all 58,000 gram panchayats under Swachh Bharat Abhiyaan. For each toilet, Rs 3 lakh has been sanctioned,” an official said and added that in several districts, larger community toilets of ‘better standard’ are being constructed for which, women who are responsible for maintaining them, will be given PPE kits, gloves, chemicals twice a year. Additional chief secretary, panchayati raj, Manoj Kumar Singh said the government is aiming at completing the construction of toilets in the entire state by March, 2021. “As construction is completed, employment will be provided to women of SHGs. We are also conducting third party verification of toilets which have been completed in which we will look at quality of construction.” For the maintenance of these toilets, the government will be giving Rs 9,000 each month to gram panchayats. This will also be used to pay salary to person managing the toilet. Toilets will have to be cleaned at least twice a day. Another Rs 500 per month will be given for electrical repairs, plumbing, taps and for cleaning equipment like broom, brushes, wipers, sponges, clothes, mop, bucket, mug. Once every six months, Rs 1,000 will also be given for disinfectant material like soap, washing powder, air freshener, toilet cleaner, mask, gloves and aprons. An additional Rs 1,000 will be given as utility charges for water, electricity and solid waste management and Rs 300 per month for other expenses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/6000-women-in-up-bag-jobs-to-manage-community-toilets/articleshow/79398478.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 25, 2020||Surat||Jamsetji’s portrait from e-waste unveiled||Surat: An electronics retailer of Tata Group unveiled a unique portrait of the founder of the group, Jamsetji Tata, making use of components of e-waste, at its outlet at Navsari.Conceptualized with the help of the Institute of Design and Technology, Surat, the portrait has been created to honour the founding father of the Tata Group at his birthplace and its newly opened outlet. According to the statement, this unique piece of art has been crafted skilfully with the intelligent use of dysfunctional electronic components ranging from wires for embroidery, capacitors as ornaments, keyboard keys for eyebrows and camera lenses in the place of eyes. “With our 176th outlet in Navsari, the birthplace of Jamsetji Tata, we wanted to do something special and unique. We felt it was the right way to honour the contribution of our founding father,” said Ritesh Ghosal, the manager of the outlet. Arushi Upreti, faculty at the Institute of Design and Technology told TOI, “We had earlier made Gandhiji’s portrait using crafts from across India. So, when the electronic store wanted to make Jamsetji's portrait from e-waste we agreed. The store provided us with the raw material.” The e-waste includes wires, capacitors, keyboards keys, camera lenses and jute fabrics to tie the wires, added Upreti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/jamsetjis-portrait-from-e-waste-unveiled/articleshow/79395123.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Kanpur||Man injured in collpase of buildings succumbs to injuries||KANPUR: A 70-year-old man, who was rescued from the debris of two multi-storey buildings that had collapsed on Monday, succumbed to his injuries during the course of treatment at the Lala Lajpat Rai (LLR) hospital in the early hours of Tuesday. The deceased was identified as Rakesh Sharma, a resident of Qulie Bazar. On Monday evening, Sharma was rescued by fire department, police and members of Civil Defence and local residents. He was initially admitted to the Ursala Horseman Memorial (UHM) hospital, from where he was later shifted to the LLR Hospital. But his health condition further deteriorated and he succumbed to wounds during treatment, said SSP/DIG Preetinder Singh. Meanwhile, on Tueday morning divisional commissioner Raj shekhar visited the incident site in Qulie Bazar locality. The SDRF (State Disaster Relief Force) from Lucknow arrived at the incident site late on Monday night and they remained there at the spot for necessary action. After interacting with the SDRF and a detailed site inspection, the commissioner asked the DM and the SSP/DIG to discuss the present situation with KDA, Nagar Nigam officers, SDRF & Engineering departments and to work out a plan for protection of the existing nearby buildings which are in close vicinity and are in risk zone of collapse. The divisional commissioner further instructed authorities to ensure sufficient food, winter care, health check up and shelter for all those persons who have been evacuated from damaged and collapsed buildings, and the nearby buildings which fall in ‘Risk Zone.’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/man-injured-in-collpase-of-buildings-succumbs-to-injuries/articleshow/79397596.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Goa||AAP’s failed governance behind Delhi’s problems: Congress||Panaji: Failed governance by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in Delhi is the reason behind the uncontrolled spike in Covid cases, unchecked and severe increase in pollution and rise in crime, Congress charged on Tuesday. In a scathing attack on AAP, Congress spokesperson Swati Kerkar said, “Every fourth Indian who dies of Covid daily is in Delhi (which accounts for over 25% of the daily Covid deaths in India). Of this, 13% of the rise in Covid cases is linked to the rise in pollution. Throughout the year, Delhi is gripped with pollution, but AAP neither addresses the problem nor has a solution, except for blaming others” Kerkar criticised both, the Delhi and Goa governments, deeming them as “the worst Covid managed states” in the country. “AAP in Goa has joined hands with BJP to divert attention away from Covid mismanagement in the state and their bastion in Delhi. BJP Goa is working in tandem with AAP to divert attention away from their failure to completely plug Covid incidences in the state,” Kerkar said. AAP in Goa seems to have forgotten Covid and has joined hands with BJP to divert attention away from Covid mismanagement in the state and their bastion in Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aaps-failed-governance-behind-delhis-problems-congress/articleshow/79398502.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Bareilly||Three cow slaughterers nabbed in Pilibhit after encounter||Pilibhit: Three men were arrested for trying to slaughter two stolen cows after a brief encounter with a police team from Jahanabad police station on the banks of river Devha at Meerapur village in Pilibhit district early on Tuesday morning. Anil Kumar Sharma, sub inspector who was heading the police team, said the trio opened fire on spotting them. After overpowering them, police seized a pistol, one used and one live cartridge and some implements used for slaughtering animals. The two cows were rescued. The three were identified as Munna, 21, of Nisra village and Nazim, 25, (25) and Shamsul Hassan, 30, of Sundarpur village under the same police station, he said. Sharma said the three confessed to being involved for a long time in stealing and slaughtering cattle for selling their hide and meat. Harish Vardhan Singh, SHO, said police registered three FIRs in the matter. One FIR was lodged against Nazim under provisions the firearms Act. The second FIR was registered under IPC section 307 (attempt to murder) and 379 (theft) while the third one was registered under provisions of the UP Prevention of Cow Slaughter Act and Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960. All three accused were booked in the last two FIRs, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/three-cow-slaughterers-nabbed-in-pilibhit-after-encounter/articleshow/79395209.cms||Keshav Agarwal
November 25, 2020||Trichy||Tangedco keeps 50,000 electric poles in stock for central region||TRICHY: Tangedco has geared up for cyclone Nivar on the back of lessons learnt from cyclone Gaja that hit the region in 2018. The authorities have mobilised 50,000 electric poles for the central districts. However, Tangedco is hopeful that the newly-installed RCC poles after the Gaja cyclone will withstand the impact of the cyclone. Officials said that 24-hour control rooms have been set up in all the superintending engineer offices of the seven central districts and are likely to operate till Thursday. Although all the 28 divisions are on alert, northern Nagapattinam district encompassing Sirkazhi has been identified as a vulnerable zone where additional focus will be rendered. “During Gaja cyclone, we replaced over 3.5 lakh electricity poles in Trichy region. We are hopeful that we will witness less damage this time as the infrastructure is new,” M Valarmathi, chief engineer, Tangedco (Trichy region) told TOI. Officials added that they may turn off the electric supply if the wind gains speed. Meanwhile, Trichy city police have deployed personnel who have received disaster response training from fire and rescue department to tackle the impact of the cyclonic storm. As many as 41 schools and colleges were identified to accommodate the people to be evacuated from low-lying areas. A 66-member police team, including women police personnel, with 36 types of equipment has been mobilised to take up rescue efforts in the affected areas in Trichy. People in distress were requested to contact the city police through the helpline numbers 0431-2331929 and 96262-73399.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tangedco-keeps-50000-electric-poles-in-stock-for-central-region/articleshow/79397597.cms||Deepak Karthik
November 25, 2020||Rajkot||Teenager abducted to Chotila, raped||Rajkot: A 16-year-old girl was allegedly abducted to Chotila and repeatedly raped on November 19. The girl’s mother lodged a complaint at Kuvadava Road police station on Monday when the girl complained of intense pain in her abdomen. Police said that the girl had gone with the accused Sanjay Koli in an auto-rickshaw to Chotila on November 19. Koli raped the girl there repeatedly and when she complained of pain, he dropped her back home. On November 22, the girl developed pain after which she told her mother about what had transpired. She also said that even before November 19, Koli had raped her at the home of one Raghu Koli.The girl’s mother took her to the doctor and later approached police. Koli was detained on Monday and has been kept in quarantine. Police said that Koli married a woman a year back but they soon divorced due to marital tensions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/teenager-abducted-to-chotila-raped/articleshow/79395232.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Meerut||350 fake cricket balls seized in Meerut||MEERUT: In all 350 replicas of world renowned brand of cricket balls - SG - were seized by Meerut police on a tip-off by Brand Protectors of India, an organization dealing in busting of counterfeiting syndicates. According to police sources, the raid was conducted in an establishment in Kankerkhera area. One Nirmal Singh was arrested and several boxes containing the balls with proper stamps were seized. All these boxes were also the replicas of the original ones. Vijay Gupta, Transport Nagar police station SHO, said, “An FIR has been registered against the company under IPC sections 420 (cheating) and sec 63 (infringement) of Copyright Act Investigations are on and its owner, Nirmal Singh, has been arrested.” This comes a year after police had busted a fake cricket bat manufacturing unit which had been running for the past decade but remained discreet in illegal operations. Police had raided a Transport Nagar-based unit and seized fake stickers of SG and more than 100 finished bats. Sanspariels Greenlands Pvt Ltd. is a world renowned cricket equipment manufacturing concern based in Meerut and markets its products with the brand name, SG. Meerut is a sports goods manufacturing hub and world renowned cricket equipment is manufactured here, including SG, BDM and SS. Speaking to TOI, director of Sanspariels Greenlands Pvt Ltd, said, “Government must take stringent measures to curb this practice, which is becoming rampant now. We do all the research and develop a quality brand over the years, we create that demand and these counterfeiters ride on our hard work. Not only this, quality is compromised apart from a huge loss to government exchequer in the form of taxes.” Dhirendra Singh, director of Brand Protectors of India, the agency that gave tip-off to the police said, “Meerut is synonymous with counterfeiting. We work for at least a half a dozen sports brands manufactured in Meerut and every month 2-3 raids are conducted here. Surprisingly, these counterfeiters are registered entities who even have registration in GST department and they pay a miniscule amount in the form of taxes but nothing happens when raids are conducted. There should be a strong deterrent against this malpractice.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/350-fake-cricket-balls-seized-in-meerut/articleshow/79395218.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Lucknow||Shia cleric Maulana Kalbe Sadiq passes away in Lucknow, grief pours in||LUCKNOW: An ambassador of peace and brotherhood, a humanist to the core who preached religious ethics with a progressive outlook, Maulana Kalbe Sadiq breathed his last on Tuesday night, sending a wave of mourning across the city and country. Senior vice-president of the All India Muslim Personal Law Board (AIMPLB), the 83-year-old Shia cleric with a following across religions and nations was admitted to Era’s Lucknow Medical College and Hospital (ELMCH) on November 17 with severe pneumonia. He was also a cancer patient. Sadiq is survived by his wife Taj Sultana, three sons and a daughter. His health condition had been very critical and he had also contracted UTI, septic shock, acute kidney shutdown and paralytic ileus. Condolences of people from all walks of life and faith poured in on social media and many rushed to the hospital and his house on getting news of his sad demise. UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath expressed grief over the cleric’s demise and prayed for peace for the departed soul. He also expressed his deepest condolences to the bereaved family members. An educationist, Islamic scholar and ambassador of communal amity, Sadiq was born in Lucknow’s famous Khandaan-e-Ijtehaad. His father was Maulana Kalbe Husain and his brother was Maulana Kalbe Abid, both of whom held a strong standing in the community.His initial education was from Sultan-ul-Madaris in Lucknow, followed by further education at Aligarh Muslim University (AMU). He was a PhD holder in Arabic literature. Besides Arabic, Sadiq was proficient in Urdu, Persian, English and Hindi languages. Sadiq was perhaps the first cleric from India in his times who took on giving sermons in the memory of the martyrs of Karbala across the world especially in the English language. He also promoted scientific thought in the community and introduced the practice of predicting days of Islamic festivals based on astronomy, besides traditional moon sighting. His following among Sunni Muslims and Hindus was as strong as among Shias. He was the founder of Tauheed-ul-Muslimeen Trust (TMT), a charitable organisation that helps in education and medical treatment of the poor, of the school Unity College in Lucknow, of MU College in Aligarh and several such educational and charitable organisations. A patron of arts, culture and liberal thought, Sadiq was diagnosed with colorectal cancer three years ago and was operated for the same in Delhi. Since then, he had been out of public engagements because of his health. He was the driving force behind the ‘Joint Shia-Sunni Namaz’ on Islamic festivals started by S2S volunteers and has been observed in Lucknow for five years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/shia-cleric-maulana-kalbe-sadiq-passes-away-in-city-grief-pours-in/articleshow/79398484.cms||Ashish Tripathi
November 25, 2020||Bareilly||Anti-Romeo squad arrests man for harassing girls in Pilibhit city||Pilibhit: The anti-Romeo squad nabbed a 28-year-old stalker on Tuesday for allegedly making obscene gestures and passing derogatory remarks against girls walking through the busy Gauhania crossing in the heart of Pilibhit city. The squad, headed by sub inspector at Sungarhi police station, Kusum Lata Sharma, rushed to the spot following a complaint by a girl harassed by one Rayees, a resident of Chdaiyya Dah village under the same police station. Atar Singh, SHO, said the accused was booked under IPC section 294 (singing or recital of any obscene song, words in or near any public place) and sent to jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/anti-romeo-squad-arrests-man-for-harassing-girls-in-pilibhit-city/articleshow/79395254.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Trichy||Teams on standby in Trichy Corporation||TRICHY: The Trichy Corporation was making last-minute preparation on Tuesday to prevent waterlogging on arterial roads as heavy rainfall was forecast. Stormwater drains were being cleared with the help of heavy machinery. “Vulnerable spots are being cleared. The teams will be on standby till the heavy rainfall alert is lifted,” a senior corporation official said. Chopped tree branches and plastic waste were found hindering the flow of stormwater drains on the Lawsons Road near Ayyappan temple. A stormwater drain in Bhima Nagar vicinity being used as a drainage canal was also cleared. Officials said that they have planned to suspend the ongoing underground drainage (UGD) work in Trichy city for two days The corporation also sent a team of 52 sanitary officials and workers to Cuddalore for supporting the local civic body there in taking up mitigation measures in the view of cyclone Nivar. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/teams-on-standby-in-trichy-corpn/articleshow/79397624.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Lucknow||UP: BJP MPs, MLAs to hold meetings at 1,400 polling centres||LUCKNOW: After an overwhelming win in byelections on six out of seven assembly seats, BJP has gone into an overdrive to consolidate its position on 11 teachers’ and graduate constituency seats where polling is due on December 1. The UP BJP leadership has asked MPs and MLAs to hold a three-day convention, beginning Wednesday, on nine seats where BJP has fielded candidates. The party has not fielded candidates in Varanasi and Gorakhpur. It is contesting teachers’ constituency seat for the first time. A senior leader said the party has framed a two-pronged strategy—first reaching out to voters and then ensuring they vote for the party. For this, MPs and MLAs would hold meetings with party workers in their region. The party would also rope in deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma and basic education minister Satish Dwivedi. The party has appointed functionaries as in charge of various polling centres, sources said. “Every functionary has been tasked to bring at least five voters to the polling centres,” a senior BJP leader said. Sources said the functionaries have, in fact, been allocated voters. UP BJP general secretary and in-charge of elections on teachers’ and graduate seats Amar Pal Maurya told TOI that roping in MLA and MPs is aimed to consolidate party position. “Conventions would be held in approximately 1,400 polling centres in the next three days,” he said. The development comes days after BJP vice-president Radha Mohan Singh got appointed as UP in-charge to aggressively pursue party affairs in the run-up to 2022 elections. “Singh hit the ground running and started a series of meetings on teachers’ and graduate seats,” said a party leader. UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh and state general secretary Sunil Bansal have already held meetings. “The party takes every election seriously and drafts a strategy,” said UP BJP vice-president Vijay Bahadur Pathak. He said the election would again prove the “opposition’s callous approach” and seriousness of BJP, which seeks to increase its strength in the legislative council. BJP has 19 members in the upper house which is dominated by SP with 52 members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bjp-mps-mlas-to-hold-meetings-at-1-4k-polling-centres/articleshow/79398499.cms||Pankaj Shah
November 25, 2020||Meerut||Uttar Pradesh: Education department raps officials as only 37% of govt primary schools inspected in October||MEERUT: With only 37% target of school inspections met, the UP education department has pulled up the district and block-level taskforce for negligence in supervising teaching and health-related schemes, particularly midday meals, in primary schools. The department had instructed officials to inspect schools every month, but found that only 27,940 schools were inspected as against the target of 76,350 schools in October. The target of conducting schools inspections in each district was given in mid-September. “Despite strict instructions to ensure monthly inspections in a fixed number of schools, the target was not achieved. Thus, officials concerned are warned to complete the monthly inspection without failing or else face action,” said Vijay Kiran Anand, director midday meal, in his letter. The inspections are aimed at ensuring that the benefits of various government schemes are reaching to the beneficiaries at the ground level. While schools remain closed, the implementation of schemes like providing midday meal, free books and uniforms has to be done uninterrupted. An analysis found that inspection reports of only 37% schools had so far been uploaded on the Prerna portal, while in Agra and Auraiya districts only 5% and 9% schools, respectively, were inspected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/edu-dept-raps-officials-as-only-37-of-govt-primary-schools-inspected-in-oct/articleshow/79395252.cms||Ishita Bhatia
November 25, 2020||Kanpur||Protest in Qulie Bazar over ‘illegal’ constructions||Kanpur:The Halsi Road close to the site of the buildings collapse in Qulie Bazar area saw protest on Tuesday afternoon by angry family members of deceased Rakesh Sharma and locals who claimed that the nexus between concerning authorities and local police allowed rampant illegal construction in their locality. The crowd indulged into heavy sloganeering against the authorities, alleging that concerning authorities were “filling their pockets” by allowing the illegal construction to come up. The rear portions of the two multi-storey buildings in the locality, which has congested lanes, collapsed late on Monday night due to construction activity at the adjacent plot, killing one person and leaving homeless at least 65 others. Locals claim that the construction at the plot could be illegal. “All are hand-in-glove. Police and officials take money and allow illegal construction. The buildings are very old and builders without adopting proper measures indulge into construction activities,” said a group of locals. Mahendra, another local, said officials turn their eyes from illegal activities while “poor people like us suffer.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/protest-in-qulie-bazar-over-illegal-constructions/articleshow/79397635.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Trichy||BJP dares DMK MLA Senthil Balaji to contest in Aravakurichi||KARUR: State BJP vice-president K Annamalai dared DMK MLA V Senthil Balaji to contest again from the Aravakurichi constituency in Karur district. Annamalai had joined the Vetrivel yatra taken out by party state president L Murugan in Karur district on Tuesday. Asking the DMK MLA not to switch constituencies “like he did thrice in the past”, Annamalai asked party workers to get ready as BJP would field its candidate if Senthil Balaji contested from Aravakurichi. “Let us see if it is the DMK or BJP in Karur,” he said, addressing party workers assembled for the yatra. Later, close to 500 party workers, along with Murugan, were rounded up by the police soon after they began the yatra from the Karur busstand. A former minister, Senthil Balaji moved from the AIADMK to T T V Dhinakaran’s AMMK after J Jayalalithaa’s death and finally shifted allegiance to the DMK. Balaji contested and won the assembly byelection for the Aravakurichi constituency last year. The prime objective of the Vetrivel yatra was “to neutralise local leaders of the DMK by exposing them”, said Annamalai, a former IPS officer who joined the BJP about two months ago. Many state BJP leaders, including former Union minister of state Pon Radhakrishnan, joined the yatra on Tuesday. “BJP is seriously watching Karur district. Therefore, party functionaries should work hard for the party’s victory in the assembly elections,” said Annamalai. Karur known for its textile industry could have surpassed Tirupur, a hosiery hib. But it remains underdeveloped. In agriculture too, the district is not doing well, said Annamalai. “By voting for the Dravidian parties for the last 53 years, Karur has not developed to its full potential. This can be changed by voting for BJP,” he said. TN party chief Murugan said, “The Vetrivel yatra is important for Tamil Nadu when there are vicious attempts to degrade Hindu beliefs in the state.” The DMK, he said, feared the growing popularity of the yatra. “So, there are attempts to derail it,” said Murugan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bjp-dares-dmk-mla-senthil-balaji-to-contest-in-aravakurichi/articleshow/79397634.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: 48 hours on, elderly couple’s bodies recovered, suicide suspected||KOLKATA: The decomposing bodies of an elderly couple, aged 68 and 71, were recovered from their Girish Park flat on Monday night, at least 48 hours after their deaths. Though police are yet to confirm the cause of their deaths, neighbours suspect it could be suicide, driven by years of financial distress with no hope of revival in sight, a sense of loss of dignity over complete dependence on locals to meet even basic expenses and no contact with the only relative who kept in touch with them due to the Covid situation. Shipra (68) and Biswajit Mitra (71) did not have any children.  Neighbours pointed out they did not know of any immediate trigger but Biswajit was often heard muttering that death was a more dignified deliverance from the hopeless life they led. It was a foul smell emanating from the second-floor flat that alerted residents of the building on Ramdulal Sarkar Street in Girish Park. They alerted the police, who broke down the flat door to discover the couple’s decomposing bodies. “We are still ascertaining whether they had committed suicide or these were natural deaths. One of them was lying on the bed and another on the sofa. Though it’s unlikely they died at the same time, we found no sign of foul play as the door was locked from inside. We have not found any poison or medicine strip around. One person could have died a natural death and the other committed suicide. We are waiting for the final post-mortem report,” said DC (central) Meeraj Khalid. According to residents, the Mitras had been struggling to make ends meet for over a decade. Their financial distress might have been accentuated by the lockdown that led to job losses and consequent anxiety and depression. But none of them could recall any unusual development that could have pushed the two over the edge. Goutam Sethia, who has known the Mitras for over four decades, said Biswajit had suffered a string of reversals over the past 15 years that forced him to sell the family printing press and then take up a manager’s job at a restaurant in south Kolkata that he quit seven years ago due to the strain of daily commute and concern over his wife’s health. “ He had a sheltered life. His father’s death had come as a major blow. After their family business suffered losses, the couple’s financial condition declined rapidly. For the past seven years, they virtually survived on charity. Since they were a nice couple, most residents helped them with electricity bills or some daily provisions,” he said. Other flat owners shared the maintenance fee for Mitras’ flat. Nextdoor neighbour Naresh Khandelwal said the family had pawned off their possessions, including a refrigerator. “A niece sent them money. I don’t know whether she still did so or not,” he said. Cops at Girish Park police station said they had often saw the couple standing in queues when aid was provided by them during lockdown and after Amphan. “We didn’t know they lived so close to the police station,” said an officer. Police could not trace either the niece or any other relative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/48-hrs-on-elderly-couples-bodies-recovered-suicide-suspected/articleshow/79396340.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 25, 2020||Goa||Pernem town reels under neglect as its councillors play ‘musical chairs’||MAPUSA: While the Pernem Municipal Council (PMC) has created a record of sorts — all 10 of its sitting councillors have served either as chairperson or deputy chairperson during the 2015-20 term — the town itself has had little to cheer about as most of its major problems have remained unresolved. Constant political turmoil and the ‘musical chairs’ phenomenon appear to have steered the councillors’ attention away from the myriad issues afflicting Pernem town, such as the pressing need for a suitable fish market and town hall, the persistent stray dog menace, and lack of a good drainage system. Those holding positions at the municipality could not get as much as a decent building for themselves during the last term. The foundation stone for a new structure was announced to be laid on June 18, 2013, with no further progress made. The rare feat of all councillors having enjoyed top positions at PMC could be achieved as there was a change in guard for the Pernem constituency with BJP’s Rajendra Arlekar being defeated by MGP’s Manohar Ajgaonkar at the 2017 assembly polls. Ajgaonkar later moved over to BJP. The seat of chairperson was reserved for women, due to which councillors Smita Kudatarkar, Usha Nagvekar, Shradha Mashelkar, Suvidha Teli, and Shweta Kambli were able to hold the post. Meanwhile, Upendra Deshprabhu, Prashant Gadekar, Deepak Mandrekar, Siddhesh Pednekar and Gajanan Sawaldessai got an opportunity to serve as deputy chairperson during 2015-2020. Seven councillors backed by Arlekar had won the municipal elections in 2015 and Smita Kudatarkar was made the chairperson. In the 2017 assembly polls, Arlekar lost to Ajgaonkar, prompting the latter to form a group of eight councillors among whom he distributed the chairperson and deputy chairperson’s posts for a term of eight months each. “As each one’s tenure was very short, all the chairpersons and deputy chairpersons must have lost this time in just learning the ropes,” said a political observer, adding that this trend of chair rotation in municipalities and panchayats hampers development as nobody has a broader tenure and a vision for development. Pernem town, which is counted among the ‘backward’ areas of Goa in terms of development, still sees its weekly Thursday market virtually held on the roads traversing the town, creating traffic jams and various hardships for vendors and customers. The situation worsens during the monsoon and there is no protection from rain for vendors and buyers. Even a fire brigade cannot pass through this chaos in case of an emergency. In 2013, the PMC had announced that a new multipurpose, three-storeyed building would be constructed across 18,000sqm of land. It had said the project would have facilities like a parking area, a conference hall with 250 seating capacity and eight different offices for the chairperson, deputy chairperson, and chief officer. However, eight years down the line, there has been no progress. Incumbent MLA Ajgaonkar, however, insisted that he has initiated whatever development Pernem has seen, including a Rs 1.1-crore general crematorium, beautification and construction of new roads and temples in the constituency. He also said a tender has already been issued for construction of the municipal administrative building and that a work order would be issued in December “immediately after the government lifts the memorandum to take up development work”. In his rebuttal, former minister and ex-Pernem MLA, Arlekar, said that merely constructing a municipality building did not imply that Pernem was developed. In fact, he maintained that the first time the constituency had witnessed any development was during his term as MLA. “In my tenure, the new bus stand was completed, a college was constructed, roads were widened and bridges built. Farmers were also trained to cultivate sugarcane and began earning in lakhs,” he said. Arlekar also said he had tried to take up work on a municipality building but could not proceed due to legal issues, and that although he had identified land for a market complex, his successor hadn’t taken the project forward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pernem-town-reels-under-neglect-as-its-councillors-play-musical-chairs/articleshow/79397640.cms||Keshav Naik
November 25, 2020||Nagpur||Airlines, hotels brace for losses as travel restrictions kick in today||Nagpur: The curbs on travellers to the state from Delhi, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Goa are expected to be another setback for airlines and hospitality industry, which were yet to emerge from the losses due to Covid. Railways, which continue to run limited trains, are yet to gauge the impact. For Wednesday, only three tickets for Nagpur to Delhi were cancelled, but figures for incoming passengers from these states were not available readily. If a passenger from Nagpur travels to any of the four states, there will be no curb on exit, but the same person on coming back to the city by any of the modes will be subject to tests or screening. The frequency of buses from these states to Nagpur and nearby is already low, said sources in road transport business Sources in a couple of private airlines said they are bracing for reduction in passenger load from the sectors in coming days, which may lead to cancellation or rescheduling of flights. Nagpur has direct air connectivity to Ahmedabad, Goa, and Delhi in these states. “Majority of the airlines are still operating at half their capacity, and the improvement has only been marginal during the festive season. There has been hardly any vacation travel since reopening of airports,” said a senior official in a private airline requesting anonymity. ”Such sudden decisions by states have even earlier impacted passenger traffic on some sectors,” the source said. A single aircraft does not fly to two destinations alone. If there is less than viable load at one of the stations then cancellations affect the entire route covering multiple stations, the source said. Airlines have also seen permanent and temporary layoffs following Covid losses. Some labs have offered to do RT-PCRs test for Rs1,400 per passenger at the airport. As per GR, home visit charges are Rs1,600 for RT-PCR sample collection. NMC has asked labs to charges as per GR only. Even as the state government has made Covid-19 tests mandatory for railway and bus passengers arriving from Goa, Gujarat, Delhi, and Rajasthan, no panic buttons have been pressed. Railway sources said on Tuesday only three passengers had cancelled tickets to Delhi. “It will be difficult to tell how many passengers from Delhi to Nagpur cancelled tickets, but on average, daily 150 passengers arrive at Nagpur in trains coming from Delhi,” officials said. Pradeep Rathod, manager of HK Travels, Ahmedabad, which operates daily trips between Ahmedabad and Nagpur, said, “We are aware of the Maharashtra government order and hence decided to seek Covid-19 test reports from passengers from November 26.” Hoteliers say properties in the city are not operating at more than 30% capacity on average. Business is going to be further reduced due to the restrictions. “We recently did an internal survey to judge occupancy post opening up. It found occupancy is in the range of 15% to 30% of capacity,” said Tejindersingh Renu, president of Nagpur Residential Hotels Association (NHRA). Renu, who owns Hotel Pritam on Central Avenue, said hotels in the area mainly depend on guests from Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and other parts of the state. However, a sizeable number of business travellers come to the wholesale cloth market from Gujarat. The restrictions may lead to loss of revenue from this segment. “We have barely begun to break even at the current level,” he said. Renu said the crisis has also led to a number of hotels facing a loan crisis, as they are not in a position to service bank debts easily. Sanjay Gupta of ITDC Ashoka said he has received two cancellation requests. The guests were coming from Jaipur to attend a marriage ceremony on Thursday. Gupta said he has not been able to break even yet. The occupancy is low already. “Some staffers who had their own agricultural land have been laid off temporarily. To ensure safety of the guests, the employees having homes at Nagpur have been accommodated at the hotel itself. This reduces their chance of getting infected,” he said. “There is no question of cancellations because advance booking happen in times of rush. At present, when the occupancy is not more than 30%, it’s difficult to even recover expenses. We are only dependent on walk-ins,” said Inderjeetsingh Baweja of Amir Hotel. Travellers from Gujarat are a major share in the business, he said. Micky Arora, who owns Hotel Centre Point, also said there have been cancellations. “The restrictions will hamper occupancy, which is just about 30%. To break even, it must touch at least half along with enough business from events and restaurants,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/airlines-hotels-brace-for-losses-as-travel-restrictions-kick-in-today/articleshow/79396338.cms||Shishir Arya
November 25, 2020||Kanpur||SIT on ‘love jihad’ rules out conspiracy angle||Kanpur: A Special Investigation Team (SIT) constituted in September to probe alleged cases of forced conversions in Kanpur has ruled out conspiracy and foreign funding, but submitted a chargesheet in eight of 14 cases, where 11 youths were accused of luring girls with fake identities and fraudulent documents, forced conversion and rape. SIT submitted its report to inspector general of police IG (Kanpur range) late Monday. All eleven youths have been arrested. “Police have booked accused in 11 such cases under relevant sections of IPC, including kidnapping, luring and compelling women to marriage after religious conversion. Also, it was established in eight cases, girls were minors,” said IG Kanpur range Mohit Agarwal. In three other cases, SIT found girls had married on their own will. “In three of 14 cases, SIT filed closure reports after Hindu women, all above 18 years, gave statements in favour of the accused, stating they married on their own free will,” said Agarwal. Of 11 cases in which action was taken against accused, SIT found in three cases, they allegedly faked identities, churned out bogus documents to win over girls and have been booked for fraud, said IG. While probing ‘conspiracy’ and foreign funding angles in these 11 cases, SIT found only four Muslim youths, against whom cases were lodged, were known to each other. “It was found they were in touch with each other and this was corroborated by call detail records. However, there was no proof of ‘conspiracy’ or foreign funding. In three of 11 cases, the girls claimed they were forced to convert,” he added. Police said chargesheets have been filed in eight cases and the process is on in other three. “Established procedure was not followed while changing names of girls before marriage. Also, their marriages were not registered under the Special Marriages Act,” the police officer said. The eight-member SIT was formed in September to probe cases of alleged ‘love jihad’ after members of right-wing organisations alleged a conspiracy by Muslim youths to lure Hindu girls into marriage to convert them. In August, scores of right-wing activists had laid siege to Kidwainagar police station to protest an interfaith marriage. Shalini Yadav of Barra and Mohd Faisal of Juhi had been in a relationship and reportedly married in court on July 2 in Ghaziabad. On Aug 22, after the video of the couple went viral in which Shalini was heard seeking police protection as she went against the will of her family, right-wing activists launched an outcry. Soon, police were rushed to the place and security deployed outside the police station. It was only after police assurance that an inquiry would be conducted they put off the stir.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/sit-on-love-jihad-rules-out-conspiracy-angle/articleshow/79397639.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
November 25, 2020||Rajkot||Man killed for illicit affair with married woman||Rajkot: A casual labourer was murdered on Monday night for allegedly having an affair with a married woman in Kutch’s Mandvi. The labourer Vinod alias Jayanti Tharu was stabbed to death by Parbat Danicha, brother-in-law of the woman with whom Tharu had an affair. Police said that Danicha, who is also a labourer, was angered on knowing about the affair, so he rushed to water tank in Gokulvaas where Tharu was present. Danicha stabbed him six to seven times on his abdomen, chest and back and he went to the police station where he surrendered with the murder weapon. Meanwhile, Tharu was taken to a private hospital where he succumbed during treatment. An offence was registered against Danicha based on a complaint given by Tharu’s father Punshi Tharu. “We have detained the accused and kept him in quarantine until his Covid-19 test report arrives,” said inspector B M Chaudhary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-killed-for-illicit-affair-with-married-woman/articleshow/79395287.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Lucknow||UP fisheries dept No. 1 in country||Lucknow: Fisheries minister Chowdhary Laxmi Narayan said has said that UP’s fisheries department has been ranked first by the Union ministry of fisheries. Narayan said that earlier governments did not give any importance to the department while currently, it was contributing 0.37% to the state’s GDP. “In 2019, fish production in UP increased by 5.74% and was 6.99 lakh ton. Mathura and Aligarh have hard water which allows for shrimp farming. In the next five years, the centre has approved of a Rs 588 crore project for fish farming in 4,000 hectare of breaking water,” he said. The minister said that under Atmanirbhar Bharat, fish farmers will get a farmers credit card from 2020-21 to 2024-25 under the PM Matsya Sampada Yojna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-fisheries-dept-no-1-in-country/articleshow/79398517.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 25, 2020||Rajkot||60-year-old raped at knife-point||PALANPUR: A 60-year-old woman from Banaskantha has accused her neighbour of raping her on Sunday night. The woman, who stays in Genaji Golia village in Deesa taluka, told the police that Dhankuba Darbar raped her at knifepoint in her house. The cops arrested 30-year-old Darbar on Tuesday after the rape survivor filed a complaint. According to the complainant, the incident occurred on Sunday at about 11.30 pm when she was out in the fields. “The lady said that she was keeping an eye on a newborn calf in the field. The accused, who stays in the neighbourhood and has his field nearby, approached her. He told her that doors of her makeshift house near the field were open,” the police said. When the lady went to close the doors of her house he followed her. The accused then grabbed her by the neck before asking for physical relation. “The woman screamed for help following which her husband who was sleeping nearby rushed to the spot. But Darbar assaulted him and dragged the woman inside the house,” the police added. The woman, who is a mother of five, told the cops that he flashed a knife and then raped her. The accused even threatened her with dire consequences if she revealed the incident to anyone. The woman approached the police on Monday and filed a complaint of rape and assault. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/60-year-old-raped-at-knife-point/articleshow/79395308.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu CM releases water from Tenkasi dams||MADURAI: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Tuesday announced the release of water from four reservoirs in Tenkasi district for 125 days from Thursday (November 26) to March 30, next year. The reservoirs to be opened are Gadana, Adavinainar Kovil, Ramanathi and Karupanadhi.  A statement said that the release is based on request from the farmers. It will benefit 32,024.58 acres under cultivation through the channels. Areas that would benefit include Tenkasi, Sengottai and Kadayanallur blocks in Tenkasi district and Ambasamudram and Cheranmahadevi blocks in Tirunelveli district. The quantity of discharge will depend on the rainfall. But for Adavinainar Kovil dam where the water level is 104ft against the full capacity of 132.22ft, four other reservoirs in Tenkasi district are either full or overflowing . tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cm-releases-water-from-tenkasi-dams/articleshow/79398518.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Kolkata||Without job, goldsmith ends life in Bowbazar||KOLKATA: A 26-year-old goldsmith, who lost his job in Bowbazar during the pandemic, allegedly ended his life around Tuesday midnight at his home in Sree Colony area under Netaji Nagar police station. “Somnath Nag had hanged himself from the ceiling fan of his bedroom, using a dupatta. Neighbours took him to the nearby Baghajatin Hospital, where he was declared brought dead,” said DC (SSD) Rashid Munir Khan. Police said Nag would often visit his workplace, hoping for some assignment, but returned empty-handed. “Of late, he had become an alcoholic and often got into arguments with his wife and mother,” said an officer. “His son is barely two-and-a-half years old.” Nag had been without a job since lockdown. “On Monday, too, he drank till 11pm. His wife and mother were having dinner in another room on the ground floor, when he apparently ended his life. His family noticed him hanging around 11.50pm,” said police, adding no foul play was detected and that no one had lodged any complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/without-job-goldsmith-ends-life/articleshow/79396368.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Jaipur||8 districts report 67% cases in Rajasthan, Covid tally climbs to 2.5 lakh||JAIPUR: The state recorded its biggest single-day spike in Covid-19 infections with 3,314 cases on Tuesday, taking the overall tally to 2,50,482. Nineteen persons died from the virus too whihc took the death toll to 2,200. Active cases breached the 25,000 mark for the first time as the state touched a new high of 25,197 such cases. Eight districts in the state are contributing mainly to daily new infections. Among those, Jaipur is the worst-affected, which on Tuesday reported the biggest single-day jump of 656 cases. Jaipur, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Alwar, Ajmer, Kota, Udaipur and Bhilwara have together reported 53,489 cases, accounting for 66.7% of the cases reported in the state between November 1 and 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/8-districts-report-67-cases-in-state-covid-tally-climbs-to-2-5l/articleshow/79397679.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Goa||Vagator villagers up in arms over structure at Ozran||PANAJI: The Vagator Anjuna Caisua Villagers’ Forum has filed a complaint with various authorities against non-compliance of a demolition order by Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) of a structure at Ozran, Vagator. In a complaint to the local panchayat, district collector, tourism department and GCZMA, the forum has stated that construction activity was carried out at the site despite the demolition order The complaint has also stated the project proponents are advertising the local Ozran beach after a popular music festival. “This is an attempt to rename a traditional area called Ozran or Small Vagator that has been known since decades, and it is being advertised as a private beach, when in reality the beach is a public area and has been frequented by the local population, domestic and international tourists,” the forum has stated in its complaint. The forum, which operates under the aegis of the church-run Centre for Responsible Tourism, has urged authorities to immediately stop work at the site and withdraw or cancel any licences granted, and also comply with the demolition order that was issued in June last year. Anjuna sarpanch Savio Almeida said that after the demolition order was issued, the party has gone in appeal to the directorate of panchayats. He also said that the panchayat has not issued any permission to carry out construction at the site.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/vagator-villagers-up-in-arms-over-structure-at-ozran/articleshow/79397641.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid claims 3 lives, infects 102 in district||Ludhiana: Three residents of Ludhiana died of Covid-19 and 102 tested positive on Tuesday.Chief medical officer Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “Seven deaths were reported in the district on the day. These included three patients from Ludhiana and one each from Fatehgarh Sahib, Ropar, Bathinda and Rajasthan.”The district casualties included an 85-year-old man of Kundanpuri, Civil Lines, who was suffering from hypertension and bronchial asthma; a 57-year-old hypertension patient of Ballowal village; and a 73-year-old man of Shimlapuri.The district toll tally has increased to 886 and that of outsiders to 372.On the day, 116 persons tested positive here. Of them, 102 were from Ludhiana and 14 from other districts.The Ludhiana cases included 10 contacts of positive patients, 23 from OPD, 56 from flu corner, one health-care worker, a cop and 11 through tracing process.The district case count has reached 22,242. So far, 20,518 patients have defeated novel coronavirus, which is 92.2% of the total cases. On Tuesday, 3,072 samples were collected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-claims-3-lives-infects-102-in-district/articleshow/79395320.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Lucknow||Yogi intervenes to resume services of Gkp Akashwani||Lucknow: The services of Gorakhpur Akashwani, which remained disrupted for three days from November 21 due to a technical glitch, were resumed on Tuesday after chief minister Yogi Adityanath intervened. The CM said that under no circumstances would the services of Gorakhpur Akashwani be allowed to be disrupted and that very soon a permanent transmitter of adequate capacity would be installed there. On November 21, the medium wave mobile transmitter of Gorakhpur Akashwani had shut down, disrupting transmission. The CM directed officials of Prasar Bharti to take immediate action to restore the transmission. Thereafter, Prasar Bharati headquarters issued guidelines to Gorakhpur Akashwani’s head and programme head on Monday night. The head of AIR Gorakhpur, Rahul Singh said that the mobile transmitter was restarted a little after 5 am on Tuesday. The CM also announced that the interests of employees and artists will be protected at all costs. He added that the range of the radio from Gorakhpur, established in 1972, extended till Nepal and it helped in “keeping India’s point of view before the neighbouring country and forewarn them against nefarious designs of China”. He added: “The services will be further improved and given more teeth through the better frequency transmitter soon.” Attacking Opposition parties for doing politics on this issue, the CM said that these parties have become frustrated by the development programmes being pushed by the government and are making a desperate attempt to mislead people. He also thanked the local BJP representatives for taking up the matter of the Akashwani glitch because of which it could be resolved on time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-intervenes-to-resume-services-of-gkp-akashwani/articleshow/79398522.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Goa||Govt extends time for Bainguinim plant bids||Panaji: The Goa Waste Management Corporation (GWMC) extended the time limit for accepting bids for the solid waste management facility at Bainguinim for the second time after three earlier bidders raised a lot of queries. A senior officer said that the second extension of 45 days is part of the bidding procedure. The last date to submit bids is January 4 and the tenders will be opened on January 5. On November 9, the corporation had extended the bids accepting process by 15 days. Initially, on September 22, GWMC had invited bids for setting up the solid waste processing facility having a processing capacity of 250 tonne per day. Speaking to TOI, waste management minister Michael Lobo had said that the tender document was floated as per the guidelines of central public works department (CPWD). “We will wait till November 9 to see how many bidders qualify and then float a fresh tender. As per CPWD guidelines, nobody qualified,” he had said. In 2008, the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) had acquired the land at Bainguinim to set up the plant, and in 2017 it was handed over to GWMC. A public hearing was conducted by GWMC and subsequently, the environment clearance was also obtained. Four companies - Organic Recycling System, Hindustan Waste Treatment, 3R Management and Landsky Engineers - participated in the pre-bid meeting for the plant. Estimated to cost Rs 200 core, the plant is expected to cater to the entire Tiswadi taluka. The corporation had invited a request for qualification (RFQ) for the proposed plant. Bids had to be submitted before November 9. GWMC has decided to undertake the project through a public private partnership (PPP) on a design-build-finance-operate-transfer (DBFOT) basis, wherein the plant infrastructure will be implemented by the concessionaire along with operations and maintenance for a period of ten years. The plant will include recycling and sorting lines, segregation, bio-methanation and composting systems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-extends-time-for-bainguinim-plant-bids/articleshow/79398531.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Lucknow||AAP to contest all seats in zila panchayat elections||Lucknow: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday announced that it will be contesting all seats in the upcoming zila panchayat elections. The decision was announced by party MP and UP in-charge Sanjay Singh after a meeting of the state executive. “It was unanimously decided that the AAP will contest all zila panchayat seats. For this, those wishing to contest elections on an AAP ticket will have to fill up a form and submit to the district level executive committees. These will then be vetted by the state executive,” Singh said. He added that there is likely to be a major reshuffle in the party organisation at both the state and district level, aimed at the next election. Each member of the executive will have to spend at least 10 days in a month in the district allocated to them for the purpose of organisation building and at least two hours each day for party work in their home district. Singh announced that the AAP would be launching protests across the state against various policies of the state government, starting with the issue of unemployment. He also questioned the ongoing Mission Shakti programme of the government, saying that there were serious concerns about the safety of women in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/aap-to-contest-all-seats-in-zila-panchayat-elections/articleshow/79398520.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 25, 2020||Goa||SC group threatens protest if demands not met in 8 days||SALIGAO: Vishwa Bhushan Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Samiti, an organisation working for the rights of the scheduled caste communities, has given the state government an 8-day ultimatum to resolve their demands and have threatened an agitation if it fails to do so. The demands include allotment of land for construction of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Bhavan, simplification of Atal Asra Yojana scheme for the construction of new house and reservation of SC co-opted members in remaining municipalities, zilla panchayats and village panchayats, among others. The organisation said its demands have not been met despite several requests since 2014. President of the Samiti, Sakharam Korgaonkar, said that filling up backlog of posts reserved for the SC community and construction of Ambedkar statue in front of Goa legislative assembly are also in their demands. He said the Samiti wants the under-construction Mopa international airport to be named after Ambedkar. Korgaonkar said that last year chief minister Pramod Sawant had also addressed a gathering on December 2019 on the eve of the Mahaparinirvan Din of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar, where he had assured the public that the Dr Ambedkar Bhavan will be constructed within two years, but there has been no progress on this front.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sc-group-threatens-protest-if-demands-not-met-in-8-days/articleshow/79397672.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Goa||Goa: WRD staffers’ suspension revoked||POINGUINIM: The suspension orders of six water resources department (WRD) staffers in connection with the Poonam Pandey obscene video shooting inside Chapoli dam area in Canacona has been revoked by the WRD minister Filipe Neri Rodrigues. The order states that the suspension stands revoked with effect from November 23, 2020. The Gawda, Kunbi, Velip and Dhangar Federation (GAKUVED), which had demanded revocation of the suspension, thanked the minister for the ‘humanitarian act’. Model Poonam Pandey and her husband Sam Bombay had shot the video in the precincts of Chapoli dam, where the six staffers were posted on security duty. Pandey posted the videos on her social media accounts causing widespread anger in Goa among locals. The six staffers were then suspended. On November 9, GAKUVED had submitted a memorandum to the executive engineer of WRD, Aquem, Margao, while also holding a protest outside his office. Federation vice-resident Ravindra Velip had alleged that the six staffers were being made scapegoats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/wrd-staffers-suspensionrevoked/articleshow/79397661.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Kanpur||Ganga barrage area development committee constituted||Kanpur: Ganga barrage area development committee has been constituted with divisional commissioner Raj Shekhar as chairman of the committee. The other members of the committee are secretary, Kanpur Development Authority (KDA), district magistrate Kanpur Nagar, SSP Kanpur, vice-chairman KDA, a SDM nominated by the district magistrate Unnao, municipal commissioner Kanpur, additional chief executive officer UPSIDA, regional transport officer, chief engineers jal nigam, irrigation department and PWD and joint director tourism department. The committee which will hold its meeting twice a month, will ensure compliance of the directives of the Supreme Court, the high court and the National Green Tribunal (NGT) in the proposed government projects and schemes for development of banks of Ganga near the barrage. As per the decision taken by the Kanpur Development Authority board at its meeting held on November 19, a development committee was constituted here on Tuesday. The committee besides developing the area in a planned way would check illegal activities of private builders and property dealers in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/ganga-barrage-area-development-committee-constituted/articleshow/79397668.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Ludhiana||Juvenile among 2 held for killing Class XII student||Ludhiana: The Jagraon police on Tuesday arrested a 22-year-old man and a juvenile for murdering a 19-year-old youth of Baddowal village.Police said the two labourers killed Jashanpreet Singh, a Class XII student, as one of them suspected him of having an affair with his cousin.One of the accused is Sandeep Singh, 22, also a Class XII student, and the other is a minor. Senior superintendent of police (Ludhiana rural) Charanjit Singh said, “After Jashanpreet received a call around 8.30pm on November 21, he left his house and told his mother that he would return in a while. But when he did not return, the family looked for him everywhere, but to no avail.” On November 23, Jashanpreet’s body was found in a sewage in Victoria Garden Colony, Dakha. The autopsy confirmed murder.Dakha police station SHO inspector Prem Singh said, “Sandeep suspected Jashanpreet of having an affair with his cousin. The accused called Jashanpreet to an isolated place where the trio had drinks. Then, Sandeep and Jashanpreet had a verbal spat following which the accused attacked him with bricks. As he lost consciousness, the accused dragged him for 50 metres, again attacked him with bricks and dumped him in the sewage.” Call details of Jashanpreet helped police nail the accused, as theirs was the last call. During questioning, the accused confessed to have committed the crime. They said they only wanted to threaten Jashanpreet to stay away from the girl, but ended up killing him as they were drunk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/juvenile-among-2-held-for-killing-class-xii-student/articleshow/79395317.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Kolkata||Cloud cover may pull up mercury today in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The early-winter chill continued in Kolkata even as the mercury dropped to 15.4 degrees Celsius on Tuesday, the lowest so far this season and the second lowest recorded in November in the past six years. A cyclone set to hit the Tamil Nadu coast on Wednesday, however, could generate moisture and pull the mercury up slightly over the next 24 hours, said the Met office. Clouds from the outer band of the cyclone floated into the city on Tuesday and the cloud cover could thicken on Wednesday. “It got cloudy in the latter half of Tuesday. As the cyclone hits land, more clouds will form and the resultant moisture could pull up the minimum temperature by a degree on Wednesday,” said Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) director G K Das. He added that once the clouds dispersed and the moisture content dropped, the mercury could plunge again by the weekend. The northwesterly continued to blow on Tuesday, carrying in chill. While the clouds may block its flow over the next 48 hours, it will revive once the impact of the cyclone recedes. “We could see the minimum temperature touch 19 degrees by Friday. But over the weekend, it could slide gradually,” said Das. The maximum temperature, which read 26.6 degrees on Tuesday, could drop by a degree on Wednesday. “As the cloud cover intensifies, the day temperature will drop,” said Das.  The chilly spell is set to be a short one and winter chill may not be felt before mid-December, according to weathermen. “In November, short, cool spells are usually interspersed with cloudy days when the mercury shoots up. This is the early winter pattern in Kolkata,” said Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cloud-cover-may-pull-up-mercury-today/articleshow/79396402.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Nullify void marriage before second one: HC||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court advised a woman to ensure proper legal separation from her husband before entering into a second nuptial tie, though the first marriage was a void marriage as a prohibited relationship among Hindus called ‘sapinda’ marriage. The insistence of the high court led the woman to approach the family court for a divorce decree and stall her second wedding, which was arranged along with the weddings of her two sisters. “It would be in the interest of all concerned to get this entire aspect cleared factually and legally for the better future of the corpus and petitioner both,” the court advised the parties, to avoid further complications. This was the second litigation in the high court in the form of a habeas corpus petition. The couple got married in January and got the marriage registered the next month. It was the third marriage of the man, who was divorced twice earlier. The woman’s family would disapprove of the marriage and came to the HC seeking her custody. A major objection to the union was that they were cousin of the third generation. The girl was the paternal aunt, and the man her nephew. It was thus a sapinda marriage, a prohibited degree of relationship in their society and a nullity in Hindu marriage laws. In March, when the HC summoned the woman, she preferred the company of the husband. Seven months later, it was the husband who approached the high court for the woman’s custody. He complained that the woman’s family was getting her married somewhere else. She being his legally wedded wife cannot marry again. The court summoned the woman, who told the court that she chose to end the relationship after being convinced by her family members that it was a prohibited sapinda marriage. Moreover, both families have prepared a divorce deed. But the court found signatures of husband and wife missing from the document and instead their parents had put their signatures. This complicated situation led the high court to suggest the woman formally end the relationship. The woman’s advocate Kishore Chaudhary said her wedding was postponed and a family court has been moved to get a divorce decree on the grounds that it was a void marriage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nullify-void-marriage-before-second-one-hc/articleshow/79396445.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Nagpur||NMC continues to count retest cases as fresh ones||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has continued to count Covid-19 positive patients multiple times if they test positive in retest. At the same time, names of some positive patients were not registered. These have led to wrong number of positive patients in the district and setback in contact tracing. One of the top police officer (48) had tested positive for novel coronavirus on November 15. His name was registered as positive case on the website of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and featured in the NMC’s daily list of positive cases on November 16. The officer’s detailed address of official bungalow was also registered. Though inadvisable by the ICMR and state government’s public health department, the officer went for retest. Again, he tested positive. His name was registered on ICMR’s portal for the second time. His name also featured in the civic body’s daily list of positive patients for second time on November 24. A 53-year-old man and his wife (50) had tested positive on October 24. They went for retest on October 28 and November 1. They came positive in second and third test too. Their names were registered on ICMR portal three times and also featured thrice in the NMC’s daily list of positive patients. TOI had reported the same flaw several times between May and September. Activist Narayan Ahuja told TOI, “It is a major mistake by NMC’s testing centres and private laboratories. I would say almost all positive patients who came positive in second or third or more tests were always registered on ICMR portal as new cases,” he said. This is happening despite ICMR portal having a special column for retest. If registered in this column, the patient would not be counted as a fresh case. Also, the portal gives an alert when the same name with age, address and mobile number is registered subsequent times. Despite these provisions, NMC testing centres and private laboratories have continued with the errors. At the same time, the NMC and government-run laboratories are missing out registration of some new cases. A 57-year-old man from Sawarkar Nagar had tested positive on November 13. His name has not featured in NMC’s daily list of positive patients till date. NMC head zone prepares daily list of positive patients and sends to 10 zone offices. Then, the Rapid Response Team (RRT) of the zones visit the house of positive patient and ensure contact tracing. In Sawarkar Nagar case, none from NMC visited the patient’s house. NMC additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi said he would investigate the two issues. “It is also the responsibility of the patient to give detailed information about earlier test and result to avoid double counting of name. Patients should give detailed address and correct mobile numbers to prevent such errors,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-continues-to-count-retest-cases-as-fresh-ones/articleshow/79396425.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
November 25, 2020||Lucknow||Carving a niche with exquisite artwork||Lucknow: A huge carving of Lord Buddha, with face radiating calmness and eyes closed in meditation, greets visitors at the arts exhibition organised as part of the Lucknow University centenary celebrations. A large sculpture of a tribal women close by takes you to another world. The sculptures, painting and works of art on display have been made by the students of College of Arts and Crafts for the exhibition at arts quadrangle near the dean office, faculty of arts. The exhibits, prepared by the students before and during lockdown, will be on display till November 25. The exhibition comprises of an interesting mix of tradition and contemporary art. On the one hand, one finds a pictorial presentation of a village woman, while on the other, an urban landscape with skyline minarets is on display. Sculptures of Mahatma Gandhi and former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, along with specially crafted terracotta idols, are also on display. “Most of the art works, like that of Buddha, are made on fibre. These are the newest additions which were put on display only for the university’s 100 years’ celebration. We have also put up the history of our department and some of our renowned faculty members who are Padma Shri awardees so that people who are unaware about it know the stalwarts of our department and university,” said faculty member Vaibhavari Singh. “I am an aspiring artist and will apply for the course next year. For me the exhibit is an opportunity to view some of the unique art styles,” said Ritika Gupta who came to the exhibition with her brother, a student at the university. Pragya Rastogi, a student, portrayed the image of the entire globe on the canvas. “The colorful designs on the painting depicts different types of culture and tradition across the world,” she said. Khushboo Yadav, a student of BVA IV, said: “My painting is titled ‘Save the nature’. I have used both acryclic and oil colours in the painting and it took me two days to complete the art piece.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/carving-a-niche-with-exquisite-artwork/articleshow/79398539.cms||Aditi Singh
November 25, 2020||Nagpur||HC grants bail to ex-MLA Dhawad||Nagpur: The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court granted bail to former Congress MLA Ashok Dhawad, who has been jail since November 2019 for alleged financial irregularities at Navodaya Urban Cooperative Bank Ltd, of which he was the chairman. The bench, headed by justice Pushpa Ganediwala noted that the case was based on documentary evidence, which is already part of the charge sheet. The charge sheet runs into 35,000 pages and 80 witnesses are to be examined. The court’s order mentioned there were a lot of uncertainties with regards to the commencement of trial. “The applicant cannot be kept behind bars for an uncertain period if lots of uncertainties are prevailing,” the order mentioned. Dhawad was granted bail on certain stringent conditions while noting that being a former public representative, there is no likelihood that he would jump bail. Dhawad has been asked to deposit his passport and not leave the city without informing the police station concerned. Apart from a monthly visit to the police station, Dhawad has also been ordered to furnish a bond of Rs2 lakh. The HC order mentioned that its observations were only for granting bail and “it shall not come in the way of the trial court during trial”. No stamp duty concession in Nagpur: Writ petition A civil writ petition filed in the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court alleged that stamp duty concession granted by the state government was not being honoured for all transactions at the Nagpur registrar’s office. The petition was filed by advocate Pawan Dhimole, whose field of expertise is registration of documents. The petition mentioned that the new concessional rate of 3% was being applied only on freehold properties, whereas the older 5% rate continued for leasehold properties. The petitioner pointed out this was contrary to the law and that Schedule 25 does not discriminate between the nature of properties. The bench headed by justices Sunil Shukre and Avinash Gharote issued notices to respondents department of revenue and forests, deputy inspector general of registration, deputy controller of stamps and joint district registrar (class-II) and collector of stamps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-grants-bail-to-ex-mla-dhawad/articleshow/79396466.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Goa||‘CM should join Mhadei protest to show we’re united’||Panaji: The Progressive Front of Goa (PFG) will hold a protest on December 6 at 6pm at the ferry point in Panaji, in what it called was an event planned to put up a united front over the Mhadei water diversion issue before the central government. The organisation has appealed to other voluntary organisations, citizens as well as political parties to join them keeping aside political affiliations to ‘send a strong signal’ to the Union government. “I want to go a step forward and ask even chief minister Pramod Sawant to join us. So, like the leaders in Karnataka have done it, we can also send a signal to the Centre that we are all united to protect the Mhadei,” said advocate Hrudaynath Shirodkar. He said that it is currently a do or die situation for Goa. “We have to send a message now to the Centre that only what Goans want will happen in Goa and that we will not allow something that we do not want to be pushed down our throats - whether it is the Mhadei water diversion or the three infrastructural projects through Mollem,” said Shirodkar. He said the chief minister needs to answer why he did not discuss the critical Mhadei water diversion issue with the Union ministers during his recent visit to Delhi. Pranav Sanvordekar, a former BJP youth wing member, shared the stage with PFG on Tuesday. “People have stopped trusting CM Pramod Sawant. There are questions being raised on whether there is a political will at all in the state to defend Mhadei for Goa,” said Sanvordekar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-should-join-mhadei-protest-to-show-were-united/articleshow/79397692.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Introduce odd-even vehicle system, congestion & pollution tax’||Ludhiana: Introduction of congestion pricing scheme in crowded zones, use of the revenue thus collected for public transport system, pollution tax on pre BS-IV commercial vehicles for entry to the city, and odd-even system for cars and two-wheelers for one to two weeks during high air pollution episodes are some of the recommendations that Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) has made to the municipal corporation to improve the air quality of the industrial town. The recommendations are based on the findings of a study the PPCB got conducted by a private firm. The study aimed at verifying the causes of high levels of pollution in the city and underlined that the air quality could improve by taking a few long- and short-term measures.It stressed that dust at city roads and vehicular and industrial pollution were adding to the Ludhiana woes.The issue was taken up during the meeting of PPCB and MC officials here on Tuesday. MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “It was the first meeting to discuss measures to reduce pollution under the national air clean programme. We have to decide on four sites for installing air quality monitoring devices.” There is only one digital air quality monitoring device in the city at Punjab Agriculture University.Under the 15th finance commission, the MC has been given a Rs 26 crore grant for this financial year to check pollution. In the next four years, more grant will be released for the task. The PPCB has also released Rs 1 crore for MC to purchase mechanized sweeping machines for roads.Other short-term measures suggested on the basis of study included vacuum cleaning of roads for control of dust, enforcement of ban on refuse burning, introduction of odd-even scheme for one or two weeks for both four- and two-wheelers during high air pollution episodes, ensuring 24x7 power supply to check the use of diesel generator sets. It has been estimated that these short-term measures can reduce PM2.5 and PM10 concentrations by 15% and 23%, respectively. Besides, medium- and long-term measures have also been suggested that include introduction of gaseous fuels and enforcement of new and stringent SO2/NOx/PM2.5 standards for industries using solid fuels, complete phase out of biomass use by enhanced LPG penetration in rural households, ban on agricultural residue burning and accelerating their use in power plants and other industries to replace high ash coal, strict implementation of BS-VI norms and introduction of gaseous fuels in the transport sector.The study also recommended introduction of policies for higher penetration of electric and hybrid vehicles and creation of infrastructure for their charging. PPCB member secretary Karunesh Garg said, “We have suggested the MC officials to strictly implement the ban on burning of solid waste and improve sweeping of roads. The board will send the recommendations to the government as well.” Senior environment engineer Sandeep Bahl said, “Cities will be ranked next year on air quality index. In case Ludhiana performs better, the MC can get Rs 100 crore under this programme.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/introduce-odd-even-vehicle-system-congestion-pollution-tax/articleshow/79395331.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad HC upholds the right to choose partner irrespective of religion||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court has held that “right to choose a partner, irrespective of religion, is intrinsic to right to life and personal liberty” and quashed an FIR of kidnapping, forcible conversion and under POSCO Act against a man accused of forcefully converting and marrying a Hindu girl. The court also observed that judgments into two previous cases of interfaith marriages, where it observed that “conversion for the purpose of marriage is unacceptable” were not “good laws”. “We hold judgments in Noor Jahan and Priyanshi cases as not laying good law. None of these judgments dealt with the issue of life and liberty of two mature individuals in choosing a partner or their right to freedom of choice,” the bench said. Justice Pankaj Naqvi and Justice Vivek Agarwal made these observations, while allowing a petition filed by Salamat Ansari and Priyanka Kharwar alias Alia of Kushinagar on November 11. The petitioners sought quashing of FIR lodged on August 25, 2019, at Vishnupura police station of Kushinagar. The petitioners’ contention was the couple were adults and competent to marry as per their choice. Counsel for the woman's father opposed the petition on grounds that conversion for sake of marriage was prohibited and such a marriage had no legal sanctity. The court after hearing both parties observed, “To disregard the choice of a person who is an adult would not only be antithetic to freedom of choice of a grown-up individual, but would also be a threat to concept of unity in diversity. An individual on attaining majority is statutorily conferred with the right to choose a partner, which if denied would not only affect his/her human right, but also his/her right to life and personal liberty, guaranteed under Article 21 of Constitution,” the bench observed. It added, “We do not see Priyanka Kharwar and Salamat as Hindu and Muslim, rather as two grown-up individuals who out of their own free will and choice are living together peacefully and happily over a year. The courts and constitutional courts in particular are enjoined to uphold life and liberty of an individual guaranteed under Article 21 of Constitution.” “Right to live with a person of his/her choice irrespective of religion professed by them, is intrinsic to right to life and personal liberty. Interference in a personal relationship would constitute a serious encroachment on the right to freedom of the two individuals. The decision of an individual who is of age of majority, to live with an individual of his/her choice is strictly a right of an individual and when this right is infringed upon, it would constitute breach of his/her fundamental right to life and personal liberty as it includes right to freedom of choice, to choose a partner and right to live with dignity as enshrined in Article 21 of Constitution,” the bench observed. “We fail to understand if the law permits two persons even of same sex to live together peacefully then neither any individual nor a family nor even State can have objection to relationship of two major individuals who out of free will are living together,” the judges observed. The judges also cited Supreme Court’s judgment in K S Puttaswamy vs Union of India case on the right to privacy, which said, “The autonomy of the individual is the ability to make decisions on vital matters of concern to life.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-upholds-right-to-choose-a-partner-irrespective-of-religion/articleshow/79397699.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
November 25, 2020||Dehradun||Nepalese villagers use India’s territory to migrate after Pithoragarh admin gives nod||PITHORAGARH: The district administration allowed as many as 60 families from Tinkar and Chhangru villages of Nepal to enter into India on Monday (November 23) via the Sitapul bridge (on Indo-Nepal border) and then use the 45-kilometre-long road leading to Dharchula, so that they could reach Darchula (Nepal) for seasonal migration. This comes after the Nepalese officials had requested the district administration of Pithoragarh to allow the Nepalese villagers to pass by. Notably, the locals of Tinkar and Chhangru villages migrate to Darchula every year before the winter sets in. In the absence of road connectivity between Darchula and the villages of Tinkar and Chhangru, the Nepalese villagers, every year, enter India via the Sitapul bridge and then walk for 45 kilometres (Sitapul-Dharchula road) to reach Darchula. This year, however, they had to seek permission from the Pithoragarh administration to pass by the Indian territory for migration as the Indo-Nepal borders have been sealed in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Dharchula SDM AK Shukla told TOI, “The Nepalese officials sought permission to allow 165 families to pass by. On Monday, 60 Nepalese families migrated to Darchula via Sitapul-Dharchula road. Now, we will again open borders between December 4 and December 9 in different time slots to let the remaining 105 families pass by.” It is worth mentioning that these two villages are connected with Darchula only via a bridle path (85-kilometre-long) that is damaged at Ghatiabagarh. Hence, the Nepalese locals use the Indian territory to migrate towards Darchula.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nepalese-villagers-use-indias-territory-to-migrate-after-pithoragarh-admin-gives-nod/articleshow/79394294.cms||Prem Punetha
November 25, 2020||Goa||Steel firm knocks HC doors over govt’s Rs 156 crore cess demand||PANAJI: JSW Steel has filed a petition before the high court of Bombay at Goa challenging the show cause notice issued by the state government for non-payment of cess of around Rs 156 crore for transportation of coal/coke from Mormugao port The company has also challenged the constitutional validity of the Goa Rural Improvement and Welfare Cess Act, 2000. The matter is likely to come up for hearing on November 26. The state government has directed JSW steel to pay a fee of Rs 156.3 crore for transporting coal through the state. In the demand notice served on the country’s second-largest private sector steel company, the government recently threatened the firm’s officials with a jail term of two years if the amount is not paid in 15 days. According to Mormugao Port Trust’s records, JSW Steel transported 3.1 crore metric tonnes of coal between 2014 and July 2018 from Goa to the firm’s steel plants in Karnataka. The state has levied a cess of Rs 50 per tonne of coal transported, which works out to Rs 156.3 crore, said the directorate of transport. The state had issued a show cause notice to JSW Steel on September 4, and a reminder to pay the amount on September 29. However, JSW Steel said that due to Covid-19, it did not have staff on duty and could not complete the formalities. The directorate of transport also said that JSW failed to appear for the personal hearing despite providing an assurance to do so. The state government introduced the Goa Rural Improvement and Cess Act, 2000, and the cess has been levied on the owner of the goods being transported since February 2006||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/steel-firm-knocks-hc-doors-over-govts-rs-156cr-cess-demand/articleshow/79397700.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Coal supply resumes, two private power plants to restart operations||Patiala: Two of the three private power plants in Punjab are all set to start power generation as they have received coal supply after resumption of freight trains. However the two state-run thermal plants will not resume operations due to lack of demand. Around 10 days ago, Punjab suspended operations of its last power plant in Lehra Mohabbat to save coal for emergency. The other plants were also shut down due to coal shortage. Private plants faced coal shortage after freight trains were suspended by the central government over the stalemate with protesting farmers’ unions on resumption of passenger trains. Farmers’ unions, which had been blocking the rail tracks since October 1, lifted the blockade partially after over a month but announced that they would not allow movement of passenger trains. The Centre however, wanted rail tracks cleared for all trains, including passenger trains. Movement of trains resumed on Monday following which coal rakes stranded on the way to Punjab started reaching private and government-run power plants. Officials of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) claimed that government-run power plants, including the 840 MW Ropar power plant, was shut down with over four days worth of coal stock on November 3 while the 920MW Lehra Mohabbat power plant, which can produce 220 LU of power per day, shut down its operations on Diwali evening with 1.3 days of coal stock. Officials said two rakes are supposed to reach the Lehra thermal plant, following which the plant will have enough coal stock for two days. PSPCL officials plan to purchase more coal rakes and stock enough coal for seven days in both these plants, which remain closed in the winter due to lack of demand for power. “Two Independent Power Plants (IPP)s of Punjab, including Talwandi Sabo Power Limited (TSPL), Banawali, Mansa and NPL Rajpura will resume power generation soon. We have not given them any instructions regarding the coal stock as they will manage it themselves,” said A Venu Parsad, PSPCL chairman-cum-managing director. Officials of the private plant, GVK Goindwal Sahib claimed to have received 14 rakes so far and said 54 more are in queue but the plant would remain suspended due to lack of demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/coal-supply-resumes-two-private-power-plants-to-restart-operations/articleshow/79397726.cms||Bharat Khanna
November 25, 2020||Ludhiana||Family was reserved, never talked to neighbours||Ludhiana: According to the neighbours, the Sunda family was quite reserved. They had been living there for almost two decades, but no one had ever gone to their house. In these years, the neighbours never spotted anything peculiar about the family until three days back when they heard sounds of a fight. Saturday morning was the first time they heard them fighting. On Tuesday, the neighbours did not hear any noise when Rajiv allegedly killed his entire family. The neighbours came out on hearing the noises of Ashok Gulati and Gaurav Gulati, family of deceased daughter-in-law Garima. A woman neighbour said the family had been living there for about two decades, but they never talked to anyone and only exchanged perfunctory greetings. They came to know about the murders when Garima’s family raised the alarm. Ashok and Gaurav tried to call 112 police helpline, but the call could not be connected so the residents approached the president of the area welfare association who called the SHO. Another neighbour, Rajeev Vij, said, “Rajiv had his office inside the house. He greeted us whenever he saw us, but his family members never talked to anyone. In fact, we saw their grandson, Saket, for the first time during the lockdown. On Saturday morning, we heard some noises from the house. Before that we had never heard anything. We all are in shock. It is hard to believe that the family had so many internal issues.” Cops, so far, are denying involvement of any other person in the killings as the CCTV footage has not captured anyone else entering or exiting the house before or after the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/family-was-reserved-never-talked-to-neighbours/articleshow/79395340.cms||Payal Dhawan
November 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad techie burnt alive, wife, in-laws arrested||HYDERABAD: A software engineer from Hyderabad was tied to a chair and burnt alive in a village in Jagtial on Monday night on the suspicion of performing black magic and causing the death of his brother-in-law. Following a complaint by family of the deceased, Racharla Pawan Kumar, six members of his in-laws’ family and a family friend were arrested on Tuesday. Pawan’s (40) wife Krishnaveni, who was also arrested, alleged her sister-in-law Raparthi Sumalatha set her husband ablaze. Police said the accused had decided to kill Pawan after they were convinced he had got black magic performed on his brother-in-law Jagan, who died of a heart attack 12 days ago. Pawan, who is a resident of Alwal, was employed in Bengaluru. Police, who registered an FIR, arrested Raparthi family members — Sumalatha, Krishnaveni, Vijay, Premeela, Ramadevi Swaroopa and Gangabhavani — and Uppu Niranjan Reddy, who is associated with their family. Circle inspector of Malyala police station Kishore said the murder was planned in advance. The in-laws’ family got Pawan come to Balwantpur village and took him to a room at Manjunatha ashram where the family was staying. Kishore said they tied him up around 6.30 pm, poured petrol over him and set him on fire. Pawan’s father Racharla Gangadhar lodged a complaint against the family following which the FIR was registered, the arrests were made and the accused sent to judicial remand. Jagtial district SP Sindhu Sharma, who visited the ashram, told TOI that in the preliminary probe they found out that Vijay and Niranjan had gone to a petrol bunk to buy fuel which was used to torch Pawan. “This has been captured in CCTV camera. Parents of Pawan also provided us information about family disputes and raised suspicions about Krishnaveni’s role,” Sharma said. On Monday night after the incident, Krishnaveni told reporters that her elder brother Jagan had died of a heart attack 12 days ago. She came to Balwantpur after his death and stayed back. “I asked my husband not to come to the village as I feared he would be attacked. For the last several days, I was tortured and abused by Sumalatha who thinks my husband was behind Jagan’s death by getting black magic performed on him,” Krishnaveni said. Recalling the incident, Krishnaveni said, “I was asked to go out and fetch water. When I heard cries for help, I rushed and saw flames and smoke billowing out of the room. I shouted for help and then I fell unconscious.” Pawan had once warned Jagan in connection with a family dispute which, Krishnaveni said, was not to the liking of Sumalatha. “My sister-in-law kept this in mind and waited to seek revenge. Though my brother had died of a health issue, she held my husband responsible for his death and set him ablaze,” Krishnaveni alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyd-techie-burnt-alive-wife-in-laws-arrested/articleshow/79398544.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Delhi||Second encounter in a week: Two criminals held in Delhi's Rohini||NEW DELHI: Two criminals were shot in their legs during an “encounter” with cops in Rohini early on Tuesday morning, the second one this week. The two accused — Rupender and Amit — were wanted for a spate of murders, robberies and extortions, police said. The criminals used to work for gangster Sandeep Badwasni of Haryana. “A team led by inspector Maan Singh and ACP Sanjay Dutt had been tracking the duo since two months. Three sophisticated pistols, eight live cartridges and a Honda City car have been recovered from them,” DCP (Special Cell) Sanjeev Yadav said. Rupender had a reward of Rs 2 lakh on him after he shot at an inspector of Haryana Police in Gurgaon. In 2014-15, Badwasni, an illicit liquor supplier, formed a gang in Sonipat to take revenge from his competitors. He got many people murdered during that time. In February, 2017, Badwasni was murdered by criminals identified as Ramkaran and Satyawan. In December 2017, Badwasni’s associate, Ajay, killed Satyawan. After this, Ajay was arrested and jailed. However, from that day, Ajay began to head the gang from jail while the outside operations were executed on his instructions by Rupender. Rupender became very powerful after this and even attacked an inspector allegedly related to Satyawan. Meanwhile, a tip off was received on Tuesday that Rupender and his aides would be coming to Rohini to eliminate their rival gang members. Acting on this information, a raiding party was formed and a trap was laid in sector-29. A car was spotted and flagged down but the occupants tried to flee while firing at the police team. The cops shot back and overpowered them. The injured accused persons were taken to a hospital in Rohini. Cops are now looking for their associates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2nd-encounter-in-a-week-2-criminals-held-in-rohini/articleshow/79396576.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Goa||Old practice of cashew feni production will continue: Goa CM||PANAJI: No sooner cashew farmers, cashew feni distillers and the opposition raised an ante against the proposed move of the state government to scrap auctioning of cashew zones, chief minister Pramod Sawant on Tuesday said that there is no such proposal. “There was no such thing. Nobody should worry. Old practice of cashew feni production will continue in the state,” Sawant told reporters. On Monday, enraged cashew farmers met the chief minister and expressed their apprehensions. Sawant not only denied that the government had any such plan but asked famers not to believe in rumours spread by mischievous elements. Last week, excise commissioner Shashank Mani Tripathi had a meeting with tourism stakeholders to discuss the plans of the government and possible changes in the Excise Act. Immediately after, the All Goa Cashew Feni Distillers and Bottlers Association had a meeting and passed a resolution opposing the government’s plans to modify excise Act to scrape auctioning of cashew zones as well as bring in other changes. TOI had reported about the excise commissioner’s meet with cashew feni stakeholders last week, and how upset the stakeholders had been about the whole development who perceived it a ploy to destabilise cashew farmers and distillers on opening of the market to bigger players. Coming up in support of the cashew farmers, opposition leader Digambar Kamat said the state government must stop interfering with Goa’s traditional feni industry. He said the small-scale businessmen and entrepreneurs depend on the cashew crop and production of feni, and any change in the existing plantation auction system will result in economic insecurity, and have a detrimental effect on the traditional industry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-old-practice-of-cashew-feni-production-will-continue/articleshow/79397724.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Goa||Cyclone Nivar likely to bring light rain on Saturday in Goa||PANAJI: While Tamil Nadu and Puducherry are bracing for cyclone Nivar, it will not have landfall over Goa. India meteorological department (IMD) on Tuesday said that while there will be no severe weather in the state, there is a possibility of light rain on Saturday, November 28 due to this phenomenon. IMD warned of the cyclonic storm Nivar over south west Bay of Bengal, and said that it is very likely to intensify further into a severe cyclonic storm during next 12 hours and into a very severe cyclonic storm during the subsequent 12 hours. It is very likely to cross Tamil Nadu and Puducherry coasts between Karaikal and Mamallapuram around Puducherry late evening on November 25 as a very severe cyclonic storm with a wind speed of 120-130kmph gusting to 145kmph. “There is probability of light rain on November 28 and we are observing the situation. In case the wind patterns change, even that probability will be reduced in the coming days,” IMD scientist, Rahul M said. There are chances of cloudy weather in Goa over the next few days, IMD said. There will however be no drastic changes in the maximum and minimum temperatures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cyclone-nivar-likely-to-bring-light-rain-on-sat/articleshow/79398562.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Ludhiana||Industry becomes atmanirbhar, to now fix raw material rate daily||Ludhiana: Suffering high fluctuations in the rates of steel raw material, like industrial scrap, Ludhiana industrialists have taken an unprecedented decision in which the factory owners will now announce the rates of scrap daily on social media so that no one is overcharged. It will help industries that are dependent on the rates of scrap for fixing the rate of their products. This is perhaps the first-of-its-kind initiative that would impact the market prices of the raw material and benefit micro small and medium enterprises (MSME). Upkar Singh Ahuja, president of Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU), told the TOI, “Huge fluctuation was witnessed in the rates of scrap during the past 15 days. It's impossible for the industry to absorb such an increase, particularly at a time when the businesses are already passing through a crisis. For the past few years, certain elements, including some middlemen, under the pretext of rate fluctuation, were fleecing innocent businessmen. Moreover, such a situation causes rift among different groups of businessmen, as suppliers do not quote same rate to everyone.”Ahuja added, “To bring more transparency and give a level playing field to everyone, we have decided that as far as rates of scrap are concerned, we will announce them at noon daily on social media and other channels of communication. Both buyers and sellers of scrap and other businessmen whose rates of finished goods are dependent on scrap can get a benchmark price. We have already organised a joint meeting with the Ludhiana Steel Re-Roller Mills’ Association and they have fully supported our initiative.”Welcoming the move, Jagbir Singh Sokhi, president of Sewing Machine Development Club, said, “This is a historic move and first of its kind in the country. It is my request to all the business associations to join hands and implement the system in fixing the rate of other raw material, like pig iron whose price fluctuations have been in the range of Rs 5,000-7,000 per tonne and that too without any logic. As the government has failed to help us in overcoming this problem, this seems the only way. We will not deal with anyone who charges us beyond the decided rate.”According to Narinder Bhamra, president of Fasteners’ Manufacturers’ Association of India, “For the past few months, a new kind of market trend had started in which there was no uniformity in the rates of steel raw material being quoted by suppliers and agents. In the same day, different rates were offered to different parties. The situation became so worse that during this month, the scrap rates were changed every hour, causing a huge problem for us. There are a number of products made from scrap so its rate is very crucial. With CICU and Ludhiana Steel Re-Roller Mills’ Association supporting the system, this will prove to be a gamechanger for the MSMEs and there will be no overcharging.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/industry-becomes-atmanirbhar-to-now-fix-raw-material-rate-daily/articleshow/79395339.cms||Mohit Behl
November 25, 2020||Patna||Lalu luring NDA MLAs in Bihar from Ranchi: SuMo||Patna/Ranchi: Former deputy CM and senior BJP functionary Sushil Kumar Modi on Tuesday accused jailed RJD chief Lalu Prasad of trying to lure NDA legislators in Bihar through phone calls from Ranchi. “Lalu Yadav making telephone call ... from Ranchi to NDA MLAs & promising ministerial berths. When I telephoned, Lalu directly picked up. I said don’t do these dirty tricks from jail, you will not succeed,” SuMo, who has been appointed president of the ethics committee in the Bihar legislative council, tweeted on Tuesday. The phone number SuMo mentioned in his tweet (TOI is not revealing the number) belongs to Lalu’s caretaker Irfan Ansari. The number was switched off when dialled. Irfan has been allowed access to Lalu, who is in jail in connection with fodder scam cases. Lalu, who is admitted to Rims, Ranchi for treatment, is currently lodged at Kelly’s Bungalow, the official residence of the hospital’s director, on the grounds of possible Covid-19 infection. Under the prison manual, Lalu is not allowed to use cellphone and is supposed to meet visitors once every week. However, the manual is being brazenly violated to keep RJD, a part of the ruling alliance in Jharkhand, in good humour, BJP alleged. Amid a likely contest for the Bihar legislative assembly Speaker’s post on Wednesday, JD(U) MLC Neeraj Kumar launched a scathing attack on Lalu and demanded him to be shifted to Hotwar jail to prevent any misdoings. “Lalu is a habitual criminal. He is convicted in a corruption case and calling people despite being imprisoned. This is misutilization of power. Tejashwi Prasad Yadav (Lalu’s son) should explain who is responsible for such illegal activities being done when election is to be held for the Speaker’s post,” Neeraj said, adding that SuMo’s allegations are serious and required strict action against the RJD chief. BJP’s Jharkhand president Deepak Prakash also tweeted: “Why has the honourable CM Hemant Soren kept his eyes shut on this matter?” Officials of Ranchi’s Birsa Munda Central Jail could not be contacted for comments. RJD functionaries, however, rubbished SuMo’s allegations. “SuMo suffers from Lalu-phobia. Rather than diverting people’s attention from real issues, including unemployment and Covid management, NDA leaders are busy making baseless allegations. They should explain how they are going to create 19 lakh job opportunities,” RJD spokesperson Mrityunjay Tiwari said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lalu-luring-nda-mlas-in-bihar-from-ranchi-sumo/articleshow/79396492.cms||Dhritiman Ray
November 25, 2020||Lucknow||NITI Aayog dy chief, Kerala Guv hail LU for shaping lives||Lucknow: As many as nine of the 50 illustrious ex-students who were invited for the alumni meet of Lucknow University joined the centenary celebrations online on Tuesday. Kerala governor Arif Mohammed Khan, who could not reach Lucknow as was tested positive for Covid-19 on November 3, said: “I congratulate each and every teacher of LU on this 100-year journey. University is for the coming generations but to make this upcoming generation future-ready, the role of the teacher is of utmost importance,” said Khan, who did his LLB from the university in 1977. Despite technical glitches, the participants spent the entire evening listening to speakers on the campus and recalled their association with the university. NITI Aayog vice-chairman Rajiv Kumar, who studied economics at LU in the 1970s, attributed his success to teachers. “Teachers inspired me and increased my interest in economics that shaped my life,” he said. Others who joined the celebrations online included Padma Bhushan awardee and chairperson of the guild of service V Mohini Giri, former director-general of Indian Council of Medical Research and Padma Bhushan awardee NK Ganguli, Director (exploration), ONGC, Rajesh Srivastava, director of Physical Research Laboratory Anil Bhardwaj, member of Nepal’s national planning commission Ganesh Gurung and UK-based solicitor Harjot Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/niti-aayog-dy-chief-kerala-guv-hail-lu-for-shaping-lives/articleshow/79398556.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Day on, farm front blocks railway tracks in Jandiala||Jandiala: Adamant on not allowing passenger trains to pass, Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) once again blocked the rail tracks at Jandiala in the wee hours of Tuesday, forcing the railways to divert trains to Amritsar via Tarn Taran and causing much inconvenience among passengers. The protest came just a day after rail services had resumed service in the state, after more than two months.Despite police barricades, KMSC activists, who had laid a protest near the railway station, moved to the rail track around 3am on Tuesday to block the movement of passenger trains. After this, civil and police administration officials, including Amritsar deputy commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira and Amritsar Rural senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruv Dahiya, reached the spot around 4am to persuade farmers, but to no avail. Khaira said he along with senior police officials, including inspector general of border range, had been holding meetings with the leaders of KMSC since Monday evening and trying to persuade them to allow the movement of goods and passenger trains. “But they didn’t agree, so we held discussions with the railways to find an alternate route for the train to reach Amritsar,” he said. The administration had also arranged buses to ferry passengers to Amritsar railway station form Beas railway station, where the Golden Temple Mail was stationed. The administration had no intention to use force to disperse the agitating farmers, especially when the situation was sensitive, said Khaira, when asked how farmers managed to cross the barricades and reach the rail track. The Golden Temple Mail, which left Mumbai with around 2,500 passengers reached Amritsar around 8.45am, three hours behind the scheduled arrival time of 5.30am. KMSC president Satnam Singh Pannu said their agitation would continue till the Centre repealed the controversial agricultural bills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/day-on-farm-front-blocks-railway-tracks-in-jandiala/articleshow/79397710.cms||Yudhvir Rana
November 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Deserted at 4 days old, he gets a home in Italy||Ahmedabad: Vishal, now six, got a new home and identity on Tuesday as Andrea Miazzo and Nadia Gottardo from the Veneto region of Italy became his proud parents. This was the second adoption of a child from the city by an Italian couple in the past fortnight. “Our struggle to get a child started a decade ago. We initially concentrated on Italy. When it did not work out, we expanded our search to various agencies in Europe. At the suggestion of some friends and well-wishers, we approached the Central Adoption Resource Authority (CARA) in India about two years ago,” said Miazzo. They zeroed-in on Vishal and after our initial meetings it was a match they really liked. After completion of the paperwork, the couple was set to visit India in February to take him home. “But then Covid-19 happened, both in India and Italy. The plan was postponed as we continued our periodic chats with Vishal on video calls. He has only learnt ‘Mama’, ‘Papa’ and ‘Ciao’ so far. But we are hopeful that his Italian vocabulary will improve soon,” said Gottardo. This was the couple’s maiden visit to India. “We had heard a lot about the country, but finally Vishal has become our link to this land. We are not changing his name to keep his connection with his roots alive,” said Miazzo. The local resource persons said Vishal was abandoned when the he was four days old. “He was not keeping well as a child, but over the years he has turned out to be an active child. He will surely be missed,” said a resource person. His adoption ceremony took place in Gandhinagar at the office of the State Adoption Resource Authority (SARA) in the presence of Shishu Gruh and Missionaries of Charity representatives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/deserted-at-4-days-old-he-gets-a-home-in-italy/articleshow/79396491.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Kolkata||SER takes Covid route to raise alarm against smoking on trains||KOLKATA: What does the general smoker do when he has the urge for a drag outdoors? He pulls down his mask to the chin or removes it altogether, fetches a cigarette from his pack and lights up. Seldom do such people bother about what they had touched before popping that fag between their lips. South Eastern Railway (SER) has launched a unique campaign linking smoking to Covid-19. Health experts agree that smokers do face an additional risk of transmitting the virus from their fingers into their mouths unless they take precautions. For the railways, this is about killing two birds with one stone. Though smoking on railway premises and inside trains has already been banned, checkings are a problem at smaller stations and inside the unreserved coaches of passenger trains. What adds more to this is the Covid-19 menace as a large number of suburban services have been resumed in various divisions. Passengers smoking inside toilets of reserved coaches is also a common practice that is extremely difficult to control. “I had seen something like this on social media and it got me thinking. I thought that we may use our platform to spread awareness among smokers, even if they don’t smoke on railway premises or in trains. We have started a campaign at stations as well. After all, the railway network is not exclusive. Those who stub out their cigarettes before entering the station premises may also carry the virus and pass it on to others,” said Sanjoy Ghosh, CPRO, SER. Pulmonologists agree that smokers are certainly at a greater risk. “Their lungs get affected. Covid-19 affects the respiratory system and a smoker is certainly at greater risk of his/her lungs collapsing due to the virus. For smokers, it’s a double whammy. We would certainly advice smokers to give up the habit as soon as possible,” said a professor at IPGMER in Kolkata. Not all smokers carry their own packs. Many rely on the local ‘panwallah’ for sticks. Even if the smoker is cautious and sanitises his/her hands before lighting up, the same can't be guaranteed for the person across the counter. After all, cigarettes’ butts come out first from the pack. “This is certainly a great risk. The smoker may have used a sanitizer but does the kiosk owner do so while pulling out every cigarette? This is very dangerous and and we need to be careful in this regard. My suggestion would be to quit the habit of smoking. I would say the same for those addicted to paan or other items where direct contact is involved,” said Shipra Chatterjee, a doctorḤ who has taught at several medical colleges in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ser-takes-covid-route-to-raise-alarm-against-smoking-on-trains/articleshow/79396507.cms||Jayanta Gupta
November 25, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana realtor kills four of his family||LUDHIANA: A 60-year-old realtor allegedly killed four members of his family at their house in Mayur Vihar, Hambran Road, around 6.15am on Tuesday. Rajiv Sunda was escaping in his car after murdering his wife Sunita, 56, son Ashish, 35, daughter-in-law Garima, 30, and grandson Saket, 13, when he met with an accident and the vehicle caught fire. He abandoned the car and ran away. Police said the matter came to light when Saket called up his maternal uncle Gaurav Gulati, saying Rajiv and Ashish were beating up Garima. Saket asked Gaurav to come to their house at the earliest. By the time Gaurav along with his father Ashok Gulati reached there, the family members were dead. Additional deputy commissioner of police-III Sameer Verma said, “Prima facie investigation suggests that Rajiv killed his family with an axe and a knife. His wife was found dead at the door of her room, Ashish in the lobby near his room and Garima and Saket on the bed of their room. All four were killed in the same way, by slitting their throats.” The police have recovered a note from the spot. In it, Rajiv has written that he is killing his family and committing suicide. He has blamed Garima’s father Ashok and brother Gaurav for forcing him to take the step.  “In the note, Rajiv has stated that they got Ashish married to Garima, who is not from a well-off family, and did not take any dowry. In the past two years, Garima’s family took Rs 4 lakh and another Rs 3 lakh from him, but did not return. Now, they were demanding Rs 10 lakh more for the higher education of Gaurav and to open a shop. When they refused to give money, Ashok and Gaurav threatened to implicate him in a case of domestic violence. He was afraid of facing humiliation in society. He wrote that he is killing all his family members and committing suicide. He has held Ashok and Gaurav responsible for it and sought stern action against them,” the ADCP added. ACP (west) Gurpreet Singh said, “Gaurav and Ashok, residents of Waddi, Haibowal, told police that after receiving Saket’s call, they rushed to their house. When they knocked on the main door, Rajiv asked them to wait. He said he was bringing the car out and would talk to them outside the house. Rajiv opened the door and brought the car out. But instead of stopping there to talk to them, he sped away. About one-and-a half kilometres away, his Maruti Suzuki Swift car met with an accident with a scooter, crashed into a wall of a vacant plot on roadside and caught fire. He then ran away towards South City.” Police teams have been formed to trace Rajiv. A murder case was registered against Rajiv on the statement of the area SHO as no other family member was willing to record statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/murders-most-foul-realtor-slits-throats-of-wife-son-daughter-in-law-grandson/articleshow/79395343.cms||Payal Dhawan
November 25, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka govt picked up tab of treating 1.2 lakh Covid-19 patients||BENGALURU: The Karnataka government has borne the treatment cost of close to 1.2 lakh Covid-19 patients in government and private hospitals, as per the pre-authorisation issued by government agencies till Monday. According to Jawaid Akhtar, additional chief secretary, health and family welfare department, Karnataka is, perhaps, the only state in the country that’s providing free Covid treatment for government-referred patients in private and government hospitals, irrespective of the financial status of the patient. “We took a stand in June to treat patients free of cost in private and government hospitals to whoever tests positive for Covid-19 and wants to come under the government quota. We did not consider whether they came from Karnataka or other states. We wanted to ensure treatment is given to all because of the unprecedented pandemic,” said Akhtar. The estimated cost of treating 1.2 lakh patients is close to Rs 599 crore. “The value is based on the pre-authorisation at notified cost. It may not be the final amount as the pre-authorisation could be cancelled in some of the cases,” he added. Arogya trust got claims for treatment of 1 lakh cases so farThe Karnataka government’s Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust, a wing of the health and family welfare department, has so far received claims for treatment of nearly 1 lakh cases amounting to Rs 380 crore. “We have paid Rs 190 crore of this amount so far. The rest will be reimbursed after scrutiny,” said Akhtar. While the entire cost will not be covered by the cobranded health scheme Ayushman-Bharat Arogya Karnataka (AB-ArK) scheme, the state government is ready to bear the rest of the burden. “There are 16,113 packages under AB-ArK scheme. If a patient is from a BPL family and has undergone any treatment in hospital which falls under AB-ArK scheme, then the reimbursement will be claimed from the central government. For the rest, the state government pays,” he said. The state government has now prioritised its hospitals over private hospitals for Covid treatment following a decline in the number of Covid cases. As per the new regulation, patients will be referred to private hospitals only if beds in government hospitals are 90% full and if the patient’s condition warrants specific care available only in private hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ktaka-govt-picked-up-tab-of-treating-1-2l-covid-19-patients/articleshow/79399260.cms||Sunitha Rao R
November 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Amarinder Singh hails Centre’s move to call farm unions for talks||CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh has welcomed the Centre’s decision to take forward talks with farm unions on the three new laws which have elicited strong protests from the community. The invitation for talks has come in the wake of the farmers’ decision to allow passenger and goods trains in the state. Amarinder, who had spoken last week with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah to urge them to resolve the issue at the earliest, said he was happy to note that the central government had reportedly invited farmer organisations for talks on December 3. Referring to media reports to this effect, he hoped the talks will pave the way for early redressal of the concerns of farmers. It was vital for Punjab’s interests that the matter be resolved as soon as possible, said Amarinder, expressing satisfaction at the fact that both unions and the Centre, had shown flexibility and intent to come to an amicable solution on the issue. He hoped the central government would take into account long term implications of farm laws, and the repercussions would not be just for Punjab and its farmers, but the entire nation’s agriculture sector and food security. Meanwhile, with supplies of essential commodities finally being restored with the resumption of goods train services in Punjab after about two months, the chief minister has asked chief secretary Vini Mahajan to coordinate with various departments to ensure seamless movement of raw materials to power plants and industry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/capt-hails-centres-move-to-call-farm-unions-for-talks/articleshow/79397744.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Trichy||Cyclone Nivar: Massive evacuation picks pace in Thanjavur, Nagapattinam||TRICHY: As the deep depression in the Bay of Bengal has intensified into a cyclone storm, Nivar, which is expected to make a landfall on Wednesday, the district administrations in the coastal districts have started evacuating people from vulnerable areas. Nagapattinam collector has appealed to people living in low-lying areas to move to the relief centres established at 99 locations. Meanwhile, monitoring officers nominated by the state government inspected the low-lying areas and relief centres established at various places to act swiftly in case of an emergency situation. C Munianathan, monitoring officer and principal secretary of the adi dravidar and tribal welfare department, along with district collector Praveen P Nair inspected the preparations. “All the necessary precautionary measures have been taken to face Nivar in Nagapattinam and Mayiladuthurai districts. A total of 53 coastal villages are there in Nagapattinam district. We have started evacuating people from the coastal villages to the relief centres. Essentials including food and other facilities have been set up at the relief centres. I request the people to cooperate with the evacuation teams,” the collector said. This apart, eight response teams have been pressed into action across the district, the collector said. All the authorities concerned have been asked to fill drinking water at all the overhead tanks as there may be power cuts, he said. Meanwhile, food minister R Kamaraj along with district collector V Santha inspected small canals and waterbodies and their supply and drainage channels to check all are functioning normal. The minister inspected the cleaning works in drainage canals such as Satruti canal in Mannargudi in the district and instructed officials to make sure the entire storm water drain system was properly desilted. Thanjavur collector M Govinda Rao inspected the works on strengthening drainage canals and waterbodies in Pattukottai taluk on Tuesday. He also inspected the Nasuvini river and its estuary by walking the 3km stretch. An 80-member team from the state disaster response force (SDRF) arrived in Thanjavur and members have been spread into eight police sub-divisions such as Vallam, Thiruvaiyaru, Thanjavur, Papanasam, Kumbakonam, Thiruvidaimaruthur, Orathanadu and Pattukottai along with 144 district and 50 city police personnel, superintendent of police, Thanjavur, Deshmukh Shekar Sanjay told reporters on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/nivar-massive-evacuation-picks-pace-in-thanjavur-nagapattinam/articleshow/79397768.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Jaipur||Two Rajasthan university professors in list of top 2% world scientists||JAIPUR: Two Indian scientists and professors of the University of Rajasthan (RU) — (Late) R C Mehrotra and I P Jain — have been made it to the list of top 2% scientists in the world by the renowned Stanford University of US after conducting a high-level independent study. (Late) Prof. R C Mehrotra, department of chemistry, RU, has been ranked 450th in the world ranking in organic and nuclear chemistry, while Prof. I P Jain, physics department, currently working at the Centre for Non-Conventional Energy Resources, has been ranked 1,574th in the world ranking. Vice-chancellor Prof. Rajeev Jain said that this was a great and proud moment for the university. It reflects the dedication and hard work of the university in the field of research. He further said that this achievement would inspire researchers at the university who are currently working on various programmes. In 1983, Prof. I P Jain, an RU alumnus, worked with Nobel laureate Prof. Kai Siegbhan in Sweden for 13 months in the field of electron spectroscopy. While talking to TOI, he said that he has dedicated his entire life for research even after retiring in 2006.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-ru-profs-in-list-of-top-2-world-scientists/articleshow/79397765.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Nagpur||More CBSE schools in Nagpur rural firm up reopening plans||NAGPUR: As school reopening day draws near in rural Nagpur, more well-known CBSE schools are either reopening or firming up plans for the same. Education department officials have started contacting schools through their taluka-level officials to gauge their reopening plans. District education officer Chintaman Vanjari said, “Around 657 schools in rural Nagpur are eligible to reopen. We are in touch with them to see how many actually will, on November 26. There are many schools which will certainly reopen.” Podar International School has decided to reopen both its Nagpur branches. SN Sahu, principal of its Besa branch, said, “Our branches in other parts of the state have reopened too. For now, we are not restarting bus service.” Two other well-known CBSE schools are firming up plans to reopen soon. The principal of one of these schools said, “Local education officials contacted us, asking about our reopening plans. We have received consent letters from parents and will probably reopen by first week of December.” Another school principal said, “Consent forms with affirmative response are steadily coming in. The number is still around 10-12%, but it will be good to start with such low numbers and see whether or not we can operate in such conditions.” Ashramshalas and schools run by the tribal department won’t be reopening as of now. A senior official said they were awaiting a decision from their department regarding this. “A few things are being looked into before restarting schools,” said the official. Zilla parishad (ZP) schools will reopen across Nagpur district. There are about 20 schools which have some or all of the eligible classes. Currently, only Std IX-XII students are allowed back on campus. ZP schools are preparing for the reopening by informing parents in villages and instructing them about safety guidelines. It’s expected that around 30% students in ZP schools will return to campus. 70 teachers +ve in dist so farAround 70 teachers in Nagpur district have tested positive so far, though final numbers for Tuesday were not available at the time of going to press. The Covid-19 positive numbers are expected to rise but will not affect school reopening. An education official said, “Considering the number of schools we have, these numbers are very low. And since they will all be now going into isolation, there is no reason to be worried.” As per the state government’s November 10 circular, it is mandatory for all teachers to get the RT-PCR test done. The reopening of Nagpur city schools has been deferred till at least December 13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/more-cbse-schools-in-ngp-rural-firm-up-reopening-plans/articleshow/79397781.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
November 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Karvy Broking expelled by NSE, BSE to do same||HYDERABAD/MUMBAI: A year after markets regulator Sebi banned Karvy Stock Broking (KSBL) for illegally pledging client shares to raise funds for its own use, the National Stock Exchange (NSE) has declared the Hyderabad-based broking firm a defaulter and expelled it from its membership. The same day Sebi also said that through its actions relating to an ex parte order, the broking house has accepted its wrong doings. BSE, the other leading stock exchange, is also on track to expel KSBL for the same reasons, sources said. On Tuesday, Sebi said that after it passed an ex parte order against KSBL in November 2019 and gave the broking house the opportunity to present its case, including personal hearing with Sebi officials, on the eve of each date of hearing, KSBL had sought adjournment. Some of the reasons given by the broking house for adjournment of hearing were “Covid-19 pandemic, heavy rains in Telangana, sickness of its Chairman, sickness of the buyer, etc.” Since May 5 this year, KSBL was also given “an option to avail virtual hearing through electronic audio-visual conference.” The broking firm has also not challenged transfer of securities made by NSDL from its demat account to its 82,559 fully paid clients. The order also noted that in the various letters seeking adjournment, “KSBL made submissions that it is transferring securities and funds to its clients. Such letters and conduct of KSBL shows that it admits the wrongdoing, as alleged in the ex parte order.” Over several years, KSBL had transferred the securities of its clients into its own demat account without their permission and pledged those to raise funds that were eventually diverted to group companies like Karvy Realty. On Monday night NSE said it had expelled KSBL from the exchange membership and also declared it a defaulter. An expulsion by BSE is something that Karvy group also expects, sources said. Top Karvy officials said they’re working to pay back every customer affected by its actions. “The action of NSE is because it has taken us a long time to fulfil our obligations. Probably the other bourses will also follow suit. But we did not budget for the Covid-19 situation, which is why the sale of stake in one of our subsidiaries has also been delayed,” said a source at Karvy. “We have been cooperating and slowly effecting payments to customers. Of the total exposure only about 20-30% clients remain to be paid. We will fulfill all our obligations to customers as well as banks and financial institution in a month or 45 days at the most through a stake sale,” said the source pointing out that the group is “confident” of raising more than its outstanding liabilities from the stake sale for which it has already signed a binding term sheet with an investor. Earlier this year in February, Karvy group founder chairman and managing director C Parthasarathy had told TOI that the group is looking at selling stake in one or more group companies to raise over Rs 2,000 crore to clear its outstanding dues to investors and banks. On its part, last week NSE had settled the claims of about 2.35 lakh investors, with fund balance of below Rs 30,000 each due from KSBL, whose securities or funds worth Rs 2,300 crore were stuck for a year. However, papers available with TOI show that some former KSBL clients still had large outstanding from the broking house. In January this year the Union ministry of corporate affairs (MCA) too had ordered the Registrar of Companies, Hyderabad, to inquire into the affairs of Karvy. The ROC Hyderabad too found that KSBL misused the power of attorney (POA), given by its clients for trading purposes, to transfer their shares to its own accounts and pledged them to raise funds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/karvy-broking-expelled-by-nse-bse-to-do-same/articleshow/79398558.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
November 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Popular Builders’ owners denied bail||Ahmedabad: A sessions court in Mirzapur on Tuesday denied bail to the owners of Popular Builders, Raman Patel and Dashrath Patel, in connection with a case of alleged fraud. They are accused of hiring office space in a multi-storey building in Thaltej and then not vacating the premises when asked to. The Patel brothers, after their arrest on the complaint of Raman’s daughter-in-law over alleged attempt to murder, were booked for cheating, forgery, and criminal conspiracy by Vastrapur police. The complaint said that they were not vacating an office on the eighth floor of New York Tower. They had hired the office space in 2010, but were not vacating it even after the landlord’s insistence. As the dispute arose, the Patel brothers filed a suit in court and sought a stay on vacating the premises. They urged the court to intervene by contending that the landlord had resorted to unfair means. A group of 50 persons had staged a dharna outside the office against their possession. The court, however, refused on November 11 to order any status quo on their possession. In seeking bail, the Popular Builders’ owners cited the pendency of a civil suit. On the other hand, police submitted that once released on bail, the duo may influence witnesses and tamper with evidence and that they have a tendency to grab properties. After hearing the case, additional sessions judge H A Shah denied bail in this case. Meanwhile, Raman’s son Monang Patel was refused bail in connection with the FIR filed by his wife Fizu, accusing him and in-laws of domestic violence and attempt to murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/popular-builders-owners-denied-bail/articleshow/79396512.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Allahabad||Man climbs transmission tower, refuses to step down||Prayagraj: A high voltage drama continued for more than five hours near Bairahana crossing under Kydganj police station on Tuesday after a man climbed a 40-feet high power transmission tower and refused to step down. Upon being alerted, officials of power and police department rushed to the spot and snapped the electricity supply as a precautionary measure. The officials repeatedly requested the youth to step down but to no avail. Station house officer (Kydganj) Roshan Lal told reporters that an unidentified man on Tuesday noon climbed a 40-feet high transmission line. The SHO added that the youth doubted to be mentally challenged, started rebuking officials whenever the police officials and power department managed to establish communication and find out the reason behind his step to climb the high transmission line tower. The officials of the power department had snapped the power supply line coming from Reewa road to Mintoo park transmission division, and this also led to the power crisis in old city pockets. Eyewitnesses told police that a man who came near the tower first took out his clothes and then started climbing the high transmission tower. When he reached half of the tower, he rested for half an hour and then again rose to the top of the tower. Locals told police that the man who climbed the tower is mentally challenged and he was earlier spotted roaming near Bairahana area. Police officials called up teams of the fire department and NDRF for the rescue operation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/man-climbs-transmission-tower-refuses-to-step-down/articleshow/79397755.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Nagpur||Fine for not wearing mask hiked to Rs 1,000 in rural||NAGPUR: Collector Ravindra Thakare has increased the fine for not wearing mask and not maintaining Covid distancing from Rs500 to Rs1,000 for rural areas of the district. It is not clear whether the revised fine will be implemented in the city or not. Thakare, in a press release, said fines totalling Rs4,33,500 were recovered from 806 persons so far. Thakare also said offences were registered against 17 persons. The fine in the city limits was Rs500 as on Tuesday. As per the Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s press release, the nuisance detection squad recovered fine of Rs89.2 lakh from 21,116 persons as on Tuesday. Earlier, the fine was Rs200 and increased to Rs500, following directives of state home minister Anil Deshmukh in mid-September. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fine-for-not-wearing-mask-hiked-to-rs1k-in-rural/articleshow/79396511.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 25, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: One arrested for forging ED documents||KOLKATA: The Bidhannagar Police on Tuesday arrested Sudipta Roy Chowdhury, an accused in a Ponzi muddle, based on a complaint lodged by the Enforcement Directorate at the Bidhannagar North police station. Roy Chowdhury was sent to seven days’ police custody by the Bidhannagar Court. The central investigating agency claimed there had been attempts to forge documents of the agency. They suspected that those involved might try to emulate such things in future. The agency has reasons to believe that a section of accused people in the Rose Valley case are hatching a conspiracy with the help of a few others. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/one-arrested-for-forging-ed-documents/articleshow/79396505.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Admn to give discom licence for 25 years||Chandigarh: The UT administration will give licence to a power distribution company to be be finalised after the bidding process for 25 years under the power department privatisation project, implying it will be in force till 2046. As per submission made before the Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC), the UT administration submitted that the licence period for the distribution company will be for 25 years according to prevailing regulations. The administration had also submitted that it will give an incentive to the power distribution company, if its performance surpasses the set target. The administration had sought the advice of the power regulatory body on the principles of the reorganisation and transaction of the electricity department. Despite protests by the UT Powermen Union, the administration, on the directions of the Union government, has started the privatisation process. The UT has appointed Pawan Kumar Sharma, executive engineer, electricity department, as nodal officer for all activities related to privatisation, including tendering, coordination with various departments, ministry and transaction advisor. In May, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said that electricity distribution companies in union territories (UTs) would be privatised. Earlier, the UT had engaged a government-owned power finance corporation limited to unbundle the electricity department and transform it into a corporate. Meanwhile, the power department employees continued with their protest against the move. They have even sought help from the city residents and various political parties. The department caters to 2.47 lakh consumers divided into nine different categories. According to the official figures, of the total consumers, 2.14 lakh are domestic, which accounts to more than 87% of total consumers. The remaining 13% belong to other categories, commercial, small power, medium supply, large supply, bulk supply, public lighting, agriculture power and temporary supply. ELECTRICITY DEPT PRIVATISATION The UT administration had written a letter to the JERC and submitted a roadmap for the privatisation of the electricity department Nine private firms, including CESC Limited, Torrent Power Limited, Sterlite Power, Adani Transmission Limited, Tata Power Company Limited, GMR Generation Asset Limited, India Power Corporation Limited, DNH Power Distribution Corporation Limited and NTPC Electric Supply Limited, have bought request for proposal documents The UT had submitted it has decided to formulate a company to take over the assets of the power department A trust would be created to manage the pension obligations of the government employeesto be shifted to the private company||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/admn-to-give-discom-licence-for-25-years/articleshow/79397772.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
November 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Two cops discharged in Sadiq Jamal encounter case||Ahmedabad: A special CBI court on Tuesday discharged two cops – police inspector R L Mavani and constable Ajaypalsingh Yadav – from the 2003 Sadiq Jamal Mehtar encounter case, stating that there was no evidence of their involvement. In 2012, eight police officials were booked for killing Sadiq Jamal, a youth from Bhavnagar, who city crime branch had claimed was a trained Lashkar-e-Taiba operative sent to kill then chief minister Narendra Modi to avenge the 2002 riots. The investigating agency, the CBI found that Sadiq had been in the custody of Gujarat police and his custody had been obtained from Mumbai police. Earlier, retired DySP K M Waghela’s discharge plea was rejected. DySP JG Parmar has died and another accused person, DySP Tarun Barot, has retired. While dropping the charges of murder, abduction, illegal confinement and criminal conspiracy against Mavani and Yadav, CBI judge Bharat A Dave noted that the court did not take into consideration the absence of prosecution sanction under Section 197 of CrPC at all. “This court finds that there is no evidence, either oral or documentary, against these applicants with regard to the offence of criminal conspiracy, wrongful restraint, wrongful confinement, kidnapping or abducting in order to murder or with intent to secretly and wrongfully confining a person. So there is no reason to frame a charge for that offence under Section 228 of Code of Criminal Procedure,” the court order reads. The court said other officials involved in the encounter were senior to these two. When they were ordered to accompany them to the spot of the encounter, they could not have refused. “According to the FIR, these two applicants have done nothing during the crossfire. It has not been investigated that at that time these two applicants were armed with weapons or not…Their mere presence at the place of encounter and that too on obeying the order of senior officer, is not sufficient to charge them for murder of Sadiq Jamal. We must keep in mind that these two applicants are/were part of such disciplined force, where seniors are not accustomed to hear ‘no’ from the mouth of staff on duty,” the court said. The court also observed that if the CBI’s accusation is believed that Sadiq’s custody was obtained by Gujarat police from Mumbai police, there was no involvement of Mavani and Yadav in this alleged episode.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/two-cops-discharged-in-sadiq-jamal-encounter-case/articleshow/79396500.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Lucknow||Nostalgia fills the air as old students return to campus||Lucknow: Nostalgia was in the air as alumni from all walks of life reached the Lucknow University campus on Tuesday to take part in the international alumni meet organised as a part of the ongoing centenary celebration. As many as 20 former students and eminent persons from different fields were felicitated by the university. Hockey Olympians Rajnish Mishra, Sujit Kumar and Rajnish Govil visited classrooms to have a feel of the good old days. “We had to miss classes more often due to sports camps but the classrooms were our favourite places. Today, we got that feeling again,” they told TOI. Senior scientists including CIMAP director Prabodh Kumar Trivedi, director of Birbal Sahni Institute of Palaeosciences Vandana Prasad and IITR director Prof Alok Dhawan were seen clicking photographs and talking about their student life. Prof Balraj Chauhan, vice-chancellor of Dharmashastra National Law University, Jabalpur, bureaucrats Leena Jauhari, Sumita Mishra and Aradhna Shukla were also seen sharing old memories. Ex-VC of Ambedkar University, Agra, Prof Mohammad Muzammil, former vice-chancellor of Awadh University, Ayodhya, Prof Manoj Dixit and LU’s former pro-VC Prof UN Dwivedi were seen surrounded by old students. Padma Shri awardees Raj Bisaria and Anup Jalota, senior KGMU faculty member Prof Suryakant and civil servant Pankaj Rastogi also graced the campus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/nostalgia-fills-the-air-as-old-students-return-to-campus/articleshow/79398559.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Chandigarh||‘No justification for police action’||Chandigarh: Congress has criticised arrest and rounding up of farmer leaders and their supporters by Haryana Police and intelligence agencies. On the birth anniversary of Chaudhary Chhotu Ram, former chief minister and leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda termed the arrest of farmers as unfortunate. Similarly, HPCC president Kumari Selja as well as AICC chief spokesman also attacked the BJP-JJP alliance for action against farmers. Addressing mediapersons after a meeting of the Congress Legislature Party in Chandigarh, Hooda said the treatment meted out to farmers was wrong as every citizen of the country had the right to raise their demand in a peaceful manner and agitate against policies that would harm them. “The legitimate demands of the farmers cannot be suppressed. Arresting leaders from their homes at night cannot be justified and the government should release the arrested leaders at the earliest,” he said. Supporting the demand of farmers, Hooda said without the guarantee of MSP, the new laws are not in the interest of farmers. “The Congress will come up with a proposal to amend the APMC Act (Agricultural Produce Market Committee Act) in the next assembly session,” he said. .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-justification-for-police-action/articleshow/79397728.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Dehradun||Amidst rising Covid cases and fear of a 2nd surge, Doon to bring back weekend lockdown||Dehradun: The weekend lockdown, imposed to contain the spread of novel coronavirus across the state around mid-July, is set to be back in Dehradun, the district administration said. During the weekend closure, all non-essential shops will be closed and the city will be sanitised. Besides intensifying sanitisation activities, the move will also help in breaking the chain of the virus spread, said the officials. The weekend closure of shops was temporarily suspended during the festival season. In addition to this, the administration has appealed to the residents of the district to follow all Covid-19 prevention norms in the larger public interest. Meanwhile, the local administration will also keep a check on the compliance of Covid-19 prevention norms at wedding venues. On Monday, Dehradun district magistrate Ashish Kumar Srivastava held a meeting with senior superintendent of police Arun Mohan Joshi and officials from the health department to discuss the future strategy to check Covid-19 spread. During the meeting, the officials pointed out that weekly closure on Sundays had proved to be effective in the past. However, during the festive season, the practice was suspended in the interest of the shopkeepers. Before the festive season, the arrangement of weekly closure was in practice in Rishikesh, Mussoorie and other tehsils of the Dehradun district and different days were fixed for carrying out sanitisation drives in the markets. Talking to TOI, Arvind Pandey, additional district magistrate, Dehradun, said, “The district administration has decided to impose weekend closure again as it had earlier helped us in carrying out sanitisation drives. All other shops except the stores selling essential items — like medicines, shops, and vegetables, among others — would remain shut.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/amidst-rising-covid-cases-and-fear-of-a-2nd-surge-doon-to-bring-back-weekend-lockdown/articleshow/79394347.cms||Abhijeet Singh
November 25, 2020||Chandigarh||IAF officer’s wife sexually harassed, FIR filed||Panchkula: The wife of an Indian Air Force (IAF) officer posted at the Chandigarh Air Force station was allegedly sexually harassed by an Integrated Counselling and Testing Centre (ICTC) counsellor belonging to Haryana State AIDS Control Society (HSACS) Sector 6, Panchkula, during a session at Western Command Hospital, leading the police to register a case after Haryana State Commission for Women forwarded the complaint. The 30-year-old woman was undergoing treatment at a hospital in Western Command, Chandimandir. She was required to undergo ICTC counselling for an HIV test before an operation. On February 7, during her counselling at Western Command Hospital, the accused allegedly asked her irrelevant questions related to her marital life, showed her pornographic pictures and videos and tried to touch her private parts, she alleged in her complaint. He also allegedly asked her to call him home for further counselling. She narrated the incident to her husband and they lodged a complaint with the Western Command on February 8. The counsellor was reverted to his parent organisation, Haryana State AIDS Control Society, Sector 6, Panchkula, from Western Command hospital. On March 24, her husband was directed to submit the complaint to HSACS project director and to attend further proceedings in the case. The victim’s husband visited the office on March 24 but found no one. Later, the project director asked him to attend proceeding on July 6 and told him frequent visits would be required. The victim, in the, end approached Haryana State Commission for Women for legal action against the accused. The commission moved her complaint to the women police station. Police registered a case under Section 294 (sings, recites or utters any obscene song, ballad or words, in or near any public place), 354 A (sexual harassment of the nature of unwelcome physical contact and advances or a demand or request for sexual favors or showing pornography) and 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) at Chandimandir police station and initiated the investigation. Noopur Bishnoi, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), women police station, would head the investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/iaf-officers-wife-sexually-harassed-fir-filed/articleshow/79397782.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Kolkata||Firhad Hakim volunteers for Covaxin clinical trial in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Urban development minister Firhad Hakim is likely to participate in the Covaxin Phase III trial at NICED (National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases) Kolkata. Hakim, who is also the chairperson of the Board of Administrators (BoA) in the Kolkata Municipal Corporation, told TOI on Tuesday, “I had preliminary talks with the NICED director. I have assured her of all help. I was asked whether I would like to volunteer for the (clinical) trial. I have told the NICED director that I am keen to help in whatever way I can. I am even ready to participate in the clinical trial if I meet the criteria.” Shanta Dutta, the NICED director, could not be reached for comments. TOI had reported that the first lot of the Covaxin vials are expected to arrive at NICED Kolkata in about a week for the Phase III clinical trial. As part of the pan-India Phase III trial of the indigenous vaccine for Covid, 1,000 volunteers will take part in this study at NICED. For the first indigenously developed vaccine by Bharat Biotech and ICMR, 28,500 volunteers will be taken into the third phase of the trial across India. The trial at NICED will be a placebo-controlled trial where half of the participants will receive inert placebo and the rest will be given the candidate vaccine. NICED will soon start screening the volunteers to select the ones who fit into the criteria. Hakim, 61, who has been leading the KMC’s Covid efforts, is, however, not the first high profile personality to have volunteered for the Covaxin Phase III trials. Before him, the Aligarh Muslim University vice-chancellor Prof Tariq Mansoor and Haryana health minister Anil Vij had publicly expressed their desire to participate in the trials. Hakim said he has not received any formal request from NICED. In Kolkata, former School of Tropical Medicine (STM) director Pratip Kumar Kundu who superannuated in October-end this year has also expressed his desire to participate in the trials at STM. A microbiologist by profession, the 65-year-old called up the team at STM saying that he was ready to take part in the vaccine trial. STM medical will be conducting the Phase III trial of candidate Covovax taking in 100 volunteers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/firhad-volunteers-for-clinical-trial/articleshow/79396520.cms||Saikat Ray
November 25, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: ACB arrests middleman for bribery||JAISALMER: The ACB arrested a middleman for taking a bribe of Rs 18,000 for releasing assistance money of Rs 1 lakh under the SC/ST Act on Monday. The middleman was asking for bribe in the names of officers and employees in front of the office of social justice and empowerment department in Barmer. Jodhpur rural ACB SP Bhopal Singh Lakhawat said Shankar Bheel, a resident of Burhan Ka Tala, had lodged a case of cheating with the Serva police station. As per government provisions, the collector had sanctioned Rs 1 lakh for Bheel. Middleman Shambhu Ram demanded 18% commission in the name of officers and employees of the department to deposit the sanctioned amount in the account. On Monday, the victim reached out to the middleman to give the amount but the middleman suspected that powder was on the notes so he put the money in victim’s pocket. He said the culprit ran away from the spot but the ACB team chased and caught him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/acb-arrests-middleman-for-bribery/articleshow/79406858.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Lucknow||Music, laughter, camaraderie & journey down the memory lane||Lucknow: The dusk was fast approaching when a group of men were busy doing last minute preparations on the stage. Laughter and camaraderie filled the air as the men, dressed in their best suits greeted women decked in their best sarees. Many were meeting after a gap of several years, as they posed for photographs, took some selfies as they were overwhelmed to see their batchmates, while youngsters were also pouring into the Arts quadrangle as the International Alumni Meet of Lucknow University began on Tuesday. In its centenary year celebrations, the university was hosting several of its dignified alumni who have made a mark in their respective fields and brought laurels to their alma mater. The event was a walk down the memory for the ex-students, including academicians, scientists and sportspersons, many of whom have now even retired from their services. The evening began with the musical show by Dharmendar Jai Narain, aka DJ Narain, who rekindled the long-forgotten memories of the university and the lanes of Old City in Lucknow. Narain sang a composition which was composed in university itself when he was a student, and followed it up with his iconic song ‘Ankhon me tera hi chehra’ as many in the crowd danced on their seats. Paying homage to his father Jai Narain Srivastava, Narain unfurled the Indian flag in a similar manner as his father did in 1937 at the quadrangle, as ‘Bharat Mata ki Jai’ slogans echoed in the iconic century-old building. “I am starting my life from scratch again at the university today. I have zero posts on my social handles now and I am starting from the place again that gave me wings,” said Narain, as he fondly remembered his batchmates and teachers. After Narain, Anoop Jalota took the stage and mesmerised the crowd. His ‘Aye sheher-e-Lucknow, tujhe mera salaam hai, tera hi naam doosra jannat ka naam hai’ made several alumni emotional as they reminisced their times in the city and in university. There was a sudden rush as former English Literature faculty member and famous theatre personality Raj Bisaria walked in with his wife. Both old and the new students were eager to click a photo with him. The senior and juniors joyfully celebrated the legacy of 100 years they are a part of. “Who wouldn’t like to wallow in nostalgia, especially when one gets busy with everyday mundane life and has no time to revisit old memories,” said Rachna Govil, 1982 pass out, and a shooter. Those who couldn’t make it to the alumni meet physically, joined in virtually. The meet came to an end with the felicitation of various alumni and a gala dinner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/music-laughter-camaraderie-journey-down-the-memory-lane/articleshow/79398582.cms||Aditi Singh
November 25, 2020||Allahabad||Couple robbed of Rs 80k cash, gold in Kaushambi||Prayagraj: A group of unidentified persons looted Rs 80,000 cash and gold ornaments from a couple near Uchrawa village under Saini police station of Kaushambi police station on late Monday night. Deputy SP (Sirathu) Ramvir Singh told TOI that a police team has been assigned to crack the case. He added that the police have been going through the CCTV footage after victim told police that the looters were chasing them from Prayagraj. As per reports, Munnu Lal and his wife Lalti Devi had reached Prayagraj junction on Monday morning and started their journey for their native village Ghazipur in Saini police circle of Kaushambi district on Monday evening. As they reached Uchrawa area, a group of unidentified persons robbed them off cash worth Rs 80,000 and gold jewellery, and escaped. The police, however, said that the victim did not make clear the timing of the incident. Munnu Lal told police that the loot was executed around 7 pm but the police received the information about the loot around 10:30 pm. Police said that the couple lives in Noida and had come to their native town to attend a wedding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/couple-robbed-of-rs-80k-cash-gold-in-kaushambi/articleshow/79397778.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Pigeon thief strikes in Barwala||Panchkula: This thief dislikes cash or gold or electronic items but loves pigeons, and that too competitive ones. Harpal Singh of Jalouli village, Barwala, found that out when he woke up at 6am on November 20. “When I went to the roof to give feed to my pigeons in their special room that I had constructed, I found 100 of the 200 missing,” he told the police in his complaint. Someone had used a cutter to cut the net and pack the birds. The farmer, owner of 200 pigeons, used to take his pigeons for various competitions. He told cops he had kept all the pigeons in a special room on the first floor. On November 19, he gave feed and water to the birds and locked the room, like usual, and went to sleep. The shock came next morning. He said the accused came to his rooftop from his neighbour’s. Police registered a case under Sections 457 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night in order to commit offence punishable with imprisonment) and 380 (theft at dwelling house) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pigeon-thief-strikes-in-barwala/articleshow/79397776.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
November 25, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: ACB arrests middleman for bribery||JAISALMER: The ACB arrested a middleman for taking a bribe of Rs 18,000 for releasing assistance money of Rs 1 lakh under the SC/ST Act on Monday. The middleman was asking for bribe in the names of officers and employees in front of the office of social justice and empowerment department in Barmer. Jodhpur rural ACB SP Bhopal Singh Lakhawat said Shankar Bheel, a resident of Burhan Ka Tala, had lodged a case of cheating with the Serva police station. As per government provisions, the collector had sanctioned Rs 1 lakh for Bheel. Middleman Shambhu Ram demanded 18% commission in the name of officers and employees of the department to deposit the sanctioned amount in the account. On Monday, the victim reached out to the middleman to give the amount but the middleman suspected that powder was on the notes so he put the money in victim’s pocket. He said the culprit ran away from the spot but the ACB team chased and caught him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/acb-arrests-middleman-for-bribery/articleshow/79397807.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Auto driver cheated of Rs 10L with lure of revenue clerk job||Ahmedabad: A 27-year-old autorickshaw driver from Meghaninagar on Monday filed a complaint at Chandkheda police station alleging that a man who travelled in his rickshaw cheated him of Rs 10 lakh by promising him the job of a talati (revenue clerk) in the Gujarat government. In his FIR, Rakesh Gupta stated that he met the accused, Shailendra Patel, a resident of Motera, in 2018, when Patel travelled in his autorickshaw and enquired about his educational qualifications. When Gupta told Patel that he was a graduate, Patel told him that he could help him to get the job of a talati in the Gujarat government but demanded money in return. Patel kept demanding money from Gupta at regular intervals, promising that he would provide him a job as he worked in the Sachiavalaya (secretariat). He ended up taking Rs 9.59 lakh from Gupta between April 2018 and December 2019. As the job did not come through, the complainant demanded his money back. After waiting for around 11 months, Gupta finally decided to approach police and filed a complaint for cheating and breach of trust.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/auto-driver-cheated-of-rs-10l-with-lure-of-revenue-clerk-job/articleshow/79396522.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Kolkata||Cops advise periodic security audit of ATMs||Kolkata: The detective department has asked all banks to carry out periodic audits of the security system at their ATM kiosks and not leave it only to their contracted security agencies to carry out the all important audits. The advisory came after a meeting between cops and the banks. The meeting was chaired by joint CP (crime) Murlidhar Sharma. The meeting was arranged after Rs 13 lakh was stolen from a private bank ATM a few days back from Picnic Garden-Tiljala area by at least three to five miscreants. The ATM kiosk, including the machine, caught fire about half-an-hour after the accused fled from the spot. Though cops said they are aware of the costs of keeping security guards at maximum ATMs, it acts as a major deterrent. The bank fraud section also asked for suggestions on how the coordination between banking officers and police can be increased once the alarm is triggered after a break-in attempt.Concerned over recent break-in attempts, several banks have introduced new security measures that were shared with cops. Some banks have asked employees to make sure ATMs are affixed to walls, pillars or floor. The only exception has been made for ATMs installed in highly secured premises such as airports that have adequate CCTV coverage and are guarded by State or Central security personnel. Banks have also been urged to consider rolling out a comprehensive e-surveillance mechanism at ATMs to ensure timely alerts and quick response.Meanwhile, the city police said that they were close to cracking the case after some specific leads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-advise-periodic-security-audit-of-atms/articleshow/79378390.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Lothal maritime museum project takes first steps||Ahmedabad: The contours of the Union government-backed National Maritime Heritage Complex (NMHC) project, to be built at an estimated project cost of Rs 1,500 crore to Rs 2,000 crore, have begun to take shape near the ancient port town of Lothal. If all goes as planned, the first phase of the project to build the maritime heritage complex will be complete and the complex open for public by 2023. To start with, Gujarat government has recently transferred close to 400 acres of land at Saragwala village, near the Harappan site, about 80 kilometres away from Ahmedabad. The authorities have started inviting bids for engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) work of the maritime heritage complex along with hiring the principal architects and designers for the overall project. To be built on the lines of Royal Museum Greenwich, UK, Maritime Museum, Australia and Maritime Museum of Singapore, among others, the cost of the maritime complex is estimated to be close to Rs 500 crore. The project is being implemented by the Ministry of Shipping which has already earmarked Rs 500 crore for the project, said Vasant Shinde, Director General, National Maritime Heritage Complex and former vice-chancellor of Deccan College, Post Graduate and Research Institute, Pune. “The importance or need to develop a national maritime museum is the fact that we don’t have a single museum dedicated to the legacy of maritime heritage of India. Irrespective of the fact that we have over 5,000 years old evidence of maritime heritage and that our coastline covers over 7,516km, there is no space to promote our maritime culture,” said Shinde. Explaining the reason for choosing Lothal, he said it is a significant heritage site on national as well as on the world map. Lothal is also on the tentative list of UNESCO world heritage sites and it is one of the most prominent cities of the ancient Indus valley civilization dating to 2,400 BC, located in Gujarat, he said. Archaeological excavations have discovered the oldest man-made dockyard, over 5,000 years old, in Lothal. Plans are afoot to sign an agreement with the ministry of defence for display of a submarine and warship at the site as well as old archival pictures and other materials for the museum. The NMHC Project shall house national maritime museum, maritime heritage based theme park, maritime research institute, a nature conservation park and resorts, etc. The cost of building hotels and restaurants and other infrastructure facilities on PPP model is estimated to be about Rs 1,000 crore, he said adding that the overall project cost is estimated to be about Rs 1,500 to Rs 2,000 crore. “The maritime research institute will be the first of its kind in the country where work will be done on how India played a key role in the cultural and economical impact on other countries and vice-versa over last 2,000 years. There are 40 countries in Indian Ocean rim area which at some stage were connected to each other by trade, economy and religious factors. We want to study them as well,” said Shinde.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lothal-maritime-museum-project-takes-first-steps/articleshow/79396554.cms||Maulik Pathak
November 25, 2020||Jaipur||Woman, grandson die in fire in Rajasthan's Alwar||ALWAR /JAIPUR: A woman and her grandson suffocated to death in Alwar after the room in which they were sleeping caught fire. Police said they a lit candle had fallen on the floor and caught fire. The deceased were identified as 55-year-old Maryam Khan and her four-year-old grandson Ayaz. “The victims were asleep under a blanket and since there was no electricity, they had lit a candle. Due to some reason, the candle fell on the ground and a cotton bundle kept there caught fire. The fire intensified as there was a can of diesel also kept nearby,” said an official of Tapukhera police station. When villagers saw the flames engulfing the house, they tried to douse it and informed the local police. However despite their efforts, the duo could not be saved as the fire took a long time to be contained. The duo suffered burn injuries and could not come out of the house as the flames had blocked the exit points. Officials said negligence caused the fire as multiple inflammable objects were kept in close vicinity. Cops ruled out any aspect of foul play in the matter and a case of accidental death has been registered. The bodies of the deceased were handed over to the family after post-mortem. Earlier this month, a 25-year-old man was killed when his house at Deedwana in Nagaur caught fire while he was sleeping in his room. A short circuit triggered the fire, preliminary investigation had revealed. Cops claimed that while the fire was not big, but the flames had taken over the entry points of the room. The flames and smoke had trapped the victim inside and while we tried to rescue him, he could not come out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-grandson-die-in-fire/articleshow/79397823.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Pkl turns strict, face fines, FIRs if norms not followed||Panchkula: The Panchkula administration will issue challan to a person if he/she is found not wearing masks at gyms, yoga centres, parks, religious places, institutes, work place and other public places. An FIR will be registered if social distancing norms are not followed. Panchkula deputy commissioner (DC) M K Ahuja has stated in his orders that following social distancing and wearing of masks is mandatory at public places and strict action will be taken against those found violating the norms. The DC also called a meeting with all the officers from various departments, including police and health departments. All the incident commanders were also called during the meeting. The DC asked all the incident commanders to make sure that people strictly follow the Covid-19 guidelines issued by the government. He said no leniency of any kind would be tolerated in this matter and strict action must be taken against a person found flouting the Covid-19 norms. The DC also ordered to visit all the public places, religious places, parks, gymnasiums, yoga centres, institutes, work places, markets and bus stands. They must issue a challan or in case needed, FIR must be registered against a person found flouting the norms. The DC will check regular action report from all the incident commanders. The health department has also been asked to take more random samples of people at public places. All other departments, including the municipal corporation, estate officer, Haryana Urban Development Authority (Huda), must work together to fight the deadly virus. The DC said, “The World Health Organisation (WHO) has declared Covid-19 as pandemic and the Home Ministry and the state government have issued guidelines for the public. If anybody is found flouting the norms, that person will be dealt with strictly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pkl-turns-strict-face-fines-firs-if-norms-not-followed/articleshow/79395391.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
November 25, 2020||Lucknow||LU teachers came to students’ aid during Quit India protest||It was August 10, 1942 – two days after Mahatma Gandhi made the call on the British to Quit India – when I, along with some other students, reached the university campus after crossing the river Gomti near Boat Club as Hanuman Setu was blocked by the police. I was a student of Lucknow Christian College at that time and graduated from Lucknow University in April 1947. After a great deal of commotion and excitement, a large procession of students started from the university towards the city but was stopped at Hanuman Setu as prohibitory order was in force. The Collector of Lucknow at that time, a British, was also there. Girl students in groups of 2 or 3 were allowed but the main procession was blocked. These girl returned after seeing that a lot of military vehicles with ‘Tommys’ (as British soldiers were then called) were on the then ‘Imli Road’ towards Hazratganj, and warned the students. Emotions ran high and students insisted on taking out the procession. The Collector looked at his watch and ordered ‘two minutes, disperse or lathi charge’. At the tick of the clock, a sergeant seized a student standing next to me and hit him with baton and police force moved forward lathi charging the students. All students fled and jumped the fence of registrar office which at that time was just across the old bridge. The students brickbatted the police, who retreated. After that the Collector ordered firing on the crowd. Hearing gunshots, several teachers led by Prof NK Sidhanta and Dr Shankar Dayal Sharma (who was a lecturer in faculty of law at that time) walked from Canning College to Hanuman Setu. Students besieged their learned teachers and stated that Section 144 does not ban movement in groups of 3 or 4, hence they should be allowed. Prof Sidhanta and others argued with the Collector who agreed to their logical pleadings. It has to be noted how much respect the teachers commanded at that time that even arrogant British Collector, when confronted, had to submit to the logical plea of teachers. Later, I had the privilege of meeting Dr Shankar Dayal Sharma, who was at that time the Vice-President of India. The topic of Lucknow University came during discussion and Dr Sharma got nostalgic about his days as a teacher at Lucknow University. It is a proud privilege that the University of Lucknow is celebrating 100 years of its establishment and has such a great heritage. (The writer is 93 years old. He completed BSc in 1947. He was the founder president of a degree college in Rae Bareli, named after then local MP Feroze Gandhi. The writer is now managing secretary of the college)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lu-teachers-came-to-students-aid-during-quit-india-protest/articleshow/79398618.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Nagpur||Jewellery missing from corpse, Mayo nurse under lens||NAGPUR: A Mayo Hospital nurse has come under the scanner of Tehsil police after theft of ornaments from a woman’s body was reported at the hospital’s morgue. Police said Khaparkheda resident Sagar Dnyaneshwar Bagadkar, 32, had admitted his mother Pushpa Bagadkar, 55, in Mayo Hospital’s ward number 41 in October. During treatment, Pushpa had a ring on her finger, a gold necklace and jewellery worth Rs35,000. Pushpa died on October 16 while undergoing treatment and her body was placed in Mayo hospital’s mortuary for autopsy. Meanwhile, an unidentified thief stole jewellery from the body. The matter came to Sagar's notice, who then lodged a complaint with the Tehsil police. Police investigated and filed a case of theft. Police demanded CCTV footage from the Mayo hospital administration, but have not yet received it. Sagar has expressed suspicion on a nurse. Further action will be taken after scanning the CCTV footage as well as interrogating the nurse, the Tehsil police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/jewellery-missing-from-corpse-mayo-nurse-under-lens/articleshow/79396556.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Dehradun||Tigress ‘missing’ for two months, Rajaji reserve finally sets up four search teams||DEHRADUN: For five months, a tigress in Rajaji Tiger Reserve has not been captured in any camera trap image. For two months, no pug marks have been seen. It is now that the reserve has set up four search teams to look for it but not admitted the possibility that the tigress may have gone “missing”. For 10 years, the 18-year-old tigress had been living in the 177-sq km western part of the 734-sq km reserve with her sibling. The two, the only inhabitants of the western reserve, were not known to stray from one another. The eastern reserve, separated by a busy corridor that animals often find difficult to cross, is home to 35 resident tigers. “We saw her in camera traps in June. Two months ago, its signs were seen,” said DK Singh, director of the reserve, which is preparing for the translocation of five tigers from Corbett to the western reserve. Pug marks of a tigress were seen in the Barkot range recently, which Singh saw as a positive sign. “We have set up five cameras in Barkot today (Tuesday). Ten more will be installed tomorrow.” The apprehensions, reserve authorities said, are about the possibility that she may have been attacked by poachers or may be suffering from a health problem. Search teams have been deployed on elephants across Barkot, Kansaro, Motichur and Ramgarh forest ranges, and additional patrol staff have been deployed on foot. The planned relocation of tigers may have delayed action on this. “For the past four to five months, the plan to get tigers from Corbett is on. But they have no idea that a tigress here is missing. If they cannot ensure the safety of one tigress, how do they intend to move five more to western Rajaji?” honorary wildlife warden of the reserve, Rajeev Talwar, said. Reserve director Singh, however, played it down: “The tigress has a history of moving around for a month or two and then returning. It’s not a cause of worry.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/tigress-missing-for-two-months-rajaji-reserve-finally-sets-up-4-search-teams/articleshow/79394373.cms||Shivani Azad
November 25, 2020||Kolkata||KMC’s co-morbidity data on 7.5 lakh homes in Kolkata by next week||KOLKATA: After missing two deadlines, the Kolkata co-morbidity survey spanning 7.5 lakh households will be digitized early next week. The survey was aimed at triaging for care and sensitizing people with co-morbidities on Covid so that they seek early medical attention. KMC says this data will now help them prioritize the most vulnerable during the vaccination rollout later. The survey, which started on September 7, took 24 days to cover 144 KMC wards. “We are now busy preparing a list of our frontline Covid warriors who will be included in the priority list for the vaccine. Next in the queue could be a sizable population of Kolkata which has been suffering from co-morbidity factors. The survey results will help us locate them and include in the list of Covid vaccines,” said Subrata Raychowdhury, KMC deputy chief health officer, who played a crucial role in the survey. However, Raychowdhury pointed out unless the digitized data were analyzed, the public health experts or health planners would not be able to get the desired result of the survey. “Our next job is to analyze data which have emerged from 7.5 lakh city households. If this job is properly done, the survey will go a long way in ensuring a systematic war against outbreak of any pandemic in future,” he said. TOI had already reported that a preliminary analysis of around 80,000-85,000 Kolkata households surveyed for co-morbid conditions has indicated that roughly one person in every four households suffer from hypertension, blood sugar, kidney or cardiac ailments, few even from cancer, and they may need medical intervention. Around 60% of these people, who have reported such medical conditions, are senior citizens. However, for the time being, based on the survey results, the KMC Covid task force will reach out to city’s Covid-positive patients who are also suffering from co-morbidity factors. In fact, the KMC’s borough executive health officials had intervened in the treatment of several patients in late September based on the preliminary findings of the co-morbidity survey. “Based on whatever information was being collected by our voluntary health workers from their door-to-door survey, we could take prompt decisions on hospitalization of several serious Covid patients who were also suffering from co-morbidity factors like diabetes or hypertension,” said a member of the KMC covid task force. But, the survey was not complete without hiccups, said KMC health officials. “Though collection of data was done on war footing, compilation and digitization of data suffered due to lack of trained manpower required for the job and snags occurred from time to time in the KMC IT system,” said a civic official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmcs-co-morbidity-data-on-7-5l-city-homes-by-next-week/articleshow/79396585.cms||Saikat Ray
November 25, 2020||Delhi||Colder November: Power demand in Delhi surges past last year’s peak||NEW DELHI: With the temperatures plummeting in the city, the seemingly early onset of winter this year is getting reflected in the power demand in the city. The peak power demand this November has already surpassed that of the same month last year prompting the discoms to gear up to meet a much higher demand this winter. On November 20, the season’s peak power demand was 3,678MW compared with 3,631MW recorded on November 15 last year, according to sources. But that’s not all. The peak power demand has surpassed the corresponding demand on 12 days till November 24 compared with the same month last year. The days when the peak power demand surpassed figures recorded in the same month in 2019 was on November 2 to 4, 9 to 13, 18, 20, 23 and 24. The power distribution companies expect the city’s peak power demand to go up to 5,480MW this winter, surpassing last year’s demand during the season. Last winter, the demand had peaked at 5,343MW. The peak power demand in Delhi during winter has been going up gradually. While it was 4,125MW in the winter of 2015-16, it increased to 4,168MW the next winter and to 4,511MW in 2017-18. However, it dipped to 4,472MW in the winter of 2018-19. Earlier this month, the three discoms in the city, BSES Yamuna, BSES Rajdhani and Tata Power, had announced their winter action plan saying they were fully prepared to ensure adequate power during this season. As part of the plan, BSES had said, “Ensuring reliable supply in any season is as much the function of proper electricity arrangements as also accurate demand forecast and robust distribution network.” It added that its supply arrangements during the winter months included long-term agreements with power plants, including hydro and Delhi-based gas fuelled generating stations, apart from more than 190MW of wind power, 70MW of solar power and 25MW from waste-to-energy. Both BSES and Tata Power had said that they were using cutting edge technology to ensure 24x7 power supply, including advanced statistical forecasting models, combined with state-of-the-art weather forecasting solutions like artificial intelligence and machine learning. BSES had said that in case of shortage its discoms would buy short-term power from the exchange at affordable rates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/colder-nov-power-demand-surges-past-last-years-peak/articleshow/79396989.cms||Sidharatha Roy
November 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Pilgrimage train from Chandigarh to Chintpurni resumes||CHANDIGARH: Another pilgrimage train connecting Chandigarh with Mata Chintpurni in Himachal Pradesh resumed from Tuesday. This is one of the four trains, which have been resumed after a deadlock due to farmers’ agitation. The other trains which have been resumed are Jan Shatabdi Express, Bandra-Chandigarh-Amritsar Pashchim Express and Lucknow-Chandigarh Sadbhawna Express. The pilgrimage train Daulatput Chowk-Chandigarh-Jaipur Intercity Express (19718) connects Chandigarh with Daulatpur Chowk, which is the nearest railway station to reach Mata Chintpurni in Himachal Pradesh. The train has a stopover of 20 minutes at Chandigarh after starting from Daulatpur Chowk passing via Una, Nangal Dam, Anandpur Sahib, Ropar and Mohali to reach Chandigarh. Thereafter, the train continues its journey to Jaipur via Ambala, Rohtak, Rewari, Alwar to reach Jaipur. The train departs Chandigarh at 6.30 pm and reaches Jaipur the next morning at 6.34 am. This is the second train connecting Chandigarh with Una as the first train is Jan Shatabdi Express. “All these trains are running with 40% capacity, but this will increase day-by-day,” said Chandigarh station superintendent Anil Aggarwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pilgrimage-train-from-chd-to-chintpurni-resumes/articleshow/79395402.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
November 25, 2020||Jaipur||Govt to keep tabs on 3k nuptials in city today||Jaipur/Alwar/Jaisalmer: The state is gearing up to ensure strict enforcement of the revised guidelines including a cap of 100 guests in wedding functions on Wednesday. Jaipur collector Antar Singh Nehra informed to have received a slight over 3,000 applications informing the administration of the wedding to be held on the auspicious day.“We have mobilised all our human resources from patwari to SDMs and all agencies from Jaipur Municipal Corporation to the gram panchayats on the job to see that no wedding flouts the norms set by the state,” said Nehra, who has cleared that those who have not submitted the application will face action.During the day, the officials in the city have either visited or called up the marriage venues to ensure compliance and report them in case they see any violation. “All stakeholders from wedding parties, venue, event planners, caterers and decorators have been informed that they all should cooperate with the local administration. Those found involved might see revocation of their licences other than the penalty. Our aim is to make weddings safe and secure from the spread of virus,” said Nehra.Similarly, in Ajmer, the police have reached out to all stakeholders involved in 400 wedding parties listed for November 25 urging them to cooperate them in making their event memorable one.“I would like to assure every wedding party that police will not unnecessary interfere in their event if they will follow the guidelines. Also, people part of wedding parties can move in the city during the curfew period and if anybody found misusing this provision would face action,” said Kunwar Rastradeep, SP of Ajmer.Another city under the night curfew, Alwar the administration is keeping a tight watch on the movement of wedding parties. SDM Alwar Yogesh Dangur has been appointed as the monitoring officer. Sources said that local administration has received over 1900 applications for marriages which is huge number for the city.Udaipur known for its exotic locations for destination wedding is fully prepared to crackdown on the violators. The district has formed teams reaching out to major city hotels which turns up as marriage venues and other places informing them to follow the revised guidelines. Chetan Ram Deora, DM Udaipur says that guidelines are clear to everyone. “I am sure everyone will follow the law on this auspicious moment of their lives,” said DeoraIn Barmer, apenalty of Rs 25,000 was imposed on a marriage party where there were more than 100 people. In another case, Rs 5,000 was collected as penalty for not informing about marriage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-to-keep-tabs-on-3k-nuptials-in-city-today/articleshow/79397846.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Nagpur||Doctors call for increased test timings at NMC centres||NAGPUR: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is planning to test around 81,000 comorbid persons on priority in view of a possible second Covid wave, besides increasing testing. However, doctors and health officials feel the civic body must extend the test timings to ensure working professionals are not left out of this drive. Right now, all testing centres accept samples from 10am to 2pm only. At RPTS, the queue begins as early as 4.30am and yet many have to return empty-handed. Doctors said many persons may be forced to put off their testing to weekly offs, as their employers may not give them enough time off. Dr Ramesh Mundle, professor of medicine at NKP Salve Institute of Medical Sciences and Lata Mangeshkar Hospital, said the timing needs to be extended till 5pm. “The more persons get tested the better civic body will know positivity rate in the population. Once testing confirms a person is positive, it will help decide if it is mild or moderate case. Treatment gets delayed if people are unaware of their Covid status,” he said. Dr Shoeb Nadeem, consulting cardiologist at Alexis Multispecialty Hospital, said many patients are deprived of testing facility. “The test timings need to be flexible. Officer goers are unable to get their dependents tested because of such odd time schedule,” he said. A private Covid lab director said the civic body can start two hours early, at 8am. “Untested persons are living in false sense of well being. The asymptomatic ones are also spreading the disease to vulnerable populations,” he said. A professor of medicine at Government Medical College said many high risk contacts are going untested because they are unable to reach the centre in this strict time slot. Additional municipal commissioner Ram Josh said it is difficult for the collecting agent to wear PPE kits for more than two hours. “Hence, 10am to 2pm is ideal at UPHC. The centres open up at 9am and registration process goes on till 10.30am. Centre staff also have to generate SRF numbers and pack VTMs carefully to distribute among labs. Walk-in test centres run till 4pm and people can prefer them,” he said. Ravi Bhavan, RPTS, Raj Nagar PWD quarters and Pachpaoli CCC have walk-in centres. NMC has 50 testing centres, including most of its UPHCs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/doctors-call-for-increased-test-timings-at-nmc-centres/articleshow/79396598.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
November 25, 2020||Jaipur||Teenager alleges gangrape in Alwar||JAIPUR: A 17-year-old girl was allegedly gang-raped in Alwar’s Tijara over ten days back and her family lodged a case on Sunday at the local police station claiming that three persons of the village had sexually assaulted the girl. “The girl family claimed that on November 11, the girl had gone to her school and one of the accused reached the institute where she studied and said that her father was calling her due to some emergency. The girl came out of the school and the accused along with his two accomplices abducted her and took her on a bike to an isolated location where they took turns to rape her,” said an official of Tijara police station. After the assault, the girl was dropped back home near a petrol pump in the village and started to keep unwell. The family claimed that she was even admitted to the hospital and after treatment narrated the ordeal to her family. The family members claimed that she was still in a state of shock and that the doctors had claimed that the rape survivor was traumitised due to which it would take some time for her to come out of it. The family had named three persons in the matter and cops are looking for them. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/teenager-alleges-gangrape/articleshow/79397871.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Bail refused to doctor in graft case||AHMEDABAD: A special anti-corruption court on Tuesday refused bail to Dr Upendra Patel, the in-charge RMO of Sola Civil Hospital, who w as nabbed by the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) on graft charges along with another doctor. Earlier this month, the court denied bail to the other doctor, Dr Shailesh Patel, who was in charge of hospital administration. Last month, the two doctors were arrested while allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 8 lakh to sanction a canteen bill and and extend catering contracts. The investigating agency claimed it had received a complaint from a catering contractor, who had won the contract to serve staff and relatives of Covid-19 patients for four months at Sola Civil Hospital. The two doctors had allegedly demanded a 30% commission on the total bill of Rs 1.18 crore, but settled on Rs 16 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bail-refused-to-doctor-in-graft-case/articleshow/79396580.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19 test may be mandatory for ‘snan’ at Haridwar Kumbh next year||DEHRADUN: Those looking to perform ‘snan’ (take a dip in the Ganga) during Haridwar Kumbh, to be held in January next year, may have to undergo a mandatory Covid-19 test first. During the Kumbh Mela review meeting on Tuesday, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat asked the health department officials to make the necessary arrangements. In the chief ministers’ meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday, the CM also requested the centre “to keep Uttarakhand in mind” during the vaccine roll-out, citing the need to organise a safe Kumbh Mela. “Kumbh will commence in January 2021. A large number of officers, employees, police and health personnel will be involved in its execution. Hence, it’s important to keep the Haridwar Kumbh in mind while making vaccines available to the state,” CM Rawat told the PM. Rawat also informed the PM that a state-level committee had been constituted to chalk out plans of vaccine distribution. “District-level task forces have been constituted and their meetings are being held regularly,” he said. “We all have the responsibility to make Kumbh 2021 grand and successful, while taking all necessary safety measures. For this, all departments have to work in tandem. Officials should draft plans for every pilgrim to get registered on the government portal and arrange for thermal screening and Covid tests at the state’s entry points. People should be allowed to proceed to 'snan' only after a Covid-19 test,” CM Rawat said. In the review meeting, the CM stressed on the need to seek help from seers and ashrams to spread awareness about preventive measures against the novel coronavirus throughout the festival, which is expected to last over two months. Rawat also highlighted the need to complete construction of the Covid hospital in Haridwar. The police department was tasked with coming up with a stringent crowd-control plan. Health secretary Amit Negi, who was present at the meeting, asked district magistrate of Haridwar C Ravishankar and Kumbh Mela officials for an action plan, detailing all necessary arrangements, and promised to arrange the funds for those.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-test-may-be-mandatory-for-snan-at-haridwar-kumbh-next-year/articleshow/79394389.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 25, 2020||Lucknow||Covid-19: Identification of priority groups on for vaccination, says UP CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath informed PM Narendra Modi that the state government has started making arrangements for the administration of Covid-19 vaccine which is expected to be available early next year. The PM held a virtual meeting with the chief ministers of all the states on Tuesday to discuss Covid-19 management and vaccination plans. According to officials, UP was not among the states taken up for discussion as it has successfully kept the spread of coronavirus on the lower side. During the meeting, the UP government discussed its potential priority groups for vaccination which begins with healthcare workers and sanitation staff, followed by senior citizens. “This is only a proposal and will be finalized soon. During the meeting, the PM asked all the states to also consider vaccinating working population on priority,” an official said. During the interaction, Yogi said the government has issued necessary directions to departments concerned for preparations ahead of vaccination. “The entire exercise will be carried out in an organised and time-bound manner with inter-departmental coordination. All logistics should be in place in time,” the CM said. He added that the government was aware that adequate number of vaccinators would be required keeping in view the large population of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/identification-of-priority-groups-on-for-vaccination-cm/articleshow/79398644.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||RKA to facilitate marketing of cow dung Diwali lamps||Ahmedabad: Having set itself a target of making 11 crore Diwali lamps from cow dung, the Rashtiya Kamdhenu Aayog (RKA) said on Tuesday that over 22 crore `gau maya diyas’ (lamps made from cow dung) were made this Diwali season across 32 states and Union territories of the country.While admitting that the absence of an established framework for marketing of the product did not exist, RKA said that about 90 % of the lamps made from cow dung got sold during the festive season. This was the first time that RKA took up a nationwide programme to make Diwali lamps from cow dung.“This campaign will continue every year. We are in the process of creating entrepreneurs. There are a number of schemes of the MSME sector, Agro Industries Corporation, Khadi and Village Industries Corporation and other bodies of the government. We will ensure that lamp makers get a permanent source of income through these schemes,” said RKA chairman Vallabh Kathiria.With no distribution network in place, RKA got in touch with big distributors, who sourced lamps made from cow dung from various `gaushalas’ across the country. For instance, a distributor Rajesh Dogra sourced diyas from across north India and sold them in Delhi, while another distributor sold three crore diyas in Lucknow.“The manufacturing aspect of the project was a huge success. Diyas were made at more than 1,000 locations of the country. There were shortcomings in the distribution part, but we have got reports that 90% of all the `gau maya diyas’ made this season have been sold out,” said Pureesh Kumar, who heads the `gau maya diya’ project implementation.Paresh Patel, who runs Jay Mahakal Geer Gaushala on the outskirts of Ahmedabad, said he made seven lakh lamps from cow dung this season, and only abut 15,000 have remained unsold. “Most were ordered by distributors who are in touch with RKA,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rka-to-facilitate-marketing-of-cow-dung-diwali-lamps/articleshow/79396592.cms||Meghdoot Sharon
November 25, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Raise Covid-19 sampling to contain spread’||Mohali: Reviewing the Covid-19 status with the SDMs and SMOs of the Mohali district, deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan directed them to make all-out efforts to increase Covid-19 sampling to curtail the recent spike in the number of cases. “The testing may be raised two-fold with special focus on vulnerable sections coupled with aggressive contact tracing,” he said. He directed the SDMs to prepare an advance weekly sampling plan targeting the vulnerable sections. The district development and panchayat officer (DDPO) has been directed to conduct similar exercise and prepare a weekly plan for the rural areas in consultation with the sarpanches. The civil surgeon has been asked to ensure 24x7 availability of sampling team at the district hospital along with two dedicated mobile sampling teams for the needy, round the clock. Entrusting the responsibility of overseeing the contact tracing to additional deputy commissioner (development), he was told to ensure maximum physical contact tracing, nothing less than 15 persons, by dedicated sampling teams. Nodal officers have been asked to ensure home isolation of asymptomatic patients, regular check by control room or doctors. “Keep a tab on equipment and bed availability and ensure availability of L2 and L3 facilities for the needy patients,” said Dayalan. He said the control room may be re-strengthened with requisite staff to be operational for round the clock to sort out the grievances of the callers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/raise-covid-19-sampling-to-contain-spread/articleshow/79395393.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: With rise in Covid-19 cases, attendance drops in schools||CHANDIGARH: The attendance of students of classes IX to XII in government schools of the UT Chandigarh has come down by around 1,000. While in some schools, the attendance is consistent. According to sources from the UT education department, earlier around 5,000 students were attending schools, now around 4,000 are coming. While the teachers state that the drop has been witnessed after increase in the number of Covid-19 cases. Swarn Singh Kamboj, a teacher in one of the government schools, said, “The attendance has gone down in the last few days. After asking students about the reason for not coming to school, they stated Covid-19 as the reason. Earlier around 20 students used to come to school, now only 10 are coming.” It was on November 2 that the UT education department had reopened the schools for regular classes. However, the attendance is not mandatory. The students were allowed only with parents’ consent. A total of 3,288 students attended schools and the number increased later. However, since a week, the attendance has been dropping. Due to rising number of Covid-19 cases, the Chandigarh parents’ association and teachers’ unions too have written to the UT education department to close schools on the lines of Haryana and Himachal Pradesh. “There is no such decision in this regard yet,” said director of school education Rubinderjit Singh Brar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/with-rise-in-covid-19-cases-attendance-drops-in-schools/articleshow/79395397.cms||Kamini Mehta
November 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Agent assaults man for not paying EMIs||Ahmedabad: A man from Vejalpur on Tuesday filed a complaint at Anandnagar police station alleging that a recovery agent and his aide attacked him with a cricket bat and injured him, because he did not pay the equated monthly instalment for a personal loan he had taken from a private company. In his FIR, Jagdevkumar Kori, 40, who works for a private firm in Shilaj, said he had taken a personal loan from a private company in 2017 and paid EMIs for a year. As he could not pay the EMIs after that, the accused, Sanjay Desai, a recovery agent called him and sought a meeting. On Monday evening, Desai and his aide went to Kori’s house and asked him to pay his dues. Kori, sought time pleading that he will pay all his dues and settle the loan. This did not go well with Desai and he and his aide began abusing Kori and assaulted him. Desai grabbed Kori’s son’s cricket bat belonging to Kori’s son and attacked him with it. As Kori tried to flee, Desai pushed him and he suffered injuries to his forehead and legs due to the fall. His family members called a 108 ambulance and took him to Sola Civil Hospital where he was admitted. Anandnagar police registered a complaint of assault and criminal intimidation and began an investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/agent-assaults-man-for-not-paying-emis/articleshow/79396603.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Jaipur||120kg doda post seized in Barmer||Jaisalmer: Sindhari police in Barmer district recovered over 120-kg doda post being smuggled in a luxury car on Tuesday. Police chased the vehicle after which the smugglers fled leaving the car. SP Anand Sharma said the narcotics was seized as part of the government’s to crack down on illegal activities during panchayat elections. Sharma said the police tried to stop a SUV without a number plate at Sandali border, but the driver tried to speed off. However, 400 metres away, the driver lost control and car went off the road and fell in a pit. Taking advantage of the darkness, the driver fled leaving the car behind. When police searched the car, they found 120kg of doda post. It may be noted that recently many seizures of doda post were made in several parts of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/120kg-doda-post-seized-in-barmer/articleshow/79397898.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Kolkata||Decks cleared for vaccine trials at two Kolkata institutes||KOLKATA: The institutional ethics committee of the School of Tropical Medical (STM) met on Tuesday, making the institute inch towards beginning the Phase III trial of Covid candidate vaccine Covovax. US- based Novovax, Serum Institute of India and ICMR are sponsoring the trial at STM. The institute has been preparing itself even while it was awaiting green signals from the regulatory authorities. Efforts are on so that the study can be rolled out by the third or fourth week of December. While decks for the Phase III clinical trial of two different candidate vaccines for Covid — one in STM and another at NICED (National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases) — have been cleared and a third one at College of Medicine and Sagore Dutta Medical Hospital (CMSDH) is on the anvil, some more Kolkata hospitals could be part of a study on a fourth candidate vaccine, said sources. The pharmaceutical company that has developed this vaccine indigenously has approached more than half a dozen hospitals in the city for the phase III trial. Formalities and feasibilities are being worked out with these institutes. The pan-India multi-centric Phase III clinical trial of this vaccine is expected to kick off in early January. Sources in the health department said it was looking into all good proposals and will fast track formalities. “If everything goes smoothly, some city hospitals will also get to be part of the Phase III trial of a fourth candidate vaccine,” said a source in the state health department. Earlier, the health department had appointed an expert committee to look into the proposal for the Sputnik V trial at College of Medicine and Sagore Dutta Medical Hospital (CMSDH). Even as the state-run medical college in Kamarhati might have missed conducting the Phase II trial of the Russian vaccine, health department officials are hopeful of CMSDH being a part of the Phase III trial. The ethics committee of the hospital is expected to meet soon on this. Dr Reddy’s is the Indian partner for this vaccine. “We welcome the expedited process of approval from the concerned authorities for clinical trials. Otherwise, we may even lose being part of the trial as it is a competitive site selection process across the country,” said head of business development of site management organisation CliniMed LifeSciences Pvt Ltd, Snehendu Koner. NICED, meanwhile, is expected to start its clinical trial on Indian made Covaxin by December first week. The Phase III trial of the Bharat Biothech’s candidate vaccine will have 1,000 volunteers — half will get the vaccine while half will get the placebo. The first lot of vials are likely to reach the institute with a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/decks-cleared-for-vaccine-trials-at-two-kol-institutes/articleshow/79396606.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
November 25, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: New wedding function rules put families in a fix||JAIPUR: Dipender Singh, a resident of Gokulpura, is a worried man. His brother’s marriage is scheduled on December 10 and he had already sent invitations to his friends and relatives. Advance payments were also made to the musical band and caterers. But on November 21, the state came up with new guidelines tightening the restrictions. The government reduced the number of guests at marriage functions from 250 to 100 persons, besides increasing the penalty on violators to Rs 25,000. The November 1 guidelines had given some discretion to the district collectors. The earlier order stated, “If any person/institution/ organization makes an application to the district collector for any function along with seating plan, the district collector on being satisfied may issue permission for organizing the function subject to conditions.” The conditions included in closed places maximum of 50 per cent of the hall capacity will be allowed with a ceiling of 200, while in open places, keeping the size of the ground, a maximum of 250 people will be allowed following Covid protocols. Many people have complained that the new guidelines had given local police unlimited powers. Though the government said exceeding the number of guests would invite penalty, it was alleged that local police use high handed methods like seizure of food at marriage functions. If somebody objected, they would invoke Section 353 under the IPC related to assault or criminal force used to deter public servant from discharging his duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/new-wedding-function-rules-put-families-in-a-fix/articleshow/79397883.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Pune||Pune: Citizens in rural belt throw mask rule, health cautions to the wind||PUNE: The mandatory face mask rule and social distancing norms seem to have gone for a toss in the rural areas of the district despite the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases after the recent festive period. Thousands can be spotted in villages on the outskirts of Pune moving around without the masks, while overcrowding at places is turning out to be a common sight. State health minister Rajesh Tope has called for stricter enforcement of Covid-19 precautions, a move that may include hiking the no-mask fine to Rs 1,000, The fine for not wearing a mask in Maharashtra is currently Rs 500. Many residents said non-compliance to the mask rule or social distancing norms was rampant in villages beyond Sus, around Khadakwasla and Panshet, beyond Bhugaon on Mulshi Road and Wagholi on Ahmednagar Road. “I was travelling along the Ahmednagar highway and was surprised to see most people beyond the Kharadi-Wagholi stretch without the masks. It was not that the locals had masks around their chins or below their noses. They were simply not wearing the masks. I had seen police act against mask-less persons in cars at Wagholi on Sunday evening. But I did not see any policeman on Monday morning,” Pune-based working professional Yash Shah said. “I had stopped to fill petrol in my vehicle at a filling station at Shikarpur. The attendants there were not wearing masks either. A pickup truck stopped on the other side of the fuel dispensing machine. Four persons, all of them without masks, stepped down from the cabin. It was shocking to see these people not following the rules. How will we control the number of cases if people behave this way?” he said. Similar was the situation in many villages beyond Sus Gaon. Nikita Deshmukh, who recently visited Panshet dam, said, “Most people on the roads beyond the Pune city limits were without the masks and not following social distancing. I saw a few shopkeepers wearing masks. But that was because they were interacting with tourists. The tourists were seen with their masks. But the local residents did not seem to care. I spoke to a few locals about it and they said they would be fine even without the masks.” Similar reports trickled in from villages beyond Sus Gaon. “People were standing in groups without any masks. I did not see any sort of enforcement of the rules either. If the situation is not controlled, we will see more Covid-19 cases,” said Shailesh Gupta, who had visited the area on business. Officers from Pune rural police said they have been taking action against people flouting the mask rule or not adhering by the social distancing norms. Pune Zilla Parishad chief executive officer Ayush Prasad said the impact of slapping fines on the people flouting the norms has been limited. “We are instead trying to raise further awareness on the issue. Earlier, we had a positive awareness campaign that aimed at telling people to remain safe. We have now changed the strategy and are using negative reinforcement to make people follow the rules. The viral load in the rural areas has been lower as compared to the semi-urban belt. Awareness will definitely help in preventing a second wave,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rural-citizens-throw-caution-to-the-wind/articleshow/79397889.cms||Rujuta Parekh
November 25, 2020||Dehradun||Lone elephant radio-collared ahead of Maha Kumbh 'electrocuted to death' in Haridwar||DEHRADUN: The first and only elephant radio-collared by the Uttarakhand forest department on October 15 – in the run-up to the Maha Kumbh to be held the next year – has died due to electrocution on Tuesday. It is the third jumbo death in the state this month while 13th this year due to electrocution. The incident occurred on Tuesday in a farm land in Bishanpur Kundi village of Haridwar forest division, where the elephant was believed to be roaming, when it came in contact with a transformer and died on the spot. The Haridwar forest division authority has set up an inquiry into the matter. The authorities are claiming that the elephant ventured into that area along with other elephants and caused minor ruckus on Monday. On Tuesday, the carcass of a jumbo was found. The reason to set up the transformer and presence of the live electric line in that area will be investigated by the forest department, said Haridwar DFO Niraj Verma. Meanwhile, the death of radio-collared elephants has posed questions on the working of the forest department. “If radio-collaring couldn’t stop the elephant from being electrocuted, how do they believe that it would stop human-elephant conflict? Radio collaring and GPS tracking are nothing but mere wastage of public money. They are not only living human imprints on the animal but also the whole data of elephant movement can be exposed if fallen into the wrong hands. Such exercises only make the animals more vulnerable to poaching,” said Gauri Maulekhi, member secretary of the Uttarakhand chapter of the NGO, People for Animals. Earlier a cow elephant had died on November 19 when a high tension wire had fallen on it while another one was hit by a fast moving train near Lachhiwala. In the past five years, Uttarakhand has lost 173 elephants – majority of them in Garhwal region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/lone-elephant-radio-collared-ahead-of-maha-kumbh-electrocuted-to-death-in-haridwar-third-jumbo-death-in-state-this-month/articleshow/79394410.cms||Shivani Azad
November 25, 2020||Pune||Social distancing norms goes for a toss at Pune RTO||PUNE: All norms of social distancing have been given the go-by at the Pune regional transport office (RTO), with people crowding in front of counters and across the premises, despite repeated appeals by officials to stand apart from each other. A visit to the RTO office revealed people huddled in groups, speaking to agents, or standing in groups near the learners’ licence section. Many in the crowd were without masks. Occasionally, some RTO officials would step out and ask people to maintain social distancing. However, things returned to square one as soon as they went away. “If people are not responsible enough, what can we do? We have been telling people to be careful and maintain distance from each other while waiting for their biometrics, document verification or online tests. However, it seems that a majority just don’t want to listen and are always in some hurry for unknown reasons,” an RTO official told TOI. Outside the learners’ license section, many people could be seen standing in groups talking to several agents. Similar was the scene at the basement of the building with ‘mini offices’ of these agents attracting applicants in hordes. No queues were in place at the learners’ license collection counter as people were seen huddled in groups. “Even we are worried about this. The people are just not listening. We have a group of probationary officers who have been given the job of crowd management. However, many of them have gone for their training. We try to drill sense into the people, but it is difficult to keep an eye on them all the time. The daily appointment quota for learners’ licence has been increased to 700 per day now, and tests start at 7:30am and goes on till 6:30pm,” Sanjiv Bhor, the deputy RTO said. All along the premises one could see many people sitting idly without masks. “Most applicants don’t respect the appointment time given to them. For example, if they are supposed to be for their tests at noon, there are many who arrive hours late. That becomes a problem and the crowd increases. People should come half an hour early as their picture needs to be uploaded online, online signature needs to be taken and their documents needs to be verified following which they can appear for the online licence test,” another official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/social-distancing-norms-goes-for-a-toss-at-pune-rto/articleshow/79397881.cms||Joy Sengupta
November 25, 2020||Patna||Challenges ahead for Nitish in his 4th consecutive term||After taking oath for his uninterrupted fourth innings, CM Nitish Kumar has very little time for the honeymoon period after a bitterly fought assembly election last month. Any ruling dispensation is generally allowed a few months to savour the win when the opposition parties and critics take it easy. But for the JD(U) leader, the electoral victory turned sour soon as the controversy over the choice of the education minister put him in a spot within a few days of forming the government. The CM now has his tasks cut out in the fourth term if he has to complete his tenure glitch-free and also to fulfil his electoral promises. Since the seventeenth assembly has returned a government with a thin majority –NDA has 125 seats against Mahagathbandhan’s 110 – Nitish’s first job will be to keep his flocks together. Any wrong step or loosening the grip may cost his chair, especially with RJD’s Tejashwi Prasad Yadav with 75 seats breathing down his neck all the time. Under the circumstances, the JD(U) chief has a very small margin of error. The Asaduddin Owaisi-led All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen may be another concern for Nitish. The possibility of AIMIM (with five seats) joining hands with Tejashwi to topple the NDA government cannot be ruled out entirely as both the parties have a common vote bank. Although BJP with 74 seats has so far refrained from overtly playing the role of “elder brother” in the NDA government it’s well-known in the political circles that the saffron party will not hesitate to grab an opportunity, if the situation so warrants. On the governance front, Nitish’s first challenge will be to fulfil his ally BJP’s electoral promise of creating four lakh government jobs and 15 lakh employment opportunities, which came after Tejashwi promised 10 lakh government jobs. Though JD(U) mocked RJD for its jobs promise, Nitish has to try to honour the commitment given by his ally BJP. Now Tejashwi will have to do nothing except reminding the JD(U) leader off and on the promise of his ally and cash in on the situation. ‘Sushasan Babu’, as Nitish is known, has a huge task at hand to improve the law and order in the state. Although during the election campaign he criticized the RJD’s 15-year “jungle raj”, the National Crime Record Bureau’s statistics show that in 2004, Rabri Devi‘s last year in power, the crime rate in Bihar was at 122.4 per lakh population while in 2019, it was at 164.8, indicating a rise of 34.6% in the last 15 years. Though the crime rate showed a decrease between 2014 and 2019, the state moved up two spots in terms of its percentage contribution to India’s crime rates, with only five states and UTs performing worse than Bihar in 2019. As Nitish starts his afresh amid worries of waning popularity and decreasing strength, it’s only expected that he will go the extra mile to prove his mettle so that the anti-incumbency wave does not affect his party again five years down the line.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/challenges-ahead-for-nitish-in-his-4th-consecutive-term/articleshow/79345722.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Jaipur||Commuters face problems travelling within Jaipur due to night prohibition||JAIPUR: Commuters are facing transportation problems in the wake of the government’s decision to impose night curfew following a steady rise in Covid cases. Though autorickshaws are allowed to operate in the city, they are available closer to bus and railway stations and airport. G N Onkhar, who attended a wedding on Tuesday evening at Sansar Chand Road, found it difficult to get back home. “I stay in Johri Bazaar which is hardly two kilometres away, but had to wait for 20 minutes for an auto instead of a two-minute wait. While I understand that coronavirus cases are on the rise, the night curfew is creating problems. I had come early to attend the wedding so that there would be no issue in going back.” The government had clamped night curfew according to which all establishments must be closed down by 7 pm and people should not go out of their homes post 8 pm unless there is an emergency. While people are facing issues in local travel, persons planning overnight travels are also facing problems. Santosh Soni, a resident of Jaipur who was going to Haridwar by bus said, “My bus to Haridwar was at 9:30 pm but I reached two hours earlier as the locality in which I stay do not have many autos. I don’t mind waiting for the bus as it is a better option than missing it altogether.” While commuters are facing issues, autorickshaw drivers are also missing out livelihood. Paras Ram, an auto driver said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/commuters-face-problems-travelling-within-city-due-to-night-prohibition/articleshow/79397887.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Jaipur||Trucks can enter Jaipur during night curfew||JAIPUR: The transport department has allowed the entry of trucks in Jaipur during the night curfew which was imposed on Sunday. The curfew order had made it clear that people travelling from railway station, airport etc will be allowed movement despite the restrictions, there was no clarity on the movement of trucks previously. Transport commissioner Ravi Jain said, “Previously, the guidelines did not mention about the movement of trucks, but on Monday, an order was issued by the transport department that trucks will be allowed to enter the city even after the curfew hours. The truck drivers will be allowed to load and unload the goods.” Amid spiralling Covid-19 cases, the Rajasthan cabinet on Saturday decided to impose night curfew in eight districts and increased the fine amount from Rs 200 to Rs 500. Those venturing out to attend marriages, purchase essentials, train, bus and air travellers, and people related to essential services will be exempted from the curfew but the rule of wearing masks still needs to be followed. For those persons going to attend wedding functions, they would either need to carry a photograph of the invite or of the venue in their phones. Markets, restaurants, shopping malls and other commercial establishments in the urban areas of these districts will be closed by 7pm and night curfew will start from 8pm. During the two days of the curfew, it was found that all the establishments did shut down by 7 pm and heavy barricading by police was done at regular intervals with cops checking people who were out despite curfew. On the two day of the curfew that was imposed from Sunday, cops claimed that they did not fine anyone and tried to make the people follow restrictions through counselling. However, police officials added that in case, people break these rules in the coming days then action will be taken against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/trucks-can-enter-city-during-night-curfew/articleshow/79397917.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Pune||Pune: Special squad to implement mask rule in Khadki cantt areas||PUNE: The Khadki Cantonment Board has formed a special squad to act against people not following face mask rule or found spitting in public places and not following social distancing norms in the cantonment limits. The team will patrol and visit shops in all its eight wards in the next few days. KCB’s CEO Pramod Kumar Singh said that the move has been taken in view of the casual attitude of the people towards social distancing norms and this practice might prove risky in the coming days. “We have observed that many people don’t wear masks in Khadki bazaar areas. Our team will visit the area, mainly in the morning when vegetable and fruit markets are crowded, and act against the violators. They will be fined Rs 500 for each violation,” Singh added. According to the cantonment records, it has so far acted against 8,000 violators and collected about 4 lakh as fines since April. “Our workers are creating awareness among the citizens about covid through announcements in our limit. The drive will go on for the next few days,” he added. The KCB has recorded a total of 1,780 covid cases. Of which, 1716 were cured, 48 succumbed to the virus, and 16 are active cases till November 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/special-squad-to-implement-mask-rule-in-khadki-cantt-areas/articleshow/79397926.cms||Sandip Dighe
November 25, 2020||Lucknow||UP: 4.6% in August, Covid positivity rate dips to 1.6% in November||LUCKNOW: UP’s overall average positivity rate of Covid-19 has touched 3.2% since the first case was reported in March even as the situation in some districts remain a matter of concern. From a high of 4.6% in August, the positivity rate had been falling steadily to 1.6% this month (as on November 23). The government has, however, cautioned against a possible second wave and has appealed people, especially the elderly, to avoid big gatherings. Against 1,60,232 samples tested, UP recorded 2,274 Covid-19 cases on Tuesday. The recovery rate in the state is 94.06% while the case fatality rate is 1.43%. Additional chief secretary (health) Amit Mohan Prasad said till May, UP had the average positivity rate of 3.3% which continued rising for next three months – 4% in June, 4.2% in July and 4.6% in August. Even though the state achieved its peak on September 17, the month saw a fall in positivity rate 4%, followed by another sharp drop in October to touch 1.9%. “UP has managed to keep the spread of the virus under check, even as we are seeing a second wave in several countries and in some states in India. This is all because people have been highly cooperative. However, now that the wedding season is starting, I request everyone to take care and avoid crowded places,” he said. Prasad appealed to senior citizens asking them to avoid venturing out as high percentage of population above 60 years is getting infected and their share in mortality is a massive 45%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/4-6-in-aug-covid-positivity-rate-dips-to-1-6-in-november/articleshow/79398658.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Three civic bodies raise funeral capacity to beat daily rush||NEW DELHI: In the wake of an increase in the number of Covid-19 fatalities, the three municipal corporations have decided to increase the funeral capacity to 401 daily. To address this issue, senior officials from the public health departments held a meeting to chalk out changes for enhancing the capacity of the crematoria and burial grounds. With the addition of new platforms, 14 cremation sites and five burial grounds, the corporations would now be able to handle more bodies. Though Punjabi Bagh, Nigambodh Ghat and Lodhi Road remain the busiest crematoria, the facilities at Netaji Subhash Place, Mangolpuri and Seemapuri are getting less than 10 bodies a day. Senior corporation officials said that they had earlier planned to process around 150 bodies every day and they had received 143 bodies of deceased patients on Sunday. “Seeing that we are close to our previous estimates, some capacity enhancement will be done so that relatives of the deceased do not face a long waiting period. More platforms will be reserved for Covid-19 cases and the daily capacity will be increased to 401,” said a senior South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) official. The report on capacity enhancement stated that under East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC), all 10 platforms at Karkardooma cremation ground, 15 out of 38 platforms at Ghazipur and 10 out of 26 platforms at Seemapuri would be reserved for this purpose. As a result, EDMC would be able to handle 35 bodies a day. The maximum load of Covid funerals would be on SDMC where six crematoria would have the capacity to process 260 bodies every day. “Punjabi Bagh cremation ground will handle up to 95 bodies a day, Hastsal 54, Lal Kuan at Badarpur 35, Sarai Kale Khan 31, Lodhi Road 30 and Sector 24 Dwarka crematorium 15 bodies,” said the SDMC official. The facilities in the four zones of north corporation — City-Sadar Paharganj, Karol Bagh, Keshav Puram and Rohini — would be used for this purpose. Cremation grounds at Nigambodh Ghat, Panchkuian Road, Inderpuri, Wazirpur, Mangolpuri and Beriwala Bagh near Netaji Subhash Place would have a cumulative capacity of 106 bodies a day. “While Nigambodh Ghat will be the major facility with 63 reserved funeral platforms, all other sites will have the capacity of 10 or less bodies a day,” an official said. The burial grounds at Mangolpuri, ITO, Kondli and Shastri Park would continue to be used in the current state. Public health officials said the crisis like June was not likely to be repeated even if the fatality rate increased. The fresh orders mandate routing bodies to cremation grounds attached to a particular hospital. The medical superintendents have been asked to release bodies with a gap to avoid a rush at funeral grounds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/3-civic-bodies-raise-funeral-capacity-to-beat-daily-rush/articleshow/79397966.cms||Paras Singh
November 25, 2020||Pune||Daily Covid cases rise to 836 in Pune metropolitan region, 468 recover & 15 dead||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Tuesday added 836 new Covid-19 cases as against 468 recoveries, pushing up active cases above 10,000 again. The municipal corporation areas of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad as well as the rural parts reported fewer recoveries than new positive cases. In the PCMC areas, addition of new patients was more than double of discharges. With the latest addition, the region’s tally of cases reached beyond 3.37 lakh, while recoveries rose above 3.19 lakh. The PMC areas added 416 patients on Tuesday, while the PCMC limits recorded 183 new infection. As many as 3,053 tests were conducted in the PMC areas, while in the PCMC areas, as many as 3,796 samples were tested, a report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated. Fifteen more patients succumbed to Covid-19 in PMR on Tuesday, including five each from the PMC limits, the PCMC areas and rural areas. With this, the tally of fatalities reached 8,312 by Tuesday night. Of these, as many as 4,604 deaths have been reported from the PMC limits, while 2,112 have been recorded in the rural areas and 1,596 in the PCMC limits. Meanwhile, the count of active patients in the region increased to 10,382. Of these, over 6,198 patients were in home isolation and as many as 4,184 patients were undergoing treatment at various hospitals in the region. The data further stated that as many as 9,410 tests were conducted in the region on Tuesday, pushing the total count of tests above 15.74 lakh. PMC health officials said the active cases in the city limits increased beyond 5,000 mark on Tuesday. As many as 419 patients were at critical stage in the PMC limits, of whom more than 252 were on ventilator support. As many as 1,101 patients were on oxygen support at various Covid-19 facilities, the officials said, adding that the rise in active cases showed that people had let their guard down against the contagion. “People should wear mask while venturing out and also maintain social distancing,” a health official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/daily-cases-rise-to-836-in-pmr-468-recover-15-dead/articleshow/79397920.cms||Sarang Dastane
November 25, 2020||Jaipur||E-registration for weddings launched||Jaipur: Crowd at the collectorate was thin on Tuesday as the district administration has made the process of registering for wedding ceremonies online.Till Monday, hundreds of people lined up at the collectorate to submit the documents at the office. Deputy collector Shankar Lal Saini said making the process online was necessary to contain virus spread.. “Now, anyone can send the information online through email to the respective office zone wise. Our zonal office will confirm it and forward it to the headquarters. This will be helpful for people as anyone can take advantage of it sitting at home,” said Saini. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/e-registration-for-weddings-launched/articleshow/79397930.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Nagpur||Covid overcaution bringing other ailments to many||NAGPUR: Fazed by Covid-19, people are trying so many new things to maintain immunity and fitness that they are now suffering from the side effects. Excessive workouts, running and cycling for fitness are causing back pain, joint pain, and cardiovascular problems for many. Overconsumption of ‘kadha’, excessive consumption of turmeric and other spices to “kill the virus” are creating problems of piles, while sipping hot water for longer is causing throat problems. “I have come across a few people with issues like joint and back pain recently. Such ailments are happening because people who were not at all exercising previously have started doing it vigorously,” said physiotherapist Dr Pratiksha Gadkari. “Exercising in the wrong way leads to joint pain. People need to understand the importance of warm-up exercises before routine exercises,” she added. Coloproctologist Dr Nilesh Junankar said there was a 15% rise in common anal problems like piles and fissure, as compared to the same period last year (March to October). “An important factor for the increase in incidence of disease was overconsumption of kadha, excessive consumption of turmeric and other spices,” said Dr Junankar. He said the positive thing about the pandemic was decline in the consumption of alcohol and tobacco during the lockdown. “I will suggest lifestyle modifications to increase the immunity of body. We need to keep virus as well as piles away in these challenging times,” Junankar added. Dr Sanjiv Choudhary, additional professor of dermatology at AIIMS, Nagpur, said frequent hand-washing with soap and use of alcohol-based hand sanitizers can cause excessive drying of skin, leading to hand eczema. “Both soaps and sanitizers tend to remove the lipid content of skin, that initially manifests as dryness of skin followed by redness, blistering and oozing, along with an itching and burning sensation,” he said. According to him, a simple solution for it is to apply a moisturizing cream after washing hands. Critical care specialist and in charge of Covid-19 treatment at Wockhardt Hospital, Dr Nirmal Jaiswal said people were facing gastrointestinal disturbances due to overconsumption of raw spices to increase immunity. “Acidity, burning sensation, acute pain in the stomach and intestine, diarrhoea or constipation are the problems people are facing because of consuming too many concentrated herbs for a long time. The ingredients of kadha have hot potency and penetrating properties,” said Dr Jaiswal. Veteran ayurveda practitioner Jayant Deopujari told TOI that the Indian way of life already had some unique immunity-boosting practices, so excessive consumption of herbal medicines should be avoided. “For example, the way we prepare our cup of tea is totally different from the Britishers. We add ginger, jaggery and sometimes cloves and other herbs too. We use garlic and turmeric in our daily food preparations. These are day-to-day ayurvedic ways to maintain immunity,” he said. According to Deopujari, these habits have already put Indian people’s immunity at a certain level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-overcaution-bringing-other-ailments-to-many/articleshow/79396611.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 25, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Three trains cancelled, one diverted for Friday||DEHRADUN: Due to the ongoing construction work on the railway line between Motichur and Raiwala railway stations, three trains — Dehradun-New Delhi Shatabdi Express, Dehradun-Kathgodam Jan Shatabdi, and Rishikesh-Barmer (04887/88) festival special train — will remain cancelled on November 27 (Friday). Additionally, the Dehradun-Prayagraj Link Express, which was supposed to leave from Dehradun, will commence from Laksar station on the scheduled time. Notably, the traffic will remain blocked on different dates on the Rishikesh and Haridwar route due to the construction work. The power supply on the track will also remain disrupted during the period. Sitaram Sonkar, station master, Dehradun railway station, said, “Girders are to be put between Motichur and Raiwala stations and footover bridges are to be started at Rishikesh, Motichur, and Haridwar stations. Thus, railway officials have taken the decision to cancel these trains on the given date.” The official added that railway authorities have made arrangements to transport the passengers from Haridwar to Dehradun through roadways buses so they do not face any inconvenience.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/three-trains-cancelled-one-diverted-for-friday/articleshow/79394424.cms||Sukanta Mukherjee
November 25, 2020||Jaipur||Hotel business suffers, clients jittery over govt’s U-turn in marriage party guidelines||Jaipur: Majority of the hotels where weddings have been booked are in utter confusion as to the exact process for getting permissions and what activities are covered under the new guidelines.They said the sudden decision to reduce the size of gatherings from 250 to 100 has not only caused losses to hotels, but also created huge inconvenience to clients who had invited guests keeping in mind the early-November guidelines.“Our clients are not still clear if they need a permission for wedding or all related activities like Sangeet. The authorities are not clear what they want. There are a lot of grey areas which the administration can always point out as violations and penalize us,” said an executive at a leading city hotel.Currently, the government is giving permissions only for weddings and some said the government officials are verbally discouraging not to hold any large gathering for events like Sangeet or other rituals.For the weddings that would be taking place from Wednesday and coming Monday, the bookings have already been done and information has been provided earlier.Hoteliers said the clients are unsure if they need to stick to the earlier rules or cancel all their related activities. Similarly, after the government allowed up to 250 people in open spaces, many had booked venues accordingly with the hotels. Since they cannot exceed 100 people now, they are renegotiating with the hotels to get back the money they had paid for bigger venues.“Part payments are made when people book venues. By the time the wedding date comes, the hotels receive most of the money. But after the change of venue to a smaller place to confirm to the new guidelines, many clients are asking us to return the extra money paid for a bigger venue. Actually we had made arrangements at the bigger venue and that has a cost. We cannot return all of the money. So quarrels have broken out in some hotels,” said another hotelier.However, most of the hoteliers said that if there is any place where the Covid protocols can bet be adopted, it is hotels.“We have highly professional people, who regulate the entry and exist of guests and ensure that all the SOPs are followed. Many of the hotels in the city have come up to tap the wedding demand. They engage thousands of people. Hospitality is the only industry which is still in deep distress. They were looking forward to the wedding season to get back to their feet. The government should keep this in mind before bringing in sweeping guidelines that can kill whatever chances of revival is there,” said another hotelier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hotel-business-suffers-clients-jittery-over-govts-u-turn-in-marriage-party-guidelines/articleshow/79397923.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 25, 2020||Jaipur||Parents forcing me to get married: Woman to panel||Jaipur: A 26-year-old woman, who was reported missing from Dholpur by her parents, was found in Delhi on Tuesday. The woman identified as Sheena Choudhary hails from Delhi and her parents reside in the national capital. She was reported missing from Rajasthan’s Dholpur where she works on November 20 and three days later her parents lodged an FIR with the Dholpur police alleging that she had been abducted. Choudhary, on the other hand, wrote to the Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) claiming that her parents were exerting pressure on her to get married and did not want her to work or study further. In the letter to DCW, Choudhary, who is an MGN fellow with IIM Bangalore based in Dholpur wrote, “I have clearly told my family many times that I do not want to get married as I am not mentally prepared for it. I am working and have plans to study further. My family has been exerting pressure to get married.” The letter also stated that recently her parents had fixed her marriage with a boy without her knowledge and took her to meet him in Delhi. After the meeting, Choudhary called the youth on November 19 and called off the wedding following this her mother cursed as well as abused her. Choudhary called for DCW’s intervention in the matter and a commission’s official told TOI, “On November 23, we received the complaint and a day later it was registered. The woman had said she did not want to stay with her family and they were a threat to her safety. We have started the process for filing a petition in the court for her security but before that Dholpur police took her back.” Meanwhile, Dholpur police claimed that they had followed due course of law. SP Kesar Singh Shekhawat said, “As her parents had filed a missing person report, we started the search and found the woman in Delhi. We have followed due process and her statement will be recorded in front of the district magistrate.” DCW will also write to SP Dholpur as well as to Rajasthan DGP asserting their stand that since the woman is an adult, she has the right to make her decisions. She was brought from Delhi to Dholpur on Tuesday. Choudhary also wrote to People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL) regarding the same matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/parents-forcing-me-to-get-married-woman-to-panel/articleshow/79397949.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gold price falls by Rs 1,200 in a day||Ahmedabad: Amidst optimism over the Covid-19 vaccine increasing after clinical trials of at least three vaccine contenders proving efficient recently, gold prices slid by Rs 1,200 per 10 gram in a single day on Tuesday. Tracing its international slide, yellow metal price settled at Rs 51,200 per 10 gram against Monday’s Rs 52,400 per 10 gram. Similar was the case with the price of silver which also slipped from Rs 62,500 per kg on Monday to Rs 60,500 per kg on Tuesday in Ahmedabad. Explaining reasons, Hemant Choksi, a city-based bullion trader, said, “With positive progress on the anti-coronavirus disease vaccines, the international gold and silver price slipped and consequently, prices declined in the Indian market as well.” Sources also said that significant outflows were seen from gold exchange traded funds (ETFs) which also caused gold prices to decline. The decline in price however, will prove to be beneficial for jewellers, especially at a time when the demand for gold and gold jewellery is muted. “The uncertainty looming over weddings amid a second wave of infections has once again shaken the consume confidence and a decline in yellow metal price will only prove to be a silver lining. We hope it will help boost demand in the days to come,” said an Ahmedabad-based jeweller.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gold-price-falls-by-rs-1200-in-a-day/articleshow/79396608.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Jaipur||Panel to visit MHTR today to probe death of big cats||Jaipur: A three-member committee will visit the Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve (MHTR) on Wednesday for the second time to probe the death of big cats this year.The committee comprised of National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), DIG, Rajendra G Garawad, PCCF (Rtd), Rajeev Srivastava and WWF, landscape coordinator, Abhishek Bhatnagar.This year, two big cats (MT-2 and MT-3) and four cubs died at the reserve. Also, tiger MT-1, which is missing for the past four months, is feared dead. On Tuesday, the committee organised a meeting of stakeholders and wildlife lovers, where suggestion to improve the habitat condition were sought.According to sources, as tigress MT-4 (last surviving tigress) is struggling in solitary confinement at Darrah and fate the big cat relocation programme, stated to be the country’s third, remains undecided, the wildlife lovers requested the committee to shift a male tiger soon.“A request was made to pair the lonely tigress soon,” said a wildlife enthusiast. Since, the threat of contagious viral disease Canine distemper prevailing at Darrah, a suggestion was also made to vaccinate the cattle and dogs in the nearby villages and disinfect the area.Sources said, the three-member committee will submit its report to the NTCA. After the death of the tigers, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, who represents Kota constituency, took a serious note and called a meeting of Rajasthan’s senior forest officials and NTCA.Birla asked NTCA to look into the aspects of the safety of tigers and also suggest ways to develop it as a tourist spot. At present, there is only one tigress MT-4, surviving in the reserve, where country’s third reintroduction programme was initiated. The tigers were relocated in the Darrah range after constructing 24km chain-link fencing and 31km of stone wall, spending approximately Rs 30 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/panel-to-visit-mhtr-today-to-probe-death-of-big-cats/articleshow/79397979.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Jaipur||Stranded in Pak during lockdown, Jodhpur woman finally reunites with family||Jodhpur: Janta Mali, who was stuck in Pakistan after being denied permission to board a train to India with her Indian husband and children, was finally reunited with her family on Tuesday. Mali, awaiting Indian citizenship, had gone to visit her ailing mother in Mirpur Khas Pakistan in February on NORI visa with her husband and children (all Indian citizens), but was not allowed to travel back post-lockdown due to expiry of her visa. She got stranded there while her husband and children travelled back to India in July. President of Seemant Lok Sangthan Hindu Singh Sodha said the matter had been taken up on a different level from state government to the central government urging them to pave the way for all such persons, who had been stuck in Pakistan due expiry of NORI visa followed by the lockdown. “After 6 months’ struggle, we succeeded in bringing back Mali to India, who was trapped in Pakistan due to the lockdown,” Sodha said. While appreciating the support of the state and Indian government, he added that the migrant community was glad to see Mali reuniting with her husband and children. Ministry of home affairs had identified 410 Pak-Hindu refugees stuck in Pakistan, who had been staying in India on Long Term Visa (LTV) and had gone to Pakistan for a short trip before the lockdown on NORI (No Objection for Return to India) visa, and had decided finally in September to bring them back by extending their visa. Two shuttle services had been rolled out after lifting of the lockdown for returning of such immigrants in July, but these 410 minority immigrants had been left out due to expiry of their visa period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/stranded-in-pak-during-lockdown-jodhpur-woman-finally-reunites-with-family/articleshow/79397994.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Pune||100 envoys to visit Pune vaccine firms on December 4||PUNE: Ambassadors and high commissioners of an estimated 100 nations are set to visit two Covid-19 vaccine makers in the city on December 4 — Serum Institute of India (SII) at Hadapsar and Gennova Biopharmaceuticals in Hinjewadi, Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said on Tuesday. Rao said the administration is expecting at least 100 envoys. “The Ministry of External Affairs has confirmed the visit which was earlier set for November 27. We have since received details of the rescheduled programme,” he said. The representatives, all arriving from Delhi for what has been described as a ‘familiarization visit’, will be in Pune for a day. They are expected to return to the capital after a tour of the two facilities. SII’s CEO Adar Poonawalla said he’ll have more details on the visit in a day or two. “I’m awaiting confirmation from the Prime Minister's Office and also from a few ambassadors,” he said. SII, which is making the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine in India, is set to seek emergency regulatory approval after the shot showed 70% effectiveness in phase 3 trials in Brazil and the United Kingdom. Gennova, meanwhile, is developing an m(RNA) vaccine similar to Pfizer’s. The firm, which has collaborated with Seattle-based HDT Biotech Corporation to develop the shot, said preclinical studies in animals have already demonstrated safety, immunogenicity and neutralising antibody activity. “We are now waiting to start phase I human trials of our mRNA vaccine. We look forward to the visit by the envoys,” Gennova CEO Sanjay Singh said. PM may visit on Nov 28 Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said the administration is also preparing for a possible visit by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on November 28. “We have been following up with the Prime Minister’s Office constantly. We are yet to get a final confirmation on the date. But it’s likely to be scheduled for November 28,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/100-envoys-to-visit-city-vaccine-firms-on-dec-4/articleshow/79397968.cms||Nisha Nambiar
November 25, 2020||Jaipur||Temples in Jaipur remain open after 7pm deadline||JAIPUR: It seems that night curfew does not apply on temples in the city. As on Tuesday, most of them remained opened after 8 pm and people were seen praying outside and inside the shrines. In Walled City, all shops were shut except a few medical shops as allowed by the authorities, but temples remained open and in a few people were seen doing kirtans. In Chandpol Hanuman ji temple, numerous two-wheelers were parked on the road and people were seen standing inside the temple. “We are not allowing people to stand closely. It’s their faith, they are still visiting,” said a priest. Similarly, in a temple at Chaura Raasta, the crowd was sitting having annakoot (prashad) without wearing masks. People were coming and going without any fear and police officials on patrol merely ignored it. Home secretary N L Meena said no religious places were allowed to remain open after 8 pm. “We have closed down all the marketplaces and businesses. Except essential services, no place is allowed to open. If this is happening, it will be dealt strictly,” said Meena. Although medicine shops were open, people reaching the shops had to face trouble as taxis weren’t available. At many places, barricading wasn’t done properly and police weren’t checking people. As the wedding season has started, hundreds of weddings are lined up in the city. Around 7.30pm at many places, people were seen shopping for various items till the last minute. Deepak Sharma, a wedding planner, was seen purchasing flowers at Choti Chaupar. “The government should at least provide us with some relaxation,” said Sharma. A tailor shop was open in which a few women were doing last-minute alterations for weddings to be held on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/temples-in-city-remain-open-after-7pm-deadline/articleshow/79397961.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Dehradun||Youth feared drowned in river on Badrinath highway, search operation underway||DEHRADUN: A man, believed to be in his mid twenties, fell into a river on the Badrinath national highway at Farasu near Srinagar in Pauri district on Tuesday afternoon. A search for him was on till the time of filing this report. The man has been identified as Mahendra Butola, a resident of Rudraprayag. He was returning to Rudraprayag from Rishikesh in a taxi when the accident took place, according to the police. “Eyewitnesses told the police that Mahendra was standing on the roadside as the traffic was stopped to clear the debris from a landslide. It is believed that his feet slipped and he fell straight into the river,” said sub-inspector Manoj Raturi. According to police, after falling into the river, he tried his best to swim out but failed and drowned. On receiving information, a team of Jal Police from Rishikesh reached the spot and launched the search and rescue operation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/youth-feared-drowned-in-river-on-badrinath-highway-search-operation-underway/articleshow/79394437.cms||Gaurav Talwar
November 25, 2020||Nagpur||Rising cost of fuel, limited seats make school transport unviable: Operators||NAGPUR: Even after schools reopen in Nagpur district, there seems to be no chance of school buses or vans plying soon. Citing rising cost of fuel and limited seating capacity under the new guidelines, transporters say it won’t be financially viable to operate at old rates. “Unless the transport fare is hiked by a minimum of 40%, it will be very difficult to move ahead,” said Santosh Jog, president of School Bus Owners’ Association. “Check out the price of diesel when lockdown started and now. It was around Rs62 per litre then and now, it’s around Rs77 in Nagpur,” said Jog. This near about 25% jump is just a part of the costs which they are looking at. “Insurance premiums of buses are all overdue. For every bus, we are looking at a cost of Rs80,000 to Rs1 lakh. So the recurring costs and the restarting costs are both extremely high,” said Jog. The limited seating guidelines will also hit their revenue. “In every row, the capacity was for five students. Now, it has been changed to three,” said Jog. This 40% drop in seating capacity literally means a similar drop in revenue. “The only way to cover up is by increasing the fee,” said Jog. School van drivers and owners, too, are facing similar problems. Afsar Khan, president of School Van Drivers’ Association said his members are struggling to make ends meet. “If the seating capacity has been limited, then how can we still operate on old rates? The government has also not reduced charges for vehicle passing and other processes. We need to increase the fare charged from parents,” said Khan. He feels that chances of parents sending their kids to school in vans soon are slim. “Even though the news of schools reopening is out, not a single parent has approached any of our members to restart services,” said Khan. Many members are defaulting on EMIs because of zero income. “Recovery agents are coming to our homes and demanding payments. We are not only waiting for everything to restart, but also for revised fares,” said Khan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rising-cost-of-fuel-limited-seats-make-school-transport-unviable-operators/articleshow/79396633.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
November 25, 2020||Pune||Experts unsure about the protection period of each vaccine||PUNE: Most Covid vaccine frontrunners have thrown up promising efficacy data. But it’s still unclear how long their protection will last. Health experts are debating the duration — some say it's six months; others say it can be as long as nine months. But almost all agree it's just too early to tell. Dr K Srinath Reddy, president of the Public Health Foundation of India, said since trials are still ongoing and given the fact the virus hasn't been around for long, it would be difficult to be certain about the duration of vaccine-induced immunity. He said, “With natural infection, antibody levels fade in three months. Cellular immune response, mediated by T cells, has been reported to last up to six months. But we still need to study if this form of immunity lasts longer.” In natural infection, the antigenic stimulus varies from person to person and is based on viral load, he added. A vaccine provides a stronger and consistent boost to immunity because of a standardised level of antigenic stimulus. This is the reason why a vaccine generally provides longer protection compared to the body's own immune system. "But (for Covid) we don't have available data showing how long," Dr Reddy said. Dr Gagandeep Kang, vaccine expert, said a clear answer will have to until the vaccines are administered. She said, “It is important to remember that vaccines are designed to induce the best possible immune response. We have data that shows immune responses vary according to severity of illness. We do not know if this means a difference in protection so, we'll have to wait and watch as more previously infected people are exposed to subsequent infections." Former head of epidemiology and communicable diseases at ICMR, Dr Lalitkant said there's still no data on duration of protection. He said that while the makers of the five vaccine frontrunners have released encouraging news, their data will have to be peer-reviewed. "The industry is sharing data. That's positive news, but the details will have to be reanalysed."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/experts-unsure-about-the-protection-period-of-each-vaccine/articleshow/79397955.cms||Nisha Nambiar
November 25, 2020||Kolkata||Ready to work with Centre for speedy vaccination: Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee||BANKURA: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday assured Prime minister Narendra Modi that Bengal is “ready to work with the Centre and all other stakeholders” to ensure a speedy and “universal vaccination for everyone” as soon as the vaccines are available. Banerjee also raised the non-release of Covid funds by the Centre to the state. According to a press note shared by the Bengal government, Banerjee told the PM that “the entire nation is now looking forward to an early vaccination programme” in which the Bengal government is ready to join with Centre and all stakeholders “for a comprehensive battle against the pandemic”. Banerjee assured the PM that Bengal “is fully prepared with trained manpower and required infrastructure — including cold chain — for the vaccination programme”. Banerjee had a day before indicated that the Bengal government is ready to procure vaccines on its own, if the Centre informs the state about the vaccine procurement sources. On Tuesday, the CM told the PM that Bengal has already spent around Rs 4,000 crore on Covid management, but the Centre has released only Rs 193 crore. The CM attended the meeting with the PM and other chief ministers from Bankura. The meeting commenced at 10:30 am. Taking a cue from Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, Banerjee stressed before the prime minister that “political gamesmanship, competitive rallies and public health hazards must be averted in the society in the greater public interest”. Banerjee said that despite the Durga Puja, Kali Puja and Chhath Puja festivities in Bengal, and recommencement of the massive suburban rail movements, Bengal has been “successful in reducing the positivity rate and the death rate and in improving the discharge rate”. She also pointed out that this is even though Bengal has been treating patients from outside countries and bordering states. She stressed that compared to other metropolitan regions in the country, Bengal has been “performing remarkably well”. Banerjee also told the PM that health workers in Bengal, including the ASHA workers and Covid warriors, have been shouldering the battle against Covid. She said in Bengal ASHA workers have made 45 crore home visits to identify people with breathing distress and other ailments for early medical intervention. She said the fight against Covid has been “particularly complicated by co-morbidities” and it is now evident to all.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ready-to-work-with-centre-for-speedy-vaccination/articleshow/79396620.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Trichy||Forest department forms special teams in Trichy||TRICHY: The forest department in Trichy formed special teams to coordinate with the district administration and fire and rescue service to handle any eventuality that may occur due to cyclone Nivar. Two teams have been formed in each forest range in the district and staff have been kept on standby. Control rooms have been set up to send flash reports to the departments concerned in case of any eventuality. The tropical butterfly conservatory Trichy (TBCT) maintained by the forest department will stay closed on Wednesday. Officials are making necessary arrangements to ensure that there is no loss of material when the cyclone makes a landfall. Adequate staff have been deployed at the elephant rehabilitation centre (ERC), where five private captive elephants are being rehabilitated, to keep a close watch. “While wild animals usually adapt to such adverse climatic conditions, same is not the case with captive elephants which need extra care. Adequate food stock is being ensured for elephants in the ERC. They will be closely monitored” said Trichy district forest officer D Sujatha. Sujatha said that Trichy and delta districts may receive good rainfall during the cyclone and a few tree falls are anticipated as was the case during the cyclone Gaja two years ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/forest-dept-forms-special-teams/articleshow/79397976.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Jaipur||Woman writes to DCW about pressure from parents to get married||Jaipur: A 26-year-old woman, who was reported missing from Dholpur by her parents, was found in Delhi on Tuesday. The woman identified as Sheena Choudhary hails from Delhi and her parents reside in the national capital. She was reported missing from Rajasthan’s Dholpur where she works on November 20 and three days later her parents lodged an FIR with the Dholpur police alleging that she had been abducted. Choudhary, on the other hand, wrote to the Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) claiming that her parents were exerting pressure on her to get married and did not want her to work or study further. In the letter to DCW, Choudhary, who is an MGN fellow with IIM Bangalore based in Dholpur wrote, “I have clearly told my family many times that I do not want to get married as I am not mentally prepared for it. I am working and have plans to study further. My family has been exerting pressure to get married.” The letter also stated that recently her parents had fixed her marriage with a boy without her knowledge and took her to meet him in Delhi. After the meeting, Choudhary called the youth on November 19 and called off the wedding following this her mother cursed as well as abused her. Choudhary called for DCW’s intervention in the matter and a commission’s official told TOI, “On November 23, we received the complaint and a day later it was registered. The woman had said she did not want to stay with her family and they were a threat to her safety. We have started the process for filing a petition in the court for her security but before that Dholpur police took her back.” Meanwhile, Dholpur police claimed that they had followed due course of law. SP Kesar Singh Shekhawat said, “As her parents had filed a missing person report, we started the search and found the woman in Delhi. We have followed due process and her statement will be recorded in front of the district magistrate.” DCW will also write to SP Dholpur as well as to Rajasthan DGP asserting their stand that since the woman is an adult, she has the right to make her decisions. She was brought from Delhi to Dholpur on Tuesday. Choudhary also wrote to People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL) regarding the same matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-writes-to-dcw-about-pressure-from-parents-to-get-married/articleshow/79397960.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Madurai||Railways cancels 24 services||Madurai: The trains cancelled are: TNo 02613/02614 Chennai – Madurai – Chennai Tejas; TNo 02636/02635 Madurai – Chennai – Madurai Vaigai; TNo 02605/02606 Chennai – Karaikudi – Chennai express; TNo 02661/02662 Chennai – Sengottai – Chennai; TNo 02632/02631 Tirunelveli – Chennai – Tirunelveli; TNo 02694/02693 Tuticorin – Chennai – Tuticorin Pearl City; TNo 02633/02634 Chennai – Kanyakumari – Chennai; TNo 06723/06724 Chennai – Kollam – Chennai; TNo 02206/02205 Rameswaram – Chennai – Rameswaram; TNo 06101/06102 Chennai – Kollam – Chennai; TNo 02638/02637 Madurai – Chennai – Madurai Pandian; TNo 02653/02654 Chennai – Trichy – Chennai Rock Fort. TNo 02206 Rameswaram – Chennai Egmore scheduled to depart from Rameswaram at 8.25pm on Tuesday was partially cancelled between Rameswaram and Mandapam. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/railways-cancels-24-services/articleshow/79398656.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 25, 2020||Ludhiana||Cong, SAD shielding drug traders: AAP||Ludhiana: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday launched an attack against the ruling Congress and opposition Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), accusing both parties of shielding drug traders. A protest was organised by AAP in Ludhiana in which leaders of AAP, including Jagraon MLA Sarabjit Kaur Manuke, Garhshankar MLA Jai Krishan Singh Rouri and state youth wing co-president Anmol Gagan Mann, were also present, who claimed that the state government was turning a blind eye to the free run by drug lords like Gurdeep Singh Rano. Later, AAP leaders and workers burnt effigies of chief minister Amarinder Singh and former chief minister Sukhbir Badal during their dharna at Bharat Nagar Chowk. Addressing the workers during the protest MLA Manuke said, “The subsequent governments in Punjab have always betrayed the people of Punjab and looted them financially. For years, both Congress and SAD have been hell bent on ruining the future of the youth of Punjab by deliberately turning a blind eye to the drug menace in the state. When the entire state and the country is sitting quietly at home amid the corona pandemic, Amarinder Singh’s advisers are allowing drug smugglers to have a free run under cover. No drug smuggler can dare to operate freely in the state without the backing of the government machinery. The CM who also holds home portfolio, should own responsibility of the activities of the drug smugglers and crack a whip on them, sooner or later.” Manuke also said, “The top brass of Ludhiana police was also aware of Rano’s illegal activities but due to the pressures of their political masters, they refrained from taking action against him. Meanwhile, our CM, who had promised to eradicate the menace of drugs from Punjab and even took the oath of Gutka Sahib is now running away from the promise he made.” MLA Rouri also addressed the gathering and said, “Earlier, the SAD government and now Amarinder government have ruined the lives of the youth of Punjab. Due to the menace of drugs, incidents of crime in Punjab have touched a new high in the state but even then the government is turning a blind eye to the rising crime.” Anmol Gagan Mann too launched a scathing attack against the state government and said that the CM should own up responsibility for rampant drug trade in Punjab, which was running under alleged political patronage. She said that unemployed and poverty stricken youth of Punjab were falling prey to drugs, while the chief minister was busy in kingly ceremonies. She also attached the government for providing security to drug smuggler Rano during the coronavirus induced lockdown. Other leaders and workers present on the occasion included Amandeep Singh Mohi, Suresh Goyal, Jaswinder Singh Bulara, Dinesh Chadha, Parminder Singh Jaswal, Gurna Singh , Prem Kumar, Shivcharan Singh Chenchi, Gurdev Singh Singhala, Megh Chand, Gurdarshan Singh Kohli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cong-sad-shielding-drug-traders-aap/articleshow/79396661.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat crosses 2 lakh Covid cases in 251 days||Ahmedabad: Gujarat on Tuesday became 16th state of India to cross 2 lakh cumulative Covid-19 positive cases. The state reached the worrisome figure in 251 days from recording its first two positive cases on March 19. It was the second time that the state’s daily tally crossed 1,500 with 1,510 in 24 hours ending 5pm on Tuesday. The new cases included 347 from Ahmedabad, 286 from Surat, 181 from Vaodara, and 128 from Rajkot. With the update, Ahmedabad district crossed 48,000 cumulative cases, whereas Vadodara crossed the figure of 19,000. Gujarat also recorded deaths of 16 positive patients. Out of the total, 75% or 12 of the deaths were recorded in Ahmedabad city alone. The other deaths included three from Surat and one from Botad. Ahmedabad city has recorded 33 deaths in past three days, accounting for 72% of 46 deaths recorded in Gujarat. Analysis of the cases reveal that of the 2 lakh cases, 7.1% are active, 91% are discharged and 1.5% of the patients succumbed to the viral infection. At 1 lakh cases, the figures were 16.1%, 80.9% and 3% respectively. With the surge in cases – especially in urban pockets – the number of active cases again rose to 14,044. “The surge in cases should be seen in context of the recent festivities. The past 24 hours also saw one of the highest daily testing at 84,625 – indicating the rush by the citizens to get themselves tested and going for early diagnosis. It’s expected to continue for next few days and it’s important to break the chain through initiatives including social distancing, wearing of mask and use of hand wash/ sanitizer,” said a city-based epidemiologist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-crosses-2-lakh-covid-cases-in-251-days/articleshow/79396827.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Jaipur||JDA may invite bids for multi-crore Ramniwas parking project again||Jaipur: After only one firm qualified the technical bid for the multi-crore Ramniwas Bagh parking project, the JDA may invite tenders again. The civic body had to open the financial bid on Monday, however, process was kept on standstill mode as officials are in a quandary to go ahead with the single tender.A senior engineer at JDA said, “Whether the project will be awarded to the qualified firm or re-tendering to be done will be decided by the higher authorities. The awarding work to single tender might raise eyebrows, the senior officials are cautious in taking the decision,” he said.Three companies had earlier expressed interest to construct the underground parking project. But only one firm could make it to the next round, after civic body evaluated the technical bid for Rs 94-crore project. “If the re-tendering is initiated, the process is expected to be delayed by at least one month,” said an official.After Jaipur Smart City Limited (JSCL) gave the administrative and financial sanction, the JDA initiated work to appoint the firm and also applied for environmental clearance. Moreover, the civic body’s executive committee (EC) had given a nod to the tripartite agreement to be executed between Jaipur Smart City Limited (JSCL), JDA and the contractor for Ramniwas Bagh underground parking project, phase-II. JDA has also prepared the parking design.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jda-may-invite-bids-for-multi-crore-ramniwas-parking-project-again/articleshow/79397996.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Aurangabad||Bamu to end Ph.D admissions in record time||Aurangabad: Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu), which has completed M.Phil admissions in a record time, has said that it would undertake a similar time-bound process for Ph.D admissions too. Notably, Bamu had held the last Ph.D Entrance Test (PET) in 2016. Despite a strong demand from students, the university could not carry out Ph.D admissions due to technical issues. Pledging his support for holding the next PET as early as possible, Bamu vice-chancellor Pramod Yeole said that the university was always keen to encourage research programmes on its campus. “The time-bound completion of M.Phil admissions has boosted the morale of the entire system. It will help in successful conduct of Ph.D admissions as well,” he said. Educational activist Tukaram Saraf said that Bamu should conduct PET at least once in a year. “Some state universities conduct PET twice in a year as per available of resources,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bamu-to-end-ph-d-admissions-in-record-time/articleshow/79394472.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Mangaluru||Four drown in Shambhavi||MANGALURU: Wedding celebrations turned tragic for a family after four persons, including a girl, drowned in river Shambhavi, near Kadandale under Moodbidri police limits, on Tuesday. The victims, who are relatives, had come to Shridhar Acharya’s house to attend a wedding. The victims have been identified as Nikhil, 18, Harshitha, 20, residents of Moodushedde; Subhash, 19, resident of Venur and Ravi, 30, resident of Pejar, Bajpe. The bodies of Nikhil and Harshitha were recovered. The search to retrieve the other two bodies will resume on Wednesday morning.  According to police, the incident took place around 4.30pm. The victims had come to Shridhar Acharya’s house to attend a wedding, which took place two days ago. On Tuesday, the four decided to go for a swim in the river. One of them began drowning and screamed for help. The other three rushed to help and all four drowned. A case has been registered at Moodbidri police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/4-drown-in-shambhavi/articleshow/79394464.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: ‘Despite Covid situation, we have earned more revenue’||LUDHIANA: Being head of one of the biggest civic bodies of the state is not a cakewalk for any municipal commissioner. The present MC commissioner, Pardeep Sabharwal, after taking over the charge has been continuously trying to bring the civic body on track despite coronavirus and other challenges. He says the MC has become successful in striving through the tough phase and they have managed to arrange funds for the development works as well as for regular expenses of the employees. Here are a few excerpts from a conversation between him and TOI correspondent Nidhi Bhardwaj. Q: The poor financial status of the MC has always remained in news and during Covid-19 too, finances have been affected badly, then how the MC is managing the expenses against all odds? Despite being caught in a tough situation of Covid-19, where it was difficult to recover the pending dues and earn from other revenue sources, we have managed to increase the latter under all heads. No doubt, in property tax recovery we are a little bit behind past year’s recovery but still we have managed to recover a lot. Last year, where we had recovered Rs 62.98 crore from property tax, this year by this time we could generate only Rs 55.37 crore. But we managed to sail through by increasing revenue in water supply and sewerage dues. From water supply and sewerage dues last year only Rs 11.21 crore had come by this time, but this year we managed to generate Rs 33.60 crore till now. So, if I calculate these figures, till now the MC has generated Rs 88.97 crore from both heads whereas last year it was only Rs 74.19 crore. So, in a way there is improvement in recovery. Moreover, even from building composition fee last year we had only Rs 20.96 crore, but this year it is Rs 23.15 crore. From building application fee too Rs 3.67 crore has come this year while last year it was Rs 3.11 crore. From development charges too Rs 5.78 crore were recovered, which was Rs 2.08 crore last year. Q: Earlier salary was a major issue for the employees, now how you have managed to give salary on time?No doubt, earlier managing salary was a major issue for the heads of departments. But since we have increased revenue generation the salary is being disbursed on time. I always keep Rs 40 crore at one time to be distributed as salary and other expenses so that employees should not suffer. Then comes the liability part. Even liabilities are in control and not more than Rs 10 crore are pending for payment, which is not a big deal as works are going on in the field and payment will be made from time to time. Q: What about development works for the city as most of the time residents complained about no development in their respective areas?Now, there is no issue of non-development as well because under the Punjab Urban Environment Programme we had divided the development works in two phases. While under phase 1, 84 road works were selected, out of which 81 got approval and 75 were started. 44 works are already complete while rest are in progress. There is 75% progress in these works and most probably by November these will be finished. Then, we had a second phase under which a total of 275 works were approved but tenders were floated for 172 works after clubbing the works. Out of 172, 138 works were for less than Rs 1 crore and 34 were above Rs 1 crore. Out of 138, 126 works belong to road construction while 12 are related to water supply and sewerage. So, even these works will be completed in January. The development works are going on in various areas at a fast pace now. Q: The MC has always remained in eye of the storm for poor quality of roads. What steps are being taken to ensure better quality works in near future?We have already taken steps for ensuring better quality of roads. A firm called WAPCOS has been put on the job to check road material before, in between and after the completion of the work. Along with this, officers have been told strictly to look after the construction of roads and they will give report in three intervals on whether work is being done properly. And if work is not being done properly, then they will take immediate action against the contractor. In case, any officer is found guilty and does not perform accordingly, then I will recommend action against that officer. Q: Any project which is being taken on priority by the MC at this moment?I had come with dedication to complete two projects, one was Jagraon bridge, which is open now, and the other one is rejuvenation of Buddha Nullah. I am aware for how long people of Ludhiana have been waiting to get relief from this pollutant running through the city. The state government has already finalised tenders for the project. But side by side we have planned its beautification and plantation on its sides. The demarcation of the almost 14 km-long stretch has been done and we have identified the encroachments as well for removal. Then fencing will be done on both sides of drain for curbing people to throw solid waste in the drain. Q: Only seven projects out of 47 projects under the Smart City Mission have been completed in four years. What you are doing to increase the pace of projects?We have completed seven projects while 22 are in execution stage and very soon these will get completed. Projects like LED streetlights, Sarabha Nagar market beautification, Malhar Road smart road project, Pakhowal road ROB/RUB, carcass utilization plant, smart class rooms, etc. all are going on smoothly. Due to Covid-19, we had to give extension to the contractors because there was some labour issues, but now we have made it clear to the contractors as well as officials to complete the works on a fast pace. Q: The LED streetlights project remained in controversy since it started. Even now work is pending in many areas. What is being done to resolve the issue?I cannot say about things before I had joined here because this project has been going on for a long time. But when I joined I monitored the ongoing work and also conducted checking at night time. No doubt, there were serious faults in the working and those faults are now being rectified. We have already imposed a penalty totalling Rs 19 lakh on Tata company for their slow pace for work. Now around 3,500 streetlights are yet to be installed and the company has been told to complete it as soon as possible. Q: Are finances going to affect the smart city projects too?No way. Finances are not going to trouble the smart city projects in any case. We were facing a little bit shortage and with the support of cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu we have raised the demand for Rs 50 crore with the finance department for which they have agreed. Very shortly, we will get the money. Q: Second wave of coronavirus has started, how the MC will coordinate with health department and district administration? Yes, we are ready to coordinate with other departments for fighting the tough situation. Already, 14 micro-containment zones are there, where we have deployed sweepers for cleaning and sanitization as per the directions of health department. Then comes lifting of bio-medical and domestic waste, for which one specialised firm is lifting only biomedical waste from such houses where patients are quarantined and for domestic waste separate vehicles goes along. The bio-medical waste is to be lifted once in 72 hours. Awareness campaign under Mission Fateh is already going on. For this awareness programme, our 40 officials also won gold, silver and bronze medals, which is the highest in state. Q: Is there any planning to get vaccination for the staff first of all?Already the government has made it clear that frontline warriors will get the vaccination first of all whenever it will come. We have also paid special attention for the safety of staff as 64 thermal scanners are there for checking of visitors and employees in offices. We distributed 43,825 face masks among the staff and apart from this, over 19,000 gloves were also given away. We get the employees tested from time to time if they report about any symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/despite-covid-situation-we-have-earned-more-revenue/articleshow/79396671.cms||Nidhi Bhardwaj
November 25, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan leads in Covid battle: CM Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday asked states to bring the Covid death rate down to one per cent. He said that the cause of death of patients should be analysed and all efforts should be made to keep the positivity rate below 5 per cent. He said the number of testing be increased and adequate oxygen supply for patients be ensured. Modi was holding a video conference with the chief ministers of eight states including Rajasthan regarding Covid management. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot apprised the PM that the state was ahead on all the parametersin the battle against Corona. He informed that due to the efforts of the state government, the death rate in the state has remained consistently below one per cent. The present death rate in the state is only 0.89 per cent. Gehlot said RT-PCR tests are the most reliable for Covid. He said like Rajasthan, all other states should adopt 100% test by RTPCR method instead of rapid antigen test. Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu are the only two states in the country where 100 per cent testing is being done RT-PCR method, he claimed. He informed that over 42 lakh testings have been done in Rajasthan so far. The case positivity rate is 5.8 per cent in the state, which is much better than the national average of 6.89. The state government is working very seriously to bring it below 5 per cent soon. Also, the test capacity has been increased to 60,000 per day. The chief minister said the state government had greatly enhanced the capabilities of ICU beds, oxygen beds and ventilators during the first wave. As a result, the state has been able to fight Covid effectively during the second wave. He said only 26 per cent of the available oxygen beds in the state, 44 per cent of the ICU beds and 18 per cent of the ventilators are currently used by patients. This shows that there is more capacity than necessary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-leads-in-covid-battle-gehlot/articleshow/79398043.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Four Mumbai cops held for bribe||JAIPUR: The ACB arrested a SI along with three constables while accepting a bribe of Rs 2 lakh in Jaipur on Tuesday. The SI Prashant Shinde and the three constable are of Mumbai police and stationed in Borivali police station. ACB had received a complaint that a person from Mumbai had taken his house on rent in Jaipur and the tenant has case of fraud registered against him in Maharashtra. The four persons had detained the complainant’s father and were pressurising him to get the tenant arrested. They demanded a bribe for not arresting the complainant’s father. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/4-mumbai-cops-held-for-bribe/articleshow/79398016.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Chunk of beds marked for poor lying vacant||NEW DELHI: At a time when people are struggling to get admission in hospitals, many beds earmarked for the poor in private hospitals are lying unoccupied. The vacancies range from 40% to 100% in different hospitals, Ashok Agarwal, member of the committee appointed by Delhi High Court to implement the free bed facility, told TOI. Agarwal said, “Before the Covid-19 outbreak, the occupancy of beds reserved for economically weaker sections in private hospitals had touched 85%. Now, it has come down to 15-20%.” A Supreme Court order mandates all private hospitals built on land acquired at discounted rates to reserve 10% of their in-patient capacity and 25% of out-patient capacity for free treatment of EWS patients. Agarwal said 61 hospitals across the city together have more than 950 beds reserved for poor patients. “Many of these hospitals have been turned fully or partially into Covid facilities. Therefore, EWS patients seeking treatment for the infection are eligible to get treated there,” said Agarwal. "But we are getting regular complaints about denial of admission to the poor on one ground or another.” Most hospitals refused to respond to Agarwal’s comment. They maintained that EWS beds earmarked in the non-Covid facilities were mostly occupied. “The Covid beds are vacant because not many EWS patients are approaching us,” claimed an official at a top private hospital in east Delhi. A central Delhi hospital, which has 68 beds under the EWS category of which only 14 were occupied on Tuesday, said it would look into the matter. According to rules, a poor patient can go to a private hospital either directly for admission under EWS quota or through reference from state-run hospitals. But the poor, activists said, were often discouraged by private hospitals and were turned away on the excuse that no beds were available. “These hospitals are carrying out planned surgeries of non-Covid patients, but refusing EWS patients citing government regulations. This is also one of the reasons EWS beds are vacant,” said an activist. The activist added that many patients had approached the nodal officers appointed in the private hospitals to facilitate admission and even the higher authorities in the state health department without getting a reprieve. “The pandemic should not become an excuse for the private hospitals to deny the poor their rights,” he said. “Beds under the EWS category cannot be given to others. They shouldn’t remain unoccupied either when the people are dying due to lack of ICU beds.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/chunk-of-beds-marked-for-poor-lying-vacant/articleshow/79398099.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
November 25, 2020||Kochi||2.5kg ganja seized from courier to Middle East||KOCHI: Enforcement and narcotic special squad of Ernakulam excise division has seized 2.5kg of ganja, which was meant to be sent to the Middle East, from a courier service firm in the city. The ganja was seized after the employees of the firm alerted excise after they grew suspicious about the package. The excise special squad and intelligence have started a probe and suspect that a six-member gang from Kannur was involved in the smuggling attempt. The contraband was hidden in a carton containing rice powder, coriander powder and turmeric which was scheduled to be flown to Dubai by air courier. T A Ashok Kumar, deputy excise commissioner, has received a tip-off about the possible smuggling of ganja through courier service and have alerted the firms in the city to inform about suspicious cargoes. This has led to the seizure. “The address on the consignment is based in Kannur and the excise has started a probe to validate whether it is fake. It was scheduled to be flown to UAE from Kochi airport. We will share the info to the police in Dubai to find who the receiver was. We have some leads to trace the gang and hope to bust them soon. We have tightened enforcement around courier companies based on the info that such attempts would be made,” Kumar said. The team led by assistant excise commissioner T S Sasikumar comprised of excise circle inspector Vinod G, preventive officers Sreekumar, Aneesh Joseph, and Sivakumar, civil excise officer Smitha Jose and driver Aneesh Kumar. Two youths held with 10kg of ganjaThe narcotics cell of city police arrested two youths after seizing around 10kg of ganja from them on Tuesday. The arrested were identified as Rahees (27) of Thalasserry, and Akhilesh (23) of Maradu. Rahees claimed to be a makeup artist in the movie industry. According to the police, the duo were nabbed while selling the ganja that was allegedly smuggled in from Coimbatore. They were held from an apartment in Thammanam. A team led by Narcotics Cell assistant commissioner Abdul Salam made the arrest. The duo will be presented in court after Covid-19 test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/excise-seizes-2-5kg-ganja-from-courier-service-firm/articleshow/79395468.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Jaipur||Night temp increases across state||Jaipur: Night temperatures rose marginally in parts of Rajasthan with the hill station Mount Abu recording a minimum temperature of 1.4 degrees Celsius, the meteorological department said on Tuesday.The other day it had recorded the season’s lowest of subzero temperature.The slight increase in night temperature is attributed to the western disturbance and cloudy conditions. Places like Churu and Bhilwara recorded a minimum of 8.8 degree Celsius, it said. Dabok and Chittorgarh recorded 9 and 9.5 degree Celsius, respectively.The night temperature in other districts of the state was recorded between 10 and 14.7 degree Celsius, the department said. According to MeT, cold conditions would continue in the desert state with the possibility of light rains at isolated areas in western Rajasthan in the next 24 hours. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/night-temp-increases-across-state/articleshow/79398076.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Nagpur||Amravati hotel fined Rs 3.5 lakh for hosting meet of 700 teachers||AMRAVATI: Hotel Mehfil Inn has been slapped a fine of Rs3.50 lakh for breach of Covid guidelines and preventive measures by hosting a meeting of 700 teachers on Sunday. A flying squad keeping an eye on violation of election code of conduct found that the hotel hosted a teachers’ meeting on Sunday for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The hotel did not have permission to host meetings, other than marriages and ceremonies as part of precautionary measures against corona. The notice of fine was issued by District Disaster Management Authority chairman, collector Shailesh Nawal, on receiving a report from the code of conduct flying squad. No public events, other than weddings, are allowed under the corona orders. However, the team observed that the meeting was held in the presence of 700 people at Hotel Mehfil Inn. A notice to pay fine of Rs3.5 lakh has been issued to the hotel owner. This action has been taken under sections 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act 2005, Section 144 of the Indian Infectious Diseases Act 1897, Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure 1973, Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code 1860 and other relevant laws and regulations. The municipal commissioner has been authorized to recover the fine. Orders have been issued to pay the fine within seven days and submit a compliance report. The hotelier has also been warned that if this happens again, a criminal case will be filed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/amravati-hotel-fined-rs3-5-lakh-for-hosting-meet-of-700-teachers/articleshow/79396669.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Jaipur||Solar projects in Raj seen new tariff lows in past too||Jaipur: The historic low tariffs of Rs 2 per unit discovered on Monday in a reverse auction conducted by Solar Corporation of India (SECI) for 1,070 MW projects in Rajasthan again put the investors’ spotlight on the state. This is not the first time the lowest tariffs were recorded for projects in Rajasthan. In the past also, lowest tariffs were discovered twice for projects in Rajasthan, thanks to the availability of high solar insolation, more than 325 sunny days in a year and large tracts of barren land in desert districts. Installation of solar power projects started in Rajasthan in year 2010-11 with a high tariff of Rs 17.91 per unit which declined in 2012-13 for units in Bhadla Solar Park to Rs 6.45. The declining trend continued in Bhadla phase-II projects and hit the lowest tariffs of Rs 4.34. Further, in Bhadla phase-III and IV projects, the lowest tariff of Rs 2.44 was discovered in the country in 2018. Again in 2019, lower tariffs were quoted by solar lower developers in a state specific bid conducted by SECI where 1430 MW was allocated at 2.50 -2.48 per unit. While in 2020, SECI’s non-Rajasthan specific bidding for 2,000 MW got the lowest tariff of Rs 2.36 unit, it was breached by the current bidding where two companies quoted Rs 2 per unit for 1070 MW for Rajasthan specific projects. Subodh Agarwal, chairman and managing director of Rajasthan Renewable Energy Corporation, said, “The number of advantages Rajasthan offer to solar developers is unmatched by any state in the country. Solar needs large tracts of land and the state has large areas of barren or semi barren land to offer that. Secondly, in terms of solar irradiation, Rajasthan is considered the best as it gives the generators more productivity. And thirdly, we have the complete policy ecosystem to support the natural advantages.” Agarwal said major players like National Thermal Power Corporation, NHPC, Adani, Soft Bank, Renew Power, Azure Power, Greenko, and ACME have planned major capacity. Projects worth over 7,438 MW have been registered in Rajasthan after Rajasthan Solar Energy Policy was announced in December last year, said Agarwal. “Proposals for developing 10,000 MW capacity Ultra Mega Renewable Energy Power Parks by SECI and National Thermal Power Corporation are under consideration by state government. Three developers have approached the state government for granting customized packages to their large size solar, hybrid projects (15000 MW) and manufacturing units of 2000 MW capacity. These projects will further strengthen Rajasthan’s standing as a solar hub in the country,” further added Agarwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/solar-projects-in-raj-seen-new-tariff-lows-in-past-too/articleshow/79398086.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 25, 2020||Lucknow||World-class railway terminus in Gomtinagar to start by 2022||LUCKNOW: With the completion of RERA registration and approval of design by IIT-Delhi, the redevelopment of Gomtinagar railway station will be over by the end of 2022. The idea of redevelopment was in the pipeline since 2013. Rail Land Development Authority (RLDA), in association with government’s construction arm National Buildings Construction Corporation (NBCC), will undertake the redevelopment of the station. RLDA is a statutory body under the ministry of railways for development of railway land. Redevelopment will be carried out in two phases —mandatory station development (comprising station buildings, air concourse, food courts, renovation of platforms and utilities) and commercial development including retail, basement parking and external development. “The total construction cost estimated for station development is Rs 190 crore and Rs 170 crore for commercial development, including maintenance cost for two years. The redevelopment of station will be on the engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) mode,” said RLDA vice-chairman Ved Parkash Dudeja. “Lucknow’s Gomtinagar area is developing rapidly as a commercial and retail hub. The station is strategically located with excellent connectivity to other parts of the city. The commercial space being constructed for lease sale of 60 years is in close vicinity of a five star hotel and a prominent shopping-cum-office plaza. “Redevelopment will boost real estate as well as local economy,” said Dudeja. Railways has approximately 38 acres of land parcel at Gomtinagar railway station, of which 8 acres land is being utilised for both station re-development and retail and commercial development. The property has frontage on Gomtinagar main road which further connects Shaheed Path. Presently, two commercial towers – Block R1 and Block R2 having a combined built-up area of 4,53,000 sq ft – have been offered by NBCC as part of commercial development. This will comprise retail outlets and parking among other facilities. The average lease price is pegged at Rs 6,625 per sq ft for Block R1 and Rs 5,900 per sq ft for Block R2. The e-auction for commercial blocks is currently underway with the bidding having closed on November 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/world-class-rly-terminus-in-gomtinagar-to-start-by-2022/articleshow/79398665.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Aurangabad||‘Inter-state’ job racket busted, suspect arrested||Aurangabad: The crime branch of the city police on Tuesday arrested a 29-year old man accused of duping youths on the pretext of helping them get jobs with the railways as well as in social welfare department. “The suspect has confessed to duping many youths from Aurangabad, Parbhani, Nanded, Pune, Nagpur and even other states and that it looks like a big scam involving a lot of money,” inspector Anil Gaikwad of the crime branch told TOI. The suspect, Ashok Vaidya from Harsul area, while claiming that he is the local head of the Youth Association International Scout and Guide office in Aurangabad, allegedly forged appointment letters and also sent many of his victims for post-selection training to Delhi. Police said there are also allegations that in order to win the trust of unemployed youths, the suspect would take them to the Union railway minister’s office in Delhi and introduce them to a man claiming to be the personal secretary of the minister. City police commissioner Nikhil Gupta has ordered transfer of the probe to the economic offences wing. Inspector Anil Gaikwad said that sometime back, a youth, Yogesh Gore, told the crime branch that Vaidya took over Rs 5 lakh from him and his friend and issued bogus appointment letters. “It looks like a well-oiled network of cheats who forge the central government’s appointment letters,” he said. Recently fearing that these youths may lodge a police complaint, the accused has returned a portion of the said amoung. The police said that other duped youths were not lucky enough to get back anything of the paid amount.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/inter-state-job-racket-busted-suspect-arrested/articleshow/79396732.cms||Mohammed Akhef
November 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Vibhavari Dave tests positive, admitted to UN Mehta Hospital||Gandhinagar: Vibhavari Dave, minister of state for women and child welfare, education (primary and higher education) and pilgrimage places, has tested positive for Covid-19 and has been admitted to UN Mehta Hospital in Ahmedabad. Dave said, “I experienced Covid-like symptoms, so I got tested myself on Monday and in the evening, the report returned positive. Doctors have advised me hospitalization for one week and ten days home isolation after that.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vibhavari-dave-tests-positive-admitted-to-un-mehta-hospital/articleshow/79396820.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Madurai||Madurai college student designs solar-powered electric cycle||MADURAI: A third-year student of BSc Physics from Madurai has designed an electric bicycle which can run on battery and solar power. M Dhanush Kumar, a student at The American College, designed the unique bicycle, which is powered by a 24 volt and 26 ampere battery. If the battery is recharged, the bicycle can run for at least 30 km. It has a usable solar panel with a capacity of 24 volts and 12 amps. “I came up with the concept when I studied the subject of energy physics and as to how electric and solar-powered vehicles are the future for us. I managed to procure the parts and was able to finish it now,” said Dhanush Kumar. The bicycle can run for up to 50 km continuously with the help of the solar panel and go up to a maximum speed of 30 km per hour. It is first designed to run on battery and then run on solar energy. The bicycle can also be pedaled when solar power is low. “The advantage is that, while normally battery-powered chargeable bicycles can cover only around 30 km in a time, this bicycle, with the help of the solar panel can provide the power for the bicycle to run up to 50 km,” explained Dhanush Kumar. The bicycle was designed by Dhanush Kumar with the guidance and help of his physics professors. The student added that it cost him around Rs 25,000 to complete the bicycle. “However, the actual cost would not be more than Rs 18,000. Due to the pandemic, some of the parts had cost more. I’m hoping to come up with more such concepts for designing bicycles with alternate sources of energy of given financial support,” said Dhanush. College principal Dr M Davamani Christober praised his achievement and said that all students should come forward to work on many such inventions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-college-student-designs-solar-powered-electric-cycle/articleshow/79398706.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Active Covid cases go up, 5 more die||LUCKNOW: The number of new Covid-19 infections in the city was more than recoveries for the sixth consecutive day on Tuesday, resulting in an increase in active cases. Five patients succumbed to the virus, taking the toll to 970. As many as 282 more persons tested Covid-19 positive in 24 hours, while 269 patients recovered from the infection. The number of active cases increased to 3,442 on Tuesday. With this the city’s tally touched 69,848. Total 65,436 patients (94% of the caseload) have recovered in the city so far. The new cases on Tuesday were the highest in UP, accounting for 12% of the state’s tally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/active-covid-cases-go-up-5-more-die/articleshow/79398718.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Jaipur||Teen refused bike, kills self in Jaipur||JAIPUR: A 15-year-old boy, who went missing on Monday, was found hanging from a tree on Tuesday in Jaipur’s Jamvaramgarh. The teenager committed suicide apparently over not getting a two-wheeler from his parents. The deceased was identified as Vikram Kumar. “On Monday, the boy left his house around 9 am and when he did not return home for hours, the family started searching for him and finally when they could not find him anywhere, they lodged a missing person report at the police station,” said an official of Jamvaramgarh police station. While police found no suicide note, officials claimed that the boy committed suicide over a bike. The official said, “A few days ago, the deceased was riding someone else’s motorcycle and met with an accident due to which he suffered minor injuries. Following the accident, he asked his mother for a two-wheeler, but she refused as he was underage and did not know how to ride a bike properly. She was worried that he would again meet with an accident and hurt himself.” The boy left the house in anger and on Tuesday a local called up the teenager’s father informing him that the child was hanging from a tree in the forest area. The cops reached the spot and took down the body. “It appears to be a case of suicide and we have not found any evidence yet to indicate that there was any foul play involved in the death. The parents are also in a state of shock that Vikram took such an extreme step over such a minor issue. They are unable to give us any other reason behind the suicide as the boy was apparently not under stress of any kind.” The boy’s post-mortem was done on Tuesday and the body was handed over to the family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/teen-refused-bike-kills-self-in-city/articleshow/79398102.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Udaipur||Healthcare data at the click of mouse for Udaipur residents||UDAIPUR: In a bid to bring transparency in medical facilities available to common people in private and government hospitals and to get speedy accessibility of services in the times of pandemic, the district administration has launched a website. The initiative was the brainchild of Udaipur collector Chetan Ram Devra, who himself is self isolation after testing positive. This is the first website in the state having complete details of beds and other facilities available for ordinary Covid patients at private and civil hospitals. Collector Devra said anyone requiring information about hospitalisation facilities can get all information at the website. He said information regarding all 14 major hospitals in the district have been compiled including availability of beds, occupied, oxygen and ventilator-supported beds. The website also has details of the incharge and assistant incharge of the hospitals who could be approached for any medical aid. Devra said the website is updated thrice a day so that people can get the latest information. The location and map of each hospital too has been given on the website so that anyone can reach the facilities easily. The adminsitration is popularising the website by posting it on the social media platforms so that more and more people have access to it. The website has been made under the supervision of CEO zila parishad Dr Manju, assistant engineer Suresh Parmar while CMHO Dinesh Kharadi and senior medical officer Akshay Vyas provided the content.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/healthcare-data-at-the-click-of-mouse-for-udaipur-residents/articleshow/79398117.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Teams to check people coming from other states for Covid||NASHIK: The local administrations of Jalgaon and Nandurbar districts have put in place strict security arrangements to screen passengers, arriving by train or flight, from NCR region, especially Delhi and from Goa, Rajasthan and Gujarat. Both Bhusawal and Jalgaon stations in Jalgaon district are busy junctions with at least a dozen special trains from NCR region and the three aformentioned states stopping by at these stations. Jalgaon district collector Abhijit Raut said arrangements have been made at both stations to screen passengers. Raut had a meeting with authorities of Jalgaon airport on Tuesday as a private airline operates a flight between Jalgaon and Ahmedabad daily. A team from Jalgaon Municipal Corporation will assist the airport authorities in checking the RT-PCR test reports of passengers landing at the airport and conduct tests for those who do not have RT-PCR report. District collector of Nandurbar Rajendra Bharud has directed the district health department and railway authorities to deploy teams in Nandurbar station to screen passengers coming from Gujarat. “Since Nandurbar has road connectivity with Gujarat, Bharud has also instructed the police and RTO to set up naka bandi at the border areas of the district. The medical teams will screen passengers travelling by road,” said Nandurbar district officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/teams-to-check-people-coming-from-other-states-for-covid/articleshow/79394490.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
November 25, 2020||Nashik||Covid-19: Health teams formed to check road, air and rail passengers in Nashik||NASHIK: The Nashik district administration has appointed nine nodal officers to carry out the state government’s directives on screening of passengers coming to Nashik district from Delhi-NCR, Goa, Gujarat and Rajasthan. District collector Suraj Mandhare said each of these nodal officers will coordinate with the Nashik airport authorities and railway officials at Igatpuri, Nashik Road and other railway stations in the district. The district health department has been instructed to give RT-PCR kits at the designated points to conduct Covid-19 tests of the arriving passengers. Moreover, they have also been asked to make sure that the screening of train passengers at different railway stations are carried out in a smooth way. All these nodal officers have to report to the district control room every day and give updates on different aspects of the task. The state government, on Monday, issued a notification making it mandatory for those seeking to enter Maharashtra from Delhi-NCR, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Goa to carry RT-PCR negative reports. Those who are flying in should have the RT-PCR sample collection done within 72 hours of the scheduled time of landing at airports in Maharashtra. In the case of train journeys, the collection of RT-PCR samples should have been done within 96 hours before the scheduled arrival in Maharashtra. There will be mandatory screening at border checkposts for people coming by road. In Nashik, there are eight roads connecting the district to neighbouring Gujarat. The police would be conducting nakabandis to make sure that only travellers without symptoms are allowed entry. Those with Covid-like symptoms will have the option of returning to their homes to recuperate. Similarly, the Nashik Municipal Corporation team will screen passengers reaching the Nashik Road railway station by special trains from Delhi. The civic body has made provisions to conduct the antigen tests of the passengers with Covid-like symptoms. Railway officials said there is only one special Covid train coming in from Delhi daily at the Nashik Road railway station, while another daily train comes in from Goa. Moreover, there are three special trains coming from Goa thrice a week — on Sundays, Tuesdays and Thursdays. NMC officials said they are taking all the measures as per Maharashtra government guidelines and will be deploying health teams for the screening of patients. “Our antigen kits have already been used up and we have ordered for 25,000 more antigen kits to the company concerned. We are expected to receive 10,000 antigen kits in a couple of days,” said an NMC official. Another official added, “For the time being, we have managed 5,000 antigen kits from the health department on a returning basis. Hence, we will use the antigen tests wherever required for the rapid tests.” Similar measures are also being taken in Aurangabad. D G Salve, the director of Aurangabad airport, said the local civic body has set up a special Covid testing facility for screening passengers arriving from Delhi. “Out of identified states, we have air-connectivity only with Delhi. The passengers concerned will be tested on a mandatory basis using the RT-PCR test kits if they haven’t opted for the same before, within the stipulated time span,” he said. Salve said all Covid prevention norms are in place at the Aurangabad airport, which saw increased passenger footfall of 15,509 by end of October, up from only 12 passengers back in May. — With inputs from Aurangabad||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/health-teams-formed-to-check-road-air-and-rail-passengers/articleshow/79394476.cms||Santosh Sonawane
November 25, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid makes MC jittery over starting night shelters||Ludhiana: Due to Covid-19, the municipal corporation officials are in a dilemma over starting of the night shelter facility for the shelterless during the winter. The officials claimed that these homeless people remain in unhygienic condition and it would be a challenge to keep them clean. Though they can arrange for sanitisers and check their fever, but still there are chances of spreading the virus from one person to other in case anybody is suffering from the same. Every year, during winter, the civic body officials make arrangements at these night shelters for the homeless. As per the officials, they took these people to night shelters forcefully because homeless people are not ready to move. But this year, it will become all the more difficult to shift them to the night shelters in the wake of Covid-19. Earlier, temporary night shelters were also made by the MC officials in tents, but officials claimed that these did not prove successful, so they will not have tents this time. The superintending engineer of bridges and road department of MC, Parveen Singla, said, “We talked about the night shelters to senior officials in Chandigarh and we have been advised to maintain social distancing in the night shelters. So, now we will make arrangements from Wednesday onwards or perhaps from December 1, these will become operational.” Meanwhile, zonal commissioner Neeraj Jain said they would manage social distancing at the night shelters and monitoring would be done for avoiding any issues. He said they could also take help from city bus staff to transport people to these places. The night shelters of the civic body have remained under scanner due to poor arrangements of quilts and mattresses and above all sanitation. Several complaints have been made as most of the time these are not maintained properly. Moreover, there are only four night shelters in the city located at far-off places, which most of the time becomes difficult to reach. Four night shelters There are four night shelters in four zones. The night shelters are located near Clock Tower, Vishwakarma Chowk, Moti Nagar and Hambran road. Out of these, Moti Nagar night shelter is the upgraded one as here there is a facility of folding beds, whereas at rest of the three night shelters floor bedding is possible. In Moti Nagar night shelter, the capacity is of 130 beds but 200 beds can be adjusted if required. However, the night shelters near Clock Tower and Hambran Road have the capacity of 50 people while the night shelter near Vishwakarma chowk has a capacity to adjust 30 people. These night shelters are equipped with CCTV cameras.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-makes-mc-jittery-over-starting-night-shelters/articleshow/79396729.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Aurangabad||2 arrested with over 130 gm hashish||Aurangabad: A special squad formed by Aurangabad commissioner of police Nikhil Gupta arrested two people from the limits of Cantonment police station on Tuesday evening and recovered over 130 grams of high quality hashish from them. The suspects have been identified as Babu Khan (52) of the Osmanpura area and Mohammed Rashid (54) of Khultabad. Police said that the latter is an auto-rickshaw driver by profession and preliminary probe has revealed that he would often accompany and assist the main suspect in transporting the banned substance. Police have also seized a moped used for transporting the banned substance. Gupta said, “These are our small steps in cleaning the city of all the illicit businesses and activities. We assure the citizens that our action against illegal activities will be followed by stringent preventive, corrective as well as legal measures.” A case under relevant sections of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act has been registered against the suspects.This is the second major narcotics-related trap set up by the squad headed by assistant inspector Rahul Rode.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/2-arrested-with-over-130-gm-hashish/articleshow/79396686.cms||Mohammed Akhef
November 25, 2020||Jaipur||Govt asks pvt hosps to submit treatment bills||Jodhpur: Private hospitals here have been asked to submit details pertaining to treatment of the patients and charges levied by them. The details have to be submitted to the divisional commissioner in a stipulated format by Wednesday.These directions have been given during two days visit of four private hospitals by the divisional commissioner Samit Sharma and a team of State Human Rights Commission with an objective of overseeing the arrangements for treatment of Covid-19 patients and see whether the patients are being charged in adherence of government guidelines.Sharma said that the private hospitals have been asked to adhere to Covid guidelines and not to overcharge the patients in their hospitals for treatment.“We have also asked them to provide us details of all the bills pertaining to Covid patients discharged so far,” he said adding that strict action would be taken against the hospital(s), if found charging exorbitantly.Besides, they have also been asked to submit in a format, details about the staff engaged in care for Covid patients, their qualification, details of bills where the charges exceeded Rs 1 lakh and overcharged bills by Wednesday.Giving the private hospitals direction to reserve 30% beds of total strength for covid patients, they have been asked to submit details about ICU beds and cctv cameras, oxygen cylinders, ventilators, RTPCR test facilities and treatment protocols being practiced by them.Meanwhile, the team visited Medipulse Hospital, Manidhari Hospital and Goyal Hospital on Monday and Vasundhara Hospital on Tuesday and reviewed the arrangements for Covid treatment. The team comprising Registrar of the commission Omi Purohit also inquired about the fee and other charges levied by the hospitals on Covid patients and treatment given to them during the admission of the patients.On the other hand, administration has appointed one administrative and one medical officer each for all the five private hospitals for the monitoring of their operations. These officials will also be available over phone to the patients in these private hospitals in case of any inconvenience or difficulty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-asks-pvt-hosps-to-submit-treatment-bills/articleshow/79398097.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||New 156 beds at hospitals, 378 at centres||Ahmedabad: In order to lighten the load on current Covid hospitals and increase bed capacity in city, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has approved 378 beds in three hotels and a Covid Care Centre for non-critical Covid patients. These will be paid facilities managed by hospitals and trusts. The decision to approve these hotels and the care centre was taken at a meeting chaired by Rajiv Kumar Gupta, ACS forest and environment on Tuesday. Gupta is in-charge of Covid management in the city. The meeting was also attended by municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar and the civic body’s deputy municipal commissioner. It was also decided to increase rapid antigen testing in the city and conduct hose to house survey. Gupta said cases were on the rise and the decision was taken to make more beds available for isolation and hospital treatment. Covid care centres will primarily be for those patients who cannot manage isolation at home, but also do not need hospitalization for treatment, Gupta said. Also, elderly patients who need continuous monitoring can be attended better at these Covid care facilities than at home. On top of the above, the AMC has also designated six more hospitals in the city as Covid hospitals. These six hospitals will add a total capacity of admitting 119 Covid patients. These include Adwait Hospital in Bopal Shreeji Hospital in Satellite, Sardar Hospital and Ashiti Hospital in Nikol, Jyoti Hsopital in Vastral and Arna Hospital in Bapunagar. There will be no AMC quota in these hospitals. Apart from these, 37 beds for Covid patients have been added in Health Hospital,Vastral, Sindhu Hospital Kubernagar and Rabadia hospital Nikol. Gupta said the addition of the Covid care centres will take the load off Covid hospitals and help shift non-critical patients, thus freeing up oxygen facilities and ventilators for those who need urgent attention.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/new-156-beds-at-hospitals-378-at-centres/articleshow/79396764.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Another tiger scare in Asifabad||Hyderabad: Within a month after a 22-year-old tribal youth was killed by a tiger near Deegada village of Dahegaon mandal in Kumrambheem-Asifabad , a tiger lurking in Loha village which is about 3 kilometers from the area where the first incident took place, killed one cow and attacked another cattle on Sunday. The incident came to light when the cattle herder who was at the location managed to save himself by climbing a tree during the attack. He called villagers from his mobile phone and informed them about the incident. While the cow that was killed belongs to Madavi Rangu Bai, the one which was injured belongs to Enuka Srinivas, both residents of Loha village. Forest officials who set up camera traps to monitor the movement of the big cat confirmed that this is not the same tiger which killed the 22-year-old recently. “Officials went to the spot and checked the pug marks which gave a clear indication that it is a Telangana series tiger and not the same one which killed the local youth recently. We are suspecting that it could either be K8 or A2, both from Telangana,” said Asifabad district forest officer S Shantharam. “Wild animals only attack cattle as they are easy prey. We have been conducting awareness programmes with villagers,” said B Purnima, forest range officer, Asifabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/another-tiger-scare-in-asifabad/articleshow/79396768.cms||Moulika.KV
November 25, 2020||Madurai||Selection to public posts must be done by following rules: HC||MADURAI: Equal opportunity in public employment is a constitutional mandate and all the citizens who are eligible for public employment should be provided an opportunity to participate in the open competitive process and all the selection to public posts must be done in accordance with the rules in force, the Madras high court has said. The court said this while disposing of a batch of petitions seeking to select and appoint the petitioners to the post of sub-staff of Indian Bank. Refusing to grant relief to the petitioners, the court directed the banking authorities to frame recruitment rules, if not already framed, prescribing qualification for the post and notify the same in the gazette. Justice R Mahadevan observed that indisputably, recruitment rules will be required to any post, which is being filled up or any service which is being created. The judge said that the bank has clearly stated that in the matter of recruitment of staff in the bank, due process is followed, which includes notifying the vacancies and calling for applications from the eligible candidates through a public advertisement. The applications received will be considered subject to fulfilling the eligibility criteria and upon clearing the selection process, as per the rules and regulations of the bank. The judge observed that the court is of the opinion that the petitioners cannot claim as a matter of right to be recruited to the said post of sub-staff, in the absence of any recruitment rules in the Indian Bank. “Needless to state that the formation of recruitment rules does not prevent the petitioners to compete in the selection process, if they satisfy the norms as prescribed in the recruitment rules,” said the judge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/selection-to-public-posts-must-be-done-by-following-rules-hc/articleshow/79398132.cms||Kaushik Kannan
November 25, 2020||Aurangabad||Interstate gang of car thieves nabbed, 4 including 3 of a family arrested||AURANGABAD: Aurangabad rural police on Tuesday busted an interstate gang of thieves involved in stealing cars from different parts of the state and selling them off in northern states. The suspects have been identified as Shaikh Dawood (55), his sons Nadeem (22) and Zeeshan (28), all residents of Buldhana district. Police also arrested their accomplices Sakharam More (31) and Deepak More, both hailing from Nirkheda of neighbouring Jalna district. Police also recovered three cars and a stolen bike from the suspects. LCB inspector Bhagwat Phunde said, “The probe has revealed that the suspects have mastered the art of breaking open the locks of Swift Dzire cars and would steal only cars of this make.” According to police, two Swift Dzire cars were stolen in the wee hours of November 21 from two different locations in Kannad taluka. Aurangabad rural superintendent of police Mokshada Patil ordered for a complete scanning of technical as well as visual surveillance gadgets. During investigation, police got clue about the suspects, following which Dawood was rounded up from Rohidasnagar of Chikhli in Buldhana district. On reaching the spot, crime branch team found the recently stolen cars bearing dummy number plates which were hidden at a deserted place. Police said that the suspects confessed that in the past few months they have stolen two cars of similar make from Sillod and one each from Pachod in Aurangabad and Selu of Parbhani district. Crime branch PSI Sandeep Solunke said, “The suspects have confessed to carrying out similar thefts in Jalna, Parbhani, Jalgaon and Ahmednagar districts.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/interstate-gang-of-car-thieves-nabbed-4-including-3-of-a-family-arrested/articleshow/79396761.cms||Mohammed Akhef
November 25, 2020||Ludhiana||Illegal buildings: Govt all set to bring one-time settlement policy||Ludhiana: The state government is all set to bring one-time settlement policy for the regularization of illegal buildings and for this officials of the building branch have been told to give suggestions or objections related with the policy. The last time when one-time settlement policy was notified, not many people had come forward to get their buildings regularized and the policy proved a failure. In order to make the policy successful this time the local officials have been asked to give suggestions. The officials, however, are of the opinion that fee charges for regularization of the buildings should be reduced. Sources revealed that as per directions of the local bodies department the officials of all four zones discussed the suggestions on Tuesday, so that they could send the proposal to the government. As per the officials, in every zone on an average there are over 25,000 illegal buildings and that means around 1 lakh illegal structures in the city. Last time, when this policy was notified only 100 people had applied for the regularization of their buildings. Last time, Rs 1,000 per square feet rate was fixed for the regularization. But due to higher rates of fee those concerned could not utilise the policy. The one-time settlement policy was notified with an aim to generate revenue and improve the financial condition of the state but poor response of applicants did away with all planning. Now, when the election year is also round the corner, there are chances of announcement of yet another policy to woo the voters. There are chances of reduction in at least 40% of rates in the upcoming policy The one-time settlement policy was earlier notified in March 2019. That scheme was only for regularization of structures constructed on or before June 30, 2018. For residential buildings, the composition fee will be Rs 300 per square feet of the total non-compoundable area on all floors. For commercial buildings, the composition fee will be Rs 1,000 per square feet of total non-compoundable area on all floors. The MC will have to open a separate account where they will deposit the money collected under this scheme and that fund will be spent on creating/upgrading parking and infrastructure only. Residents were given three months to apply. People were supposed to make necessary fire safety, structural safety and parking arrangements in two months from the date of submission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/illegal-buildings-govt-all-set-to-bring-one-time-settlement-policy/articleshow/79396765.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Jaipur||State forms a three-tier system for Covid vaccination programme||Jaipur: Amid the spurt in Covid cases, state government has given a ray of hope by kicking off preparations for the vaccine campaign. While it is planning to administer Covid vaccine first to healthcare workers, the state government has formed a three-tier system for the vaccination campaign. The health department is still continuing to collect figures of government and private hosptials providing treatment.Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday issued orders of constituting a three-tier system for the vaccine campaign, which includes state steering committee, state task force and district task force for effective policy making, implementation, monitoring of vaccination.State steering committee will be headed by chief secretary, state task force by secretary health, and district task force by district collector. The three-tier system will ensure proper transportation, availability, ensuring availability of resources and implementation of vaccination programme at ground level.However, the health department is preparing a separate list of healthcare staff deployed at Covid-19 hospitals. “Since doctors and healthcare staff remain in direct contact with Covid patients, they are at higher risk of getting infected. The government is planning for administering vaccine first to such healthcare staff,” said Dr Laxman Singh Ola, director, family welfare.The health department is collecting details of healthcare staff not only in private hosptials but also from government hospitals. “Covid-19 vaccines trial is in the final stages. We have directed private hospitals to send data of their staff on priority basis who are deployed in Covid care. The state government is planning to vaccinate healthcare staff deployed for Covid care on priority basis,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer, Jaipur.The state government is also taking stock of the available resources in the health department for Covid vaccination, its storage and transportation.Government to open nursing and GNM colleges, schools: The home deparment on Tuesday issued an order that the state government has decided to open nursing and GNM colleges and schools for final year students from December 1. Separate guidelines will be issued by medical and health department on it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-forms-a-three-tier-system-for-covid-vaccination-programme/articleshow/79398133.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Nashik||Amnesty scheme fails to get defaulters to clear tax dues||Nashik: The amnesty scheme floated by the civic administration for property tax defaulters from November 1 has failed to get the desired response. So far, the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC), whose property tax collection has been hit following the Covid-19 outbreak in March, has managed to collect only Rs 4 crore. The property tax collection has declined by 35% to Rs 67.22 crore between April 1 and November 23 of the current financial year against Rs 102 crore revenue collected during the corresponding period last fiscal. Civic officials said around 5,000 tax defaulters availed the amnesty scheme and got a rebate of Rs 48.82 lakh. Tax defaulters availing the amnesty scheme, which will remain in effect till February 2021, get rebate in penalty, warrant and notice fees if they clear all their tax dues in one instalment. The NMC recovers 2% fine per month on tax dues from the last day of paying taxes. Moreover, it also recovers expenses of notices and warrants issued to the tax defaulters. As per the amnesty scheme, defaulters will get 75% rebate if they clear their tax dues by January 15, 50% if they pay between January 16 and February 15 and 25% rebate if they pay between February 16 and 28.The NMC has already started sending notices to the tax defaulters asking them to avail the amnesty scheme and clear their dues. The civic administration has warned of taking strict action, including confiscation of properties, in March next year if the defaulters fail to clear their tax dues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/amnesty-scheme-fails-to-get-defaulters-to-clear-tax-dues/articleshow/79394498.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 25, 2020||Jaipur||Waste mgmt project in 8,653 villages||Jaipur: Additional chief secretary (rural development and panchayati raj department) Rohit Kumar Singh has informed that solid and liquid waste management will be taken up in 8,653 villages of the state at a cost of Rs 2,256 crore. Under the project, bio-degradable waste will be converted into organic manure which will not only ensure cleanliness, but also help organic farming. Singh was addressing the state level planning approval committee of Swachh Bharat Mission (Gramin) on Tuesday. He instructed officers that participation of village organisations and self-help groups should be ensured in the clean village campaign in the state. Besides, standards of sanitary pad incinerators should be set for menstrual hygiene management for women.Singh directed that no village should remain without toilets and the names of those eligible for toilets should not be removed from the list. He instructed the officers to build an app for the convenience of the common people and maintaining transparency. With this app, the beneficiary will get the information of sanction of the toilet directly on his mobile and on completion of the construction of the toilet, the payment process will be reported directly to the beneficiary. Singh informed that construction of 10,179 community toilets has been completed in the state. To make them functional and to maintain them properly, he instructed the officers to constantly monitor their maintenance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/waste-mgmt-project-in-8653-villages/articleshow/79398129.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Goa||Covid-19: Goa sees highest cases in 2 weeks, CM says situation under control||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Tuesday said the Covid-19 situation in Goa is “under control”, and that there's no need to bring in stringent standard operating procedures as Maharashtra has done. Goa registered 167 new Covid cases on Tuesday, the highest in two weeks. Sawant, however, said that state authorities have been asked to carry out thermal screening at entry points — a mechanism that may only catch some symptomatic cases. Commenting on Maharashtra’s new SOP, that mandates a negative RT-PCR test for those travelling from Goa and three other states, he said, “Maharashtra’s SOP will not work as it states that symptomatic persons should go in for an antigen test. However, those who are symptomatic must do the RT-PCR test, as only then it is possible to segregate them”. In fact, the guidelines issued by the Maharashtra government state that those arriving in the state must have an RT-PCR negative certificate for air and train travellers, as reported by TOI on Tuesday. Only in the case of road travellers, passengers with symptoms will be segregated and made to undergo an antigen test, and if negative, will be allowed to proceed. On Monday Sawant had said the state would hike the no-mask fine from Rs 100 to Rs 200. In April, Sawant had declared Goa a green zone, but soon thereafter, Covid cases started rising in Goa over the next few months, resulting in hundreds of deaths. When asked on Tuesday if Goa is prepared for a second wave, he said the government is "creating awareness" to control the spread of the virus. The CM said that till the vaccine comes along, people shouldn't relax safety measures. “We have to take precautions and I appeal to the people of the state to wear masks, maintain social distancing and use hand sanitisers,” he said. ””“Any person with symptoms should go for a Covid test.” Sawant also said that cases are rising in Maharashtra, Delhi, Kerala and West Bengal, and that Modi discussed precautions to be taken to control the spread of Covid-19. “On Monday, we had zero mortality in Goa, and the state government wants to continue this trend,” Sawant said, urging people to refrain from going to hospital in the last stage (when it's too late).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-sees-highest-cases-in-2-wks-cm-says-situation-under-control/articleshow/79398142.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Ludhiana||Low passenger turnout mark 1st day of trains resumption||Ludhiana: A lot of action was witnessed at the Ludhiana railway station on the first day of resumption of passenger trains after almost a gap of two months. Till the filing of this news 9 passenger trains halted here on Tuesday but the turnout of the passengers was not that huge on the first day. However, not willing to take any chances amid the spike in the cases of coronavirus, the authorities allowed the entry to the platforms only after thermal scanning of the passengers. Meanwhile, in a boost for the garment industry the transportation of cartons of goods which were stuck at the railway station ever since the train movement had halted, too started from Tuesday via the parcel wagons attached with the passenger trains. The food stalls and other cart operators whose business had remained shut due to the farmer agitation too started returning to the railway station and they remained busy in the cleaning operations of their carts. Giving more information about developments, Tarun Kumar, station director, Ludhiana, said “Nine passenger trains halted on Tuesday at the Ludhiana railway station and everything went on smoothly for us. Being the first day of resumption of passenger trains on this route, the passenger turnout was not huge but it will increase in coming days. We are already taking all safety measures needed in the wake of coronavirus like thermal screening and ensuring that all our employee and staff follow proper protocols in day-to-day working. All operations on Tuesday were carried out successfully by our staff who have been on their toes ever since the information for resumption of trains was received by us.” Speaking to TOI, Dinesh Kalra, president of Ludhiana Business Forums, said, “The resumption of trains will benefit the garment industry most as not only we will be able to meet the growing demand of winter garments from our customers in other states as railways is the fastest, cheapest and safest mode of transport of goods. Secondly, it will also help businessmen to restart the business tour to collect payment from our customers located in other states. But we are worried over what will happen after December 10 as the farmer unions have warned to return to tracks and railway stations for stopping the trains once again.” According to Munna Tiwari, a vendor at the railway station, “We are feeling very relieved as finally after two months of sitting free, we have returned to the railway station to start our business. On Tuesday, we remained busy in cleaning of the cart and getting all stuff required for restarting our work. From Wednesday, we will start operating and we are hoping to do good sales as we are expecting that a huge number of passengers will travel on trains.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/low-passenger-turnout-mark-1st-day-of-trains-resumption/articleshow/79396816.cms||Mohit Behl
November 25, 2020||Nashik||Successful double cord stem cell transplant from unrelated donors||Nashik: In a rare stem cell transplant procedure, a seven-year-old girl was treated for a serious blood disorder at a Nashik hospital.Pritesh Junagade, the director and bone marrow transplant physician at the Lotus Hospital in Nashik, said the girl had aplastic anaemia — a condition where one’s own red blood cells, white blood cells and platelets are not produced as the basic stem cells from which the blood cells are formed are defected.The girl required repeated blood and platelet transfusion support over the past 2 years. The only curative treatment for the disease is to get someone else’s healthy stem cells that can produce the blood cells. Normally, siblings can donate the stem cells, but there is only a 25% chance that there will be a match.The patient had a younger sister. Considering that the stem cells of the newborn can be used for the treatment of her sister, the former’s stem cells (taken from the cord) were stored at the time of birth in the hope that there will be a 100% match. Unfortunately, the stem cells were only 50% match and, therefore, could not be used for the transplant procedure.Junagade said, “There are cord stem cell banks, like the blood banks. At the cord stem cell banks, stem cells collected at the time of birth from the cord, which connects the mother to the baby, are stored on payment of a fee. Till 2017, one such bank, LifeCell bank at Chennai, used to allow the stem cells to be used for family members only. But due to prevailing practices all over the world, they allowed the use of the stored stem cells to be used for other needy patients also.”The doctor said his patient luckily had two such stored cord stem cells from other babies, who had stored their cord stem cells in the same bank. Normally, one such unit is used, but the doctor found the need for two as the quantity of stem cells from one unit was not sufficient. The cord stem cell units were only 90% match with one another and also with the patient, but Junagade decided to take a risk and go ahead with a “double cord stem cell” transplant. Twenty-two days after the actual procedure, the infused stem cells started working and all three types of blood cells are now in normal numbers.“Use of double cord stem cells is rare and with this success, more centres should use the procedure for the benefit of many such patients, ” said Junagade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/successful-double-cord-stem-cell-transplant-from-unrelated-donors/articleshow/79394509.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Jungle cub found in sugarcane field||HYDERABAD: Villagers find a jungle cub in a sugarcane field near Medak district’s Sultanpur village on Monday morning. A farmer, who first came across the cub informed the forest officials who rushed to the spot and waited till evening to see if the mother cat will come back for the cub. However, when there were no signs of the mother, they shifted it to Nehru Zoological Park.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jungle-cub-found-in-sugarcane-field/articleshow/79396771.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Goa||Have adequate storage facilities in Goa: GMC dean||PANAJI: Goa shouldn’t have difficulty in storing the Covid-19 vaccine safely as “adequate facilities” are available in the state, dean of Goa Medical College (GMC) and incharge of the state’s Covid hospitals, Dr S M Bandekar said on Tuesday. “If required, added infrastructure will be set-up. Plus, the government will offer industrial refrigeration solutions,” Bandekar said. ‘Goa has always met vaccination targets in past’ He was talking about the state's preparedness in handling the Covid-19 vaccination programme. Vaccination will be done as per the protocol set by the central government while logistics will be raised by the state government, he said. On Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had a meeting via video conferencing with all chief ministers to assess the status of Covid -19 in India and Covid-19 vaccine delivery, distribution and administration. Chief minister Pramod Sawant, speaking to reporters after the meeting, said that the Covid-19 vaccine would be available after January, and that Modi has laid emphasis on making it available as soon as possible. “Preparation for the distribution of the vaccine has started,” he said. “The PM has guided us.” Sawant said that Modi has asked states to put in place systems for proper distribution. “Even if we don't know when the vaccine will be made available to the public or whether the vaccine will be made in India or abroad, the PM has asked states to submit in writing their preparedness for distribution,” he said. A senior health official said that Goa’s health services should be able to conduct the vaccination programme whenever it is rolled out. The state has a robust network of primary health centers, rural medical dispensaries and community health centres coupled with well-trained health workers. “We have always been on target in completing vaccination programmes in the past. We have the best public health care facilities. We have manpower to execute the programme within the deadline. At the most, staff may need little added training for the new vaccine,” he said. The video conference was attended by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Union home minister Amit Shah, and all chief ministers. “We have to maintain a cold chain system in the state, and the public will have to take two doses of the vaccine with a four-week gap between doses," Sawant said. “Priority will be given to health workers, Covid warriors, senior citizens who have completed 65 years, and those having comorbid conditions. Only then will the rest of the public get the vaccine. It was also discussed at the meeting with the Prime Minister whether the vaccine would be made available free of cost,” the chief minister said. On November 23, TOI had reported on its frontpage that India is likely to get the first lot of anti-Covid shots in late January-early February, which will allow some frontline workers to get it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/have-adequate-storage-facilities-for-vaccine-gmc-dean/articleshow/79398171.cms||Bindiya Chari
November 25, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Horse injured after tree is uprooted||MANGALURU: The uprooting of a huge tree at a Smart City road worksite injured a horse of the Mangaluru Horse Riding Academy at Kadri. Environmentalist Dinesh Holla told TOI that the authorities of the Mangaluru Smart City Limited (MSCL) have been cutting down trees to widen the Kadri Park Road. “They have cut trees in the name of the Smart City project, because of which a horse has been injured. It is not a Smart City development, but a disaster. They have cut down trees without giving prior intimation and taking permission. They have been destroying the greenery in the name of development, and this is condemnable” Holla claimed. Avinand Achanahally, who runs the academy, said he was shocked over the incident. “I’m out of the city today. One of our horses has been injured. I’m returning to the city to assess the damage,” he said. When contacted, MSCL managing director Akshy Sridhar said the incident happened due to a tree being uprooted. “We have not cut down the tree. I have asked my engineers to visit the place and do the needful,” he added. Mayor Diwakar said the tree got uprooted due to the digging of the ground for the widening of a road under the Smart City project. “I have visited the place. They have not cut down the tree, but it fell on the compound wall of the horse academy, damaging its sheets on the roof, and injuring a horse,” he said. Range forest officer P Sridhar said he will look into the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/horse-injured-after-tree-is-uprooted/articleshow/79394505.cms||Vinobha K T
November 25, 2020||Kochi||Court approves customs plea to arrest Sivasankar||Kochi: The commissionerate of customs (preventive) has received permission from the special court for Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) cases, here, to record the arrest of M Sivasankar, the former principal secretary to the chief minister, who is presently in judicial custody. Customs had sought his arrest in the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case. “Customs, during the course of investigation, has now been able to get direct incriminating material against Sivasankar of his involvement and being concerned in smuggling of gold illegally which is an offence under the Customs Act, 1962. It has therefore become necessary to subject him to custodial interrogation after arresting him,” the agency said in a report presented to the court. Judge Kauser Edappagath granted permission via an order passed on Monday. The court had earlier granted customs permission to question Sivasankar while in judicial custody. It had sought the court’s permission to question Sivasankar after ED submitted in court that the IAS officer was fully aware of the smuggling activity. In compliance with the order, the investigating officer had interrogated Sivasankar and a statement under section 108 of Customs Act, 1962 was recorded on November 16 at Ernakulam district jail. The officer also interrogated Swapna Suresh on November 18 at the Attakkulangara women’s jail after obtaining permission from ACJM (EO) court, Ernakulam. The decision to arrest Sivasankar was taken after recordings these statements. Meanwhile, customs has sought custody of Swapna and Sarith P S in another case registered for illegally exporting currency. Customs informed the court that the arrest of Sarith and Swapna were recorded on November 18 and 19, respectively. The request filed on Monday, sought remand of the accused for 14 days and custody for seven days. This case pertains to Khaled Mohamed Ali Shoukry, the former finance head of the UAE consulate taking out $1,90,000 (approximately equivalent to Rs 1.3 crore) to Cairo via Oman from Trivandrum International Airport. It was also stated that the currency was concealed in his hand bag. Meanwhile, a Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities (Cofeposa) Act board met on Monday to hear the petition of Suresh against her detention under the act. The board would pass an order in the petition on a later date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/court-approves-customs-plea-to-arrest-sivasankar/articleshow/79376134.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 25, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||State advances Constitution Day observance due to strike||Thiruvananthapuram: State government has decided to prepone the observance of Constitution Day, which falls on Thursday (November 26), to Wednesday in support of the nation-wide strike called by trade unions against policies of the Centre, including privatization of PSUs and new labour and farm laws. “All district collectors, heads of departments, state legal services authority, district legal services authority, chief executives of public undertakings, autonomous bodies and local self-government institutions are directed to arrange programmes on Wednesday, on account of nation-wide general strike called by some organizations,” said the circular issued to all the government bodies by principal secretary (general administration) K R Jyothilal on Tuesday. The Centre had notified November 26 as Constitution Day in the country, which is also called National Law Day, to commemorate the adoption of the Constitution. It was on November 26, 1949, that the Constituent Assembly of the country had adopted the Constitution. The Union cabinet secretary had instructed all the states to conduct programmes to celebrate the day in all the government offices across the states. It has been asked to read out the Preamble of the Constitution at 11am in all the offices, and to pay tributes to Babasaheb Ambedkar and other founding fathers of the Constitution on that day. According to the letter by cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba on November 17, Prime Minister Narendra Modi would read the Preamble of the Constitution at 11am on November 26 at the All-India Presiding Officers’ Conference at Kevadia, Gujarat. However, the state has now chosen conduct the celebrations on Wednesday, which is in apparent support to the strike called by the trade unions. “November 26 was chosen to spread awareness on the importance of the Constitution and to spread thoughts and ideas of B R Ambedkar. Even though in the state, the general trend seen is lesser attendance in the government offices during striking days, the state government’s circular amounts to promoting trade unionism at the expense of a day of national importance. It would be interesting to know if the government would dare to shift Gandhi Jayanti or Mannam Jayanti celebrations to another date to suit their political convenience,” said a senior IAS official on conditions of anonymity. The state has also forwarded a copy of its decision to prepone the celebrations by a day to the ministry of social justice and empowerment, which is the nodal ministry that is organizing the celebrations across the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/state-advances-constitution-day-observance-due-to-strike/articleshow/79395494.cms||KP Saikiran
November 25, 2020||Madurai||Rajiv case convict moves HC seeking release||MADURAI: The Madras high court on Tuesday sought a response from the state government on a plea moved by Ravichandran, convicted in the former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, seeking to immediately implement the state government’s decision to release the convicts. The petitioner, who is presently lodged at the Madurai Central Prison, stated that he had completed 29 years of actual imprisonment and 37 years of imprisonment including remission. While several prisoners who have completed seven, 10 and 20 years of actual imprisonment have been granted premature release, he is not granted the same because of the politics involved in this case. Though the Tamil Nadu cabinet had taken a decision to release the seven convicts, the same is pending before the governor for a long time. The issue cannot be kept without consideration for a long time when a citizen’s life and liberty are at stake, Ravichandran said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/rajiv-case-convict-moves-hc-seeking-release/articleshow/79398170.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Civil set to be biggest Covid care hospital||Ahmedabad: At the start of the Covid-19 pandemic, Civil Hospital, one of the biggest tertiary care centres in Asia, had 176 ventilators. With the spike in cases around July-August, the number went up to 235. With the second wave of Covid-19 infection, the state government decided to add another 120 ventilators, taking the total to 355. Dr J P Modi, medical superintendent of the hospital, said that the decision was taken by a committee led by deputy CM Nitin Patel in early November. “We have already made 60 of the beds operational from Tuesday. The other set of installations is expected to be over by November 27. With the upgrade, the 1200-bed hospital would be the single-largest critical care hospital for Covid-19 in India, with its 30% of the capacity having ventilators,” he said. The hospital has so far attended to over 15,000 positive patients, said the hospital officials. The move has come at a time when the city is facing severe shortage of Covid-19 beds. A Twitter user on Tuesday mentioned that his family could not find a bed for his 90-year-old grandmother even after four hours of toil as every hospital was filled.Figures on AHNA website indicated that of 399 and 199 ICU and ventilator beds, respectively, only 11 each were vacant at 9.30am on Tuesday. Overall, 95% of 2,756 beds were occupied, mentioned the site.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/civil-set-to-be-biggest-covid-care-hospital/articleshow/79396822.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Amritsar||‘Dilli Chalo’: Haryana ramps up security on Punjab border||CHANDIGARH/AMBALA/ PATIALA: With farm unions from Punjab moving towards Delhi to protest against the three new agricultural laws, the Haryana government on Tuesday ramped up security on all borders with the neighbouring state to ensure law and order. In Ambala, district administration sealed the state’s border with Punjab at Shambhu on National Highway-44 and Sadopur on NH-152. In Kurukshetra district, the border at Teokar village in Pehowa area was sealed and a duty magistrate has been appointed for the task. Haryana chief secretary Vijai Vardhan said as more farmers from Punjab are expected to travel towards Delhi, special monitoring will be conducted on Shambhu Border. Apart from this, additional police forces will be deployed in Gharaunda and Mundhal where huge farmer gatherings are expected. He also directed to set up multi-layer barricading on highways leading to Haryana. The Haryana police also issued an advisory against all non-essential travel on routes approaching New Delhi via Haryana on Wednesday and Thursday and on routes passing through Haryana from New Delhi on Thursday, Friday and Saturday. The farmers plan to use four main highways – Ambala-Delhi, Hisar-Delhi, Palwal-Delhi and Rewari-Delhi – to march to Delhi. Four major national highways leading towards Delhi, ie Ambala to Delhi, Hisar to Delhi, Rewari to Delhi and Palwal to Delhi will have traffic diversions and road blocks. Specifically, at Shambhu Border in Ambala district, Mundhal Chowk in Bhiwani district, Anaj Mandi at Gharaunda in Karnal district, Tikri Border at Bahadurgarh in Jhajjar district and Rajiv Gandhi Education City, Rai, in Sonipat district. The police said besides these points, they may divert or block traffic at entry points from Punjab to Haryana in districts of Panchkula, Ambala, Kaithal, Jind, Fatehabad and Sirsa from November 25 to 27. Vardhan also directed officers to make arrangements for drinking water, medical assistance, electricity supply and tents. Police will establish control rooms to coordinate with district administrations. Deputy commissioners and superintendents of police have been directed to disseminate minute-by-minute information to the home secretary, director general of police and chief secretary’s office, he said. Police patrolling will be increased on five national highways in the state which connect to Delhi to maintain supply of essentials, he said. In the eventuality of protesters succeeding in blocking roads, traffic should be directed to alternative roads, he said. In Ambala, DC Ashok Kumar Sharma and superintendent of police (SP) Rajesh Kalia inspected the state borders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/haryana-to-seal-border-with-punjab-ahead-of-farmers-protest-in-delhi/articleshow/79400680.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Dilli Chalo’: Haryana ramps up security on Punjab border||CHANDIGARH/AMBALA/ PATIALA: With farm unions from Punjab moving towards Delhi to protest against the three new agricultural laws, the Haryana government on Tuesday ramped up security on all borders with the neighbouring state to ensure law and order. In Ambala, district administration sealed the state’s border with Punjab at Shambhu on National Highway-44 and Sadopur on NH-152. In Kurukshetra district, the border at Teokar village in Pehowa area was sealed and a duty magistrate has been appointed for the task. Haryana chief secretary Vijai Vardhan said as more farmers from Punjab are expected to travel towards Delhi, special monitoring will be conducted on Shambhu Border. Apart from this, additional police forces will be deployed in Gharaunda and Mundhal where huge farmer gatherings are expected. He also directed to set up multi-layer barricading on highways leading to Haryana. The Haryana police also issued an advisory against all non-essential travel on routes approaching New Delhi via Haryana on Wednesday and Thursday and on routes passing through Haryana from New Delhi on Thursday, Friday and Saturday. The farmers plan to use four main highways – Ambala-Delhi, Hisar-Delhi, Palwal-Delhi and Rewari-Delhi – to march to Delhi. Four major national highways leading towards Delhi, ie Ambala to Delhi, Hisar to Delhi, Rewari to Delhi and Palwal to Delhi will have traffic diversions and road blocks. Specifically, at Shambhu Border in Ambala district, Mundhal Chowk in Bhiwani district, Anaj Mandi at Gharaunda in Karnal district, Tikri Border at Bahadurgarh in Jhajjar district and Rajiv Gandhi Education City, Rai, in Sonipat district. The police said besides these points, they may divert or block traffic at entry points from Punjab to Haryana in districts of Panchkula, Ambala, Kaithal, Jind, Fatehabad and Sirsa from November 25 to 27. Vardhan also directed officers to make arrangements for drinking water, medical assistance, electricity supply and tents. Police will establish control rooms to coordinate with district administrations. Deputy commissioners and superintendents of police have been directed to disseminate minute-by-minute information to the home secretary, director general of police and chief secretary’s office, he said. Police patrolling will be increased on five national highways in the state which connect to Delhi to maintain supply of essentials, he said. In the eventuality of protesters succeeding in blocking roads, traffic should be directed to alternative roads, he said. In Ambala, DC Ashok Kumar Sharma and superintendent of police (SP) Rajesh Kalia inspected the state borders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-to-seal-border-with-punjab-ahead-of-farmers-protest-in-delhi/articleshow/79398201.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara crosses 50,000 cases, slight increase of active cases in Sangli district||KOLHAPUR: Kolhapur district on Tuesday registered 18 new Covid-19 cases along with two deaths. With this, the total number of cases in the district has reached 48,950, of which, 1,673 have succumbed to the contagion. As many as 46,752 people have been discharged from various facilities in the district, including 46 patients recovered on Tuesday. The number of active cases in the district has dropped to 525. Meanwhile, 2,623 swabs were tested on Tuesday, the highest ever in recent months. Most swabs were of teachers as well as non-teaching staff of schools planning to reopen. Of the 2,623 swabs sent for testing, only eight tested positive and none of them belonged to the teaching staff. Satara district identifies 224 cases 4 deathsSatara district continues to report highest number of coronavirus cases. On Tuesday, the district reported 224 new cases along with four deaths. With this, the tally of confirmed cases in the district swelled to 50,103. Of these, 1,687 have succumbed to infection. The total number of active patients in the district stand at 1,294. Sangli reports 49 cases, 1 deathSangli district reported 49 cases along with one Covid-related death on Tuesday. The number of active Covid cases in the district stand at 403. As many as 26 patients were discharged from various facilities in the district on Tuesday, taking the total number of recovered people to 44,470. Solapur city adds 30 patients, 2 casualtiesSolapur city reported 30 fresh Covid-19 cases and two deaths on Tuesday while the rural areas of the district reported 154 cases and four deaths. The active cases stand at 510 in the city and 1,558 in Solapur rural.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-crosses-50k-cases-slight-increase-of-active-cases-in-sangli-district/articleshow/79396773.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Kolhapur||New building rules to help Kolhapur attain greater heights||KOLHAPUR: The new development control rules for civic bodies, which have been prepared by the state government and are to be notified soon, will help the Kolhapur city grow vertically. However, town planning experts are sceptical about the developers’ as well as the local bodies’ ability to provide basic amenities to the residents of such highrises. Currently, as per the 2016 rules, developers can construct buildings of up to 35m height (11-storied buildings). At present, there are only three such buildings in the city. The new rules will permit the construction of buildings of up to 70m height, or about 23 storeys. Developers have welcomed the new rule saying that such buildings at prime locations will be more cost-effective when compared to the buildings constructed earlier. The town planning experts, however, cautioned that such buildings will put a strain on the already-limited resources in the city. Shashikant Phadtare, a veteran town planning expert, said, “The current limitations of the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) will pose a challenge for the people living in such tall buildings. Water supply to highrises, mitigation of the fire-like disasters and drainage capacities will be challenging for the developers as well as the civic body. For instance, after the floor space index (FSI) was increased in places like Rajarampuri, the living conditions of the people there became difficult. The roads are jam-packed with vehicles parked by residents. Such issues must be resolved before allowing the highrises to come up.” The developers, on the other hand, have welcomed the new rules. Vidyanand Bedekar, the president of Credai in Kolhapur, said, “The new rules will help developers take up more affordable housing projects. Currently, demand is the issue. Affordable houses will boost developments. Also, the new rules are clutter-free, therefore, many projects will get immediate clearances.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/new-building-rules-to-help-kolhapur-attain-greater-heights/articleshow/79396781.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Goa||Goa: Cess notices to 19 coal handling firms||PANAJI: The state government has issued a demand notice to 19 firms at the Mormugao Port Trust (MPT) to pay the Rs 208 crore due under the Goa rural improvement and welfare cess for coal transportation. The cess is due for the period 2014 to July 2018. The firms have been told to pay within 15 days. Minister for transport Mauvin Godinho said that “the government is determined to recover the dues”. A total of 4.3 lakh tonne of coal was imported during the period from 2014 to July 2018 for which the cess liability at the rate of Rs 50 per tonne comes to Rs 214 crore. Of this amount, only Rs 6 crore has been paid by the companies to the Goa government, the government statement said. The firms issued the demand notice, include JSW Steel, which has been asked to pay its Rs 156.3 crore cess dues, and JSW Energy, whose dues stand at Rs 12.6 crore. Sesa has to pay Rs 11.6 crore, BMM Espat Rs 10.4 crore, while Rs 7.1 crore is due from Adani Enterprises Ltd, and Rs 3 crore from Vedanta. The remaining firms have less than Rs 3 crore to pay. The lowest amount due is that of Rs 50,000 from Krishija Ispat. Incidentally, the notices have come when the anti-coal agitation in the state has picked up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cess-notices-to-19-coal-handling-firms/articleshow/79398202.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Gurgaon||‘Dilli Chalo’: Haryana ramps up security on Punjab border||CHANDIGARH/AMBALA/ PATIALA: With farm unions from Punjab moving towards Delhi to protest against the three new agricultural laws, the Haryana government on Tuesday ramped up security on all borders with the neighbouring state to ensure law and order. In Ambala, district administration sealed the state’s border with Punjab at Shambhu on National Highway-44 and Sadopur on NH-152. In Kurukshetra district, the border at Teokar village in Pehowa area was sealed and a duty magistrate has been appointed for the task. Haryana chief secretary Vijai Vardhan said as more farmers from Punjab are expected to travel towards Delhi, special monitoring will be conducted on Shambhu Border. Apart from this, additional police forces will be deployed in Gharaunda and Mundhal where huge farmer gatherings are expected. He also directed to set up multi-layer barricading on highways leading to Haryana. The Haryana police also issued an advisory against all non-essential travel on routes approaching New Delhi via Haryana on Wednesday and Thursday and on routes passing through Haryana from New Delhi on Thursday, Friday and Saturday. The farmers plan to use four main highways – Ambala-Delhi, Hisar-Delhi, Palwal-Delhi and Rewari-Delhi – to march to Delhi. Four major national highways leading towards Delhi, ie Ambala to Delhi, Hisar to Delhi, Rewari to Delhi and Palwal to Delhi will have traffic diversions and road blocks. Specifically, at Shambhu Border in Ambala district, Mundhal Chowk in Bhiwani district, Anaj Mandi at Gharaunda in Karnal district, Tikri Border at Bahadurgarh in Jhajjar district and Rajiv Gandhi Education City, Rai, in Sonipat district. The police said besides these points, they may divert or block traffic at entry points from Punjab to Haryana in districts of Panchkula, Ambala, Kaithal, Jind, Fatehabad and Sirsa from November 25 to 27. Vardhan also directed officers to make arrangements for drinking water, medical assistance, electricity supply and tents. Police will establish control rooms to coordinate with district administrations. Deputy commissioners and superintendents of police have been directed to disseminate minute-by-minute information to the home secretary, director general of police and chief secretary’s office, he said. Police patrolling will be increased on five national highways in the state which connect to Delhi to maintain supply of essentials, he said. In the eventuality of protesters succeeding in blocking roads, traffic should be directed to alternative roads, he said. In Ambala, DC Ashok Kumar Sharma and superintendent of police (SP) Rajesh Kalia inspected the state borders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/haryana-to-seal-border-with-punjab-ahead-of-farmers-protest-in-delhi/articleshow/79400678.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Goa||Behind closed doors at Old Goa, St Xavier novenas begin||PANAJI: The campus of the Basilica of Bom Jesus, usually filled with thousands of pilgrims on November 24 every year, wore a deserted look on Tuesday, as the novenas for the feast of St Francis Xavier began. For the first time ever, the Masses were celebrated exclusively online, with scores of devotees from Goa and beyond attending them from their homes. The Masses — at 6am, 7am, 8am, and 6pm — were held behind closed doors due to the Covid-19 pandemic. But that didn’t dampen the zeal of devotees, as on YouTube itself, the first three Masses registered over 15,000 views. Since many families attend Mass at home together, as well as the fact that they were telecast on television too, the actual number of attendees would number several thousand more. “After many years, we are celebrating the novena Masses in the Basilica and not in the pandal,” said Fr Patricio Fernandes, rector of the Basilica. In normal years, large pandals with thousands of chairs are installed in the premises, and devotees often spill out on the roads, too. The novena Masses this year will be conducted in Konkani, English, Tamil, Malayalam, Kannada, Marathi, Telugu, French, Italian and Portuguese. While all Masses will be closed to the public, the in-person devotion to the Spanish saint is not completely cut-off, as the Church permits veneration of his sacred relics. “Veneration is possible with Covid guidelines, keeping safe distance and observing safety norms,” said Fernandes, a Jesuit. “Barricades have been erected to allow devotees to queue up singly to the mausoleum where his sacred relics have been kept in a silver casket.” It’s not just the religious fervour that’s been dampened by the pandemic. The St Xavier novenas and feast usually spark a thriving economy around the Basilica, with a vibrant fair and several food stalls. These, too, are missing this year. The theme of this year’s celebration is “Bhagevont Sam Francis Xavierachi dekh ghevn, ami Jezu govai” (“By walking in the footsteps of St Francis Xavier, let us bear witness to Christ”.)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/behind-closed-doors-at-old-goa-st-xavier-novenas-begin/articleshow/79398232.cms||Paul Fernandes
November 25, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19 tally crosses 72,000 in Uttarakhand, 11 more deaths reported||DEHRADUN: The coronavirus tally crossed the 72,000 mark on Tuesday with 528 fresh cases. Also, 11 deaths were reported on the day, taking the Covid-19 toll to 1,173. According to the health department, a total of 10,473 samples tested negative on Tuesday. Among the 528 positive cases, the highest of 192 were reported from Dehradun. “Haridwar reported 83 new cases, followed by 69 in Udham Singh Nagar, 49 in Pithoragarh, 37 in Nainital, 24 in Pauri, 20 in Almora, 20 in Chamoli, 20 in Uttarkashi, 11 in Bageshwar, seven in Tehri, six in Rudraprayag and Champawat each. The total cases have now reached 7,21,160,” said Abhishek Tripathi from the Covid 19 control room. With 173 people recuperating on Tuesday, the total recoveries reached 65,703 in the state. The recovery rate is now 91%. While 13,151 new samples were collected on Tuesday, a total of 19,311 samples await testing – the highest accumulation so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-tally-crosses-72k-in-uttarakhand-11-more-deaths-reported/articleshow/79394529.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Covid-positive woman gives birth but loses uterus||AHMEDABAD: The impact of Covid-19 on internal organs is well-documented now, but a high-risk pregnancy in the city highlighted the danger of the viral infection for expecting mothers – a 25-year-old woman underwent uterus removal by a team of doctors to save her life. While she delivered a healthy child, due to high viral load and low platelet count, her uterus was not contracting. Dr Bindu Raval, an ob-gyn with a city-based private hospital who has handled six-odd pregnancies and deliveries of Covid-19 positive women, said that it was an unusual case for the team. “Her viral load was high, D-dimer mark was high and platelet count was low. We performed a C-section and delivered a child. After two hours of the surgery, she started bleeding profusely with her pulse getting feeble and blood pressure going down. As medication failed in ICU, she was immediately taken back to the operation theatre,” she said. With the team including intensivist Dr Jignesh Prajapati, she performed intrauterine ligation, but it also failed as the uterus was not contracting. “It was a tough decision for us, but we performed subtotal hysterectomy or removal of uterus to save her life. The entire team was behind her despite extended hours as it was dangerous to get other team members for help due to the patient’s Covid status,” she said. The procedure saved her, but her condition didn’t improve – she needed to be put on ventilator for the next seven days. “The thought of a newborn child losing the mother was scary enough for us. But she persisted and gradually improved. It was a precious moment for us when the mother and child could finally unite,” said Dr Mehul Raval, anaesthetist and medical director of the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-ve-woman-gives-birth-but-loses-uterus/articleshow/79396823.cms||Parth Shastri
November 25, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab: Farmers yet to take call on Centre’s invite for more talks||BATHINDA: Farm organisations here on Tuesday said while the Centre had invited them for talks, it was still cracking down on them in Haryana and this showed its “dual standards”. Preparing for the ‘Dilli Chalo’ protest, the farm organisations have not called any meeting to decide about the invitation for second round of talks with Union ministers over the contentious farm laws. Sources within farm organisations said a meeting to talk about the invitation was not likely to be held before the Delhi protest. Union agriculture secretary Sudhanshu Pandey had on Monday late evening sent invitation to 32 farm organisations for second round of talks with Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on December 3. Krantikari Kisan Union president Darshan Pal said, “The central government is sending invitation but its government in Haryana is cracking down on farmers and also stopping Punjab farmers from heading towards Delhi, under such circumstances the talks lose a lot of significance. The government must win the confidence of farmers and must not provoke them if it is serious about talks. We will decide about the invite at appropriate time.” Earlier, farm organisations had held marathon talks with Tomar and railways minister Piyush Goyal on November 13, though deadlock persisted on resuming freight trains. Before that farmers had boycotted the meeting on October 14 as no minister had turned up for the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/farmers-yet-to-take-call-on-centres-invite-for-more-talks/articleshow/79398234.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Nashik||Six-year-old male leopard rescued in Igatpuri||NASHIK: A six-year-old male leopard was rescued from Pimpalgaon Mor village in Igatpuri taluka of Nashik district on Tuesday morning. This is the third leopard trapped since Saturday. Five days back, the forest department had installed four cages at various locations around the village to capture the big cat. They had also installed CCTV cameras to check for the presence of the leopard. A senior forest official said that it was difficult to ascertain if the captured leopard is the same one who attacked and killed a six-year old girl on November 19. “We will send the leopard’s swab sample to Hyderabad-based lab for finding out whether it is the same leopard that had attacked the girl,” the official said. There have been several incidents of leopard sightings in Niphad, Sinnar and other parts of the district in the recent past. According to forest officials, a leopard was rescued near Deolaligaon on Saturday morning while another one was trapped in Vihitgaon near the Nashik Road area of the city on Monday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/six-year-old-male-leopard-rescued-in-igatpuri/articleshow/79396819.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 25, 2020||Lucknow||Preparations, identification of priority groupson for Covid vaccination, CM tells PM||Lucknow: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath informed Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the state government has started making arrangements for the administration of Covid-19 vaccine which is expected to be available early next year. The Prime Minister held a virtual meeting with the chief ministers of all the states on Tuesday to discuss Covid-19 management and vaccination plans. According to officials, UP was not among the states taken up for discussion as it has successfully kept the spread of coronavirus on the lower side. During the meeting, the UP government discussed its potential priority groups for vaccination which begins with healthcare workers and sanitation staff, followed by senior citizens. “This is only a proposal and will be finalized soon. During the meeting, the PM asked all the states to also consider vaccinating working population on priority,” an official said. During the interaction, Yogi said the government has issued necessary directions to departments concerned for preparations ahead of vaccination. “The entire exercise will be carried out in an organised and time-bound manner with inter-departmental coordination. All logistics should be in place in time,” the CM said. He added that the government was aware that adequate number of vaccinators would be required keeping in view the large population of the state. Yogi said he had already directed the health department to make arrangements for training of vaccinators. On Monday, the CM had also issued directions to ensure that cold storage arrangements were in place in all districts by December 15 to allow storing and transportation of vaccine as and when it was available. “UP has a population of about 24 crore and the government is in the process of identifying priority groups for vaccination. Our cold storage facilities will also be in place by December so that as soon as the vaccine is available, we can start dispensing doses,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/preparations-identification-of-priority-groupson-for-covid-vaccination-cm-tells-pm/articleshow/79398754.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Lucknow||UP cabinet passes ordinance to check unlawful conversions||LUCKNOW: Rushing to give legal teeth to his promise of a crackdown on forcible conversions amid a spiralling row over ‘love jihad’, chief minister Yogi Adityanath and his cabinet passed UP Prohibition of Unlawful Religious Conversion ordinance on Tuesday. The law makes forced religious conversion punishable in Uttar Pradesh with a jail term between 1 and 10 years and a fine stretching from Rs 15,000 to Rs 50,000. A marriage for the sake of conversion will be declared null and void. The ordinance will be promulgated after the Governor’s nod and was done with an immediacy due to the pandemic cloud over the winter session of Assembly. Government spokesperson Sidharth Nath Singh said, the ordinance was necessary to maintain law and order in UP and ensure justice for women, especially from SC/ST communities. “The law was necessitated by the rising incidence of forced conversions in garb of marriage. More than 100 such cases have come to light. In fact, these conversions were carried out with deceit and force. This made it necessary to bring a law. There is a high court order as well which states religious conversion for sake of marriage is illegal,” said Singh. As a punishment for indulging in forced conversion, the ordinance lays down a jail term of 1-5 years and a fine of Rs 15,000 for accused. Mass conversions to attract 3-10year jail, Rs 50k fine & scrapping of licence of outfitIf minors or SC/ST women have been forced to convert, the prison term increases to 3-10 years and the fine would be Rs 25,000. In case of community or mass conversion, the jail term is 3-10 years and the fine slapped on the organization engineering the act would be Rs 50,000, the ordinance states. The organisation’s licence would also be cancelled. The onus of proving that religious conversion was not forcible, done through deceit and not driven for the sake of marriage, will rest on the person who performed the conversion and the person who converted. Singh clarified if someone willingly wanted to convert for the sake of marriage, then he or she would have to give a notice to the concerned district magistrate two months in advance. Failure to do so will invite a fine of at least Rs 10,000 and a jail term of six months to 3 years. On October 31, while speaking at an election rally in Jaunpur, Yogi Adityanath promised a strict law against ‘love jihad’, quoting an order from Allahabad high court where a single-bench judge said religious conversions only for sake of marriage was unacceptable. However, a two-judge bench of the same court observed that the judgment was “bad in law”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-cabinet-passes-ordinance-to-check-unlawful-religious-conversions/articleshow/79398756.cms||Neha Lalchandani
November 25, 2020||Nashik||NMPML to ply buses between Nashik and Ozar airport||NASHIK: The Nashik Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Ltd (NMPML), transport wing of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC), will run 26-seater diesel buses between the city and Ozar airport. The NMPML has decided to start the city bus service from January next year. Initially, the NMC will start city bus service with 50 buses on select routes, including the special route between the city and the Nashik airport — located around 25 kms from Nashik city. The NMC has already deployed two private agencies to operate city bus services and the agencies concerned have already procured 250 buses, including 200 CNG and 50 diesel buses. The buses are procured, operated and maintained by the private agencies, while NMC will pay these agencies on kilometer basis. Earlier, the NMC had planned to start city bus service from April 1, but could not because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Manish Rawal, chairperson of the joint aviation committee of all prominent industrial associations in Nashik, said that transport is a major issue and private taxis charge high from the passengers travelling to and from the airport. “Hence, there is real a need to have public transport services at the airport. We have already urged the municipal commissioner on the issue, and he has agreed to this,” Rawal said, adding that it will be really a positive development if NMC starts bus service between the city and the airport. Civic chief Kailas Jadhav, who is also a chairperson of the NMPML, said that instructions have been given to the officials concerned to get prepared for the commencement of city bus service in the city in January next year. “We will start trial runs early in January and will start city bus service from January 26 if there is no second wave of Covid-19,” said Jadhav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmpml-to-ply-buses-between-city-and-airport/articleshow/79396833.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 25, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand HC asks co-operative society to provide details of depositors in embezzlement case||NAINITAL: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Tuesday directed the Dakshin Kashipur Kisan Seva Sahkari Samiti Ltd – a co-operative society – to provide details of its depositors to a petitioner who had demanded an inquiry into the allegations of the in-charge of its bank in Mahua Khera Ganj village, in Kashipur, swindling money of farmers. The alleged embezzlement dates back to 2012, when the bank’s in-charge had taken the money from farmers as well as members of the co-operative society, even given them signed receipts and updated their passbooks, without ever depositing the money in their accounts. The bench of Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Ravindra Maithani has also directed the local SHO, the secretary (home) as well as the District Co-operative Bank Rudrapur to file their responses within four weeks. “The estimated money misappropriated by the bank’s in-charge is around Rs 2.86 crore. However, we are convinced the actual amount is much more,” said Shiv Bhatt, the counsel appearing for petitioner Akram Ali. Ali was the vice-president of the society from 2008-12. His money was also swindled by the bank’s in-charge. “After we get the details requested by the court, we will go through them and try to ascertain the total money swindled by the in-charge. Many of these depositors are illiterate, poor farmers who never came forward to claim their money,” Bhatt added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hc-asks-co-operative-society-to-provide-details-of-depositors-in-embezzlement-case/articleshow/79394537.cms||Prashant Jha
November 25, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Thiruvananthapuram: ‘Vendetta politics’ to the fore as campaign enters final phase||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The local body poll campaign has entered the final phase with the contest picture clear in all wards. The series of cases filed against UDF leaders has made the campaign scene complex, with ‘vendetta politics’ also coming to the fore as campaign issue. Meeting voters in person continues to be the biggest challenge for the candidates. If the BJP is claiming that the contest is between the LDF and them, the LDF is not ready to accept this campaign ploy. “When it comes to elections the BJP is immaterial in the state. It is always between the UDF and the LDF,” said finance minister T M Thomas Isaac. However, the BJP is campaigning rigorously to make a mark in the local bodies. They are focussing more on Thiruvananthapuram corporation and the district panchayat, Palakkad municipality and Thrissur corporation. “We are working to make a mark in the local bodies. All the present controversies against the Pinarayi Vijayan government will benefit us. The UDF is not at all in the picture in the poll fray,” said K Surendran, state president of the BJP. For the UDF, the biggest headache is the corruption cases against its leaders, some of them already arrested. LDF has used this opportunity and made it a campaign topic. The differences of opinion over Congress candidates in some local bodies are also creating problems for them. Already poor candidate selection has become a cause of worry for the prospects of UDF. “The various corruption charges against the government and the gold smuggling case alone is sufficient to fetch votes for us. There is severe unrest among the people against the LDF government, which will reflect in the local body polls,” said KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran. The people will clearly understand the intentions behind the cases being registered against the UDF leaders at the fag end of the tenure of the LDF government, he added. But ask the finance minister whether KIIFB will be a topic of debate in the local body polls. “Definitely KIIFB is going to be a hot topic. We will ask the voters if they want the projects taken up by KIIFB in their wards to be carried out. If yes, then vote for us,” said Isaac.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/vendetta-politics-to-the-fore-as-campaign-enters-final-phase/articleshow/79395578.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Goa||Three years later, Sattari village risks another diarrhoea bout||VALPOI: Three years ago, the remote hamlet of Shelop Budruk, under the Nargargao panchayat in Sattari, made it to the news after a majority of its residents were struck by a diarrhoeal infection. The cause of the problem was open defecation due to lack of toilets and sourcing of drinking water from the local stream in the absence of treated water supply. Nothing has changed since then for the residents of the around 60 shanties in Shelop Budruk. Residents said that for 10 years now they have been given constant assurances that these issues will be addressed. The state officially declared itself open defecation free around two years ago, but these villagers say that 20% of the households in the hamlet have no toilets and therefore residents defecate in the nearby stream. Also, though Goa recently announced that it has provided tap connections to 100% rural households under the Jal Jeevan Mission, water supplied to Shelop Budruk is turbid and unfit for consumption, local panch Parag Khadilkar said. For Shelop Budruk locals, stream serves as toilet as well as source of drinking waterHe said that the panchayat has decided to take up work of replacing the old pipes with new UPVC pipes. “Work has already been sanctioned,” Khadilkar said. “Presently, we can send two tankers regularly to the village, till there is a permanent solution to this problem. I will personally visit the village and check the condition of the borewell and the pipes supplying water there,” assistant engineer of Valpoi PWD (water supply division) Soma Naik said. The sarpanch of Nargargao village panchayat Prashant Marathe told TOI that his panchayat has received 170 applications for new toilets, including 12 from Shelop Budruk village. “Their applications have already been sanctioned. We will resolve the problems of the people soon,” he said. But the residents of Shelop Budruk said they have been waiting for assurances to be fulfilled for the last ten years now. “We have been getting turbid water for the last ten years. We don’t consume the tap water as it can be harmful to our health. Water is supplied through tankers to us on alternate days and we prefer to use this water,” said villager Deshmita Gaonkar. She said that they had collected the tap water and sent photographs to the junior engineer of the Valpoi water supply department last week, but have not received any response yet. Another villager, S Fati Gawas said that they have made several complaints over the years to the PWD water supply division officials, but no steps have been initiated to address this problem. “Tap water received at all 60 houses in the village is turbid. We have to keep the taps running for several hours to release the muddy water, and this leads to exorbitant bills,” Gawas said. She said that in her household, untreated water from the local stream is used for consumption. “As for toilets, the panchayat has never conducted any survey to check whether the villagers have toilets or not, but during elections they visit our village begging for votes,” Gawas said. An elderly man from the village said that the toilets in the village were built about 20 years ago under a government scheme, but many lie in an unusable condition. “Most residents of Shelop Budruk are not financially well off and only few have managed to get their toilets repaired. So many go into the nearby bushes or the village stream to answer nature’s call,” he said. Villagers also claim that no new toilets were constructed from the government end after the problem of water contamination occurred three years ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/three-years-later-sattari-village-risks-another-diarrhoea-bout/articleshow/79398259.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Gurgaon||25 rounded up in Ambala, Kurukshetra, Yamunanagar||AMBALA: Haryana Police on Monday night and in the early hours of Tuesday detained 25 farm leaders in Ambala, Kurukshetra, and Yamunanagar districts, who could mobilise farmers for the ‘Dilli Chalo’ agitation in Delhi against the Centre’s three agri-marketing laws. Police said active farm body members had been taken into custody under preventive measures to avoid large gatherings amid the Covid-19 pandemic and to ensure the maintenance of law and order in the state and Delhi. The farmers and their leaders have strongly condemned the Haryana coalition government’s action and termed it an act of dictatorship. Earlier, the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) had given a call to start their ‘Dilli Chalo’ march towards Delhi from Shambhu border, on National Highway-44, but the assembly point for farmers had been changed to the grain market in Ambala Cantonment on Tuesday, due to strictness by the Haryana government. BKU (Charuni) Ambala vice-president Gulab Singh was detained at Ambala Sadar police station about 12pm on Tuesday. “Police knocked at my door at 4am and took me into custody. My family protested and they assured them that I have been called by the SHO and will be released in 30 minutes after a brief enquiry. But it does not seem that they will release me soon. Our leaders have been detained to weaken our march to Delhi. They can make lakhs of such attempts, but the agitation has now become a public matter. The farmers of Haryana, Punjab, and the country are aware and will not return from Delhi until the black laws are taken back,” he said. Ambala range inspector general of police Y Puran Kumar said 25 active members of BKU who could potentially mobilise huge number of farmers from Haryana to Delhi had been taken under preventive custody. “Of these, 11 are from Ambala, nine from Yamunanagar, and five from Kurukshetra district,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/25-rounded-up-in-ambala-kshetra-yamunanagar/articleshow/79398257.cms||Jaskaran Singh
November 25, 2020||Vijayawada||YS Jagan Mohan Reddy assures PM Modi on state’s preparedness for Covid-19 vaccine||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday assured Prime Minister Narendra Modi of the state government’s preparedness to handle Covid-19 vaccine, which is expected anytime in the near future. The chief minister joined Modi in the latter’s video conference with various chief ministers on their preparedness to handle the vaccine. The chief minister said that the state had conducted close to one crore Covid-19 tests, which could be the highest for a state of AP’s size. The positive rate had also come down due to the initiatives of the government, he said. Jagan said that the government is ready to handle the vaccine and its refrigeration as and when it arrived. He said that the state would follow the guidelines issued by the central government on vaccination including who should be given first, priorities, policies to be followed at the field level. He assured the prime minister that the state is prepared for every action that the Centre mandates, including distribution of the vaccine. Later, the chief minister held a meeting with the officials through a video conference. He told the officials to be prepared to receive and handle the vaccine. He told the officials to focus on methods to be followed on storage and distribution of the vaccine. He also told them to start creating infrastructure facilities required for refrigeration of the vaccine. The chief minister directed the officials to prepare an action plan on storing the vaccine at optimum temperature, as well as transporting it to remote areas at the same temperature. The chief minister directed the officials to prepare an action plan on the readiness of vaccine distribution. He instructed the officials to collect technical information on the respective issues and also take relevant information from various companies and conduct a study on it. The Chief Minister said a review meeting should be held on vaccine-related issues. Home minister Mekathoti Sucharitha, transportation principal secretary T Krishnababu and other officials were present during the video conference.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/jagan-assures-pm-modi-on-states-preparedness-for-covid-19-vaccine/articleshow/79395167.cms||Gopi Dara
November 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Prez offers prayers at Tirumala||Tirupati: President Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday offered prayers to Lord Sri Venkateswara and Goddess Padmavathi at Tirumala and Tiruchanoor temples during his one-day visit to the city. The president had earlier landed in Chennai on the inaugural flight of the Air India B-777 aircraft and then took a special Indian Air Force flight to Tirupati. He was greeted upon arrival by chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy and governor Biswa Bhushan Harichandhan along with a host of state officials. After a brief interaction, the president along with his family offered prayers at Sri Padmavathi Ammavari temple at Tiruchanoor and later reached Tirumala by road. As per the customary practice, Kovind and his family prayed at Sri Bhu-Varaha Swamy temple first and later reached the Mahadwaram of Tirumala temple where they were accorded the traditional Isthikapal welcome by priests and officials led by TTD chairman YV Subba Reddy and EO KS Jawahar Reddy. Later, at the Ranganayakula mandapam, Vedic pundits rendered Vedasirvachanam to the president.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/prez-offers-prayers-at-tirumala/articleshow/79395319.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
November 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Not inclined to order CBI probe, let police finish their investigation: HC||Vijayawada: The Andhra Pradesh high court on Tuesday said that it is not inclined to order Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) inquiry into the suicide of Abdul Salaam and his family. The high court said that as the police is still investigating the matter, it would be premature to conclude that they are not handling the case properly at this point of time. However, the high court also directed the state and central governments, CBI and other respondents to file counter affidavits into the matter. Shaik Khajavali, state general secretary of All Indian Union Muslim League Party (AIUMLP), moved high court seeking a CBI inquiry into the suicides. Salaam, along with his wife and two children, had ended their lives by jumping under a moving train at Nandyal in Kurnool district on November 4. Arguing on behalf of the petitioner, advocate Jada Sravan Kumar told the court that as the police themselves were accused in the case, it would not be appropriate for them to investigate the matter. He said the investigation may be done in a biased manner and the victim’s family may not get justice. To substantiate his argument, Sravan Kumar said the police had not registered the case under section 306 of IPC (abetting suicide) till there was a public uproar over the incident. He said even after altering the case, they did not mention about the selfie video, which the family had recorded days before they ended their lives holding the police responsible for their extreme step, in the remand report . However, the high court bench observed that as the police investigation is still in process, they are not inclined to order a CBI inquiry at this point of time. The bench further said that the petitioners can approach the court if they find that the police investigation was not done properly after charge sheet is filed. The high court bench directed the respondents to file counter affidavits within three weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/not-inclined-to-order-cbi-probe-let-police-finish-their-investigation-hc/articleshow/79394792.cms||Srikanth Aluri
November 25, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Adani data park will develop IT potential||Visakhapatnam: The state government expediting the setup of the Adani Integrated Data Centre Park may give the much-needed fillip to the IT sector in Vizag. In an order released on Monday, the state government has allocated around 130 acres land to the Data Centre Park in Madhurawada in addition to a slew of incentives. Recently, the State Investment Promotion Board (SIPB) accorded its in-principle clearance to Adani Enterprises with the company is expected to invest Rs 14,634 crore to set up the Integrated Data Centre Park, Integrated IT and Business Park, Recreation Centre and Skill Development University. The investment is slated to provide employment to 25,000 people. As per the government order, the facility must commence operations within three years and complete all components of the project within seven years from the date of handing over the land. With this, Vizag, which has been waiting for big-ticket projects for a long time, will finally have a major IT investment. The IT City proposal had remained dormant over the last two years even after receiving several unique propositions with regard to all or various components of it from nearly 200 companies in response to the ‘expression of interest’. Speaking to TOI, Sreedhar Kosaraju, president of IT Association of Andhra Pradesh (ITAA), said that the Data Centre Park would come as an advantage for the existing IT ecosystem of the state and particularly Vizag city. “Adani Enterprises making a foray into Visakhapatnam with the Data Centre Park would make other IT majors follow in its footsteps and set up shop in Visakhapatnam,” Kosaraju added. Industry experts say that various issues such as lack of readymade built-up space or IT parks, limited international connectivity, delay in release of incentives and potential job-seekers moving to tier-I cities are plaguing the IT sector in Vizag.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/adani-data-park-will-develop-it-potential/articleshow/79395085.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
November 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘82% isolation beds unoccupied’||Gandhinagar: Chief minister Vijay Rupani on Tuesday provided a detailed account of the measures taken by the Gujarat government to control Covid-19, at an online review meeting presided over by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The chief ministers of eight states and Union home minister Amit Shah also attended the meeting. The Union government took stock of the measures implemented by the states to control the spurt of Covid-19 cases following the festive season. CM Rupani stated that the state government has increased the number of dedicated beds for Covid-19 patients across Gujarat. “There are about 55,000 isolation beds available in Gujarat,” he said. “Of these, nearly 82% or 45,000 beds are unoccupied. Patients can avail of these beds without any hassle.” Rupani added: “The 108 ambulance service has been instrumental in ensuring the timely provision of healthcare to patients.” The CM said that the state government has also ensured that necessary medical care and beds are available to a patient by the time he/she reaches the hospital. Outlining the Covid-control measures, the CM said that the state government has implemented the night curfew in Ahmedabad, Surat, Rajkot, and Vadodara. He assured the PM that the state government is well prepared in its fight against Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/82-isolation-beds-unoccupied/articleshow/79396850.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Govt panels on trifurcation have no statutory backing: Farmers||Vijayawada: Various committees that the state government formed over the capital issue do not have statutory backing and hence the decision taken to trifurcate the capital, based on reports submitted by these panels, is also invalid without any legal basis, said Nidesh Gupta, senior counsel appearing on behalf of farmers. Nidhesh claimed that the government had formed these committees to get reports it wanted. As part of the daily hearing on a batch of petitions moved against the trifurcation, the high court bench headed by Chief Justice JK Maheswari, Justice M Satyanarayana Murthy and Justice Ninala Jayasurya heard the arguments in some of the petitions on Tuesday. Nidesh argued that Amaravati was decided as the capital of the state based on the report submitted by Sivaramakrishnan committee appointed by the Union government. As the committee was appointed by the Union government, consequent to the state bifurcation through AP State Reorganisation Act which is a central legislation, the state government does not have authority to appoint any other committees in case of capital, the senior counsel said. Nidhesh further argued that the state government had entered into an agreement with farmers with a promise to return developed plots in the capital city. He said developed plots do not mean just basic infrastructure but fully developed capital city according to the notified master plan. He said the farmers have given their lands with the hope that they will get fair value to the portion of land they will get in return and that fair value depend on the development of the city as a whole. “The state government cannot go back on the statutory agreement that it has made with farmers in the name of trifurcation of the capital as it directly affects the fundamental rights of the farmers who gave away their lands,” he said. As the arguments ended inconclusively, the high court posted the matter for further hearing on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-panels-on-trifurcation-have-no-statutory-backing-farmers/articleshow/79394916.cms||Srikanth Aluri
November 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Professional diversity key ingredient in poll cauldron||Hyderabad: The upcoming GHMC elections are witnessing candidates from diverse backgrounds entering the poll fray. From techies to students, and dentists to sanitation staffers, a lot of people from different professions are trying their luck at the ward level. Dr Mekala Shilpa, a dentist in Uppal, who is usually busy at her hospital with patients, is now spending most of the time campaigning to win as ward member in the GHMC elections. “By luck, I became a dentist and now I serve the people. I’m also trying my luck at becoming a politician to resolve civic issues such as water problems, drainage issues and bad roads in Uppal, which is one of the fastest growing areas in the city. I have become more aware of the civic issues after taking up a door-to-door campaign,” Shilpa said. The dentist is contesting on a BJP ticket in civic body polls for the first time. “Of course, contesting in the civic polls is a totally different field when compared to my medical profession. Here, I am understanding the ground reality on various problems by interacting with the voters in Uppal division. I’m committed to fighting civic issues and resolving them,” she said. Another contestant, Sowmya, who is a Pharmacy student, is making her debut in politics to serve the poor. Sowmya is contesting on a Congress ticket from Ramanthapur. The student has assured voters that she will fight the TRS government to get the flood relief. “During the recent floods, over 20 to 30 residential colonies were submerged in Ramanthapur and several families were affected, but most of them did not receive the flood relief amount,” she said, adding that health and civic issues are her focus. Similarly, Mahesh Reddy, who is contesting on All India Forward Bloc (AIFB) ticket from Hayathnagar division, has over 16 years’ experience in the GHMC sanitation wing. “I am contesting to fight against problems of 800 families, the biggest number of sanitation workers in Hayathnagar division. Being a sanitation supervisor, I know the problems the sanitation workers are facing,” said Mahesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/professional-diversity-key-ingredient-in-poll-cauldron/articleshow/79396849.cms||Sunil Mungara
November 25, 2020||Vijayawada||TN man arrested in connection with murder case||Tirupati: Kadapa police on Tuesday arrested a 26-year-old man from Tamil Nadu in connection with a murder case reported at Ramapuram mandal in Kadapa district on November 18. Kadapa SP KKN Anburajan said Ramapuram police registered a case after finding the mutilated and abandoned body of a middle-aged man. The body was found near Nallaguttapalle village in Ramapuram mandal. During investigation, Kadapa police established the identity of the deceased as AM Vinoth Kumar (27), a resident of Tamil Nadu’s Cuddalore. The accused, Vinod Kumar Venkatesan (26), a daily collection agent of Kanchipuram, walked into the police net on Monday, out of curiosity to check the latest updates in the case. The victim Vinoth Kumar had allegedly taken intimate pictures of the accused Vinod Kumar’s fiancee and had been blackmailing her with the intention of marrying her. An enraged Vinod Kumar hatched a plan along with the girl’s brother-in-law Vinayagam (36) and father Narayanan (61) and engaged the services of professional killers Dilli Babu (33) and Magesh (35). Barring Vinod Kumar, the other four kidnapped Vinoth Kumar from his residence, killed him and dumped the mutilated body in Kadapa district. Four days later, a curious Vinod Kumar visited Ramapuram to check the progress in the case and was found moving in a suspicious manner near the crime spot. He was rounded up by the police and confessed to his crime upon interrogation. KKN Anburajan, who produced the accused before the media here on Tuesday, said the other four had surrendered in Katpadi court in Vellore district after coming to know of Vinod Kumar’s arrest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tn-man-arrested-in-connection-with-murder-case/articleshow/79394822.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
November 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Lockdown not under consideration: ACS Home||Gandhinagar: Additional chief secretary (home) Pankaj Kumar on Tuesday clarified that there is no consideration of imposing a lockdown in the state in view of the spurt in Covid-19 cases and strongly refuted reports in social media about a possible lockdown. The official said that night curfew will continue to be imposed in four major cities from 9pm to 6am and apart from night curfew in Ahmedabad, Surat, Rajkot and Vadodara, there is no consideration of imposing lockdown or curfew in any other part of the state. Kumar appealed to people not to be misled by rumours on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lockdown-not-under-consideration-acs-home/articleshow/79396860.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC: Housewives break election stereotypes, 300 in fray||HYDERABAD: Most woman candidates in GHMC polls this year are housewives. Breaking stereotypes, Shirisha, a BTech graduate in Electronics, is contesting from Nacharam division and interacting with voters during her door-to-door visits. Shirisha, who has two children, says she entered politics to serve the people. After nominations were scrutinised, a whistle symbol was allotted to her. “Women should not be confined to cooking and maintaining the kitchen. She has to know the ground reality of problems by entering into politics to serve the people,” Shirisha told TOI. A decades-old Patel Gunta Cheruvu was turned into a cesspool due to lack of official apathy and for the past 30 years, no efforts have been made to prevent sewage from entering into the lake. “My aim is to make the water body free of sewage and turn it into a mini Lumbini Park,” she says. With the support of her husband Kranthi Kishore, who is well aware of local issues, she is contesting as an independent candidate to become a ward member. Another housewife, M Pragathi, is contesting from Banjara Hills division. Although she had contested thrice in 2002, 2009 and 2016, she is again contesting for the fourth time as an Independent. “Nala desilting and widening, water problem in slum areas and sanitation are my focus areas. The recent floods due to overflowing nalas led to inundation of several colonies,” said Pragathi. A free symbol of cot was allotted to her by the returning officer. A housewife, Padma from Red Hills, is trying her luck a second time. She had first contested in 2016, but was defeated with a narrow margin. Interacting with voters during a padayatra, she took note of various civic issues in her ward. “Water problems and drainage woes still hant many and several slums do not even get potable water, even though the TRS government had promised tap water to every household. I will resolve these issues as a priority once I am elected,” said Padma. Nearly 300 housewives in all 150 wards are in the fray and are trying their luck to resolve civic problems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/housewives-break-election-stereotypes-300-in-fray/articleshow/79396854.cms||Sunil Mungara
November 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Flood-hit residents protest over poor infra, say they will boycott GHMC polls||HYDERABAD: Distribution of flood relief notwithstanding, a large section of flood-affected families in the city have decided to boycott the upcoming Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections, while many want to vote for Nota. This, they see as a form of protest against the poor infrastructure and neglect by GHMC during the recent deluge. Mohammad Zafarullah Khan of Tolichowki’s Nadeem Colony said, “Our colony was among the worst affected areas in the city during the recent floods. After the harrowing experience, when the government announced that they are going to give us Rs 10,000 as an interim relief, we thought we can manage for a few days but on the day of distribution, we had to return empty handed after waiting for an entire day at Chapra Colony’s gate number one.” “Everyone in my family and at least 20 other families in our colony have decided to boycott elections this time for the utter negligence towards poor families like ours,” he added. On the other hand, residents of Surya Nagar colony in Shaikpet, where there are over 2,500 houses, have initiated a campaign to vote for Nota. The RWAs alleged that despite several complaints to the authorities, the issue of poor garbage disposal, bad drainage system, because of which the area was flooded during the recent floods, and damaged roads were not addressed. “Despite being in the Jubilee Hills assembly constituency, our colony is neglected to the core. We are paying equal taxes like the people living on the other side of Jubilee Hills, where most of the developmental activities took place. This is nothing but selective discrimination,” Asif Hussain Sohail, a resident of Surya Nagar, said. “Every time we question the authorities, they show letters which they wrote to the government. What is the use of electing them if that is all we get? We need them to put their words into action,” said Asif who also informed that their campaign to reject all the political parties has been a success, as residents of at least 10 more adjoining colonies have supported the campaign to effectively boycott the elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/flood-hit-residents-protest-over-poor-infra-say-they-will-boycott-ghmc-polls/articleshow/79396870.cms||Moulika.KV
November 25, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab: Crackdown on, farmers to protest wherever stopped||BATHINDA: With the Haryana government sealing its border with Punjab to not allow farmers to move on to Delhi for the proposed ‘Dilli Chalo’ protest on November 26-27, farm organisations in Punjab have decided to sit on indefinite protests anywhere they are stopped. Farm groups had already prepared strategies to move through Haryana in case of resistance from the state. BKU Ekta Ugrahan had made its activists reach Khanouri border in Sangrur and at Dabwali on Monday evening for making prior preparations and to start langar for those coming for protests. The faction of Bharatiya Kisan Union had chosen both these routes for entering Haryana. Several protesters have occupied places at these two borders with Haryana and are coordinating with farmers from these points. Haryana Police, however, have laid barricades on its side of the state border to stop farmers from moving forward. The organisation had directed activists from Sangrur, Patiala, Mansa, Barnala, Ludhiana and Fatehgarh Sahib to move toward Khanouri, and activists from Bathinda, Muktsar, Moga, Faridkot, Fazilka, Ferozepur, Gurdaspur, Jalandhar and Amritsar to move toward Dabwali. The farm organisation burnt effigies of Haryana government at various places across Punjab on Tuesday against the crackdown on farmers trying to cross the border and taking seven members of its Barnala unit into custody. BKU faction’s president, Joginder Singh Ugrahan, and general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri said, “Jagos and mashal marches are being taken out by women and youth at 800 villages in 15 districts of Punjab in last three days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/crackdown-on-farmers-to-protest-wherever-stopped/articleshow/79398262.cms||Neel Kamal
November 25, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: Cabinet rejig not a priority for high command, says STS||MYSURU: Cooperation minister ST Somashekar on Tuesday hinted that the party high command is not pleased with chief minister’s proposal to expand or reshuffle the state Cabinet. Downplaying party general secretary (organisation) B L Santosh’s visit to the state and his meeting with the CM, the minister said the high command will take a call on it while hinting that it is not their priority right now. “It is prerogative of the CM to induct or recast his ministry and he will do it at the right time. There is no political significance to Santosh’s visit to the state. He is here to focus on the gram panchayat polls,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/cabinet-rejig-not-a-priority-for-high-command-says-sts/articleshow/79394543.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC polls: K Chandrasekhar Rao makes hollow promises, don’t trust TRS, says Uttam Kumar Reddy||HYDERABAD: Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy on Tuesday appealed to voters in Greater Hyderabad to dump the TRS poll manifesto as chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has been making empty promises since 2014. KCR has neither fulfilled his promise of delivering 2-BHK houses to the homeless nor distributed three-acre land to Dalits, leave alone making a Dalit the chief minister of Telangana. The TRS had promised free power to hair cutting saloons in the previous assembly elections and is again promising it now, Uttam said. “It is due to the tacit understanding between TRS and BJP governments at the state and Centre that Greater Hyderabad lost the prestigious Information Technology Investment Region (ITIR) tag, which had the potential to attract Rs 2 lakh crore investments and provide employment to 50 lakh people. TRS has always remained a secret ally of the BJP,” Uttam alleged. The TPCC chief said municipal administration minister K T Rama Rao should publish white paper on the status of 100-day action plan which he announced in February 2016 after winning GHMC elections. Many of the targets announced in the 100-day plan were not met even after 1,000 days, he alleged. “CM KCR should explain to the people why Covid-19 treatment is not included in Arogyasri. Over 2.50 lakh families had to spend lakhs of rupees for Coronavirus treatment in private hospitals. The KCR government indirectly allowed private hospitals to fleece the Covid-19 patients and their families by not including it in Aarogyasri. No action was taken against any hospital despite 1100 complaints bing lodged for excess and wrong billing,” Uttam alleged. The chief minister did not even visit a single flood-affected area in Greater Hyderabad. The TRS manifesto does not talk about Metro rail in Old City.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-makes-hollow-promises-dont-trust-trs-says-uttam/articleshow/79396875.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Oldest reference to Ashoka on terracotta found in Telangana||HYDERABAD: In a discovery that could push back the epigraphical and linguistic history of Telangana by a couple of centuries, researchers found a piece of terracotta with Brahmi script of the Ashoka period in the Manjira valley near Medak. This is the oldest script on terracotta with the word “devanam” to have been discovered in Telangana, authorities said. The term refers to emperor Ashoka. The researchers said it is a milestone in epigraphical discovery in Telangana and is the only evidence of “devanam” in Brahmi script on terracotta. “Our discovery may unveil the history of the Ashoka period in Telangana and India. This site where the script was discovered may precede the ancient sites of Kotalingala, Dhulikatta and Kondapur in the state,” said MA Srinivasan, researcher in history and archaeology. He told TOI that the terracotta object containing Brāhmī inscription written in Prakrit language was in characters of the 3rd century BC. This inscription reads “devanam” prefixed with a symbol of ‘nandipada’. Devanam indicates part of the title of Ashoka of Mauryan dynasty. Srinivasan and his team comprising B Shankar Reddy, B Nagaraju and N Arun Kumar discovered this terracotta antiquity on the bank of Manjira river, a tributary of Godavari river, at Kulcharam, deserted village, in Medak district. The ancient mound from where the terracotta piece was discovered is in the island formed by the two branches of river Manjira. The discovery of Brahmi script palaeographically assignable to Mauryan period on the terracotta is a rare and it is a landmark epigraphical discovery in India in general and in Telangana state. Three Buddhist label inscriptions were also found in rock shelters just a kilometre away from the site where this antiquity is found. These inscriptions are in Prakrit language and Brahmi script of first BC to first CE. T hey read as ‘Henamo Buddeya’, ‘dhama’, ‘he jama’ and are found on the rock boulders. The researchers found them after cleaning these rocks. This rock shelter has the evidences of neolithic period too. The site is spread over an area of about 100 acres and likely to yield many archaeological materials. “This discovery unveils a new chapter in the history of Telangana as this is the first time we could find such precious evidence in Manjira valley,” says Srinivasan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/oldest-reference-to-ashoka-on-terracotta-found-in-t/articleshow/79396895.cms||Syed Akbar
November 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Insights into spread of virus, coagulation, key to check deaths’||AHMEDABAD: Civil Hospital doctors have trained their focus on studying why patients are dying from post-Covid complications after recovering reasonably well from the virus. “Several patients collapse and die within a short period of their discharge. We have trained our focus on two major causes —heart attack and deep-vein thrombosis (DVT),” said Dr Kalpesh Shah, professor and head of the forensic medicine department at BJ Medical College. “During autopsy, we want to study the condition of their internal organs — such as heart, lungs, liver, and kidney — in addition to blood vessels of their calf muscles where DVT generally develops,” Dr Shah said. A separate postmortem room is created near the department with negative pressure chamber and HEPA filters according to ICMR guidelines, said the department officials. “A separate lab is established for examining the biological samples taken from organs and tissues of the body which will also be kept for extended period of time to assess the impact of the virus,” said a department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/insights-into-spread-of-virus-coagulation-key-to-check-deaths/articleshow/79396885.cms||Parth Shastri
November 25, 2020||Nashik||More positive Covid cases than recoveries for second day||NASHIK: The trend of new positive cases and recoveries of patients has reversed for the past two days in the city. The number of new cases reported daily is more than the recoveries in the city. Over the past month, the number of recoveries had been more than the new cases detected per day. The city crossed the 200-mark of new cases for the second time this month on Monday. Earlier, the city had recorded 203 cases on November 11. Otherwise, the city recorded daily cases below 200 since October 30. On Monday, 209 patients tested Covid-19 positive in the city, while 148 patients were discharged. On Sunday, 153 people tested positive and 124 patients had recovered. According to NMC officials, there has been a rise in the number of tests done due to the checks being done on teachers. Moreover, the results of many samples were pending and received on Monday The number of antigen tests has gone up from 1,000 to 1,500 per day over the last three days in the city, including both civic and private hospitals. “We have also increased the RT-PCR tests from previous 400 to 700 tests per day during the past three days,” said NMC official. Presently, NMC is sending swabs to the testing lab of Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (BAMU), Aurangabad. NMC officials said BAMU is conducting RT-PCR tests from NMC hospitals in its testing lab free of cost and they may even conduct up to 1,500 tests per day for NMC if required.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/more-positive-cases-than-recoveries-for-2nd-day/articleshow/79394553.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 25, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Poll fight is between LDF and NDA, says K Surendran||THIRUVANATHAPURAM: BJP state president K Surendran said that the Congress-led UDF has lost its vigour to oppose chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan in Kerala and as a result, the fight in election to local bodies is between CPM-led LDF and BJP-led NDA. “Congress stands decimated in national politics. It’s Indian Union Muslim League that holds the sway in UDF. Christian minority that used to put its weight behind UDF is worried over IUML’s rising prominence. The split in Kerala Congress has further wrecked UDF. There is really no difference between leaders on either side. While the LDF government is facing grave corruption charges, the leaders in the opposition too are caught in corruption charges,” Surendran told reporters in a meet-the-press programme organized by Kesari Smaraka Journalist Memorial Trust here. The stories of corruption have marred the image that Kerala is a state where corruption is relatively less compared to other states. But those things have changed now. Now, the chief minister and other ministers are facing charges one after another, he said. “This is a rare election that sees the two major political forces on their defensive mode. Corruption will be the only major factor that would influence voters and NDA will benefit from that,” Surendran claimed. The BJP leader said several questions remained unanswered in the bar bribery case. “It was a fact that crores were pooled from bar owners. Where did that money go? Pinarayi Vijayan has scuttled the bar bribery case and let off all UDF leaders off the hook. What benefit did he derive from that?” he asked. Surendran alleged that the leaders who made large amounts of money as kickbacks were investing the same in foreign countries. He said finance minister T M Thomas Isaac was plundering tax money in the name of KIIFB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/poll-fight-is-between-ldf-and-nda-says-surendran/articleshow/79395634.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Madurai||Place name boards to publicise ancient sites in state, says HC||MADURAI: Observing that though several excavations are being carried out by ASI and the state archaeology department, the Madras high court has said that due publicity is not given about these sites and monuments for people to visit. The court gave a direction to the ASI and state government to place name boards at prominent places in order to publicise them. A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi was hearing a PIL filed by S Kamaraj, a historical writer who sought for a direction to carry out excavation at the archaeological site at Korkai in Tuticorin district, on Tuesday. The judges observed that Yanaimalai is an ancient site in Madurai which is known for Jain beds and Tamil Brahmi inscriptions, however, no one knows about this site including those residing in that locality. “Advertising about ancient sites and monuments would not only attract more tourists including foreigners but it would also prevent vandalising the sites and to maintain it in a clean manner,” the judges said. Though several tourists visit Mamallapuram, nobody visits Saluvankuppam where the oldest Murugan temple was unearthed. If name boards are placed, it would attract more tourists to Saluvankuppam. The judges said that at least before the next hearing steps should be taken to set up name boards at Yanaimalai and Saluvankuppam as a pilot project. Taking cognizance of the government’s submission that it had sent a proposal to ASI to carry out excavation at Korkai, the judges sought a response from the ASI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/place-name-boards-to-publicise-ancient-sites-in-state-says-hc/articleshow/79398265.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Peddler held with cocaine in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: The enforcement team of prohibition and excise department arrested a drug peddler from Ghana and seized 61 grams of cocaine from his possession. The offender was earlier arrested in August 2020 for cocaine peddling and on November 12 he was released on bail. Acting on specific information, the excise enforcement team kept a watch near Virinchi Hospital on Road No 1, Banjara Hills and arrested the peddler, Samuel Smith Nelson, 32, of Ghana. The team seized 61 grams cocaine worth over Rs 3 lakh from his possession. During the interrogation, Samuel, a resident of Paramount Colony in Tolichowki, confessed to the excise team that he procured cocaine from Ite Igwe Iron Pot alias Felix of Mumbai. Excise sleuths had earlier arrested Samuel along with two Nigerians on August 19 in the city with six grams of cocaine. On November 12, Samuel was released from prison on bail and on November 15, he obtained cocaine from Felix. The excise team received an alert from informants about Samuel contacting them with a ready to supply code ‘hai bo happy weekend’. As Samuel was waiting near Virinchi Hospital in Banjara Hills to deliver the contraband to a prospective customer, the excise team nabbed him. The accused, along with the seized contraband, was handed over to prohibition & excise station inspector, Nampally for further investigation. Excise sleuths are analysing Samuel’s call data records to find out about his other associates in the cocaine trade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/peddler-held-with-cocaine-in-city/articleshow/79396919.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Trichy||Covid-19: South TN reports 156 cases, central districts 131||MADURAI/TRICHY: The 10 southern districts of the state on Tuesday reported 156 fresh Covid-19 cases taking the tally to 1,28,379, which include 936 active cases, 1,25,385 recoveries and 2,058 deaths. Meanwhile, in the central region, Perambalur continued without reporting any fresh cases for the second consecutive day. The other seven districts in the region recorded 131 cases taking the tally to 69,943, which include 1,106 active cases. Trichy recorded one death pushing the toll to 896. Madurai (33) reported the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the south. All other southern districts reported less than 30 fresh Covid-19 cases each. Madurai (235) and Tirunelveli (128) have the most number of active cases in the region, followed by Kanyakumari (121) and Tuticorin (113). All other districts have less than 100 active cases, with Theni (17) reporting the least number. Except for Tirunelveli (26) and Kanyakumari (24), all other districts reported less than 20 cases, while Virudhunagar (8), Ramanathapuram (4), and Tenkasi (3) reported new cases in single digits. With no new Covid-19 deaths, the death rate in the southern region remains at 1.6%. In the central region, the only active case in Perambalur was under treatment for the past couple of days. Ariyalur registered two fresh cases taking the tally to 4,537. The district has 23 active cases. Pudukottai registered seven fresh cases pushing its tally to 1,1054. Thanjavur reported 32 cases, the highest in the region, taking the tally to 16,256, which include 172n active cases. Rest of the districts reported cases between 15 and 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/covid-19-south-tn-reports-156-cases-central-districts-131/articleshow/79402289.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Kochi||Metro to Kakkanad: Decks cleared for road widening||KOCHI: Paving way for starting the widening of road prior to metro extension to Kakkanad, revenue department has almost completed land acquisition for it. The authorities plan to hand over the land parcels required for widening the road from Palarivattom to Kakkanad by mid-December. This will help in starting the widening of Palarivattom-Kakkanad road from the beginning of next year. The measures to give compensation to the land owners along the stretch are underway. “We are planning to complete the acquisition and hand over the land parcels required for the widening of the road by December 15,” an official with revenue department said. “Prior to the widening of Seaport-Airport road, an expert committee held a meeting on October 20. We are now awaiting a report from the committee,” the official said. The Union government is yet to give the final approval for the Kakkanad extension project. The state government’s plan is to go ahead with the preparatory works of metro extension to Kakkanad like road widening.  The Kakkanad extension of Kochi Metro will cover 11.17km and the cost estimated a few years ago was around Rs 2,400 crore. Given that the estimate was prepared a few years ago, the chances of cost escalation is high. Roads will have to be widened to 22 metres along the metro corridor. At least 46 shops on the Palarivattom-Kakkanad stretch will have to be pulled down, while 275 shops will have to be partially demolished. More than seven acres will have to be acquired for widening the road along the JLN Stadium-Kakkanad stretch. The 11 (1) notification prior to land acquisition along JLN Stadium-Palarivattom stretch will be published within a couple of days. The major hurdle in acquiring land along JLN Stadium-Palarivattom stretch is that the alignment stones are missing at many points. On Seaport-Airport Road, authorities have started widening of the road in the areas where land is already available. There will be 11 stations along Jawaharlal Nehru stadium-Infopark stretch. It is via Seaport-Airport road that the metro’s alignment goes to Infopark. At Chittettukara on Seaport-Airport Road, the alignment will turn to the left via four-lane highway to reach Infopark. The authorities have expedited the procedures for acquiring land for the phase I-B extension of the metro from SN Junction to Tripunithura. The revenue department has started acquisition of holdings along the stretch for the road widening. But, the requisition agency is learnt to have given request for acquiring some more land parcels for certain connected works. The last date for submitting quotations for conducting social impact assessment (SIA) studies for the land acquisition along the stretch was November 20. The land required for Vadakkekotta station will be handed over to the metro agency by November 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/metro-to-kakkanad-decks-cleared-for-road-widening/articleshow/79395614.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
November 25, 2020||Goa||After protest, Rlys ordered to stop work at Davorlim||Margao: Salcete deputy collector Jyoti Kumari on Tuesday directed Railways to stop work on double-tracking at Davorlim “until further decision is taken”. The move came after villagers protested on the grounds that the work was being carried out “illegally” and without obtaining permission from the village panchayat. Navelim MLA Luizinho Faleiro, who accompanied the villagers at the site of the protest, questioned Kumari over the villagers’ accusations that the work was being carried out in private lands without the property being acquired for the work. Kumari pointed out that that while in most cases land was acquired and the owners compensated, in the rest, the process is still under way. “I told her that whether or not the land is acquired, the Railways have not taken permission from the local panchayat,” Faleiro said. “Secondly, there is an agitation, and therefore the work has to be stopped. So she told them to stop the work till further notice,” Faleiro told reporters. The Navelim MLA also told the deputy collector not to deploy heavy police force and file FIRs against villagers “as it sends a wrong message”. “I told her to withdraw the police cases filed against them, have a dialogue with the people and settle the issue. Under any circumstances, no coal will be allowed to be transported, as far as I am concerned,” he said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-protest-rlys-ordered-to-stop-work-at-davorlim/articleshow/79398266.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 25, 2020||Madurai||Kanyakumari MCH best-performing SNCU||KANYAKUMARI: The Kanyakumari Government Medical College Hospital, Asaripallam, has been awarded as the top performer in the state for its special newborn care unit (SNCU) for the year 2019-2020 by the National Health Mission – Tamil Nadu. Around 1,300 to 1,500 newborn babies are treated for any illness or medical condition, including premature birth, neonatal respiratory syndrome or infectious diseases at the 28-bedded SNCU ward in the hospital every year. “All neonatal cases are challenging to handle. This year, the census was higher than usual due to the Covid-19 pandemic and we had to handle Covid-19 positive pregnant women as well. It has been additionally challenging but we are providing the best treatment we can. Our success rate last year was 96.8%,” said Dr Ramesh Kumar, nodal officer, department of neonatology, Kanyakumari MCH. He added that the hospital has various life-saving equipment like ventilators for newborns, continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) machine, warmer with phototherapy etc. Bedside ultrasonography and echocardiography is also facilitated within the ward. Foetal counselling is also provided to ante-natal mothers if the babies have any birth defects. More than 85% of newborn babies weighing below 1.5kg have made full recovery and discharged at the hospital. Screening for retinopathy of prematurity (ROP) in newborn babies and pneumococcal vaccination is also done at the unit. As many as 73 newborn babies born from Covid-19 positive mothers were successfully treated and discharged at the SNCU as well, a statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/kanyakumari-mch-best-performing-sncu/articleshow/79398761.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 25, 2020||Madurai||Covid-19: South TN reports 156 cases, central districts 131||MADURAI/TRICHY: The 10 southern districts of the state on Tuesday reported 156 fresh Covid-19 cases taking the tally to 1,28,379, which include 936 active cases, 1,25,385 recoveries and 2,058 deaths. Meanwhile, in the central region, Perambalur continued without reporting any fresh cases for the second consecutive day. The other seven districts in the region recorded 131 cases taking the tally to 69,943, which include 1,106 active cases. Trichy recorded one death pushing the toll to 896. Madurai (33) reported the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the south. All other southern districts reported less than 30 fresh Covid-19 cases each. Madurai (235) and Tirunelveli (128) have the most number of active cases in the region, followed by Kanyakumari (121) and Tuticorin (113). All other districts have less than 100 active cases, with Theni (17) reporting the least number. Except for Tirunelveli (26) and Kanyakumari (24), all other districts reported less than 20 cases, while Virudhunagar (8), Ramanathapuram (4), and Tenkasi (3) reported new cases in single digits. With no new Covid-19 deaths, the death rate in the southern region remains at 1.6%. In the central region, the only active case in Perambalur was under treatment for the past couple of days. Ariyalur registered two fresh cases taking the tally to 4,537. The district has 23 active cases. Pudukottai registered seven fresh cases pushing its tally to 1,1054. Thanjavur reported 32 cases, the highest in the region, taking the tally to 16,256, which include 172n active cases. Rest of the districts reported cases between 15 and 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/covid-19-south-tn-reports-156-cases-central-districts-131/articleshow/79398762.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Nashik||Driver, assistant get minor injuries in 5-truck collision||Nashik: A driver and his assistant sustained minor injuries when five trucks collided with each other on the Indiranagar flyover on the Mumbai-Agra highway at 6am on Tuesday. According to the fire brigade officials, the trucks were moving towards Dhule when one driver allegedly lost control over his vehicle and rammed the truck into the road divider on the flyover. Since the other four trucks were following closely behind, they ended up colliding with one another. Officials of the fire brigade said that a motorist called the Cidco fire department and two vehicles were rushed to the spot. A fireman from the headquarters said that the driver, who was in the last truck, could not come out as his leg was stuck in the vehicle. It took the rescue team over an hour to remove the mesh and free the driver. Meanwhile, the assistant escaped with minor injuries. The driver has been identified as Karan Gamle, while his assistant is Krishna Kanojia said officials of the fire brigade. Both the driver and his assistant suffered minor injuries and were taken to the hospital for treatment. Fire officials said that there was not much rush of vehicles on the flyover at the time of the accident. The road was finally cleared two hours later, said fire brigade personnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/driver-assistant-get-minor-injuries-in-5-truck-collision/articleshow/79394570.cms||Santosh Sonawane
November 25, 2020||Hyderabad||2 inter-state offenders nabbed||Hyderabad: The Special Operation Team (SOT) of Balanagar zone on Tuesday arrested an inter-state property offender and his associate for committing seven offences in the city, from Gurgaon near Delhi recently. Cops recovered 36 tola gold and two country-made firearms from their possession. The accused are Faheem alias ATM, 35, and Mursaleem, 39, both glass cutting workers from Gurgaon. Cyberabad commissioner V C Sajjanar said the accused had committed seven burglaries in Alwal, Medchal, Chandanagar, Raidurgam and Ameenpur since 2017. The commissioner said the gang travels in four-wheeler to recee a house in isolated areas and they frequently change number plates. Police arrested the accused from Sohna in Gurgaon on November 21 and seized two country-made firearms, 36 tola gold, 36 grams silver, three watches, 12 cell phones and Rs 30,000 cash. The accused were brought to city and remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-inter-state-offenders-nabbed/articleshow/79396927.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Nashik||Comorbidity cells to come up in civil and rural hospitals||Nashik: The possibility of a second wave of Covid-19 in the city has prompted the district health department to set up comorbidity cells at all the rural and sub-district hospitals as well as the Nashik civil hospital to check and provide treatment to patients with co-morbidities. Surgeon at Nashik civil hospital Ratna Raokhande said setting up comorbidity cells was one of the many precautionary measures issued by the state government as part of the guidelines to control the spread of the infection. “Those having comorbid conditions are at a risk of contracting Covid-19 faster than other people. Hence, the comorbidity cells have been set up at the district medical centres under Nashik civil hospital to check for people with comorbidities and provide them necessary treatment,” said Raokhande. This programme is being implemented under the Non-Communicable Disease Control programme. People having diseases like asthma, blood pressure, diabetes, etc can visit the rural, sub-district and Nashik civil hospital and get themselves checked.The district health department will also be spreading awareness on the importance of observing safety protocols to prevent the spread of the infection and on the need to visit the nearest government hospital and get oneself tested should anyone experience any of the symptoms associated with the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/comorbidity-cells-to-come-up-in-civil-and-rural-hospitals/articleshow/79394582.cms||Santosh Sonawane
November 25, 2020||Hyderabad||3 bike thieves held in Pahadishareef||Hyderabad: Pahadishareef police on Tuesday arrested Shaik Habeeb, 24, from Kothapet, Mohammad Nayeem Qureshi, 26, from Jalpally, and Mohammad Asif Qureshi, 24, from Pahadishareef. The trio used to work at meat stores and as their income was not sufficient to take care of their families, decided to steal bikes. During the past few months, the trio stole 10 bikes from Meerpet, Vanasthalipuram, Santosh Nagar, LB Nagar and Pahadesharif areas. By analysing CCTV camera footage, Pahadishareef police identified the accused and arrested them on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3-bike-thieves-held-in-pahadishareef/articleshow/79396949.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Pune||Woman suffers burns in suspected acid attack in Pune||PUNE: An 18-year-old air-conditioning mechanic was arrested late on Monday night on the charge of causing burn injuries to a young woman from his locality in Parvatigaon by throwing an inflammable chemical on her face the same day. A senior doctor at the Sassoon General Hospital, where the woman is undergoing treatment, said, “The victim has suffered 7% burn injuries, mostly on her face. Her condition is stable and she will recover.” The Dattawadi police have collected a sample of the liquid chemical used in the crime and sent it to a forensic laboratory for analysis. The police have registered an offence under Section 326-A (punishment for acid attack) of the Indian Penal code against the arrested youngster. Senior inspector Ram Rajmane of the Dattawadi police told TOI, “The youth and the woman, both Standard XII passouts hailing from families of casual workers, knew each other from their childhood as they grew up in the same locality. The youth wanted the woman to marry him, but in June this year, her family married her off to another person in Kasba Peth. The youth had since been nursing a grudge on her.” The officer said, “On November 21, the woman came to her parents’ home on a vacation. Taking this opportunity, the youth asked her to meet him near a local school around 8.30am on Monday. The two met and were having a chat when the youth broached the issue of her marriage and why she could not have a relationship with him.” Rajmane said the woman then told him to stay away from her and to never contact her again. “Enraged by this, the youth pulled out a bottle containing some chemical liquid and threw it on her face. The woman immediately used a piece of cloth to wipe the chemical, but it caused burn injuries on her,” the senior inspector said. Late on Monday night, the police arrested the youth. “We suspect, the youth brought an inflammatory chemical, which is used to clean air-conditioning units, for throwing it on the victim’s face,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/woman-suffers-burns-in-suspected-acid-attack/articleshow/79396979.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Hubballi||Will Vijayanagara help revive G Janardhana Reddy’s career?||BALLARI: The state government’s decision to carve out new Vijayanagara district from Ballari may help troubled mining baron G Janardhana Reddy restart his political career near his home turf. This is the view in political circles. Reddy, who is named in an illegal mining case, faces certain curbs that keep him away from Ballari district. While granting him bail in 2015, the Supreme Court had said that he cannot visit Ballari district or Andhra’s Kadapa region. In the run-up to the 2018 assembly elections, the court rejected his request that he be allowed to campaign for BJP in Ballari. Last year, it allowed him to stay in the district for two weeks to attend to his ailing father-in-law. The formation of Vijayanagara may open some possibilities for Reddy, who may consider contesting the next assembly elections from a constituency there, say political observers and people close to him. But this will be subject to the court’s view on the matter. The probable taluks for new Vijayanagara district are Hospet, Kampli, Hagaribommanahalli, Kottur, Hadagali and Harapppanahalli. Activist Raghavendra Kushtagi, who fought a legal battle against Reddy and his brother over mining activities, said Reddy had tried to make a political comeback before. “But he could not as we built a watertight case,” Kushtagi said. SR Hiremath, one of the petitioners in the mining case, he would be the first person to challenge Reddy’s candidature in the court if he tried to contest polls in the region. Senior Supreme Court lawyer Prashant Bhushan cited the bail order, saying Reddy cannot contest elections in Ballari. The state government may have decided to divide the district, but when the order was issued, it was one region and the court would it the same way. Bengaluru-based lawyer BT Venkatesh believes that formation of Vijayanagara could raise new questions. “The bail order will be open for interpretation. If it is interpreted that Vijayanagara is not connected to Ballari, then Reddy could take a political plunge. But if the court believes the region is the same as before, when the order was passed, then he won’t be able to,” Venkatesh said. Reddy refused to comment on any issue related to the new district and its ramifications.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/will-vijayanagara-help-revive-reddys-career/articleshow/79394589.cms||Shreyas HS
November 25, 2020||Pune||Leafy veggie prices crash in Pune, few takers for Egypt onions||PUNE: The prices of leafy vegetables like fenugreek, coriander and spinach have crashed in the wholesale market in the city, following excess supply. Besides, onions imported from Egypt have met with poor demand from consumers owing to their taste and durability. Datta Kalamkar, head of the vegetables section of the Pune marketyard, said during this time of the year, the rates of all vegetables, including those leafy, crash due to less demand in the market. “For the last couple of days, we are getting around 2.5 lakh bunches of leafy vegetables, the supply which is in excess for the city,” Kalamkar said. The weather conditions have also been conducive for all vegetables, leading to better yield. “Super quality coriander was sold in the range of Rs 1-3, fenugreek (methi) Rs 3-5 and spinach Rs 3-5 in the today’s open auction at the marketyard. We are getting them from Solapur, Ahmednagar and Pune district in large quantities,” Kalamkar said. The customers, however, are getting little benefit from the price fall as a bunch of coriander, fenugreek and spinach is being sold in the range of Rs 7-15. These rates vary locality wise, said traders and wholesalers of the marketyard. Vishrantwadi resident Manisha Thite said, “I am still paying Rs 10 for a bunch of coriander and Rs 12 for fenugreek. The common man seldom gets the benefit of the price fall in the wholesale market.” As for the imported onions, Babasaheb Bibwe, head of the onion and potato section at the Gultekdi marketyard, said, “The imported onion tastes different, gets wet and perishes early as compared to the domestically grown onion.” “We got about 60 tonnes of imported onion, which was sold at Rs30-40 per kg in the wholesale market compared to the Rs45-50 per kg price drawn by the domestic onion,” he said. “Only hotels and restaurant owners are purchasing the imported onion in bulk to meet their demand,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/leafy-veggie-prices-crash-few-takers-for-egypt-onions/articleshow/79396997.cms||Sandip Dighe
November 25, 2020||Kochi||Factional feud intensifies in Congress in Thrissur||Thrissur: Factional feud in the district unit of Congress has intensified with senior ‘A’ group leader and former minister K P Viswanathan launching an open attack against the DCC president and ‘I’ group leader M P Vincent over the selection of candidates for local body elections. Talking to the media here on Tuesday, Viswanathan alleged that the DCC president had selected some candidates arbitrarily, after succumbing to ‘different temptations’. The list approved through consultations earlier was neglected and Vincent announced candidates without following any norms. The group equations have been subverted, Viswanathan alleged. The DCC president, however, denied the allegations and said that the candidates were selected based on the chances of electoral victories. He said leaders like Viswanathan were consulted before finalizing candidates, and if he has issues the DCC was willing to hold discussions again with him. On the presence of party rebel candidates in several local bodies, the DCC president said this was not very unusual in Congress, and this time it was not very extensive. The DCC will try to persuade the rebels to withdraw from the elections. Those who are adamant will be expelled from the party, Vincent said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/factional-feud-intensifies-in-congress-in-thrissur/articleshow/79395653.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Chennai||Nivar Cyclone in Chennai: We shall weather this too||CHENNAI: By the time you read this, the way may have risen outside your house. It will be prudent to stay indoors for a day or two as cyclonic storm Nivar, which formed over Bay of Bengal on Tuesday morning, is strengthening into a very severe cyclonic storm on Wednesday with wind speeds likely to touch 145kmph when it makes landfall near Puducherry later in the evening. Strong winds and inclement weather are likely to shut down the city with most transport facilities grounded. Power supply may get disrupted, trees may be uprooted or damaged, and rain may flood streets and subways. Nivar is likely to be stronger than Vardah, which made landfall closer to Chennai in December 2016 with wind speed of 110kmph. The cyclonic storm over southwest Bay of Bengal moved westwards at a speed of 5kmph during past six hours and lay centred at 5.30pm about 320 km east-southeast of Cuddalore, about 350km southeast of Puducherry and 410 km east southeast of Chennai. It is very likely to intensify further into a severe cyclonic storm during the next six hours and into a very severe cyclonic storm during subsequent 12 hours. “It is very likely to cross Tamil Nadu and Puducherry coasts between Karaikal and Mamallapuram near Puducherry during November 25 late evening as a very severe cyclonic storm with a wind speed of 120-130kmph gusting to 145 kmph,” the agency said. S Balachandran, deputy director general, IMD, said, “Only the strength of the system has changed. Its track and landfall location are the same.” IMD officials said the exact track of the cyclone and the time of landfall could be ascertained only around 24 hours before landfall during which the intensity of the storm may change. Rainfall activity is likely to pick up in most parts of the state with the intensity increasing during the day and later in the evening. IMD has forecast heavy to very heavy rainfall in Chennai, Chengalpet, Tiruvallur, Kanchipuram, Ranipet, Vellore, Tirupathur, Krishnagiri, Dharmapuri, Salem, Erode, Namakkal, Trichy, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam and Karaikal. Extremely heavy rainfall is likely over Thiruvannamalai, Villupuram, Kallakurichi, Cuddalore, Mayiladuthurai, Ariyalur and Perumbalur -- districts closer to the landfall location. During the landfall, power supply is likely to be cut off in several areas, said Tangedco officials. The corporation has kept 18 portable high-mast lights on standby to be installed at prominent locations to light up streets. To tackle the aftermath, the corporation has readied excavators, more than 100 heavy trucks, two amphibian vehicles, 371 power saws and eight hydraulic saws, and 130 generators that are capable of running for 24 hours. Transport is expected to be skeletal. Southern Railway has cancelled 14 pairs of trains starting from and bound to Chennai and partially cancelled 11 mail or express trains on Wednesday. Suburban train services are cancelled in the city from 10am on Wednesday until further notice. (With inputs from Srikkanth D)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/we-shall-weather-this-too/articleshow/79397009.cms||U Tejonmayam
November 25, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata to relive Soumitra Chatterjee memory in December tribute||KOLKATA: At a very private ceremony on Tuesday, Soumitra Chatterjee’s wife Deepa and son Sougata performed their prayer service at the Sree Chaitanya Gaudiya Math. The rituals were conducted in the presence of a select few family members. A bigger memorial service titled ‘Naamjibon’, to be attended by 200 guests, will be held on December 5 at Rabindra Sadan where celebrities will come together for an evening of songs, sonnets and smiles, cherishing the myriad memories that have been “integral to the life and legacy” of the legend. According to Chatterjee’s daughter Poulami, her theatre group ‘Shyambazar Mukhomukhi’ will be presenting this two-and-a-half-hour-long programme at Rabindra Sadan. A card is being designed by Ekta Creative Tales that will include his sketch. “For the card, my cousin, Shromona (Ghosh) has summed up the occasion and written: ‘Not to mourn but to celebrate/Not to cry but to memories liberate/Not to sigh but words of love, whisper/So it may blow in the wind, forever’. Srijato has penned the lines in Bengali,” she said. The idea of the evening is not to capture the legend’s life. Rather, it will be about sharing his memories and celebrating his passions. Apart from the legend’s wife, son and daughter, others who will speak on the occasion include Prosenjit Chattopadhyay, Arindam Ganguly, Bratya Basu, Soumitra Mitra, Srijato, Srikanta Acharya, Srabani Sen, Lopamudra Mitra, Suman Mukhopadhyay, Koushik Sen, Debshankar Haldar, Atanu Ghosh, Biswajit Chakraborty, Gautam Bhattacharya, Anindya Chattopadhyay, Upal Sengupta, Sohan Bandyopadhyay and Sujoy Prosad Chatterjee. His doctors — Sunip Banerjee and Arindam Kar — have also been invited to speak on the occasion. It is no secret that Chatterjee has often found solace in Tagore and his songs. Songs like “Amare tumi oshesh korecho emoni leela tobo”, “Prano bhoriye trisha horiye” and “Jhor jhor borishe bari dhara” were his personal favourites. “Though the list of songs that will be performed hasn’t yet been decided, Srikanto, Srabani, Rupankar, Lopamudra and Arindam will perform on the occasion,” his daughter said. For those who can’t attend the memorial, the programme will be live-streamed on a giant screen near Ektara Mancha. Meanwhile, his daughter has quit social media because of the ruthless trolling she has been subjected to in the recent past. “A WhatsApp message was going around saying my mother is dead and we have kept the news hidden. Some people have even tried to send me money. This is just not done. In disgust, I asked a lady to send me her bank account so that I can send monetary help instead. Some have questioned why I had sent my father to work during the pandemic and then written on Facebook asking people not to come over at home to offer their condolence because I feared Covid infection. I don’t know what to say to such attacks,” she said. The allegations have hurt the entire family. “My social media account was an extension of my professional life. I might return to social media a couple of months later when I am feeling stronger. As of now, I wish to heal my way,” she concluded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kol-to-relive-soumitra-memory-in-dec-tribute/articleshow/79395650.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
November 25, 2020||Kochi||An ‘independent’ ward member for 15 years in Udayamperoor||UDAYAMPEROOR: An independent candidate has been representing two wards in Udayamperoor panchayat for last 15 years without the support of any political party. Anilkumar M K represented ward 2 from 2005 to 2010, ward 19 from 2010 to 2015 and again ward 2 in 2015 to 2020 in the panchayat. He is now trying for his fourth term from ward 19 in the same local body. It was in 2005 that Anilkumar started his social service by winning the local body election from ward 2 as an independent candidate. “Then my election symbol was ‘television’,” recalls the member. After serving the people of his ward, where he lived in his ancestral house, he was forced to change to ward 19 as ward 2 was reserved for women in 2010. In his third term, in the last election 2015, Anilkumar came back to ward 2 from where he won the election by a margin of 462 votes. In 2015 elections, the other five opposing candidates all together could secure only lesser votes than his winning margin of 462. Besides three candidates from LDF, UDF and NDA, the opposing parties also fielded two dummies with the same name, Anilkumar. Yet he got a total of 720 votes from the polled 1,200 votes. “As an independent member of the panchayat, I am bound to stand and fight for the day-to-day needs of the people residing in my ward,” he said. “I don’t have an obligation to any political ideologies, which enabled me to act like a member of more than 600 families in my ward..”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/an-independent-ward-member-for-15-yrs/articleshow/79395656.cms||Sivadas Varma
November 25, 2020||Madurai||HC lauds Tamil Nadu govt, governor for banning online gambling||MADURAI: The Madras high court on Tuesday appreciated the state government and the governor for promulgating an ordinance to ban online gambling in the state. A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi was hearing a public interest litigation filed by S Muthukumar, an advocate who sought to ban online rummy and other online gambling games and also sought to frame appropriate law and rules to prohibit online gambling.  Additional advocate general M Sricharan Rangarajan submitted that the governor had promulgated an ordinance to ban online gambling games. He submitted that liability has been fixed on such companies. Taking cognizance of the submissions, the court lauded the state and the governor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-lauds-state-govt-governor-for-banning-online-gambling/articleshow/79398273.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Pune||One-year-old kidnapped in Hadapsar, search on||PUNE: The police are investigating a complaint of kidnapping lodged by a woman after her one-year-old son went missing from their makeshift home in Hadapsar early on Monday. Police said the parents of the boy, Kartik Nilesh Kale, were from Indapur and sell small articles, toys and seek alms from motorists at traffic junctions. They sleep under the flyover at night. The boy disappeared from the makeshift dwelling under the Hadapsar Gadital flyover when the rest of the family was asleep. As per the complaint, lodged by mother Sharmili Kale (22), unidentified person(s) came to their home around 5am, picked up her son and walked away. “We are searching the area for anyone involved in the kidnapping of the boy, but so far, we have not found any clues. We are also studying the CCTV footage from the various establishments in the area,” senior inspector Balkrushna Kadam of Hadapsar police station said. In the afternoon, police also received information stating that two women were seen with a baby boy in the area. Police were also trying to locate these two women, the senior inspector further said. This was the second such incident in Hadapsar in the past four days. On November 20, the police had arrested a 35-year-old Manjari resident for kidnapping a four-month-old girl from an eatery on November 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/one-year-old-kidnapped-in-hadapsar-search-on/articleshow/79397014.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Delhi||Make bio-decomposers must for all states: Gopal Rai to panel||NEW DELHI: Environment minister Gopal Rai on Tuesday said Delhi government had submitted a petition to the Commission for Air Quality Management describing the successful implementation of the bio-decomposer developed by Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI) to stop stubble burning. “If we look at the Nasa images, we will find that stubble burning in the neighbouring states of Haryana and Punjab have increased significantly. We also know that Covid-19 is a kind of disease that affects the lungs of people. In the amalgamation of the increasing number of stubble burning cases, the pollution and Covid situations in Delhi are also becoming very critical,” Rai said. The commission should make this technique mandatory for all states, including Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan, he added. The government has submitted the data prepared by IARI to the commission, the minister said. “In Delhi, we have around 2,000 acre where non-Basmati rice is harvested and the bio-decomposer was sprinkled in this whole area. We have found that nearly 90 to 95% of the stubble got converted into manure within 15 to 20 days.” Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and Delhi government officials had regularly monitored the situation, he added. “We had set up a 15-member committee to monitor and assess its effect and submitted the findings to the panel.” Rai said as the technique developed manure from stubble, it improved the quality of the land. Though the Centre gives subsidy to farmers to buy machines, they avoid buying them to save the money, he said. If all states adopt the bio-decomposing technique, the sprinkling of the solution “can happen in half the price”, he added. The minister said they were hopeful that the commission would take cognisance of the government’s request and stubble burning problem would go away from next year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rai-to-panel-make-bio-decomposers-must-for-all-states/articleshow/79397015.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Pune||Pune: Cornea from diseased eye saves man’s vision||PUNE: An end-stage retinal condition left Purushottam blind in the left eye 40 years ago. Since then, the septuagenarian has been managing his life with vision from the right eye. That too was robbed a month ago. While pruning trees on his Osmanabad-based farm, a branch snapped, and a sharp edge hit his right eye, tearing off the cornea, and he was diagnosed with trauma-induced corneal ulcer. Purushottam had no vision for the next two weeks. He needed an urgent corneal transplant and was referred to Sai Surya Netra Seva, an eye hospital in Ahmednagar in the last week of October. In ordinary times, finding a donor cornea for an emergency transplant is not difficult, say experts. But, with eye donations a low in this pandemic, none of the eye banks had a single corneal tissue available for the emergency transplant. The hospital's eye surgeon then took the functional cornea of Purushottam's left eye to replace the damaged right cornea. The surgery, called autologous corneal transplant, is rare. “Unlike solid organs, corneal tissue is drawn from the deceased. In this case, a living person’s own cornea was retrieved and transplanted into his other eye to save his vision,” the hospital's senior eye surgeon Prakash Kankariya told TOI. In cases with corneal perforations, eye surgeons perform an emergency corneal transplant immediately. “We tried to treat Purushottam for two days. We frantically looked for a donor corneal tissue with many eye banks but were unsuccessful,” Kankariya said. The hospital’s eye bank usually gets corneal tissue for such emergency transplants, but the donations have dropped to less than 1% of pre-Covid period in Maharashtra, he added. “There was no immediate donor cornea in any eye bank in Ahmednagar and the adjoining districts,” he said. Optic atrophy had affected the optic nerve in Purushottam’s left eye which carries impulses from the retina to the brain. “The back of his eye (retina) had a problem, but the cornea in front was fine. Purushottam's left eye cornea, upon assessment, was found to have a functional nerve,” Kankariya added. After Kankariya performed the autologous contralateral corneal transplant, it took three weeks to heal. “I have gained useful vision. The surgery spared me the perils of living a blind and dependent life, “ Purushottam said. An autologous corneal transplant does not entail failure due to tissue-rejection. Besides, it does not require prolonged use of steroid drops and immunosuppressive (anti-rejection drug) tablets needed in corneal grafts, Kankariya added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cornea-from-diseased-eye-saves-mans-vision/articleshow/79397011.cms||Umesh Isalkar
November 25, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata activist to move NGT over stubble-burning||KOLKATA: Environment activist Subhas Dutta plans to move NGT over the stubble burning issue in New Town and parts of Salt Lake, which is deteriorating the already poor air quality in these areas as winter sets in. Stubble burning has become a major environmental concern for New Town with several cases being reported in the township in the past few weeks. The matter first came to notice a month ago when a few Red Munia birds were killed and their nest gutted as a result of stubble burning on a plot opposite Eco Park. The number of cases is said to have come down after local residents, along with volunteers engaged by the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) as resistance groups, kept an eye out and reported to the police when they saw similar incidents. However, stubble burning continues in certain pockets in Action Areas II and III. “There has been fewer incidents in New Town in the last few days, but they need to be completely stopped. We are keeping an eye on the matter and communicating with the police,” said Samaresh Das, chairperson of New Town Forum and News (NTFN), a local NGO. NTFN has formed a vigilance team to keep tabs on the issue. According to the reading conducted by a private agency with PM 2.5 as the main pollutant, the air quality index (AQI) level in New Town stood at 175 around 8pm on Monday. It increased to a severe level of almost 500 close to midnight. “We had caught the attention of the pollution control board over the issue of stubble burning when it was happening in Nadia last year. This has now become a regular affair. We are now receiving complaints from several places. The PCB should come up with alternative measures to stop this nuisance,” said Naba Dutta, secretary of Sabuj Mancha. “As a regulatory authority, we already have a standing order on this issue. Stubble burning is a punishable offence. We will further look into the matter,” said West Bengal Pollution Control Board (WBPCB) chairman Kalyan Rudra. NKDA, on its part, has taken a number of steps to curb the nuisance. Notice boards have been put up on plots, drone surveillance is being carried out and volunteers on bikes are keeping an eye out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/activist-to-move-ngt-over-stubble-burning/articleshow/79395660.cms||Suman Chakraborti
November 25, 2020||Pune||Pune: New wholesale market to come up by 2024||PUNE: Two city-based construction/real estate firms have embarked on the construction of a sprawling new wholesale market to cater to Pune and its surrounding districts. The market will come up near the existing APMC market in Bibvewadi. Work on the market —- dubbed Maha Trade Market — which started earlier this year before being suspended due to the pandemic has restarted and is expected to the completed by 2024, the promoters said. The promoters — Solitaire and the Jairaj group — said they have already booked more than 750 spaces at the facility that is expected to host 2,000-plus outlets. Calling it the “largest wholesale trade market” in the state, the developers expect a daily footfall of 70,000. While having these many people in a closed premises may spark concern, even if Covid-19 is largely expected be well under control by 2024, the developers said they were designing the premises for a post-pandemic world, replete with an indoor air-filtration system and multiple wide entrances. “Largely, wholesale markets in India do not have good security, sanitization, adequate parking, or loading and unloading facilities, and shops are spread around. At Maha Trade Market, five closely located zones will house nine different trades and a hundred-plus sub-trades — foodgrain, hardware and furniture, fabrics, accessories, gold, office supplies, surgicals, etc,” Pankaj Ojha, Solitaire director, said. He added that they would provide parking space for more than 6,000 vehicles, as well as wide and clean loading and unloading areas. “Because the land is on a marked incline, the vehicles will be able to park on the same level as the shop they want to visit,” Ojha further said. Ojha said the preparatory work and construction was on schedule despite the pandemic, and expects the number of books to increase over the course of next year. “There has been a lot of interest among traders in the city, as the Maha Trade Market will be close to the existing wholesale market in Bibvewadi. There has also been interest from traders from Aurangabad and Ahmednagar,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/new-wholesale-market-to-come-up-by-2024/articleshow/79397001.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covaxin arrives in city for clinical trials||Ahmedabad: The first batch of Covaxin, the indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine by Bharat Biotech, arrived in Ahmedabad on Tuesday evening. The stock is kept at a special facility in Sola Civil Hospital. The officials associated with the project said that the trials would entail 1,000 volunteers and will continue for one year. Vanraj Vanzara, additional secretary (health), told TOI that the vaccine arrived in a special flight. “The team of Bharat Biotech and ICMR will train the local doctors will be conducting the trial which are expected to start in next seven to ten days,” he said. The vaccine trial has got ethical and scientific committee nod, said the hospital authorities. Dr Parul Bhatt, professor and head of medicine department at Sola Civil Hospital, said that they have already identified several volunteers. “Others will soon be selected. Each of the volunteer will be given two shots – one on day zero, and another 30 days after the first shot. They would be periodically reviewed through telephonic interviews, and their medical examination will take place on monthly basis,” said Dr Bhatt, who is also principal investigator of the clinical trial. “Only the healthy persons would be part of the initiative. The trial would last for 12 months.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covaxin-arrives-in-city-for-clinical-trials/articleshow/79397020.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Pune||14 hutments gutted in fire at Lohiyanagar||PUNE: A total of 14 dwellings were reduced to ashes in a fire that broke out around 10.20pm on Monday at Lohiyanagar in Bhawani Peth. A fire brigade official said no one was injured. The fire brigade deployed five fire fighting tenders and two tankers to bring the blaze under control by around midnight. There was panic in the locality as a couple of gas cylinders exploded because of the fire.Pune fire brigade chief Prashant Ranpise, fire station officer Ramesh Gangat and fire station duty officer Prakash Gore rushed to the spot with 30 firemen. Gore said, “The cause of the fire is being ascertained. The fire broke out in a cardboard manufacturing unit at Fakir Gulli. At first, children, women and gas cylinders were taken out of the houses, which were engulfed in the flames.” Officers from Khadak police station also rushed to the spot. A fight broke out among the locals where three men suffered injuries. Police said the men wanted to salvage as much as they could from their homes, which resulted in scuffle among them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/14-hutments-gutted-in-fire-at-lohiyanagar/articleshow/79397017.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Pune||Cops cuff abusive bootlegger in Pune||PUNE: A 32-year-old man was arrested on Monday on the charge of abusing police personnel who caught him while he was illegally selling country-made liquor in Pimpri. The Pimpri police have seized 35 litres of liquor from Vishnu Sul of Pimpri. Sul has six cases of bootlegging registered against him with different police stations in Pimpri Chinchwad. “Sul was caught in the early hours of Monday while selling country-made liquor at Niradharnagar in Pimpri. We recovered 34 litres of liquor worth Rs2,500 from him. While he was being taken into custody, Sul started to abuse the police personnel on the spot. He also pushed a constable and attempted to beat him up,” an officer from the Pimpri police said, adding that Sul was arrested under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-cuff-abusive-bootlegger/articleshow/79397019.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Kochi||A polling booth for just 37 voters in Pachakanam||IDUKKI: A booth set up at the anganwadi building in Pachakanam, inside the Periyar Tiger Reserve (PTR), under Kumily panchayat in the district has a very few number of voters. The booth is set up wherein only 37 votes will be cast. Thekkady, which is ward 11 of Kumily panchayat, is the biggest panchayat ward by area size in the state. However, according to officials, there are only 830 voters in Thekkady ward. Kumily panchayat secretary Senkumar told TOI, “We have completed arrangements for the Pachakkanam booth inside the forest. Water and power availability will be arranged in the booth. As per the new voters list, only 37 person will cast their votes in Pachakkanam booth.” “Normally, only five to six people cast their votes in the booth. Mobile network or any other means of communication are not available in Pachakkanam,” he added. At a meeting held in Kumily last week, chief election commissioner Teeka Ram Meena said that the election commission will provide satellite phone and ham radio facilities in the remote booths of the district. In Mannakudy under Thekkady ward, 590 of the total 830 voters belong to the Mannan tribe. During the last elections, a candidate from there was elected to the Thekkady ward. In the last Parliament elections, 28 persons were on the voter’s list in Pachakkanam anganwadi booth. But only four persons —two men and two women— had cast their votes. Three polling officials had also cast their votes in the booth. According to officials, the voters under Pachakkanam booth are Tamil Nadu native plantation workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/a-polling-booth-for-just-37-voters/articleshow/79395671.cms||Sandeep Thomas
November 25, 2020||Kolkata||PCB plans new AQI station to monitor toxic fumes at Dhapa||KOLKATA: The West Bengal Pollution Control Board (WBPCB) will very shortly put up a continuous ambient air quality monitoring station (CAAQMS) near Dhapa — the city’s landfill site — to keep an eye on the pollution level on a real-time basis and take remedial measures. Besides, WBPCB has already deployed two fire-tenders to douse flames in the mountain of garbage. Reacting to the series of TOI reports on Dhapa waste burning, WBPCB chairman Kalyan Rudra said: “We are setting up a CAAQMS on the Leather complex campus to monitor the air quality on a real-time basis. We have closed all illegal leather burning units in the vicinity. The fire-tenders have started working 24X7. So some qualitative difference is expected.” According to a WBPCB officer, the CAAQMS will serve dual purpose of monitoring the air quality of Dhapa as well as the leather manufacturing units. There has been no air-quality monitoring station in and around EM Bypass, where the fulcrum of city growth has shifted. Earlier, a CAAQMS was supposed to come at Science City, but eventually WBPCB had to retreat for non-availability of an appropriate spot. The fire at Dhapa, a never-ending blaze, is self sustained by continuous supply of methane, a highly flammable gas produced from the tonnes of garbage. Around 4,500 tonnes of municipal wastes get dumped daily even though the site has exceeded its saturation level a decade ago. “The problem with Dhapa is that assorted wastes are on fire. It produces toxic chemicals that trigger chain reactions in our body with long-term health issues,” said professor Amitava Bandyopadhyay, an expert. WBPCB is also deploying two more fire-tenders at the Pramod Nagar dumpyard on the northern fringe of the city, where five civic bodies dump their wastes. “The landfill site there gives us similar nightmarish experience. The smoke from the dump site affects the air quality of a vast area in north Kolkata. The smoke is certainly one of the reasons why the CAAQMS at Rabindra Bharati University always gives scary stats. The wind flow — from north to south — carries the particulate matter to large areas of north Kolkata, said a senior WBPCB scientist. Thermal inversion in winter, which is already at play, slows down vertical wind movement due to lower radiative temperature on the surface. This causes slower dispersal of pollutants in the air. Toxic elements of waste burning thus hang longer in the lower strata of the atmosphere, forcing us to breathe in poison, explained environmentalist Sudipto Bhattacharya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pcb-plans-new-aqi-station-to-monitor-toxic-fumes-at-dhapa/articleshow/79395668.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
November 25, 2020||Delhi||SDMC to install solar plants in 200 buildings||NEW DELHI: To save energy, reduce electricity bills and generate revenue from its own resources, South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) plans to tie-up with National Thermal Power Corporation Limited (NTPC) for installing solar plants on over 200 buildings, including maternity centres, zonal offices, parking lots and school buildings. The proposal was approved at a standing committee meeting on Tuesday, which included signing a memorandum of understanding with NTPC for installing solar rooftop PV and solar ground-mounted plants. NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam Limited will be responsible for the project design, supply, erection, commissioning, operation and maintenance of the project for 25 years. The civic body had earlier taken up the project for installing 5kW solar panels at 177 schools buildings, of them, work at 38 sites was completed. The current project is expected end by December. The officials, however, argue that certain buildings have space or capacity to install bigger panels. “The Centre is currently supporting installation 5kW solar plants, but there are bigger buildings that have potential and space for 20kW plants. We aim to join hands with NTPC for setting up bigger plants at Capex or Resco model,” said an SDMC official.  In the Capex model, SDMC will make the entire investment and use the unit to run its complex or get concessions in electricity bills. Under the Resco model, other company will make investment in setting up infrastructure and the civic body will share revenue generated through excess production, the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sdmc-to-install-solar-plants-in-200-bldgs/articleshow/79397251.cms||Vibha Sharma
November 25, 2020||Mysuru||Memorial for actor & former MP Ambareesh built in Maddur taluk||MANDYA: A memorial, which was built in memory of actor and former Mandya MP Ambareesh, was inaugurated at Hottegowdanadoddi village of Maddur taluk on Tuesday by MP Sumalatha Ambareesh. The bronze bust of Ambareesh was unveiled to mark the second death anniversary of the actor, who still rules the heart of villagers — it is they, along with the fans of Ambareesh aka ‘Mandyada Gandu’, who have spent Rs 10 lakh to build the memorial. The memorial has been named as ‘Ambareesh Amara’ (the real name of the actor is Amaranath) has a mini park. The villagers said that they have built the memorial to immortalise the achievements of the actor-politician so the future generations can know about them. While doing the honours, Sumalatha turned emotional and appreciated the gesture of the villagers for not asking money either from her or other politicians. “What can I say for such a beautiful memorial for Ambareesh — I’m overwhelmed for your deed. You have pooled in money all by yourselves for the this,” Sumalatha said, adding: “Though it has been two years since Ambareesh left us, your love and affection towards him has remained intact as they were when he was alive. I cannot forget your sacrifice and love. I will cherish these moments all my life.” C Nagesh, an officebearer of Ambareesh Fans’ Association in Hottegowdanadoddi, said they had collected Ambareesh’s ashes and kept with them. “We had decided to build the memorial for Ambareesh with a bronze bust installed over the ashes. Our hero(Ambareesh) may not be with us in person, but still he lives in our hearts forever. We are happy to have his memorial in our village,” he said. Actors Darshan, Doddanna, filmmaker Rockline Venkatesh and others were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/memorial-for-actor-former-mp-ambareesh-built-in-maddur-taluk/articleshow/79394629.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Nagpur||VIP vehicles enter Tadoba sans guide||Nagpur: Taking registered guides along for a jungle safari in tiger reserves, national parks and sanctuaries are mandatory as per the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) protocol, but the other day, rules were violated by none other than the Chandrapur district collector Ajay Gulhane himself. According to sources present at the spot, Gulhane, his family members and relatives had reached the Mohurli gate of Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) in two Gypsies for an evening safari on November 19 under the field director’s quota what is popularly known as the VIP quota. In one of the vehicles, there were seven persons and along with the guide it would have been eight. The woman forest guard at the gate told that only six persons are allowed in one vehicle and the extra person will be accommodated in the canter. Sources at the spot said the collector got annoyed and entered into an argument with the guard. In the advent of Covid-19, ideally, the protocol should have been followed. Gulhane later called up conservator of forests (CF) & field director Jitendra Ramgaonkar and told him that the seventh candidate was below 10 years and that the guard was not allowing him to enter the reserve. After a discussion with the field director, Gulhane dropped the guide and out of the two safari vehicles, one entered the park without a guide. Talking to TOI, Gulhane downplayed the incident. “It was all about accommodating a small child. I talked to the field director and the matter was resolved and the guard was also convinced,” said Gulhane. However, Gulhane was silent regarding one of the vehicles entering the park without a guide. He did not reply to a message on the guide issue. Ramgaokar confirmed that after the collector talked to him, he allowed them to enter the park. As per TATR tourism guidelines, two children below 8 years are allowed along with six persons in one vehicle. However, the question is whether the child accompanying the collector’s vehicle was below 8 years and also, what was the reason for dropping the guide? “I’m not sure whether the guide was dropped or not,” said Ramgaonkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vip-vehicles-enter-tadoba-sans-guide/articleshow/79397056.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
November 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Of 45 societies in red zone, 22 lie in west||AHMEDABAD: The list of micro-containment zones seems to be getting longer each day. On Tuesday, 45 new societies were added to the list, taking the total number to 203. In Gota and Amraiwadi, 1,000 people are in micro-containment zones.  In the western part of the city, Bodakdev, Jodhpur, Ghatlodia, Chandkheda, and Paldi continued to top the list of micro-contained areas. In the east, Odhav, Vatva, Nikol and Viratnagar have the maximum number of micro-contained societies. In the list of 45 societies, 22 are in the west. Officials said that of the 22 societies, nine are in Chandkheda, Vasna, Ranip, Vadaj Paldi, and Sabarmati; eight in Gota, Memnagar, Ghatlodia, and Bodakdev; and five in Jodhpur and Vejalpur. In the northwest areas, the major micro-contained societies include Galaxy Tower in Bodakdev (360 members), Shahjanand Oasis in Memnagar (350), Goyal Terrace in Bodakdev (300), Vasukanan Tower in Ghatlodia (300), Ice Flora in Gota (400), and Eden at Godrej Garden City near Jagatpur Road (280). Radhe Bungalows Part I and II in Amraiwadi, with 363 families comprising 1,524 members, have been micro-contained. The west zone, including the areas of Ranip, Naranpura, Navrangpura, Paldi, and Usmanpura, had the highest of these cases at 463. Jodhpur, Vejalpur, Bopal, and Sarkhej accounted for 462. Thaltej, Gota, Bodakdev, and Ghatlodia recorded 454.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/of-45-societies-in-red-zone-22-lie-in-west/articleshow/79397064.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
November 25, 2020||Kochi||Alappuzha: Actors, singers test their popularity||ALAPPUZHA: Many candidates for local body polls in the district are from film backgrounds, acting and playback singing. They hope to cash in on their populartiy among the voters. Jaisappan Mathai, 56, is a popular film, serial and drama actor contesting from Champakulam division to Alappuzha district panchayat as NDA candidate. Mathai has shared screen space with superstars like Mohanlal and Mammootty. He has acted in over 25 Malayalam films like Bhramaram, Pranayam, Cycle, Puthiya Mugham, Romans, among others. His films Mammootty-starrer ‘One’ and another film ‘Nalekkayi’ are awaiting release. He has acted in over 40 television serials and he received the Adoor Bhasi Cinema Television Award for his villain role in the popular serial ‘Parasparam’. His latest serials are Pournami Thinkal, Ithikkara Pakki and Jeevitha Nouka. Playback singer Daleema Jojo, former district panchayat vice-president, is contesting again as CPM candidate to district panchayat from Aroor division. In 2015, Jojo won from there with over 23000 votes. She is confident of retaining the seat with a high majority. She has sung over 25 songs in Malayalam films like Kalyana Pittennu, Krishnagudiyil Oru Pranayakalathu, Manthri Kochamma, Sreekrishnapurathe Nakshathrathilakam. She also sang for over 100 plays, which helped her to achieve three state awards. With her voice sounding similar to veteran playback singer S Janaki, she has sung over 7,000 devotional songs. “I am very confident of my victory because I could execute many projects of over Rs 12.5 crore for the welfare of the people and the facelift of Aroor division,” she said. Prasanth Puthukkari, the NDA candidate from ward nine of Ramankary grama panchayat, is a playback singer. He sang for Malayalam films like Chalakkudikkaran Changathi. His two Malayalam films are awaiting release. He also owns a music troupe ‘Kuttanad Thriveni’. He is now busy recording his own campaign songs. “As a politician, rather than words, I am here to show my commitment through my actions if the voters elect me as their ward member,” he said. Baby Kamalam, 69, former grama panchayat president and the UDF candidate from ward one of Thanneermukkom grama panchayat, has acted in films like Aalibabayum Aarara Kallanmaarum, Gaandhiyan, and has also acted in albums and documentaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/actors-singers-test-their-popularity/articleshow/79395693.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Kolkata||First day-time Jagaddhatri immersion in Chandernagore||CHANDERNAGORE/KOLKATA: In a first at this erstwhile French colony, Jagaddhatri idols were taken for immersion in broad daylight. From noon onwards, huge idols were on their way to four designated ghats along the Strand. The next phase will happen on Wednesday, starting from 10am. The usual night-time immersion procession was called off jointly by the district and police administrations as part of the Covid protocol. Though Chandernagore residents rued the lacklustre Puja this time, they supported the decision of the administration.  Chandernagore Municipal Corporation prepared a routine for the immersion of the 129 idols. “We allowed only 15 people on a truck to accompany an idol to avoid crowding,” said Chandernagore police commissioner Humayun Kabir. Swapan Kundu, administrator of the corporation, said, “A portion of the Hooghly was netted from all sides and also from below to bring out idols as soon as they were submerged in water.” Additionally, WBSEDCL cut off power so tall idols that could get entangled in overhead wires didn’t lead to accidents. The power supply will again be cut off on Wednesday morning. Both Kabir and Kundu visited the ghats with a large number of cops and workers to ensure that people followed rules. Ninety-eight-year-old Parul Rani Banerjee watched the idols go by from her balcony while her grandson, public relations executive Abhishek Banerjee clicked photographs. “We couldn’t have a night-time procession this time, but I still tried to get as many photographs as possible,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/first-day-time-jagaddhatri-immersion-in-chandernagore/articleshow/79395679.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
November 25, 2020||Delhi||Farmers in Delhi feel betrayed by govt, says BJP||NEW DELHI: Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta and leader of the opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri on Tuesday said farmers in the capital had been betrayed by the Arvind Kejriwal-led Delhi government and were unhappy. After visiting different farming villages in Delhi, Gupta claimed that while AAP was claiming to support farmers in Punjab by providing them Rs 2,600 per quintal for their crops, farmers in Delhi could get only Rs 800-1,000 per quintal for their wheat in the city’s mandis. Referring to the bio-decomposer solution being sprayed by Delhi government across the fields to prevent stubble burning, Gupta said farmers were yet to receive that “medicine”. “The Kejriwal government has installed huge hoardings in other states to propagate that the farmers of Delhi are getting medicine to make fertilisers from paddy stubble, which is reducing the pollution, the farmers of Delhi are yet to receive even one gram of fertiliser,” he alleged. “Even today, the fields of Delhi are full of paddy stubble, which is delaying the sowing of wheat,” he said. Delhi government is also yet to give them the status of farmers. “They are not getting any subsidy on the purchase of agricultural equipment and get the most expensive power across the country. They do not have permission to install tubewells and there is no arrangement for dakhil-kharij of land,” Gupta added. The Delhi BJP president, along with Bidhuri, visited Ghoga village in Narela, and Harevali, Nagal, Bazipur and Majra Dabas villages around Bawana as part of the party’s Pol Khol campaign.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/farmers-feel-betrayed-by-govt-says-bjp/articleshow/79397050.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Nagpur||Flyers to pay Rs 1,400 for RT-PCR test at airport||NAGPUR: The district and civic authorities will start screening and if need be perform rapid antigen test (RAT) on rail, road passengers and RT-PCR on air travellers coming from Delhi, Gujarat, Rajashtan and Goa from Wednesday morning. RAT, which gives the results in 30 minutes, would be free of cost while the domestic flyers, who arrive with a Covid -ve report, will have to bear the expenses of the test. Some labs have offered to do the RT-PCR test at the airport at Rs1400 per passenger. As per state government orders, home visit charges are Rs1600 for RT-PCR sample collection. The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has instructed labs to charge as per the order. Airlines have made it compulsory for flyers to obtain a Covid negative report through RT-PCR test before boarding the flight. Officials of three different airlines operating from Nagpur told TOI that even travellers for urgent reasons with last-minute tickets will be denied boarding without the certificate. A GoAir representative shared a note which reads that travellers will have to carry a certificate and on failing to comply, the test will be undertaken at the concerned airport at their own cost. The official, however, stressed that boarding will not be permitted without the certificate. Indigo Airlines also shared a note. It was about a tie-up with a private lab for the tests. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B told TOI that airport and railway station authorities would screen and help segregate passengers from these worst-affected states. “Four teams, each comprising a doctor, nurse and data entry operator, would be deployed at the airport and railway station for testing and recording details round the clock,” he said. Only passengers arriving without a test and showing symptoms like cough, cold or fever would be tested. “Symptomatic rail passengers testing negative will be asked to isolate at home and the NMC team will later do the RT-PCR. Residents of the other states testing positive would be put up at the Pachpaoli Covid care centre (CCC) for 14 days,” he said. Radhakrishnan ruled out testing for asymptomatic travellers arriving without a Covid certificate. “The state SOP clearly mandates test for only symptomatic persons,” he said. NMC will send details of travellers alighting at Nagpur and needing a test to their respective district collectors. Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar said that the local administration in all the six districts under him would set up testing centres for symptomatic passengers coming from the four states by road. Nagpur rural SP Rakesh Ola said that cops have already been deployed at the five entry and exit points at the Maharashtra-Madhya Pradesh inter-state borders due to the forthcoming graduate constituency polls but now, anti-Covid guidelines would be followed regarding checking of incoming persons into Maharashtra. “Police would be deployed to assist the revenue department and the health teams for scrutiny of incoming persons,” said Ola. The SP said that two inter-state points at Kelvad towards Chhindwada, two at Narkhed towards Seoni and another at Deolapar would be under vigilance. “Passengers whose swabs are taken at the airport will be allowed to go and will be contacted later after the results are out. The state government’s protocol will followed for a positive traveller,” said airport manager Abid Ruhi. If a passenger has come for a short trip like 24 hours, the samples will be tested on a priority basis. The Nagpur division of Central Railway will restart thermal screening of passengers from Wednesday. The screening was withdrawn after the Unlock-4 guidelines early this month. The screening will be done for passengers arriving from Rajasthan, Delhi and Gujarat. There are at least 15 trains running from Delhi to southern states and 8 trains from Rajasthan passing through Nagpur. “The NMC will set up a kiosk at the station’s exit point on the west side for symptomatic passengers. During the screening, if any passenger is found to be symptomatic then an antigen test will be conducted. If detected positive, NMC will inform such passengers and take further course of action,” said Central Railway spokesperson & assistant commercial manager (ACM) SG Rao. “Similar facility will be in place at Narkhed, which is the first railway station when trains from northern direction enter Maharashtra. For passengers arriving from Gujarat, similar facilities will be there at stations like Pulgaon, Dhamangaon and Wardha by respective municipal councils,” Rao added. “Such screening will not be a new affair for the railways as during restricted train movement earlier, the staff had already handled the situation. For passengers boarding and deboarding trains like Vidarbha and Duronto Express there will be no such compulsion,” said railway officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/flyers-to-pay-rs1400-for-rt-pcr-test-at-airport/articleshow/79397136.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
November 25, 2020||Mumbai||First plasma bank in Mumbai metropolitan region on verge of shutdown||MUMBAI: The first standalone plasma bank in Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) and perhaps the state, which began operations in July, is on the verge of shutting down. Sathiya Trust Blood Bank in Nalasopara has stopped collection of plasma due to lack of donors and paucity of funds. The bank had on July 8 arranged a donor and supplied the blood product to a critically ill patient. After getting 59 donors in over four months, the bank stopped the procedure to identify and collect plasma from patients who have recovered from Covid. “The response from donors has been poor. Even if we convince a recovered patient, the procedure per donor costs us over Rs15,000,” said bank chairperson Vijay Mahajan. He said due to the pandemic there has been a massive shortage in blood collection. “We have been unable to generate funds during lockdown by way of blood collection. The added responsibility of plasma collection is hurting finances,” said Mahajan, who has to pay a monthly rent of Rs94,400 and electricity bill of over Rs50,000 each month. The trust has been running the bank in Dahanu for 18 years. The Nalasopara bank was set up two years back. Mahajan said there has been no government aid for running the bank. Palghar district administration had appealed to patients who have recovered to donate plasma. Mahajan said the biggest challenge was getting information on Covid-19 patients who have recovered from civic bodies and district administration. “We are not accepting plasma donations. We will continue to focus on blood collection,” said Mahajan. Plasma therapy is being tried as a treatment for moderate and serious patients pan-India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/first-plasma-bank-in-mmr-on-verge-of-shutdown/articleshow/79396871.cms||Sandhya Nair
November 25, 2020||Madurai||HC seeks govt reply on violations by liquor bars in Tamil Nadu||MADURAI: The Madras high court on Tuesday sought details on the action taken against FL2 and FL3 bars for violations in the state. The court also sought details from the state government on the number of FL2 and FL3 licences issued in the state and the volume of liquor supplied to these bars during the past five years. The court was hearing a plea which sought not to set up a FL2 bar at New Railway Station Road at Kumbakonam in Thanjavur district. In order to curb the violations at the bars, the judges appointed an advocate A Kannan as amicus curiae in this case to assist the court. A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi observed that as per rules, FL2 and FL3 bars which are functioning at clubs and hotels are permitted to sell liquor only to the members and those staying in the hotels. The judges observed that however, these bars are violating the time restriction and are also selling liquor to the public. The judges sought details as to whether there were any violations in these bars and if so what are the actions taken against such bars. The judges also granted interim order restraining the authorities from granting licence to the bar at Kumbakonam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-seeks-govt-reply-on-violations-by-liquor-bars-in-state/articleshow/79398280.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Heavy rain alert issued for Hyderabad in wake of cyclone Nivar||HYDERABAD: The city is likely to experience heavy rainfall on November 26-27 in wake of cyclone Nivar, which will make landfall on the Tamil Nadu coast on Wednesday. The India Meteorological Department (IMD), Hyderabad has issued orange alert for several districts, including Hyderabad, Rangareddy and Medchal-Malkajgiri for November 26. Thunderstorms accompanied with lightning are likely to occur on November 27, the warning added. “Southern and southwestern districts are most likely to be affected by the cyclone Nivar. We will be able to gauge its effect on Hyderabad and its neighbouring districts only by Thursday depending on the movement of the cyclone,” said Naga Ratna, in-charge director, IMD, Hyderabad. Officials forecast that cyclone Nivar may result in drop in mercury levels by one to three degree Celsius by November 29. Impact based weather forecast of IMD has asked municipal corporations to issue necessary advisory for displaying warnings on restricted movement and to remain alert on account of the heavy rains. Following this, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation’s enforcement, vigilance and disaster management (EVDM) wing has put all its disaster response force teams on alert. “We have put all the machinery including pumps and equipment on an overhaul. Once the radar is activated and we know exactly where the rainfall bearing clouds are forming over the city, we will gear up our teams to locations where rainfall is forecasted,” said Vishwajit Kampati, director, EVDM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/heavy-rain-alert-issued-for-hyd-in-wake-of-cyclone-nivar/articleshow/79397191.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: ‘Conviction can’t be suspended to contest in polls’||KOCHI: Conviction of a person for corruption cannot be suspended so as to enable him to contest in , the high court said on Tuesday. Justice Sunil Thomas declined to agree with the demand of AM Sabu of Chirayinkeezhu in Thiruvananthapuram seeking suspension of his conviction by Thiruvananthapuram vigilance court so as to enable him to contest in local body elections. The petitioner, who was a document writer, was convicted in a bribery case by the vigilance court. Considering an appeal filed by Sabu, the high court had suspended the sentence and granted him bail. The proceedings in the appeal before the high court is still continuing. Approaching the high court again, the petitioner contended that he has obtained a chance to contest in the local body election and suspension of sentence is required to enable him to take part in the bout. The demand was opposed by the public prosecutor citing a Supreme Court judgment to the effect that a conviction should not be suspended other than in unavoidable circumstances. Such a practice does not exist in the case of corruption cases, the prosecutor argued. Following the submission, the court dismissed the plea for suspension of sentence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/conviction-cant-be-suspended-to-contest-in-polls/articleshow/79395714.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC asks ED if it can put off summons for NGO trustee||MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Tuesday asked Enforcement Directorate (ED) to consider by Wednesday if it could postpone the date for summoning advocate Anand Grover (70) as a trustee of Lawyers Collective under provisions of Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). For ED, additional solicitor general Anil Singh told a bench of Justices S S Shinde and M S Karnik that he would take official instructions. The court raised the query on two petitions by Lawyers Collective, its trustees, senior advocate Indira Jaising (80) and Grover, through advocate Rahul Karmerkar, to quash a case filed last year by ED and November 6 summons to Grover. The petition also challenged provisions of PMLA, including one that “compel a person summoned or arrested to sign statements, including admissions and confessions’’ under section 63(2) as being violative of fundamental rights to equality, life and protection against self-incrimination. Senior counsel, including Amit Desai, Aspi Chinoy and Siddharth Luthra, appeared for the trustees at the virtual hearing for a stay on summons and to restrain ED from taking signatures on statements, till the matter is heard. Desai said ED summoned Grover to appear on November 26. Justice Shinde told Singh, “Must respect age, also humanity.’’ He noted that Jaising and Grover had tested positive for Covid in July-August. In June 2019, Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) registered a case of criminal conspiracy and under Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act (FCRA). The petition said the FIR was based on an inspection report without a preliminary enquiry and did not factor that “multiple violations were dropped’’ by the home ministry in its registration cancellation order. ED then filed its case but has not yet given the NGO a copy. Bombay HC last July granted the trustees interim protection against coercive steps in the CBI case. CBI went to Supreme Court, which issued a notice last November. ED first issued a notice to Grover to appear before it on August 28. He replied that he and Jaising were convalescing from Covid-19. The agency issued a second notice in September. Last month HC issued a notice on a petition seeking direction to make ED’s complaint publicly available.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bombay-hc-asks-ed-if-it-can-put-off-summons-for-ngo-trustee/articleshow/79396873.cms||Swati Deshpande
November 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Air Marshal Mathur visits Hakimpet stn||Hyderabad: Air Marshal RD Mathur, air officer commanding-in-chief (AOC-in-C), Training Command, Indian Air Force, visited Hakimpet Air Force Station on Tuesday. During the visit, he interacted with flying instructors of fighter training wing (FTW) and helicopter training school (HTS).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/air-marshal-mathur-visits-hakimpet-stn/articleshow/79397229.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||E-Saptak: Classical to quell corona cacophony||Ahmedabad: Flute legend Pandit Hariprasad Chaurasia told TOI on Tuesday that the pandemic must not mute music. Mohan Veena maestro Pandit Vishwa Mohan Bhatt added an authoritative flourish while talking to TOI: “Music must prevail!” The two classical icons were reacting to the news that Saptak, the annual music festival held in Ahmedabad, was going online in its next edition beginning January 1, 2021. Saptak, which runs till January 13, is India’s longest classical music conference. The event brings to Ahmedabad figures from the pantheon of Hindustani and Carnatic traditions. Apart from Pandits Chaurasia and Bhatt, those who have performed on the Saptak stage include Ustad Amjad Ali Khan, Vidushi Shubha Mudgal, Pandit Jasraj, and Pandits Rajan and Sajan Mishra. Carnatic stalwarts who have held Amdavadi rasikas in thrall include the Ranjani-Gayatri duo, T M Krishna, and the violinist, Vidhwan Kumaresh. “For the 2021 edition, we have cut the baithaks from three to two,” said Manju Mehta, the Saptak custodian. “Otherwise everything will be the same — the dates, and the 8.30pm start.” Prafull Anubhai, a Saptak trustee, said: “The first session will feature an established artist. The finale will star a musical titan.” For the forthcoming Saptak, artists will record their expositions either at home or at studios. The concerts will be streamed on Shaale. The musicians’ list is expected to be settled in the coming days. “This is an opportunity to take our music to the world," Pandit Bhatt said. Pandit Chaurasia said though going online was the most feasible option, he will miss the crackling interactions with Amdavadi rasikas. “I look forward to enjoying that when things get normal,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/e-saptak-classical-to-quell-corona-cacophony/articleshow/79397266.cms||Kannan Somasundaram
November 25, 2020||Mumbai||Woman held with Rs 6 crore cocaine hidden in trolley bag in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Directorate Revenue of Intelligence (DRI) on Monday arrested a Malwai woman smuggling 1kg of cocaine worth Rs 6 crore, hidden in her trolley bag at Mumbai international airport. DRI arrested Ellena Kasakatira (43) under sections of Narcotic Drugs and Substance Act and she was produced before Esplanade metropolitan magistrate court, which remanded her to judicial custody till December 7. Addis Ababa in Ethiopia has become an increasingly popular transit point as a result of convenient air services, limited law enforcement and minimal criminal penalties, officials said. Heroin is the most commonly trafficked substance, followed by cannabis and cocaine, they added. DRI officials said they received information that Kasakatira, travelling from Addis Ababa to Mumbai via Dubai, was carrying something suspicious. On arrival in Mumbai on Monday, examination of her baggage resulted in the recovery of two packages concealed in a cavity in her trolley bag. The contraband was wrapped with black carbon paper to evade detection during screening. “On opening the packages we found white powder. A test confirmed it was pure cocaine,’’ said an official. This is the second seizure of cocaine by DRI officials within a week. Earlier, DRI officials had seized 502gm of cocaine, shipped here in a parcel, and had arrested four persons. Cocaine being very expensive is the preferred and most fashionable drug in high society, officials added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/woman-held-with-rs6cr-cocaine-hidden-in-trolley-bag/articleshow/79396876.cms||Ahmed Ali
November 25, 2020||Kochi||Kerala HC disposes plea on LSGI audit||KOCHI: The high court on Tuesday disposed of opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala’s petition questioning state government’s decision to stop audit of local bodies. A division bench of Chief Justice S Manikumar and Justice Shaji P Chaly disposed the petition after state government informed that the audit was stopped only temporarily due to software issue and the audit is being done now after discussing with the central government. The court said it was of the view that the decision to stop the audit was not intentional and hence it cannot be said to be illegal or arbitrary. It was alleged by Chennithala that the audit was stopped to prevent LIFE-Mission model corruption in many local bodies from coming to light.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hc-disposes-plea-on-lsgi-audit/articleshow/79395735.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Bhopal||Congress takes a dig at Narottam Mishra||BHOPAL: Former minister Sajjan Singh Verma on Tuesday responded to home minister Narottam Mishra’s diversion of public money allegations against the erstwhile Kamal Nath government. Mishra had alleged that the Congress government was using hard-earned public funds for Rahul Gandhi’s foreign trips. “Is it is necessary for Narottam Mishra to speak every day? He acquired this habit from BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya,” Verma said. “This is the Nehru-Gandhi family he is talking about. A family that even during the freedom movement were arabpatis (billionaires). Rahul Gandhi’s great great grandfather Motilal Nehru and great grandfather Jawaharlal Nehru opened their family treasury for the country and said that the freedom movement should not fall weak because of lack of funds,” Verma said. Verma said that both Congress and BJP should stop levelling allegations at big leaders. “Who will nurture a son of the Nehru-Gandhi family? They are the people who have nurtured us. Narottam Mishra should see his and our history and geography before making such allegations. Look at the families where we came from and where we have reached today,” he said. “Instead of levelling bizarre allegations, the home minister should concentrate on maintaining the law-and-order situation across Madhya Pradesh. Every single day, there are incidents of rape that are being reported,” Verma added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/congress-takes-a-dig-at-narottam/articleshow/79395730.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Puducherry||Puducherry government puts curbs on movements||PUDUCHERRY: The maritime ports at Puducherry and Cuddalore in Tamil Nadu have hoisted danger signal number seven as Cyclone ‘Nivar’ may intensify into a very severe cyclonic storm and cross in and around the coastal region of Puducherry, on Wednesday. Danger signal number seven implies that the ports will experience severe weather variations from a storm of slight or moderate intensity that is expected to cross over or near north of the ports. The Puducherry and Tamil Nadu governments have made elaborate arrangements to overcome the onslaught of the cyclone. The Puducherry administration on Tuesday issued an order prohibiting people from venturing out of their houses. All shops have been told to keep shutters down from 9 pm on November 24 till 6 am on November 26 to prevent any untoward incidents leading to loss of human and cattle lives and properties. The government had earlier declared holiday for schools on Tuesday and Wednesday. All the government offices/institutions, except those departments involved in cyclone relief work, will be closed on Wednesday. Instead, all government offices will function on December 12. The government has set up a control room with toll-free numbers (1070 / 1077) which will function round the clock to enable people to seek assistance in case of any emergency. It has formed 16 emergency support teams and firka-level committees with officials from various departments to undertake cyclone relief work. People from 16 vulnerable areas in Puducherry have been shifted to safer locations. The administration has set up 196 relief camps in Puducherry and 50 in Karaikal. Three teams of NDRF - two for Puducherry and one for Karaikal - have been deployed to assist police and fire and rescue services personnel in cyclone rescue and relief work. Meanwhile, Tamil Nadu industries minister M C Sampath reviewed cyclone preparedness in Cuddalore district in the presence of principal secretary Gagandeep Singh Bedi and Cuddalore collector Chandra Sekhar Sakhamuri on Tuesday. The district administration has identified 278 areas prone to cyclone fury. Of them, 38 are categorised as extreme, 34 as high and 19 as moderate in terms of the impact of the cyclone. Another 167 are considered low-intensity areas. Twenty-eight cyclone relief shelters, 14 multi-purpose shelters and 191 temporary shelters have been kept ready. Six teams from NDRF have reached Cuddalore district. Three teams will stay in Cuddalore region while the rest three will be located at Chidambaram and Parangipettai. The district administration has set up control rooms at the district collectorate (04142 220700 / 233933 / 221383 / 221113), Cuddalore revenue divisional office (04142 - 231284), Chidambaram sub-collector office (04144 – 222256 / 290037) and Vridhachalam sub-collector office (04143 -260248) to enable people to seek assistance. Control rooms can be reached by dialling toll-free number (1077).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/pondy-government-puts-curbs-on-movements/articleshow/79397243.cms||Bosco Dominique
November 25, 2020||Hyderabad||More than 50% Hyderabad voters give polls a miss||HYDERABAD: Days before greater Hyderabad goes to polls, former top electoral officers and political analysts said residents do not always have the moral standing to question the poor performance of elected leaders when they shy away from voting. Though large-scale migration, system of choosing candidates and lack of interaction between netas and voters impact poll percentages, experts say a “lack of commitment”, particularly among the urban class, is disconcerting. “How can you question an elected representative when you have not participated in the election?” said Bhanwar Lal, former chief electoral officer of united AP. “Voting must be part of our social responsibility; though not mandatory in a democracy,” he added. In the Assembly polls of 2014, which eventually led Telangana realising its separate statehood dream, one of its highest voter turnouts were witnessed – 73.2%. While in districts like Nalgonda, the percentage that year touched 80%, Hyderabad stood at the bottom with 53%. TimesViewDo we really have the right to complain about infrastructure in the Greater Hyderabad region if we don’t even vote in crucial elections? Consider these numbers. In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the GHMC region comprising Hyderabad, Secunderabad and Malkajgiri constituencies, saw a little over 42% voting. In stark contrast, the country, as a whole, broke all previous turnout records when 67% exercised their franchise. Such low turnout numbers by Hyderabadis is a shame given the pride they feel for the city. If you truly care for Hyderabad, then voting is the bare minimum you can do to secure its future.Even as Hyderabad went to polls at least four more times between 2009 and now – the situation remained unchanged. In GHMC polls of 2009 and 2016, footfall was at 48% and 46% respectively, with the ‘hi-tech’ belt barely touching 40%. According to Rakesh Reddy Dubbudu, of the Association of Democratic Reforms, poor turnout is rooted in two reasons: apathy coupled with the fact that middle and upper middle classes are not directly affected by polls. “They talk about bad roads on social media, but government policies do not impact their daily lives like they do for the poor. Also, since local governments here aren’t very powerful, the urban voter takes no interest. Most don’t know which ward they fall under,” he said. Corporate leaders are trying to do their bit. “We will launch a social media campaign for civic polls. After all, it concerns Hyderabad that generates over 50% of state revenue,” said Bharani Aroll, president, Hyderabad Software Enterprises Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/must-vote-to-acquire-right-to-question-elected-leaders/articleshow/79397254.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
November 25, 2020||Bhopal||Door-to-door survey to check Covid spread in Bhopal||BHOPAL: The district administration, along with health department officials, on Tuesday resumed a door-to-door survey in the backdrop of increasing Covid-19 in the state capital. Ward-level assessment would be undertaken in the random survey checking people for Covid-19. If there is high prevalence of the infection, containment areas could once again be enforced, said an official. Positivity rate of about 5% could be a benchmark for creation of a containment zone, sources said. Sources said that the district administration’s focus is on ensuring maximum implementation of effective Covid-19 control measures like good adherence in practising social distancing by citizens. At the same time, the administration is focused on keeping the economy in motion and successfully battle the Covid-19 contagion. A series of measures have been taken to break the chain of transmission. Responses have been escalated following a spurt in cases in Bhopal in the last week. However, the state capital’s Covid-19 test average in terms of its population is one of best in the country. The administration is also ensuring adequate Covid-19 care centres are in place and accessible. More than 90% of Covid-19 tests in the state capital are free. Some people prefer private testing in case of hospitalisation or when in need of home sample collection.  The teams established at the ward level would also conduct health check for people with co-morbid conditions, which includes diabetes and hypertension, apart from contact tracing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/door-to-door-survey-to-check-covid-spread/articleshow/79395763.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 25, 2020||Chennai||Work unfinished, roads may go under water in Chennai||CHENNAI: Anna Salai, Poonamalee High Road, Jawaharlal Nehru Road and GST road will continue to be waterlogged as rain lashes the city with Cyclone ‘Nivar’ approaching. Storm water drains have not been completed by the state highways department on these arterial roads and throughout the monsoon, motorists may have to navigate through inundated stretches. On Tuesday, Greater Chennai Corporation’s command and control centre received complaints of waterlogging from the junction of General Patters Road-Anna Salai, Vepery High Road-Poonamalee High Road and Jawaharlal Nehru Road in Vadapalani near the metro station. Residents complained of waterlogging at the junction of Nandanam-Anna Salai. Corporation sources said work on storm water drains of the state highways wing was yet to complete. “Drains work as a network. Drains on the city’s bus route roads channel into those on the Poonamallee High Road and Anna Salai through which it is routed to 30-odd canals, Adyar, Cooum and Buckingham canal,” a source said. Drain work is incomplete on GST Road near the airport. Sources said funds for the work were released late and there was poor coordination among government departments. On Tuesday, waterlogging was reported from KK Nagar, Triplicane, Besant Nagar, Royappetah, T Nagar, West Mambalam and Velachery. Corporation officials said water would take at least two to three hours to drain, especially during high tide time in the sea. Waterlogging on Poonamallee High Road, GST Road, Anna Salai and Jawaharlal Nehru Road made vehicular movement difficult. “Works is underway to keep these roads motorable. On Poonamallee High Road, a pit was dug near Jothi Venkatachalam Road junction and new pipes were laid to ensure that excess rainwater reached the storm water drain on the other side,” said a highways official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/work-unfinished-roads-may-go-under-water/articleshow/79397297.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Agra||My son has been framed, says father of boy, 15, detained for ‘threat’ to CM Yogi||Agra: The distraught father of 15-year-old schoolboy from Agra’s Saiyyan block detained and taken to Lucknow for allegedly issuing ‘threat’ to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said his son has been framed. “If he would have really meant it, he would have used a fake or duplicate SIM card for sending the message. He is a very innocent boy,” said the government primary school teacher in Agra. His son, a class x student, was taken into custody on Monday and sent to a juvenile home in Lucknow. He said that the phone used for sending the message was recently bought by him and the SIM card was taken in his wife’s name. “We don’t know what happened but my child is innocent and he can’t do such things,” he said. The principal of the boy’s school told TOI that he has never received a single written or verbal complaint against him. He added that he is a very good volleyball player and above average in studies. The boy and his family members are both gentle people, he added. “I am going to Lucknow to arrange a lawyer and get my son released from the juvenile home,” he told TOI, adding that the boy had never stayed away from his family so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/my-son-has-been-framed-says-father-of-boy-15-detained-for-threat-to-cm-yogi/articleshow/79394761.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
November 25, 2020||Kochi||Tracking device: Kerala HC sets January 1 deadline||KOCHI: The high court has directed the government to implement the rule requiring vehicle location tracking device (VLTD) along with emergency buttons on all public transport vehicles from January 1 next year. A division bench comprising chief justice S Manikumar and justice Shaji P Chaly issued the directive after considering two petitions (WP-C Nos. 20500, 20768 of 2020) seeking implementation of the norm that was brought in the backdrop of Nirbhaya case so as to ensure safety of women in public transport vehicles. It was on April 1, 2018 that the government introduced Rule 151-A of Kerala Motor Vehicle rules making VLTD and emergency buttons mandatory for public transport vehicles. However, three-wheelers such as autorickshaws and e-rickshaws have been excluded from the purview of the rule, along with two wheelers and transport vehicles not requiring a permit as per Motor Vehicles Act. The petitioners alleged that the rule is not being implemented by the government and the time limit is being extended again and again. Delay in implementing the rule with regard to KSRTC is delayed due to the financial condition owing to Covid-19, government told the court. While setting a deadline of January 1, the court said the government has the duty to implement the rule without any further delay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/tracking-device-hc-sets-jan-1-deadline/articleshow/79395766.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Hyderabad||SEC says voter slip key to turnout||HYDERABAD: The State Election Commission (SEC) has identified that one of the main reasons for polling percentage being low in the last few elections is due to failure of field-level functionaries to distribute voter slips to all voters. It has directed GHMC commissioner-cum-election authority Lokesh Kumar to ensure voter slips are distributed to all. “When electors get their voter slips, they will know their name still exists on the voter’s list. They will also know their polling booth and will be encouraged to vote,” state election commissioner C Partha Sarathi said on Tuesday. He directed GHMC officials to take help of representatives of civil society to increase polling percentage. The GHMC on Tuesday held a meeting with representatives of RWAs, NGOs and civil society organisations to encourage people to vote. The GHMC will also take the help of celebrities, short films, jingles on radio, campaign on social media. Field-level functionaries will distribute voter slips door to door. Poll officials are to submit a report to concerned deputy municipal commissioner on number of slips distributed. The latter have to visit at least 30% households and zonal commissioners 10% of households and ascertain if voter slips have reached them. Suitable disciplinary action will be initiated against the concerned in case of deviation, the SEC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sec-says-voter-slip-key-to-turnout/articleshow/79397295.cms||Roushan Ali
November 25, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Mother of burglary accused sets herself on fire, dies||TIRUNELVELI: The mother of a burglary case accused died after setting herself ablaze in Tirunelveli on Tuesday morning. The deceased has been identified as Sakunthala, 47, of Sathya Nagar on the outskirts of the city. While police are yet to ascertain the exact reason for her act, it is claimed that she took the extreme step upset over her son’s ways. Preliminary inquiries revealed that she was separated from her husband Dharmaraj and was living with her two sons Prasanth and Pradeep. They were daily wage labourers and their income was affected due the lockdown. Pradeep, 22, the younger son, was earlier arrested a few months ago on charges of sexually assaulting a minor girl, who was their neighbour. Pradeep reportedly told the girl he loves her and sexually assaulted her. He was booked under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and released recently. Pradeep was again booked for allegedly involving in a burglary near Gomathi Nagar on November 3 and was arrested with his accomplices Anburaj and Arulraj, who are also from the same locality. Based on their confession, a team from Suthamalli police station took Pradeep to his house at 4.30am on Tuesday to recover the stolen items. After recovering a laptop from his house, police took him to his uncle’s house about 100m from there to recover the remaining items. Police said that and upset Sakunthala locked herself in the house and set herself ablaze. She was rushed to the government Tirunelveli Medical College and Hospital but she died on the way. Her body was taken to the hospital for an autopsy. Superintendent of Police (SP) of Tirunelveli district N Manivannan conducted inquiries into the incident at Suthamalli police station. “The trio confessed to the crime and said that they sold the jewellery they burgled. They bought a bike with it and also spent the money. Based on their confession, police went to the house of Pradeep to recover the stolen laptop,” Manivannan told reporters. He denied that there was any assault on the accused or his mother as they were very cooperative during the recovery and that there was no necessity for the police to use force. Manivannan added that the cause of death is under investigation. Meanwhile relatives of the woman claimed that police tried to register a fabricated burglary case against Pradeep and the woman took the extreme step due to police harassment. However, police have denied it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mother-of-burglary-accused-commits-suicide-as-police-go-home-for-recovery/articleshow/79398349.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Thane||Kalyan doctors call off protest after Shiv Sena neta apologises||KALYAN: Doctors and medical staff who had called for a one-day strike on Wednesday to protest against the misbehaviour of Shiv Sena corporator Mahesh Gaikwad on Tuesday evening decided to called off their protest after he apologised. Indian Medical Association (IMA-Kalyan), Kalyan Homeopathic Doctor Foundation, Kalyan East Medical Practitioners’ Association and National Integrated Medical Association (Kalyan) members decided to protest after Dr Ashwin Kakkar and his staff at Vaishnavi maternity hospital in Kalyan (W) were allegedly abused and threatened by Gaikwad after a patient’s relative complained he was not allowed to wait on the hospital premises to avoid crowding. Dr Kakkar told TOI, “Gaikwad came with associates on Sunday for discussions, which he posted live on Facebook, in which he abused me and my staff.” All hospitals have rules for patients, and they and their relatives must follow them, he said. Gaikwad was not interested in resolving the issue but misbehaved, he added. When other doctors learnt about the incident they on Tuesday morning decided to go on a day’s strike on Wednesday, and demanded that if Gaikwad did not apologize in writing and live on Facebook, the protest will be indefinite from November 28. Gaikwad met Dr Kakkar in the afternoon and apologized personally and live on Facebook, and said it was due to a misunderstanding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/doctors-call-off-stir-after-sena-neta-apologises/articleshow/79396877.cms||Pradeep Gupta
November 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Restaurant business down by 80% again||AHMEDABAD: Rushabh Purohit, who runs a restaurant serving Gujarati thaali in Ahmedabad, was doing brisk business before the pandemic struck. Soon after the night curfew was imposed in Ahmedabad, his business has taken a hit and to mitigate his hefty operating costs, he has closed the dine-in service and moved to a takeaway only model for lunch and dinner. “There is no point adding to my overheads because most business happens in the evenings and it is not possible to operate for a limited time. People venture out for dinner at around 8-8.30pm but with the 9pm curfew in mind, we will have to close the restaurant by 8pm so our staff get home in time,” said Purohit. The second wave of Covid-19 infections in the city, coupled with the night curfew in Ahmedabad has eaten away at 80% of the restaurant business in the city. Estimates from industry players suggest that with the 9pm curfew and no relaxations for restaurants or food deliveries, most have closed for evening business. While some are relying on takeaways alone, others are operating for limited hours. A great number of restaurants have taken a hit with the new curfew in place. Dilip Thakkar, a city-based restaurateur, said, “We do keep the restaurant open in the evening. There is barely any business for dine-in and instead we are getting a little cushion from takeaway orders.” While a few restaurants have turned takeaway-only, others have begun operating all-day dining with a limited menu to keep the business going. Many feel the second wave of Covid cases and the curfew have again shaken consumer confidence. Rohit Khanna, a city-based restaurateur, said, “The business is completely jeopardized, with few opting for dine-in. We have limited our business to takeaways at lunch time and for dinner we have shut down. Most of us are operating at half salaries because revenue has taken a major hit as 80% of business comes from dinner, which is hampered by the night curfew.” Takeaways have provided some cushion to restaurants when dine-in footfalls have plunged. Those running cloud kitchens are doing fairly better. Rohan Bhatt, a food entrepreneur, said, “People have realised it is safer to be home and the volume of orders has gone up for our company .”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/restaurant-biz-down-by-80-again/articleshow/79397292.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||LDF manifesto bets big on development plans||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In a bid to convert the present crisis into an opportunity, LDF election manifesto for local body polls, released here on Monday, said that election to three-tier panchayat institutions will record the public verdict against the alleged ‘conspiracy by Congress and BJP’ hatched against Kerala Infrastructure Investment Board (KIIFB). The manifesto, released online, covered 65 points, mostly development promises and enhancement of welfare schemes. ‘A vote for development; a vote for social camaraderie’ are the slogans with which CPM-led front will approach voters this time. The manifesto tries to project LDF as the real political force, which time and again, stood for decentralisation of powers. The major promises include creation of 10 lakh new job opportunities at local-body level. This, said the manifesto, will be achieved by creating five lakh job opportunities through development of agri sector and five lakh jobs in non-agri sectors such as micro and macro industries. It promises Rs 5,000 crore in agriculture loans at low interest rate and claimed that at least three lakh more individuals will be brought under rural employment guarantee scheme and added that a welfare fund, for them, would be operational by January 2021 and all MNREG workers, who had worked at least 75 days, would be eligible for festival allowance. The manifesto also promises help from local bodies to gulf returnees for setting up business units. It also proposed social auditing in all panchayats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ldf-manifesto-bets-big-on-development-plans/articleshow/79376400.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Queuing up with kankotris to get nod for marriages||RAJKOT: Never before have the police stations in Rajkot city seen such a rush of people, who were seen queuing up for hours with the wedding invitation cards in their hands. The rush is to secure permission for marriage from local police stations as per the state government’s orders issued in the wake of the rising Covid-19 cases in Gujarat. The Rajkot police have received as many as 1,200 application seeking permission for marriage in the last two days. Of which nearly 700 have been disposed off. All the application received were for marriages scheduled till November 30. Deputy commissioner of police Manoharsinh Jadeja said, “As per our notification the permission for a marriage function is required. In last two days itself, we got nearly 1,200 application out of that 700 have been disposed off, while the rest will be cleared by November 27.” Jadeja said that they are not rejecting the permission, but ensuring that there are not more than 100 guests during the function. Also, the hall where the function is being held has is of twice the capacity of the invited guests. Wherever the guest list is long, the permission is not denied, but we curtailing the number of guests, he said. On Tuesday, huge queues were seen outside various police stations with people holding wedding invitation cards to show as proof of marriage. For obtaining permission, the family has to submit a copy of Aadhar cards and birth certificates of bride and groom with passport size photos and wedding invitation card. Once the permission is given, cops will randomly check the venues if all the rules are being followed. Manoj Sakariya, a party plot owner on Nyari Dam Road said, “There is total chaos as the government guidelines keep on changing every day. The parents of the bride are put in an embarrassing situation and they are tense how to complete one more task before the marriage. We are supporting them with the police permission process.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/queuing-up-with-kankotris-to-get-nod-for-marriages/articleshow/79394782.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Kochi||Tribespeople, estate workers agitate for land in Nelliampathy||PALAKKAD: The district administration and the state government have ignored the 76-day long sathyagraha by landless tribespeople and plantation workers in Nelliampathy demanding land for constructing houses. In Nelliampathy, nobody can buy land because it is a forest area where the plantations are owned by either government or private planters. The agitators are demanding one acre and house for landless plantation workers and the tribespeople, said Janata Dal (UDF) district president M M Kabeer. He said that thousands of plantation workers are living in Nelliampathy for three generations but they have no land or houses. So they should be given one acre of land and a house each by the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/tribespeople-estate-workers-agitate-for-land/articleshow/79395786.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Bhopal||Women bikers on ‘Tigress Trail’ reach Bhopal||BHOPAL: To promote safe tourism for women, tourism department recently launched ‘Tigress on the Trail’, a women’s biking event. As a part of this initiative, 15 women bikers visited various destinations and reached Bhopal on Tuesday after travelling 1500 km. Madhya Pradesh is one of the safest destinations for tourists, said the women bikers. During the journey, the bikers went to potter’s village Pachdhar near Pench, where potters create beautiful earthenware. Bikers said that such unique things have made Madhya Pradesh a perfect destination to travel. Edwina D'Souza, 31, Mumbai, Silvana, 35, Italy, Amita Singh, 43, Bhubaneswar, 35-year-old Meenakshi Rao from Tamil Nadu, Sheetal Sharma, 23, Indore, 24-year-old Komal Mandloi, 29-year-old Kirti Alava, 41-year-old Surabhi Bhadauria, 21-year-old Anushka Jain, 32-year-old Meenakshi Thakur, 28-year-old Nivia Singh from West Bengal, 57-year-old Dr. Neeta Khandekar from Punjab, 24-year-old Meghna Patil from Pune, 30-year-old Pooja Vikram from Patna and 24-year-old Sonia Adhikare from Bangalore were included in this trail. The ‘Tigress of the Trail’ is a unique initiative in which bikers visited all the national parks. They also promoted other tourist places. “This journey of women bikers defines the fact that daughters can roam fearlessly in Madhya Pradesh,” said principal secretary (tourism), Sheo Shekhar Shukla. Principal secretary added that in Covid times, tourism department decided to organise this event. He said that the first "Tigress of the Trail" event aims to promote tourist destinations of the state. Women bikers covered 1500 km in 6 days. “They gave a message of safe environment of Madhya Pradesh by visiting various places,” said Shukla. Thanking the tourism department, Itlay’s Silvana said, “There is an atmosphere of freedom and security for women in Madhya Pradesh and I feel proud to participate in this programme.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/15-women-bikers-pedal-1500-km-to-reach-bhopal/articleshow/79395769.cms||Ramendra Singh
November 25, 2020||Aurangabad||12,088 fresh Covid cases in Maharashtra's Marathwada in just 2 weeks||AURANGABAD: The novel Coronavirus has been rearing its ugly head in different parts of Marathwada, even outside of Aurangabad. As per the official data, 12,088 fresh confirmed cases of Covid-19 have been reported from eight districts of the region since November 11, taking the total number of confirmed cases to 1,36,324, including 4,106 deaths, till Tuesday. Swapnil Lale, the deputy director of health for Aurangabad division, said, “The festival of Diwali was expected to cause a spike in new Covid cases and those fears, unfortunately, have proven to be true. Citizens should not be under the impression that Coronavirus has gone and they can move around freely without wearing face masks or maintaining adequate physical distances. We will have to pay a heavy price for such complacency.” Citing official projections, Lale said the second wave of Covid-19 has not yet been ruled out for December or early January. As per the official data, with 42,500 cases so far, Aurangabad district continues to lead in the total number of Covid-19 cases reported till Tuesday morning, followed by Latur (21,418), Nanded (19,318), Osmanabad (15,565), Beed (15,186), Jalna (12,069), Parbhani (6,998) and Hingoli (3,270). The divisional authorities, in the latest review meeting, have asked the district administrations to pull up their socks in order to contain the spread of Covid 19. Accordingly, Aurangabad district collector Sunil Chavan has asked for increased Covid testing among other necessary measures. “Covid testing labs and the health machinery have to act in coordination to share test results quickly. Even if citizens with possible symptoms go for early tests, crucial time would be wasted if the results are shared with delays,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/12088-fresh-covid-cases-in-marathwada-in-just-2-weeks/articleshow/79394770.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC polls: Congress offers free Covid treatment, Rs 50k to flood-hit||HYDERABAD: Congress manifesto is promising to make efforts to regularise unauthorised plots and buildings under LRS and BRS schemes “free of cost” and scrap Dharani portal. If voted to power, the Congress will provide free transport facility in RTC buses, metro Rail and MMTS trains to women, students, disabled persons and senior citizens; free power up to 100 units per month; fee regulation in private and corporate schools with the help of parents associations; 100 per cent waiver of property tax, MV tax and electricity bills for Covid-19 lockdown period (the paid amount will be adjusted in future bills). Christened “people’s manifesto for GHMC elections-2020” with the slogan “We did it, we can do it again,” it was released on Tuesday by AICC in charge of Telangana Manickam Tagore, TPCC president N Uttam Kumar Reddy, party’s manifesto committee chairman Marri Shashidhar Reddy and convenor Dasoju Sravan. The Congress promised to extend free Covid-19 treatment under Arogyasri, increase Basthi Dawakhanas to 450, Rs 50,000 financial aid to every flood-affected family, Rs 5 lakh and Rs 2.5 lakh for fully and partially damaged houses, ex-gratia of Rs 25 lakh to family members of those who died due to floods among others. When asked where the budget would come from, Sravan said Greater Hyderabad generates Rs 1 lakh crore per annum but does not get its rightful share from the TRS-government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/congress-offers-free-covid-treatment-rs-50k-to-flood-hit/articleshow/79397326.cms||Roushan Ali
November 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: ‘Ad hoc solutions won’t help, strong political will needed to fight bad air’||NEW DELHI: A strong political will and utilising the energy of thousands of green warriors in the form of children, lawyers and activists can help Delhi combat air pollution, feels former Supreme Court justice Madan Lokur. Speaking days after the formation of Commission on Air Quality Management in NCR, effectively replacing Lokur’s one-man committee that was dealing with air pollution, the former justice also said that ad-hoc solutions such as smog towers, happy seeders and firecracker bans might or might not work. Regardless, long-term planning was needed and all stakeholders should be involved in this. Speaking at the launch of a 20-minute film, Hari Phuljhari, released by the Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy, Lokur recalled the Supreme Court decisions that first led to a firecracker ban in the region and then the introduction of green crackers. “I can tell you that there are a large number of students, lawyers, who are willing to help and help without any problem. I would like to call them green warriors and they can help us tackle air pollution and not just pollution, but also clean the Yamuna,” said the former justice. Hari Phuljhari highlights how despite judgments in its favour, regulating the manufacture and use of firecrackers in Delhi failed. The implementation of the regulation failed because of general lack of awareness, poor enforcement of the regulations and the conflation of a health issue with religious sentiments, the short film shows, emphasising how pollution went up at a higher rate in a comparatively short period during Diwali. Saying Delhi government needed to stop passing the buck and blaming other state governments, Lokur said, “With such a large number of green warriors that Delhi has and if there is political will, we can get rid of the air pollution problem. I am not trying to suggest a lack of political will of Delhi government, Haryana government, Punjab government, UP government or the central government. All I’m saying is there has to be political will.” He said one government could not say it is not its problem, but of another government. “Making excuses and passing the buck is not going to help,” Lokur declared. “There has to be one leader and one aim and thousands of green warriors that are available to them. If we focus on the problem and say we are going to clean Delhi on a long-term basis rather than on an ad-hoc basis, we can do it. Based on my experience, it has happened in the past and Delhi can do it again.” Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai, who also spoke after the launch of the documentary, said air pollution was a health issue and public engagement was always welcomed. “Land is divided by boundaries, but the sky is not divided,” he argued. “Delhi’s air pollution problem is an airshed problem. The solution to this problem cannot be only technical. A solution to this problem cannot be found without political will, that too the collective will of political parties. What happens in one part affects the whole.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ad-hoc-solutions-wont-help-strong-political-will-needed-to-fight-bad-air/articleshow/79397334.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
November 25, 2020||Hyderabad||‘Incontinence more prevalent in women’||Hyderabad: While urinary incontinence is a very common issue faced by women and a small number of men, the low awareness about the issue results in patients suffering in silence. The problem often leads to depression and withdrawal, apart from resulting in an extreme event like a serious fall or even death. Population studies show a prevalence of urinary incontinence in 10%-42% (depending on age) of Indian women as per experts. “It shows a clear trend towards increase in prevalence as well as severity with age (5.6% in the 3rd decade to 39% in the seventh decade). Incontinence is less common in men and there are no population studies from India. International studies show a prevalence of 3%-5% percent in young men increasing to 11%-34% percent in elderly men. However, due to little awareness, the impact on impact on the quality of life is huge,” said Dr Sanjay Sinha, senior consultant urologist, Apollo Hospitals. While incontinence is usually not a health hazard, there is an association with depression, social withdrawal and more importantly, such patients are more likely to suffer from falls (presumably when they rush to the toilet). Despite the huge stigma around the problem and less than half the patients actually seeking help and instead putting up with a poor quality of life, almost all cases of incontinence can be treated.  “In general, the problem in seen in middle-aged males and females, and especially debilitated patients who are in old age. In males, prostrate in the main problem and in women, typically pelvic floor weakness is a problem,” Dr V Surya Prakash, senior consultant urologist and robotic surgeon, Yashoda Hospitals. Strengthening pelvic floor muscles helps in cases of mild incontinence. In other cases, medication or surgeries help. “Elderly patients generally suffer incontinence, thinking it is normal to have a leak but incontinence is not a natural phenomenon. It is pathological and is treatable,” added Dr Prakash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/incontinence-more-prevalent-in-women/articleshow/79397332.cms||Amrita Didyala
November 25, 2020||Chennai||Despite Madras HC pulling up officials, patta transfers still delayed||CHENNAI: Despite the Madras high court pulling up state government officials over delay in disposal of applications for patta transfers, people are still running from pillar to post over the issue. Registration and revenue departments, which are the key agencies engaged in the process, are shifting goal posts. Take the case of K R Bharath, a resident of West Mambalam, who is unable to get the patta for a housing plot that was registered in a layout at Panambakkam village in Tiruvallur district three months ago. The registration officials informed him that patta would be available in three days, after the property was registered on August 28. But, the ordeals began for Bharath as he had to shuttle between the sub registrar office at Perumbakkam and the Village Administrative Office multiple times to verify the status of patta transfer. “After 85 days of inquiries and multiple visits, I was informed by a revenue official in the village that no application had been received from the sub registrar office and asked me to apply for patta through the e-Sevai Centre," he said. Bharath further claimed that middlemen offered to complete the process within a couple of days. "I do not want to grease anyone's palm. But I wonder whether this is a reason for the inordinate delay in facilitating the patta transfer," he said. The incident comes a month after the Madurai bench of Madras high court took a serious view of the pendency of patta transfer applications. As per a report filed by the director of survey and settlement, 6.3 lakh applications involving sub-division (ISD) and 1.4 lakh applications not involving sub-division (NISD) were pending till July 31. After the court's intervention, the state informed that 1.6 lakh ISD applications and 96.1% NISD applications were disposed of as of September 21. When contacted, revenue department sources said that the fault lay with the sub registrar offices for not sending the link for patta transfers, wherein some incomplete applications also land that makes processing the applications cumbersome. The registration department denied the charges. "It is next to impossible that a patta transfer application has not reached the revenue department official concerned online because the process is automatic once a property gets registered," a registration department official said. Social activist and secretary of People's Awareness Association Nanganallur, V Rama Rao, who has taken up issues pertaining to patta transfers in the past, said that such applications should be disposed of within 30 days by government departments. "The official delaying the disposal of applications must be fined Rs100 for every day of delay like under the RTI Act," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/despite-hc-pulling-up-officials-patta-transfers-still-delayed/articleshow/79395770.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
November 25, 2020||Bhopal||Covid mortality rate among gas victims 6.5 times more than others||BHOPAL: A mere 17% of the state capital’s population accounts for nearly 55% of Covid-19 attributed deaths, claimed NGOs working for survivors of the Bhopal gas disaster. Speaking at a press conference here on Tuesday, they claimed that out of 450 deaths tabulated, 254 were of Bhopal gas victims. “Covid-19 mortality rate among the Bhopal gas disaster-affected population is 6.54 times more than the mortality rate in non-gas exposed population,” the NGO press release stated. They claimed to have official records which showed Covid-19 death rate in the gas exposed population. There are an estimated 5.72 lakh gas victims as per government records. The NGOs demanded that Union Carbide and its owner Dow Chemical pay additional compensation for the long-term injuries caused to the gas exposed people as evidenced in the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. “The pandemic has exposed the official lie that 93% of those exposed to Union Carbide’s poisonous gases had only temporary injuries,” said Rashida Bee, president of the Bhopal Gas Peedit Mahila Stationery Karmchari Sangh. “We have official records that show that the gas exposed population, that is 17% of the district’s population of 2.8 million, has contributed to 56% of the COVID-19 deaths in the district so far,” she added. “It is time that the Indian government presented these and other hospital records before the Supreme Court that is yet to hear the Curative Petition for additional compensation for damage caused by the December 1984 disaster,” said Nawab Khan, president of the Bhopal Gas Peedit Mahila Purush Sangharsh Morcha. Rachna Dhingra of the Bhopal Group for Information and Action said that Union Carbide’s own documents state that the injuries caused by exposure to Methyl Isocyanate are permanent in nature, yet more than 90% of the exposed people have been paid compensation of only 500 US dollars for temporary injuries “It is a pity that it took a global pandemic to highlight the injustice meted to the victims of the world’s worst industrial disaster.” she said. As of Tuesday, Bhopal has reported more than 29,000 Covid-19 cases and 505 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-mortality-rate-among-gas-victims-6-5-times-more-than-others/articleshow/79395785.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Haze is back as calm winds foul up air, mercury stays below normal||NEW DELHI: A haze engulfed Delhi on Tuesday after the air quality deteriorated due to meteorological factors. The capital’s air quality index (AQI) was 379 in the “very poor” category as against 295 on Monday. Track the pollution level in your cityAfter Monday’s 6.3 degrees Celsius, Delhi’s minimum temperature was 6.7 degrees Celsius on Tuesday, five notches below normal. As the minimum temperature remained five degrees below normal for the second consecutive day, India Meteorological Department (IMD) declared cold wave in Delhi. The maximum temperature was 25.3 degrees Celsius, one degree below normal. Experts said wind speed, temperature, boundary layers and change in wind direction affected the air quality. According to the Central Pollution Control Board’s central control room, the 24-hour average of PM10 and PM2.5 for Delhi-NCR started rising since the midnight. While the PM10 average was 394.9 micrograms per cubic metre at 6pm, the same for PM2.5 was 215.4 around the same time. The standards for PM2.5 and PM10 are 60 and 100 micrograms per cubic metre, respectively. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head of Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “As the wind direction shifted from northwesterly to easterly on Tuesday, the pollutants got trapped during the transition phase. Though calm winds are generally recorded during night time, the average wind speed during day was less than 5kmph and severely impacted the dispersion process. The wind speed came down to nil by the evening. The low temperatures also slow down dispersion.” Met officials said the visibility dropped to 800 metres at the Safdarjung station from 7.30am to 9am due to shallow fog. Though visibility improved later, it again started decreasing from 3.30pm. System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), a central forecasting body, said 189 stubble fires were recorded in neighbouring states on Monday, but as the wind direction was not favourable, its share in Delhi’s PM2.5 was only 5% on Tuesday. “Surface winds are very calm and boundary layer winds changed direction to northeasterly. Winds are forecast to pick up and improve the ventilation condition by Wednesday afternoon,” SAFAR said. AQI is also likely to improve towards the lower end of the “very poor” category by Wednesday evening and stay at “very poor” to the higher end of “poor” on Thursday, it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/haze-is-back-as-calm-winds-foul-up-air-mercury-stays-below-normal/articleshow/79397340.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
November 25, 2020||Agra||SHO sacked for ‘forcing compromise’ between two warring groups under MLAs’ pressure||Agra: The station house officer (SHO) of Gandhipark police station was removed from his post by Aligarh SSP on Tuesday for “mishandling” a case of clash between two groups and allegedly forcing them to compromise and releasing them under the “pressure from the local MLAs”. The SHO released the suspects, Manish Kumar and Avdhesh, accused of assaulting policemen who had gone to intervene when they were fighting. According to police, the two groups, one led by Manish and the other by Virendra Singh clashed on Monday night. Confirming the removal of the SHO Manikat Sharma, SSP Muniraj G told TOI that he had been sent to police lines and an inquiry has been ordered into the matter. “Superintendent of police (city) will inquire as to what happened inside the police station when both the groups were brought there by the policemen,” he added. Sub-inspector of Naurangabad police chowki under Gandhipark police station, Sanjeev Kumar, said that the suspects had assaulted him and the others when they had gone to attend a call of a clash last night. In an FIR, which was registered this morning, Sanjeev Kumar stated that the MLA also took away the complaint copies that he and the aggrieved party had filed. The suspects who assaulted the policemen were booked under section 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 353 (assault or criminal force used to deter public servant from discharging his duty), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) of IPC on a complaint filed by Kumar at Gandhipark police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/sho-sacked-for-forcing-compromise-between-two-warring-groups-under-mlas-pressure/articleshow/79394787.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
November 25, 2020||Chennai||Chennai civic body hopes to minimise tree falls||CHENNAI: Greater Chennai Corporation has sent a circular to park department officials in all 15 zones to ensure all lifeless trees are identified and chopped and others pruned so that the centre of gravity is maintained. About 17,000 trees fell in December 2016 when Cyclone Vardah struck. “This year the number of trees falling will be much less as we only native species were planted in the last four years. Also, we are continuously pruning and maintaining tree round the year,” said executive engineer Srinivasan from the parks department. The civic body has planted about 1 lakh saplings since then and five urban forests have been set up in the south region alone with approximately 8,000 saplings, he added. This year, about 54,000 saplings were planted; last year, 26,000 were planted. An official press release said 312 trees fell since April. Of these, about 185 fell during the southwest monsoon between July and October, and 90 since the northeast monsoon set in last month. This time, a special focus team has been formed to ensure trees that fall are cleared immediately. In July 2018, the corporation set aside ₹5 crore to plant saplings on road margins to compensate the 17,000 trees lost to Vardah. The planting began in February 2019 after a survey. About 200 locations including parks, playgrounds and corporation buildings were identified. As per the data provided, 2 lakh saplings have been planted so far. A target of one lakh saplings was set this year but only half of the target has been met due to the pandemic, said an official. D Narsimhan, a botanist, said tree fall cannot be avoided during cyclones and heavy rain as the soil loosens. “The civic body should take stock of weak trees and ensure they are cleared,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/civic-body-hopes-to-minimise-tree-falls/articleshow/79397335.cms||Komal Gautham
November 25, 2020||Bhopal||1700+ fresh Covid-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh for fourth day in a row||BHOPAL: Tuesday was the fourth consecutive day in the state when more than 1,700 Covid-19 positive cases were reported. Overall 1,766 new Covid-19 positive cases were reported in the state on Tuesday taking the tally of positive cases to 1,96,511. It was after around 44 days that 1,700 new Covid-19 positive patients were found in a single day in the state. On October 8, a total of 1,715 new cases were reported in the state and a lesser number of cases were reported since then. Apart from the fresh cases, 11 deaths were also reported as per the state health bulletin, released by directorate of health services. The districts where these deaths were reported includes Indore where 3 deaths were reported, 2 deaths were reported from Bhopal and one death each was reported from Gwalior, Jabalpur, Sagar, Betul, Dewas and Bhind districts. A total of 32,265 samples were tested on Tuesday out of which 1,766 people were found positive. Thus the positivity rate—number of people testing positive out of every 100 samples tested—for Tuesday stood at 5.4%. The cumulative positivity rate in the state on November 24 was 5.51%. It is noteworthy that the positivity rate above five percent is considered high and more and more tests are recommended if the positivity rate is above 5%. On Tuesday fresh cases were reported from 51 of the 52 districts of the state. It was only Burhanpur district where no fresh cases were reported on Tuesday. And new cases were reported in double figures from 34 districts of the state. The districts where maximum cases were reported includes Indore where 565 fresh cases were reported, Bhopal where 324 fresh cases were reported, Gwalior where 88 fresh cases were reported and Jabalpur where 67 new cases were reported. On the brighter side, 1112 people who were admitted at hospitals recovered and were discharged from the hospitals. With these new patients recovering from the disease, the count of people who have recovered so far from the disease reached 180349. As on November 24, there were 121279 active cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/1700-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-mp-for-4th-day-in-a-row/articleshow/79395799.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Meerut||Police in UP’s Bijnor confiscate criminal’s properties worth Rs 20 crore||BIJNOR: Police in UP’s Bijnor district on Tuesday seized properties estimated to be worth Rs 20crore of an alleged criminal. The assets of Vakeel Qureshi, both movable and immovable, were confiscated by police under the provisions of the Gangster Act. Bijnor’s superintendent of police (SP) Dharamveer Singh said, “Vakeel Qureshi, a resident of Afganaan Mohalla of Sherkot town, is a registered mafia who runs a gang in western UP. He is a history sheeter. There are several cases against Qureshi in different police stations of UP and Uttarakhand.” “Despite having no legal source of income, Qureshi amassed such wealth,” the SP said. According to section 14 of the Gangsters Act, a district magistrate can order attachment of a property if there is reason to believe that it has been acquired by a gangster as commission for an offence triable under this law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/police-in-ups-bijnor-confiscate-criminals-properties-worth-rs-20cr/articleshow/79394810.cms||Harveer Dabas
November 25, 2020||Meerut||Three Delhi youngsters drown as car falls into canal near Muzaffarnagar||MUZAFFARNAGAR: An otherwise pleasant trip to Rishikesh ended in a tragedy for four friends from Delhi as three of them drowned after their car fell into a railing-less canal on Tuesday morning as they were returning home. A woman was pulled out dead while two men were washed away in Upper Ganga canal near Purkazi, Muzaffarnagar. The fourth occupant of the car, a woman, was struggling for life after being taken out alive by divers from the gushing and freezing water of the canal, called “killer stream” in common parlance. All in their 20s, the youths were working in private companies in the national capital. They were college friends and had gone to Rishikesh to attend a function, police said. Arti, a resident of Hauz Khas, was declared dead at hospital. Priya who lives in Malviya Nagar is being treated there. “There was no trace of Nikhil and Praveen, residents of Fatehpur Beri and Safdarjung respectively,” a police officer said. The rescue operation was called off on Tuesday night. Superintendent of police (SP) Satpal Antil said, “Rescue operation was on till late in the evening. There is no trace of the two youths. The woman, who is being treated in the hospital, is not in a condition to tell much about the accident.” One of the deadliest stretches of Uttar Pradesh, the Upper Ganga canal road connecting Ghaziabad to Haridwar is called “killer bypass”. Motorists use it to escape the rush of NH-58. But, due to its “flawed design” and low embankments, scores of people are killed after falling into the 16-metre deep canal running adjacent to the 111-km stretch. According to a rough estimate, about 40 people have died on the stretch since 2018. To give motorists a safe shortcut, the state government recently gave nod to Rs 628crore project to construct a two-lane highway which will run parallel to the canal road. The new road will come up on the left side of the canal on the irrigation department land. ReplyReply allForward||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/3-delhi-youngsters-drown-as-car-falls-into-canal-near-muzaffarnagar/articleshow/79394820.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Meerut||Meerut: Garh's Ganga Snan Mela cancelled in view of Covid-19||MEERUT: The Ganga Snan Mela and the Deepdaan festival at Garhmukteshwar in Hapur district and at Hastinapur in Meerut district, respectively, have been cancelled this year in view of Covid-19. Thousands of devotees from the nearby districts of western Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Haryana, and Rajasthan arrive on the banks of the Ganga in Garhmukteshwar for ritual bathing on the occasion of Kartik Purnima and offer Deepdaan for the salvation of their ancestors. The ban on the arrival of devotees will continue till November 30. Hapur district magistrate Aditi Singh said, “Because of Covid-19, it has been decided to cancel the Ganga Snan Mela in Garhmukteshwar. Every year, nearly 30 lakh devotees from Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan, Delhi, and other nearby states come here to be a part of the festival.” Barricading around the Ganga has been done to prevent devotees from taking a dip in the river. Authorities believe that if allowed, the masses will not be able to follow social distancing. This is for the first time in years that the mela has been called off. A similar fair is conducted every year on the banks of Ganga by Meerut zila panchayat in Hastinapur area every year. “Because of Covid-19, everybody agreed to call off the fair this year. Everybody’s health should be the primary concern at this time,” said Kulwinder Singh, chairman, Meerut zila panchayat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/garhs-ganga-snan-mela-cancelled-in-view-of-covid-19/articleshow/79394811.cms||Ishita Bhatia
November 25, 2020||Agra||PM Narendra Modi to inaugurate Agra Metro Rail project on December 1||AGRA: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually inaugurate Agra Metro Rail project on December 1. The online inauguration ceremony will also be attended by chief minister Yogi Adityanath. Ahead of the programme, barricading for the construction of the first corridor is being done on Fatehabad road. Besides, the foundation of the first metro rail station will be laid opposite TDI Mall on Fatehabad road. Confirming the programme, Agra district magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “The Prime Minister will be virtually inaugurating the project in the presence of the chief minister and other dignitaries on December 1. The require arrangements are being made.” In the first phase, three metro stations — Taj East Gate, Basai and Fatehabad road — and an elevated four-km-long track will be constructed within 26 months and at an expected cost of Rs 273 crore. The tendering process for which was completed. On February 28, 2019, the Union cabinet had approved the Agra Metro Rail project with two corridors that would connect major public nodes, tourist places and city cluster areas in Agra. According to UP Metro Rail Corporation Limited (UPMRC) officials, the Rs 8,379.62 crore Agra Metro Rail project will be a major boost to the urban public transport connectivity in the city. The implementation of the metro rail system will result in less vehicular traffic and better movement on the roads leading to a reduction in congestions, travel time, cost of journeys, accidents and pollution. According to the detailed project report (DRP) approved by the Union cabinet, the Agra Metro Rail project will have two corridors passing through the heart of the city and connecting prominent tourist places, including the Taj Mahal, Agra Fort, Etmaddulah and Sikandra, as well as major government offices, hospitals and market places. A total of 27 stations will be developed along the 29.4 km rail corridor in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-agra-metro-rail-project-on-dec-1/articleshow/79394819.cms||Deepak Lavania
November 25, 2020||Meerut||Abandoned by parents, newborn girl rescued ‘on time’ in Meerut, finds several homes||MEERUT: She travelled the stretch really quick, within a matter of days. Fresh from the mother’s womb, the days-old baby girl suddenly found herself in a gunny bag, lying on an open street in bitter cold, unattended. Abandoned by her parents, the toddler was spotted by a daily wager on Monday evening-- too exhausted to cry, and almost numb from the cold. The new-born girl, wrapped in plastic and put in a gunny bag, was abandoned in a deserted area on Gagol road in Meerut’s Partapur area on Monday evening. Rachit Kumar, 27, a daily-wage labourer, was the first one to pick up the child. “I was on my way to work when I spotted a crowd along the road. When I reached there I saw people trying to rescue a new-born from abandoned sacks. I took out my jacket, comforted her and later alerted police. We then took her to hospital,” Rachit said. “Most people gathered there were making videos. The sacks were roughly handled by the person trying to take the baby out of it and as a result her head hit the ground,” he said. Local police were quick to reach there. The toddler was rushed to hospital. “The baby girl was in a bad shape when she was brought to the hospital. She was in cold stress, hypothermia and severe respiratory distress. She was immediately put in a warmer machine and supplemental oxygen was given,” Amar Singh Gunjyal, senior pediatrician at the district women’s hospital said. “She is very lucky. Her vitals have restored to normal and oxygen support has been withdrawn. Had there been any delay in bringing her to hospital, things could have got complicated,” he said. Meanwhile, police have registered a case under section 307 (attempt to murder) and 317 (exposure and abandonment of child under twelve years, by parent or person having care of it) against unidentified suspect for abandoning the newborn. “Efforts are also being made to trace the person who abandoned her,” said Ajay Sahni, Meerut’s senior superintendent of police. As the news spread, requests of adoption poured in. Several people reached out to the district administration in Meerut to inquire on the legal and official formalities to adopt her. Rachit, a father to two sons, was also keen. “I had a baby girl once. But she passed away when she was four months old. I would really like to adopt her,” he said. ReplyReply allForward||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/abandoned-by-parents-newborn-girl-rescued-on-time-in-meerut-finds-several-homes/articleshow/79394813.cms||Piyush Rai
November 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Theatres on wait & watch, plan December 4 opening||HYDERABAD: Movie theatres did not raise the curtains on Tuesday though the state government had permitted them to screen films immediately by adhering to Covid-19 guidelines. Theatre managements held a meeting and decided to keep the theatres ready for screening of films from December 4. “Though the state government has permitted flexible ticket rates, exhibitors may not be keen on increasing ticket rates. Our priority is to make it comfortable and safe for the audience to come and watch films in theatres,” M Vijender Reddy of Telangana State Film Chamber of Commerce said. Since producers who are willing to release their movies will require a minimum period of time to create publicity material and publicise their movies, theatre managements are preparing ground for the usual Friday release for December 4. The government has permitted only 50% of the seating capacity and exhibitors are not sure if the audience would come rushing to the theatres. Depending on the audience response, exhibitors might increase or decrease the number of shows. Exhibitors and producers are also factoring in the revenue angle if they were to release the films. There are different types of arrangements between exhibitors and producers or distributors for sharing of profit. According to sources, some exhibitors are even willing to negotiate with producers or distributors to give them an increased share in the revenue – of more than 50% – so that they would be keen to release their movies. Meanwhile, the Telugu film industry on Tuesday thanked chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao for the sops he has announced to keep the film industry running.“The Telugu film industry is rejoicing with the much-needed relief measures announced by Telangana CM KCR garu. These will surely set the ball rolling again in the path of progress,” filmmaker SS Rajamouli tweeted. Production houses Geeta Arts and Asian Cinemas said industry would be benefited by the sops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/theatres-on-wait-watch-plan-dec-4-opening/articleshow/79397341.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Salem||Murder accused, 29, hacked to death in front of police station||SALEM: A three-member gang hacked a 29-year-old rowdy to death in front of Suramangalam police station here on Tuesday evening to avenge the death of a ganja peddler, who the latter had murdered at Chinna Mayakulam village near Keezhakarai in Ramanathapuram district on August 27. Police said the incident occurred when K Gopinath, 29, of Chinna Mayakulam village, came to the police station to put his sign on records as part of his bail condition. A ganja peddler, Gopinath and his accomplice Devakumar, 28, had hacked their business rival Edison, 25, to death on August 7. The Keezhakarai police had arrested the duo the same day. The case was heard by Ramanathapuram district court, which had granted the duo bail on November 6 with a direction to put sign on the records at the Suramangalam police station in the morning and evening. “On Tuesday evening, when Gopinath and Devakumar came out of the police station, the gang, comprising Edison’s relative Anthony and his accomplices Karthik and Vignesh, surrounded the duo and started hacking Gopinath,” said, J Nagarajan, assistant commissioner, Salem city (west) division. According to the officer, Devakumar had managed to escape and take refuge in the police station. Gopinath, the officer said, succumbed to his injuries on the spot. The Suramangalam police subsequently sent the body to the government hospital for postmortem. While the gang had escaped from the spot, police managed to nab the trio at the Salem central bus stand. Further inquiry is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/murder-accused-29-hacked-to-death-in-front-of-police-stn/articleshow/79397345.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 25, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Theft cases on the rise as winter sets in||BHOPAL: Theft and burglary cases are on the rise in the city. In just a week after the Diwali festival, around two dozen burglaries and theft cases have been reported in the city including the shocking daylight burglary at the house of an ADJ in posh Char Imli area in which the thieves decamped with cash and valuables worth more than Rs 11.5 lakh. Senior police officers maintained that theft and burglary cases may rise further during the ongoing winter season. Police have made elaborate plans to check rising theft incidents and patrolling, especially the night and early morning patrolling, has been strengthened. The night lockdown due to rising Corona cases in the city may also help cops in controlling the crime rate. Thieves broke into into an ATM of IDBI Bank located just beside the bank branch at Nipaniya Jat village late of Diwali night and stole Rs 7.54 lakh after cutting the machine with a gas cutter and escaped in their sedan car. Thieves had cut the CCTV camera wires just after entering the ATM. The oxygen cylinder used for the gas cutter was also stolen from a shop at Harrakhera village in Gunga. The heist came to light two days later when bank officials reached the spot after Diwali holidays. The incident raises serious questions over police patrolling especially when senior officers have instructed the staff at police stations to check the financial institutions including banks and ATMs daily during night patrol duty. There was a decline in theft cases during the 81 days of lockdown period. But as soon as the ‘lockdown’ ended, thefts and house break-ins increased once again. In June, 157 theft cases were reported in the city including 43 house break-ins while in July 184 theft cases including 44 house break-ins were reported. In August, 197 theft cases were reported including 67 burglaries or house break-in cases were reported. In September a whopping 249 theft cases including 84 burglaries were reported while in October 197 theft cases including 53 burglaries were reported to the police. In August no loot case was reported as per the police data while in September six loot cases and in October six loot cases were reported. The recovery rate of police in theft and burglary cases is less than 20% which raises concern. Speaking over the issue, DIG Irshad Wali said that police have been conducting criminal tracking and monitoring of burglars and thieves. Recently many theft and burglary cases have been solved. Police have planned to conduct ‘Combing Patrol’ in particular areas so that it acts as a deterrent and at the same time details of criminals released from jail will be parallelly verified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/theft-cases-on-the-rise-as-winter-sets-in/articleshow/79395811.cms||Sudeept Mishra
November 25, 2020||Madurai||Helpline numbers launched in Madurai||MADURAI: As part of the disaster mitigation preparedness for the northeast monsoon, round-the-clock helpline numbers have been announced by the Madurai district administration on Tuesday. These helpline numbers will function at an emergency control room established at the district collectorate. Public can reach the toll free helpline number 1077, landline number 0452-2546160 or on WhatsApp at 9597176061. These are in addition to the dedicated helpline numbers for Madurai city for areas under Madurai Corporation: 0452-2530521 and 0452-2530526 and WhatsApp number 8428425000. Messages, pictures and videos of those in distress can be shared on the WhatsApp numbers. Public have been requested to avoid forwarding unconfirmed messages as it would affect those in genuine distress getting help.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/helpline-nos-launched/articleshow/79398366.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Agra||Bail plea of Khudai Khidmatgar founder, aide who offered namaz at temple dismissed||Agra: Mathura court on Tuesday dismissed the bail applications of Faisal Khan, founder of Delhi-based Khudai Khidmatgar, and his associate, Chand Mohammad. The duo was arrested for offering namaz without permission at Nand Baba temple in Mathura on November 2. According to police, Faisal Khan and Chand Mohammad had offered namaz on the temple premises while two others, Alok Ratan and Nilesh Gupta, clicked their pictures. All four have been booked for “promoting enmity between different groups on ground of religion and injuring (153A) or defiling a place of worship with intent to insult the religion of any class (295)” along with section 505 (whoever makes, publishes or circulates any statement, rumour or report) of the IPC on a complaint filed by Nandgaon temple’s priest Kanha Goswami.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/bail-plea-of-khudai-khidmatgar-founder-aide-who-offered-namaz-at-temple-dismissed/articleshow/79394857.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
November 25, 2020||Aurangabad||Three arrested for killing youth for talking to a woman in Maharashtra||AURANGABAD: Three people have been arrested by Hingoli police for killing a 21-year-old man for frequently talking to the fiancée of the key suspect. The deceased, Dnyaneshwar Chavan, hailed from Gonda in Vasmat tehsil of the district. The suspects have been identified as Pramod Khade, Vinod Kapure (both hailing from Hatta) and Pravin Ambhore (from Parbhani). According to police, all the suspects worked at a fuel station, while the deceased was employed at a mobile phone shop. “Chavan went missing in the second half of the day on Saturday, following which his family lodged a missing complaint. His partially decomposed body — with smashed skull and injuries all over the body — was found in a farm on Monday evening,” a police officer said. Within 12 hours of the incident coming to light, a team of local crime branch, led by assistant superintendent of police Yatish Deshmukh, nabbed all the three suspects. Superintendent of police Rakesh Kalasagar said, “During preliminary probe, the key suspect, Khade, revealed that he was upset with the youth as the latter used to talk with the former’s fiancée.” He added, “Khade then planned to kill Chavan and roped in two of his friends. Accordingly, on Saturday, the suspect trio started tailing Chavan. After finding him alone at a deserted place, they waylaid him and got into an altercation. At this time, Khade hit Chavan with an iron rod. After the deceased fell on the ground, the trio started hitting him with the rod all over his body,” he added. Later, the accused threw his body in a farm and in order to mislead the police, the accused drove his bike to Jintur Road-based Hiwarkhed Shivar and threw it under a bridge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/3-arrested-for-killing-youth-for-talking-to-a-woman/articleshow/79394840.cms||Mohammed Akhef
November 25, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Fares double as cabs, autos make the most of high demand||CHENNAI: Cabs and autorickshaw drivers made a killing on Tuesday amid heavy rain and flooded roads. With fewer of them on call, demand for cabs and autos was high throughout the day and this saw fares nearly doubling. “In Chennai, fearing damage to cars, less than 3,000 drivers logged in for duty,” said T Ramanujam from Tamil Nadu Call Taxi Owners Association. Usually more than twice that number, around 7,000 cabs, log in. The shortage of cabs got worse as there was increased demand for inter-district travel as fewer private buses were running, Ramanujam said. Within city limits, autorickshaws had a field day. “First of all, not many were willing to travel to Velachery fearing waterlogged roads. Only one or two were willing and they too demanded almost Rs 400 for travelling to my home from Anna Salai,” said Deepan R, a resident of Madipakkam. Auto drivers said they charged more as they were taking a risk plying in the rain through flooded streets. Whenever a bus or lorry overtakes an autorickshaw, water can get into its engine. Repairs then cost Rs1,000-1,500, said Chandran from CITU auto drivers’ union. The number of taxis and autorickshaws on the road on Wednesday will depend on how bad the flooding and the winds are. The Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) plans to operate 1,000 buses in the city on Wednesday to ensure that people who have to can commute. Around 1,600 buses were operated till 10 pm on Tuesday, though patronage dropped as night fell. However, people who reached city early in the morning from other districts struggled to catch local buses at transit points such as Tambaram and Kathipara. “We have advised drivers and conductors to prioritise safety and avoid risks on Wednesday,” said a senior MTC official. Buses will be operated till 11 pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/fares-double-as-cabs-autos-make-the-most-of-high-demand/articleshow/79397361.cms||Ram Sundaram
November 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Ooty to get another tourist attraction||UDHAGAMANDALAM: The Nilgiris is all set to have another tourist attraction. A park, named after the founder of the modern Nilgiris, John Sullivan, is getting ready at Kannerimukku village located close to the Sullivan memorial. The Sullivan Park, being developed at acost of Rs 20 lakh, will be opened for public on January 15, 2021, a day before the 166th death anniversary of Sullivan. Since Sullivan memorial is in the village, the government decided to develop the area as a park as part of tourism development. Collector J Innocent Divya said, “A sum of Rs.20 lakh has been sanctioned by the Special Area Development Authority (SADP) towards the development of the park.” She added, “Earth work of the project has been completed. Species of ‘shola’ tree saplings and ‘shola grasses’ find place in the park among others.” Attractions planned for the park are a flower garden, natural species of the Nilgiris, children play area and a food court, among others. The Kotagiri town panchayat is carrying out the project. When it comes to development of a garden, the panchayat has sought the help of the horticulture department. Shiva Subramaniam Samraj, joint director, horticulture department said, “We are helping the Kotagiri town panchayat by providing flower saplings and expertise in planting the saplings to develop a garden in the Sullivan Park.” An official process of formality is underway to hand over the park to the horticulture department for maintenance purposes. Stating that Sullivan Park will be another attraction added to the list of tourist spots in the Nilgiris, Divya said, “The park will be opened for public on January 15, 2021.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ooty-to-get-another-tourist-attraction/articleshow/79397362.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Puducherry||Cyclone Nivar: Fishermen in 9 boats yet to be contacted||PUDUCHERRY/KARAIKAL: Dozens of fishermen, who ventured into the sea in 23 boats from Karaikal district in the Union territory of Puducherry before Cyclone Nivar warning was sounded, have not returned to shore as of Tuesday night. Each boat has 6 to 12 fishermen on board. As Nivar cyclone may make landfall near Puducherry coast on Wednesday, the fisheries department had asked all fishermen to return to the coast well in advance. Fisheries officials managed to establish contact with fishermen in 14 of the 23 boats and alerted them to the danger of the cyclone by Tuesday evening. However, fishermen in the remaining nine boats could not be contacted. "People in the boats we contacted were fishing in Kodiyakarai area (Nagapattinam coast) and will reach Mallipattinam or Jagadhapattinam in Pudukottai district by 6am on Wednesday. However, fishermen in the rest nine boats could not be contacted as their mobile phones are either switched off or are not reachable. We have told their boat owners to alert them to return to the nearby shore as soon as possible. We have also sought the assistance of Indian Coast Guard in tracing and rescuing them," said deputy director (fisheries) in Karaikal R Kaviyarasan. According to the fisheries department, fishermen from Karaikal ventured into sea for fishing in 540 mechanised vessels a few days ago, before the cyclone alert was issued. Most of them returned as soon as the alert was issued. On Tuesday morning, revenue minister M O H F Shahjahan told reporters in the presence of relief and rehabilitation commissioner A Anbarasu that fishermen in 30 boats had not returned so far and they could not be traced, and the government had requested the Indian Coast Guard to trace and rescue them. However, as the day progressed, fisheries officials said they contacted more fishermen and instructed them to return to shore at the earliest. As on Tuesday night, 149 boats had berthed at Karaikal fishing harbour, five each at Nagapattinam harbour, Jegathapattinam and Krishnarajapattinam harbours, two in Mallipattinam harbour and one each in Kodiyakarai, Puducherry and Chennai harbours. Fishermen in Thanjavur and Pudukottai districts did not venture into sea after the cyclone alert was issued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/cyclone-nivar-fishermen-in-9-boats-yet-to-be-contacted/articleshow/79395815.cms||Bosco Dominique
November 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19: Health dept gives nod for antigen tests in private hospitals||HYDERABAD: The state health department has decided to permit antigen testing in private hospitals and laboratories in order to upscale testing in the state. The test is important due to its rapid results and positive results being largely correct, although it does give a lot of false negatives. The quick identification of positives is important for early initiation of treatment. The decision to allow private hospitals and laboratories to perform coronavirus rapid antigen tests, which are currently limited to RT-PCR tests, was taken after several private labs and hospitals requested for the permission, with patients and doctors more inclined towards rapid antigen tests for immediate results. Officials point out that unavailability of rapid antigen tests in private sector is resulting in low RT-PCR tests being conducted in the sector. Also, reports of many private laboratories conducting the tests without permission and individuals having acquired testing kits and conducting it for family members have prompted the government to make it available as per sources. Despite the immediate results and accurate positive results in antigen tests, the fact that it gives a high number of false negatives means that everyone testing negative in the antigen test is required to undergo a RT-PCR test too. “Due to the increasing demand from public and private facilities, it has been decided to make the test widely available in private facilities. They will be supplied with the kits as per their requirement. The step will go a long way in increasing the daily testing in the state, as many people are still interested in getting the tests done in private facilities. Also, by permitting the labs to do the tests and upload the results, all positive cases will be counted,” said a senior official from the department. Rapid antigen tests, meanwhile, are currently being conducted in 1,076 government hospitals and laboratories in the state. RT-PCR examinations are being conducted at 18 places in the government and 50 places in the private sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/health-dept-gives-nod-for-antigen-tests-in-pvt-hosps/articleshow/79397360.cms||Amrita Didyala
November 25, 2020||Chennai||Here is a man from Tamil Nadu who plants trees and cares for them too||CHENNAI: Ever wondered what happens to thousands of saplings planted in Tamil Nadu? After the planting with much fanfare and photo-ops, many dry up due to lack of care. But a 74-year-old man vouches for 100-odd trees that he has been caring for over the past few decades. V Karuppaiya has been planting trees on the banks of water bodies and tanks in Kizhapuliyur village in Perambalur for the past 40 years. With the meagre salary he earns as manager of a temple, this lone crusader is creating awareness among people about the importance of trees. He visits the trees he planted regularly. "I don’t plant hundreds of saplings, because I know I can’t take care of them. Saplings need proper care. I plant three or four once a year and I take care of them," said Karuppaiya, who plants neem, banyan and tamarind trees that have a thick foliage. For Karuppaiya, the day starts with a walk towards one of the trees that he planted decades ago. "At least 100 trees have grown, and they are giving shelter to birds and people in my village," said Karuppaiya, while sitting under a tamarind tree that he planted 20 years ago. It was a disturbing scene of trees being felled that he witnessed as a child that made Karuppaiya a lover and protector of nature. "I was studying at the local school in Kizhapuliyur village. One day, some people came and started cutting the trees on the premises. As a child, I couldn’t do anything and was very upset," he said. When he told his parents about the incident, no one paid attention to him. Years later he decided to dedicatedly plant saplings to compensate for the trees that were felled in his village. "I just planted one or two saplings close to my house at the beginning and would water them daily. Both grew, giving hope for me to plant more trees. And that’s how it all began," said Karuppaiya, who lives alone, as his wife passed away five years ago. Over the years he has been trying to create awareness among students about the importance of trees. "I suffer from age-related illness, and I don’t know how far I can travel like this. I tell students and youth to start planting saplings. Many have come forward. It’s a great sign," he said. Perambalur-based environmentalist Ramesh K said it’s a great service to society. "The greenery in Kizhapuliyur village has improved thanks to Karuppaiya. It’s not an overnight development, but decades of hard-work. Now a group of students is planning to help him in his initiative," said Ramesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/here-is-a-man-who-plants-trees-and-cares-for-them-too/articleshow/79399373.cms||M T Saju
November 25, 2020||Rajkot||Retd Amreli forester booked in DA case||Rajkot: Investigation by the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) Junagadh has revealed disproportionate assets worth Rs 1.04 crore of a retired forester in Amreli on Tuesday. According to ACB, Vaghji Dav had invested this money in immovable property purchased in the names of his family members. The ACB had received an application alleging disproportionate assets amassed by Dav recently. After investigation and analysis of his financial transactions, property details, bank accounts and other documents, it was found that Dav’s wealth was Rs 2.52 crore which was nearly 81% higher than his known source of income which come to Rs 1.47 crore.The agency sleuths also probed various bank accounts of the accused and his relatives from 2011 and found a number of suspicious transactions. It was also found that the accused had deposited Rs 16 lakh in his bank accounts during the time of demonetization. A statement issued by ACB said, “The accused (Dav) had misused his position as public servant during his tenure with the intention to become rich and adopted various corrupt practices. It’s found that the accused had earned the money with corrupt practice and invested that money in property on the names of his dependants.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/retd-amreli-forester-booked-in-da-case/articleshow/79395901.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Cell phone in voting booth not allowed||HYDERABAD: State Election Commissioner C Partha Sarathi has issued orders that cell phones will not be allowed into the voting compartment. This is being done to prevent voters taking a photograph of polled ballot paper and circulating it on social media. Such incidents were reported during gram panchayat elections earlier this year and the election commissioner has now directed the returning officers to ensure that the secrecy of voting is maintained. Any person contravening the provision of section 602 of GHMC Act shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three months or fine or both. The SEC directed the GHMC Commissioner-cum-election authority and his officers on polling duty to take necessary steps to create awareness among the presiding officers on the maintenance of secrecy in voting. Presiding officers to ensure the secrecy of the ballot, should issue ballot papers to the voters at random and not in serial order. However, at the end of polling, the ballot papers issued should be in continuous consecutive serial numbers from one to the last number of the ballot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cell-phone-in-voting-booth-not-allowed/articleshow/79397366.cms||Roushan Ali
November 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris keeps 456 relief camps ready||UDHAGAMANDALAM: The district administration has taken precautionary measures as heavy rain and strong wind are predicted on Wednesday and Thursday in the Nilgiris, collector J Innocent Divya said. Divya said, “Designated teams comprising officials of inter departments were instructed to inspect all the identified (283) vulnerable locations in the district on Tuesday. Dangerous trees identified on the highways are also being removed to avoid roadblocks.” No special contingents such as SDFR or NDFR are provided to the district. Help of volunteers and first respondents are sought by the administration. However, 40 SDFR trained local personnel are prepositioned across the district, according to the collector. As many as 456 relief camps are kept ready . A new toll-free number 1912, exclusively for electricity board, has been introduce in the district for complaints of power cuts exceeding 24 hours besides 1077 designated for emergency operation centre which would operate 24/7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-keeps-456-relief-camps-ready/articleshow/79397367.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 25, 2020||Aurangabad||Student arrested for theft gets bail||Aurangabad: A 20-year-old business administration students, who had been arrested on the charges of stealing gold from his female friend’s house, has been granted bail by the local court. Judicial magistrate first class A S Wadkar granted the conditional bail to Prathamesh Vyas (the accused) and ordered him to mark his presence at the police station every Monday between 10 am and noon. The court said the police will be at liberty to move an application for cancellation of bail if the accused is found violating the bail orders. Based on the woman’s complaint Pundaliknagar police on November 20 registered a case of theft. The woman alleged two gold biscuits had been stolen from her house. The police arrested Vyas on November 22. Lawyer Kartik Sharma, representing Vyas, cited contents of the FIR and said the theft was committed in September, the woman came to know about it in October, and the FIR was lodged in November. He said there was an inordinate, unsatisfying and a suspicious delay on the part of the complainant in reaching out to the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/student-arrested-for-theft-gets-bail/articleshow/79394895.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Gandhi worker attempts suicide over unpaid salary||Hyderabad: A class four outsourcing employee working as a ward boy at the state-run Gandhi Hospital attempted suicide on Tuesday reportedly over non-payment of salary. The ward boy, named Harish, was rushed to the hospital and is currently under treatment at the burns ward in Gandhi Hospital. The suicide attempt has come a day after 15 nurses from Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences (TIMS) were detained for protesting over the delay in salaries. Nurses at King Koti Hospital have also been agitating over delayed salaries for a week now. “Harish took the step as he was not paid for past four months.” said M Narsimha, Telangana Medical Contract Employees and Workers’ Union president. “He had many problems on the family front due to lack of money, and had an argument with his family members on Tuesday before taking the extreme step. This is the government’s failure to give salaries to outsourcing workers on time and every month.” Meanwhile, hospital authorities have blamed the incident on family issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gandhi-worker-attempts-suicide-over-unpaid-salary/articleshow/79397364.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Goa||Move recycling site away from Mandrem coast: GCZMA||Panaji: Mandrem panchayat has been told by the Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) to identify a land away from the coast to set up a materials recovery facility (MRF) for recyclable waste collection. The authority said that the current spot identified is on a hill slope close to the coast and may damage the ecology. “Authority noted that MRF facility is on a high slope area prone to erosion and may affect coastal ecology. The authority advised the village panchayat to explore other areas,” the GCZMA said. MRF is a specialised plant that receives, separates and prepares recyclable materials. The Mandrem panchayat sought permission from the GCZMA to set up the MRF and a site inspection by GCZMA experts was held in June. The expert members, however, said the sarpanch was unable to identify the exact land area for them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/move-recycling-site-away-from-mandrem-coast-gczma/articleshow/79398385.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Erode||It’s business as usual for Erode Tasmac bars||ERODE: Bars attached to the outlets of the Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation Limited (Tasmac) are functioning illegally in the district. S Santhosh, an activist, said the bars at Solar, railway station area, bus stand area, Surampatti and Kollampalayam, among other areas in the district, were open from 12 noon to 10pm daily. “The salesmen and supervisors at these outlets will chase the customers away at the sight of police personnel or Tasmac officials. Otherwise, it is business as usual for them,” he said. He said the customers were not maintaining social distancing at the bars. According to the activist, bar owners in the district were selling liquor after the shop hours at exorbitant prices. He said local policemen hadn’t taken any action against the bar owners, despite bringing the issue to their attention on several occasions. A Tasmac official, meanwhile, passed the bucks on the Prohibition Enforcement Wing (PEW) sleuths. “We don’t have any powers to control these bars. Many of the bar owners are politicians and we could not do anything against them.” When contacted, district manager, Tasmac, V Manimozhi, said she would crack down on the illegal bars with the help of PEW sleuths. “I will look into the issue at the earliest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/its-biz-as-usual-for-erode-tasmac-bars/articleshow/79397376.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Amarinder accuses CBI of bid to scuttle state’s probe into sacrilege cases||Chandigarh: Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday slammed the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) for its alleged attempts at obstructing the state government’s investigation into the Bargari sacrilege case. He said the bureau is resorting to “false statements” in the high court, which had verbally termed the agency’s actions as ‘contemptuous.’ Citing the high court’s observations on Monday, Amarinder said the CBI’s attempts to delay and derail the probe into sacrilege cases had exposed the central agency’s malicious intent, but the state government would not allow it to scuttle investigations. After closing the case without completing the probe, the CBI was now indulging in politically motivated acts to prevent the state from undertaking and completing its own probe, he said. On Monday, the Punjab and Haryana high court, while dismissing a review petition filed by one of the accused, said, “these actions of the CBI are contemptuous.” “One would have thought the CBI would mend its ways, but another affidavit is filed now stating that the CBI has informed the DoPT that the withdrawal of consent by the state is illegal,” the court observed. Amarinder said the CBI’s conduct in the case is suspicious. “Either the court’s words had fallen on deaf ears or the CBI was deliberately trying to bury the case and ensure that it does not reach its logical conclusion,” he said, adding that this forced his government to withdraw consent to the agency to probe the matter or any other case without the prior permission of the state. Amarinder said the CBI’s failure to hand over the case files to Punjab, followed by its stand in the court, suggested a conspiracy to block the state probe. Neither the court nor the state government would accept the lies of the agency in the matter, he asserted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/amarinder-accuses-cbi-of-bid-to-scuttle-states-probe-into-sacrilege-cases/articleshow/79397373.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Hyderabad||900 fresh Covid cases, 4 deaths in T||Hyderabad: Telangana on Monday recorded 921 new cases of Covid-19 and four deaths, even as 2.52 lakh patients in the state have recovered from the coronavirus infection so far. The total count of cases has crossed 2,65,049 while the death toll rose to 1,437. Altogether, 11,047 patients are under medical supervision in various hospitals in the state. The recovery rate in the state has improved further, from 93% at the beginning of the month to 95% now. The case fatality rate in the state has been constant at 0.54% for nearly a month now. On Monday, a total of 42,740 tests were conducted in the state. GHMC recovered 146 new cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/900-fresh-covid-cases-4-deaths-in-t/articleshow/79397374.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu govt readies plan to prevent flooding of Adyar||CHENNAI: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Tuesday said that orders have been issued to the public works department to open the sluice gates of Chembarambakkam reservoir, one of the main drinking water sources of Chennai city, once the water level touches 22 ft. The reservoir’s maximum capacity is 24 ft. Sudden release of huge quantity of water from the reservoir into Adyar river had resulted in unprecedented floods in Chennai and surrounding areas in 2015. The storage in the reservoir remained at 21.32 ft on Tuesday evening and there was an inflow of 734 cusecs. Going by the rate of inflow, unless there is heavy rain in catchment areas in the coming days, the reservoir may not fill up in a day or two, said officials. As cyclonic storm Nivar brought heavy rains in the state, all the major reservoirs in the state have been getting huge inflow. Nearly 1,519 irrigation tanks maintained by the public works department reached full capacity by Tuesday. Palaniswami, who also holds the PWD portfolio, said instructions had been given to officials to strengthen the bunds of water bodies and stock adequate sand bags to prevent water gushing out in the event of breaches. The PWD has deputed engineers to Ripon Buildings, the headquarters of Greater Chennai Corporation and state emergency operations centre in Ezhilagam to coordinate with other departments and monitor the tanks and reservoirs round-the-clock. A chief engineer has been sent to Cuddalore to specially monitor the situation given the expected intensity of the cyclonic storm. Officials have been posted for monitoring vulnerable tanks across the state. Earth movers are positioned near river mouths, including in delta districts, to ensure free flow of water into the sea. PWD secretary K Manivasan said, “There is nothing to worry about Chembarambakkam. It all depends on how much water is received. The PWD officials stay round-the-clock at the site and monitor the situation closely”. Strengthening of Adyar river bunds in recent years could help prevent flooding of areas close to the river banks. In other parts of the state, restoration of water bodies under Kudimaramath helped raise storage during monsoon, especially in districts like Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram, Chengalpet, Tirunelveli, Thanjavur, Tenkasi, Kanyakumari and Madurai. Mettur dam in Salem district received 7,089 cusecs water on Tuesday morning, taking the storage to 63tmcft as against the full capacity of 93.4tmcft. Bhavanisagar dam in Erode too has a comfortable storage of 25.52tmcft with steady inflow of 2,170 cusecs. Since Karnataka is releasing water from Krishnarajasagar dam as it has 93% storage, Biligundulu, the inter-state border, continues to see good flow. “Reservoirs, including Mettur, Bhavanisagar, Chembarambakkam, Poondi and Red Hills are safe,” revenue and disaster management minister R B Udhayakumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/govt-readies-plan-to-prevent-flooding-of-adyar/articleshow/79397372.cms||Julie Mariappan
November 25, 2020||Mumbai||BMC earmarks 5-storey building for vaccine storage||MUMBAI: The BMC has identified a 5,000 sq ft civic space in the eastern suburbs to create a central storage facility for Covid-19 vaccine. The nod for the allocation came through on Monday, said civic officials. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, confirmed BMC has earmarked a five-storey building of which two floors would be dedicated to vaccine storage. It would be expanded, if needed. “We have an elaborate cold storage chain in medical colleges and dispensaries. However, as part of preparedness, we have decided to keep a bigger facility ready so that there are no last-minute concerns,” he said. Depending on the type of vaccine that arrives, the storage conditions would be readied, he said. While the civic body had already compiled data on one lakh healthcare workers in public hospitals who will get the vaccine, it is in the process of collecting details from private health facilities. A mammoth exercise to create a state database of healthcare workers is currently underway in Maharashtra, where the name, age, PAN details, among others, is being uploaded into an online system. “The database will hopefully be ready by the end of this month or early December following which we will have an estimate of the total number of beneficiaries,” said Dr DN Patil, state immunisation officer. In terms of capacity building, a civic official said that the state has also assured it will provide the corporation with ice-lined refrigerators that will be placed in ward offices. The state, on the other hand, has been promised six walk-in coolers, two walk-in freezers, 150 ice-lined refrigerators and 100 deep freezers by the Centre.  “The preparations are largely broad-based as of now since there is no clarity on what kind of storage temperatures would be required or what volumes we are looking at,” said a civic official. Dr Patil said the state’s vaccine cold chain facility can support temperatures in the range of 2-8 degrees C. “For polio vaccines, we have storage that can support up to -20 degrees C,” he said. A senior doctor added that storage temperatures for most of the vaccine frontrunners are likely to pose a challenge. While the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine can be stored between 2-8 degrees C, the Russian vaccine Sputnik requires -18degrees to be stored in a liquid form, although its freeze-dried form can be stored between 2-8degrees C,” he said. “The Pfizer vaccine reportedly needs to be kept at -70 degrees which most countries may struggle to achieve,” he added. Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the Covid task force said storage conditions are likely to vary from vaccine to vaccine and that will pose a unique challenge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-earmarks-5-storey-bldg-for-vaccine-storage/articleshow/79398379.cms||Sumitra Debroy
November 25, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: When politicians compete over welfare, people get a neat deal||CHENNAI: The 7.5% quota in MBBS/BDS seats for government school students in Tamil Nadu epitomises competitive welfarism that has come to define the Dravidian party politics in the state. The ruling AIADMK or the DMK have been in power since 1967. They see eye-to-eye only in such matters as reservation, Cauvery river water sharing and Sri Lankan Tamils issue. In tune with this trend, the one-upmanship over 7.5% quota politics saw neat conception of the idea and its equally neat implementation. That the entire fee of the students will be borne by the DMK or the government, or both, has further sweetened the deal. Read the entire story on TOI+Dravidian welfarism - just what the doctor ordered||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/when-politicians-compete-over-welfare-people-get-a-neat-deal/articleshow/79399380.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Bill passed to give legal support to Idco to take up social projects||Bhubaneswar: The assembly on Tuesday passed the Odisha Industrial Infrastructure Development Corporation (amendment) Bill (OIIDC), 2020, to provide legal support to state government agency Idco to take up social infrastructure projects like power supply, sewerage and effluent treatment. With the amendment, the state government also included projects like educational institutions, university, hotels, multiplexes, commercial complexes, healthcare facilities, entertainment facilities, resorts, golf courses, sports complexes, tourism project as social infrastructure. Though Idco was set up under the OIIDC Act, 1980, for the purpose of securing and assisting in the rapid and orderly establishment of industries in the industrial areas, it has subsequently ventured into construction and other projects in the industrial sector. At present, Idco has been functioning as the nodal agency of the state government in sharing various development activities sponsored by the Centre for establishment of industrial regions like petroleum, chemicals and petrochemicals investment region (PCPIR) at Paradip, National Investment Manufacturing Zone (NIMZ) at Kalinganagar, Aluminium Park at Angul, Plastic Park at Paradip and Sea Food Park at Deras. The amendment also has provision to acquire land in accordance with the provision of the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Re-settlement Act, 2013. “The state has emerged as a pioneer in implementing the programmes like Make in India and ease of doing business launched by the Centre to accelerate industrial development. Idco has to play a pivotal role in implementing such programmes in providing infrastructural facilities to propel investment proposals in the state,” said industries minister Dibya Shankar Mishra, while introducing the bill. The assembly also passed two other bills — the Factories (Odisha amendment) Bill, 2020, and the Contract Labour (regulation and abolition) (Odisha amendment) Bill, 2020 — to replace the ordinances, promulgated earlier. While the factories law was amended to allow women employees in factories to work beyond 10 pm, the contract labour legislation aims at labour reforms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/bill-passed-to-give-legal-support-to-idco-to-take-up-social-projects/articleshow/79394930.cms||Sujit kumar bisoyi
November 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Strained relations: Man killed lawyer wife, her senior||Hoshiarpur: What appeared to be an accident in which two lawyers were burnt alive on Diwali night in a car has turned out to be a case of double murder allegedly carried out by the husband of the woman advocate. Hoshiarpur-based advocate and BJP leader Bhagwant Kishore Gupta, 67, and his junior advocate Siya Khullar, 37, were found dead in a burnt car near Purheeran village. Initially, it was said that they were going to Chandigarh and the car had hit a tree on the roadside and caught fire. Hoshiarpur SSP Navjot Singh Mahal said police had called Siya’s husband Ashish Kushwaha, a resident of Bulandshahr, as they were proceeding with the case under Section 174 of CrPC, but he did not turn up which raised suspicion. He said during investigations, it came out that Ashish had strained relations with his wife and he did not like intervention by lawyer Gupta in his family matter. He said investigations revealed that Ashish along with his three accomplices from Bulandhahr was in the town when the “accident” took place and afterwards they returned to Bulandshahr. He said they have arrested one of the accused, identified as Kapil Kumar. “Gupta was called to Siya’s home on Diwali night where both of them were poisoned and then put in the car which was set on fire near Purheeran,” he said adding that Ashish, his friend Aship Kumar and an unidentified accused were still absconding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/strained-relations-man-killed-lawyer-wife-her-senior/articleshow/79397381.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Agra||Robbers loot Rs 50,000, jewellery from Aligarh house||Agra: In a daylight robbery, two men looted a house in Aligarh’s Brahamanpuri of Rs 50,000 cash and jewellery after confining the house lady on Tuesday. Police launched an investigation and were in the process of registering an FIR at Sasni Gate police station. The woman, Anita Agarwal, 45, told police that the robbers fled with cash and jewellery kept in a cupboard locker when she was alone at the house. Circle officer Anil Samaniya said CCTV footage of the area was being scanned and the accused would be nabbed soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/robbers-loot-rs-50000-jewellery-from-aligarh-house/articleshow/79394927.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
November 25, 2020||Aurangabad||Maratha activists to carry the quota torch to Mumbai||AURANGABAD: Maratha activists have decided to take out a mashaal (fire torch) rally from Auranagad to Mumbai to press for the demand for quota for the community members. The Supreme Court, in September this year, had stayed the reservation for the Marathas under the Socially and Educationally Backward Class (SEBC), causing unrest among the community members. Addressing the reporters on Tuesday, Maratha Kranti Thok Morcha members said the rally would start on November 28 and conclude on December 7 after covering different key places across the state. “While a large number of people from the Maratha community are keen on joining the rally, it has been planned to accommodate only 50 volunteers given the Covid-19 pandemic situation. The rally will be taken out in a peaceful manner to press for reservation in jobs and education for the Maratha community members,” outfit coordinator Ramesh Kere-Patil said. Scheduled to start from Kranti Chowk in Aurangabad, the rally will first reach Kaygaon-toka village — where a youth named Kakasaheb Shinde had died during the course of agitation for Maratha reservation — before proceeding to Kopardi in the neighbouring Ahmednagar distrit to meet the family of a girl who was raped and murdered. The rally is also slated to pass through Shivneri Fort (the birthplace of Maratha warrior king Shivaji Maharaj) and Vadu (the memorial of late Sambhaji Maharaj) before marching towards Mumbai. “After reaching Mumbai, we are planning to meet chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to discuss our demands. The Maratha community is running out of patience as no solution has been worked out to restore the SEBC quota. We will convey the strong feelings of the community to the chief minister,” Kere-Patil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/maratha-activists-to-carry-the-quota-torch-to-mumbai/articleshow/79394925.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Erode||4 killed as car falls into roadside pit near Kodumudi||ERODE: Four textile businessmen were killed after the car they were travelling in fell into a roadside pit near Kodumudi here on Tuesday evening. The Kodumudi police identified the deceased as R Ragunath, 43, K Murugasamy, 50, S Damodharan, 40, and his brother S Krishnasamy, 44, all residents of Veeranampalayam village near Perundurai in the district. A police officer said they were heading to Karur to buy yarns in a car. Damodharan was at the wheels. “When the car neared Othakkadai-Palakkattur area on Erode-Karur state highway, Damodharan lost his control over the vehicle, which fell into the roadside pit,” said, K Murugan, police inspector, Kodumudi police station. All the four, he said, succumbed to their injuries on the spot. When alerted, the Kodumudi police retrieved the bodies from the car and sent them to the government hospital at Perundurai for postmortem. Primary investigation revealed that Damodharan was speeding the car. “He lost control over the vehicle while negotiating a blind turn,” the police inspector said. The Kodumudi police have registered a case and further inquiry is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/4-killed-as-car-falls-into-roadside-pit/articleshow/79397382.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Sex racket busted, two imprisoned||COIMBATORE: The rural police have busted a sex racket that was functioning out of a lodge at Neelambur on the outskirts of the city with the arrest of two pimps and rescued two women victims. Police have seized a motorcycle and two mobile phones from the arrested duo. Sulur police inspector Sundarapandian said they had got a tip about the sex racket and sent a decoy to the lodge on Monday. After confirming that the place was used for flesh trade, the Sulur police conducted a surprise raid the same day and rescued the women, who were natives of Karnataka. Police arrested V Bhagavathi Raj, 24, of Theni district and S Ayyanar, 27, of Dindigul district, who were running the sex racket. They were booked under relevant sections of the Immoral Traffic (prevention) Act. They have been remanded in judicial custody. Police said one more person, identified as David Maharaja, was also involved in the racket and he was on the run. The rescued victims were produced before a judicial magistrate and then sent to the state government run home for women at Sanganoor. Further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/sex-racket-busted-two-imprisoned/articleshow/79397388.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Confrontation over IAS officer as VC||Patiala: After the state government accepted the resignation of Punjabi University, Patiala, vice-chancellor B S Ghumman, now voices have emerged both in favour of and against the appointment of an IAS officer on the chair of the VC. The teaching faculty under Punjabi University Teachers Association (PUTA) has been demanding that no person should be appointed as VC against the rules of UGC, which according to them, clearly maintain that a person being appointed as VC should have at least 10 years of teaching experience as a professor. On the other hand, a student union — Secular Youth Federation of India (SYFI) — has demanded the appointment of some retired IAS official as VC. The SYFI members said that a former IAS can run the university better and an example has been set by a former VC of this university – S S Boparai, who uplifted the university’s economic condition whereas those from academics had thrown university into a crisis. In 2017 also, the state government had appointed IAS officer Anurag Verma as officiating vice-chancellor of Punjabi University after Jaspal Singh resigned from the post.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/confrontation-over-ias-officer-as-vc/articleshow/79397392.cms||Bharat Khanna
November 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Community connect: Netas reach out to assns||HYDERABAD: Not just people from Andhra, members of various linguist minority communities are now much sought-after as political parties, especially TRS and BJP, go all out to woo them and vote for them in the December 1 elections. From Bohras to Bengalis, Marathis to Malayalis, Tamilians to Kannadigas and from Sikhs to Biharis to Marwadis, the main players are leaving no stone unturned to seek their support for their candidates. Confirming how their vote has become precious, Hyderabad Bangalee Samity general secretary Sumit Sen said: “Various parties are approaching us for support. Ultimately, the right to vote is an individual call.” He said with more than an eight lakh strong Bengali community in Hyderabad, their vote could be decisive in tilting the scales of the candidates. There is a strong presence of Bengalis in Hi-Tec City, Old City colonies, Nallakunta, Domlaguda and Himayatnagar. While a majority of Bengalis in the Old City are goldsmiths, the young Bengali crowds are mostly into private employment, including IT jobs. Soon after AP was bifurcated, most of the linguistic associations have also divided. Among the south Indian communities, Tamilians are in large numbers in Secunderabad, while Malayalis have 32 associations in the city. One of the oldest linguist communities in the city is Deccan Sikh community, who even had a regiment during the Nizam’s rule. Some of these communities are very active on social media platforms. Little wonder, both the TRS and BJP have been sending feelers to these linguistic communities and asking them to vote for their party candidates. “We have been approached by both the parties. We stay away from associating with a particular party,” a representative of a Tamil association in RK Nagar said. Wasting no time, BJP engaged Tejasvi Surya, party MP for Bengaluru South, to talk to the Kannada community members in the city. He had a meeting with the community in Kachiguda. Appealing to them to vote for his party candidates, Surya said: “Hyderabad is a cosmopolitan city. BJP has a pan-India approach. Vote for BJP and help the party win this poll and 2023 assembly election also.” Leaders cutting across party lines agree that Hyderabad with a vast presence of people from various states is a melting pot. “Associations of various linguistic communities are very active in the city. Culturally and socially, they hold forth in various events. We are aware of their strength,” a ruling party leader said. For that matter, Telangana Maratha Mandal has its headquarters in Hyderabad. “We are a strong three lakh community. Marathis have been neutral in local politics. We leave it to people’s individual choices for whom to vote,” Vivek Deshpande, president of the mandal, said. A majority of Marathis in the city are into trade and businesses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/community-connect-netas-reach-out-to-assns/articleshow/79397386.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Security guard sexually assaults minor girl, held||COIMBATORE: A 57-year-old private security guard was arrested for sexually assaulting a four-year-old girl at an apartment near Singanallur, where he was posted on duty. The east all-woman police identified the accused as P Ravichandran, of Kanjikonampalayam. An investigation officer said Ravichandran was a wall painter for more than 20 years. “He joined as a private security guard with a private firm one and half months ago as he was aged.” Four days ago, he was posted at the apartment near Singanallur in the city. “On Monday afternoon, when the girl, an LKG student, was playing near his room on the ground floor of the apartment, he took her to the car parking area and sexually assaulted her,” the officer said. Meanwhile, the girl’s father came searching for her and found her with the security guard. The residents beat him up severely and alerted the east all-woman police inspector, Amutha, who took Ravichandran to the police station. The girl’s parents lodged a complaint with police, who registered a case against Ravichandran under Sections 5 (l)(m)(n) and 6 (punishment for penetrative sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and Section 376 (A) (B) of the Indian Penal Code and arrested him. He was produced before the special court for Pocso cases the same evening and lodged in the Gobichettipalayam sub-jail in Erode district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/security-guard-sexually-assaults-minor-girl-held/articleshow/79397394.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Mumbai||Sedition invoked often to stall court relief: Bombay HC||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court has granted actor Kangana Ranaut and her sister Rangoli Chandel protection against coercive steps such as arrest for their allegedly inflammatory online posts on social media. The court also rapped Mumbai police for invoking sedition charges against the duo while suggesting that higher-ups in the force provide training to their personnel for a better understanding of the sedition law, in particular Section 124A of the Indian Penal Code. Justice S S Shinde said it had become “routine” to invoke such a serious offence as sedition and it was being done to deter courts from granting relief to those booked. Ranaut and her sister, who have missed three dates for appearing before the police, were told to respond to a summons but given time till January 11 to make an appearance. The HC accepted a statement by their lawyer Rizwan Siddiquee, who said the sisters will appear before Bandra police on January 8 between noon and 2 pm. Hold a workshop for police officers on sedition law: HCThe Bombay high court bench of Justices S S Shinde and MS Karnik on Tuesday said they failed to see the logic behind the use of the sedition law in the Kangana Ranaut case. The bench asked public prosecutor (PP) Deepak Thakare how IPC section 124A would apply against the actor and her sister. “We can understand other sections, but we don’t understand why invoking section 124A, IPC. Please conduct a workshop for your officers. Not in this particular case, but for any case,’’ said the bench during a virtual hearing. The PP said the FIR was registered as per the magistrate’s order. “If anyone doesn’t fall in line with the government, will (section 124A) be attracted?’’ “It has become routine that section 124A is added in complaints. For what? Are the citizens of this country being treated like this?!” asked Justice Shinde. He added, “It (sedition) is invoked as it is a serious offence…to stay court’s hands in quashing prayers.” Advocate Rizwan Merchant, representing the complainant Sayyed, said, “Law on sedition needs to be laid down.” “Now even if you show disaffection and disapprobation, (they) can invoke 124A.” Ranaut and her sister petitioned HC to quash an FIR and a magistrate’s order directing registration and investigation of the FIR on a complaint filed by a casting director, Munnawar Ali Sayyed. The FIR accused them of sedition, promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, and hurting religious sentiments with social media posts. About comments on social media, Justice Shinde said free speech brings responsibilities with it. “Every citizen has fundamental rights. No doubt there is freedom of speech but no one can claim, ‘I have this absolute right’. To enjoy fundamental rights, the right to remain silent or for the other person to lead a peaceful life is also there…should not be violated. All citizens need to take care of this.” Merchant said, “at least till court is seized with this matter” Ranaut and her sister “should not make online posts with relation to the FIR against them.” On instructions, Siddiquee assured the HC that they would not post any such statements. The HC noted that Merchant vehemently opposed grant of interim protection, as did the prosecutor, but said that “ad interim protection, till matter is heard at length, deserves to be granted.” Police have served Ranaut and her sister three summons so far. Bandra police sought their appearance first on October 26 and then on November 9. They sought time till November 15 saying they were busy with their brother's wedding in Himachal Pradesh. The next hearing is on January 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sedition-invoked-often-to-stall-court-relief-hc/articleshow/79398382.cms||Swati Deshpande
November 25, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra decision upsets Maratha quota backers||MUMBAI: After stalling college admissions for nearly two-and-a-half months, the state government late on Tuesday night issued a resolution implementing the Supreme Court’s interim order that stayed the Maratha quota in education. Admissions across courses are expected to start over the next couple of days. According to the GR, all admissions for the current academic year will be done without the 12% socially and educationally backward classes (SEBC) quota. However, admissions completed before the SC’s order on September 9 will remain unaffected. “If a student has applied under the SEBC quota before September 9 but is yet to be admitted, the student will be given a seat under the open category,” said the government resolution. The GR would remain in effect until the Supreme Court’s final order on the Maratha quota. The government has asked all admissions to start with immediate effect. Sources in the school education department said first year junior college admissions should resume within two or three days. “We are ready to implement the changes in the system and the seat matrix will be updated at the earliest. The admissions can then resume,” said the source. The second merit list for FYJC was scheduled for September 10 but was stayed due to SC’s order. Admissions have been stalled since. Out of nearly 2.1 lakh FYJC applicants in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, only 75,000 students have secured a seat in the first round. Of these, 2,934 students had applied under the SEBC quota and 2,309 were allotted a seat. Medical admissions had already commenced from the first week of November without the Maratha quota. The state’s CET cell will have to initiate admissions to all professional courses with immediate effect. The information brochure and seat matrix can be released without the quota and the state’s CET cell can invite applications from students. Students from the Maratha community will be at loss in leading government colleges where the seats are limited. While a majority of the Mumbai University admissions were completed by September 9, the impact on admissions done in BA, BCom and BSc courses under Maratha quota, if any, post September 9, is not known. However, going by the GR, admissions done before September 9 will remain unaffected in non-minoroty colleges such as Ruia and Ruparel. Vinod Patil, a petitioner who is fighting the legal battle for Maratha quota expressed his displeasure, “It’s an absolutely wrong decision. This is not the way. How can the state government ignore Maratha candidates in the admission process? It would be injustice to them,” said Patil. He said he will seek legal opinion and decide further steps to be taken. The state government had submitted four requests before the Supreme Court to set up a constitutional bench. The matter was adjourned for four weeks on October 27.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/admissions-to-resume-without-maratha-quota/articleshow/79398390.cms||Yogita Rao
November 25, 2020||Bhubaneswar||BJP, Cong members press govt to open places of worship||Bhubaneswar: With places of worship in the state closed since March 21, the issue was raised by opposition members in the assembly on Tuesday as they demanded that temples and other religious places should be opened immediately. Raising the issue in zero hour, senior Congress leader Taraprasad Bahinipati said when the state government allowed liquor shops and parks to open, why temples and other religious places of worship should remain closed. “The servitors and priests are facing financial crisis due to the closure of religious places. Lakhs of devotees have been deprived of witnessing Nagarjuna Besha of Lord Jagannath,” Bahinipati said. The Congress leader also demanded that all educational institutions should be opened, alleging that only a handful of students can avail online education. Expressing concern over the closure of temples, opposition chief whip Mohan Majhi said states like Maharashtra, where the infection rate is quite high, has also opened temples. “The court directed the state government to take a call on the issue while the government tactfully left the matter to the district collectors. People are not able to perform various rituals due to the closure of temples. I urge the government to immediately allow opening of temples and other places of worships,” said Majhi of the BJP. Senior BJD leader Amar Prasad Satpathy said there is no dispute that the matter regarding opening of temple is an emotional issue but one has to take note of the Covid situation in the state. “Odisha has successfully tackled the Covid-19 situation because of judicious decision. We need to be careful in view of the alert of a possible second wave. There should be a balance between emotion and ground reality,” Satpathy said. In October, the state government had asked the district collectors to consider the possibility of opening of temples and places of worships by adhering to Covid-19 protocols. Earlier, the priests had hit the streets of Bhubaneswar and other parts of the state demanding immediate opening of temples across Odisha. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/bjp-cong-members-press-govt-to-open-places-of-worship/articleshow/79394965.cms||Sujit kumar bisoyi
November 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: 3 teams to guard forest orders, prevent man-animal conflict||COIMBATORE: To prevent the man-animal conflict in Coimbatore forest division, officials on Tuesday formed three special night patrolling teams, which will monitor forest boundary areas from 4pm to 7am daily and chase the pachyderms and other wild animals to the reserve forest before they stray into the human habitats and agricultural fields. D Venkatesh, district forest officer, said the teams have been named Alpha (22 members), Beta (26 members) and Gamma (23 members). Now that the anti-depredation watchers have been dissolved, they have been roped into the special forest boundary night patrolling teams. Each team would have two or three sub-teams, which will patrol at Thombilipalayam, Mullankadu, Narasipuram, Marudhamalai, Varapalayam, Periyanaickenpalayam, Velliankadu, Samayapuram, Mettupalayam depot and Ammanpudur in Sirumugai area. “We have provided jeep to each sub-team to chase the wild elephants and other animals away,” the officer said. Whenever they receive information about elephant movement outside the reserve forest, he said, the team would rush to the spot and handle the situation. “The teams won’t be engaged in any other work. They will also crack down on the people erecting illegal electric fencing around the agricultural fields and placing metal snares. The members will be deployed on duty only on rotational basis to ensure that they get enough rest. We will also provide them the infrastructure they require,” Venkatesh said. The teams would be monitored by assistant conservator of forests (Coimbatore division) M Senthilkumar. Senthilkumar said the Boluvampatti and Madukkarai forest ranges would be take care of by team Alpha, Coimbatore and Periyanaickenpaayam forest ranges by team Beta and Karamadai, Sirumugai and Mettupalayam forest ranges by team Gamma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/3-teams-to-guard-forest-orders-prevent-man-animal-conflict/articleshow/79397409.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS manifesto a clone of 2016 polls: BJP||HYDERABAD: Calling the TRS manifesto as a repetition of the party’s 2016 plan, former BJP general secretary P Muralidhar Rao on Tuesday binned the party’s 2016 and 2020 manifestos. Addressing a press conference, Muralidhar Rao said there was no new plan for Hyderabad’s development in the TRS manifesto. “The TRS supremo is scared after Dubbak bypolls and hence announced SOPs ahead of GHMC elections,” he said. “Anti-TRS mood among the people is palpable. The BJP will emerge victorious in Telangana,” he said. Bihar AIMIM MLA Aktarul Iman has refused to take oath using name Hindustan, he added. “This happened after they won five MLA seats. If they win 500, they will erase Hindustan as the name to this country,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-manifesto-a-clone-of-2016-polls-bjp/articleshow/79397395.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Vigilance arrests BMC clerk, CET asst prof||Bhubaneswar: Vigilance sleuths on Tuesday arrested Sudhanshu Sekhar Majhi, a senior assistant of Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC), for allegedly accepting Rs 20,000 bribe from a contractor to release his pending earnest money deposit (EMD). In a related development, the vigilance officials also arrested Prasanna Kumar Mishra, an assistant professor of mathematics at the college of engineering and technology (CET) on charges of possessing assets disproportionate to his known sources of income. The officials had raided his house and office on Monday. Mishra was found in possession of assets worth nearly Rs 2.19 crore. After search, inventory and further enquiry, the income, expenditure and assets of Mishra was calculated. He was found in possession of assets disproportionate to the known sources of income to the tune of nearly Rs1.88 crore, which is about 254% of his known sources of income, a vigilance official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/vigilance-arrests-bmc-clerk-cet-asst-prof/articleshow/79394955.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Muslims halt mosque work, ensure communal harmony||COIMBATORE: In a show of bonhomie, Muslims agreed to stop the construction of a mosque near a temple at Press Colony in Periyanaickenpalayam during a peace committee meeting on Tuesday. The meeting was convened by revenue divisional officer (North) P Suresh between Muslims and Hindu outfits who raised an objection to the construction of the mosque. A Sunnath Jamaath mosque and a Velmurugan Mangala Vinayagar temple were functioning at Press Colony near Periyanaickenpalayam for more than 30 years. The land of both the worshipping places belonged to the national highways department. On May 6, 2019, the national highways department issued eviction notices to the temple and the mosque. Meanwhile, Mubarak, a member of the jamaath, bought 2,400 sq ft of land on September 16, 2019, at a different place at Press Colony and began constructing a mosque there. Around 25 metres away from the new site, a temple was functioning for the last 30 years. In November 2019, Coimbatore north district Hindu Munnani executive committee member Murugan opposed the construction of the mosque near the temple. Following the objection, jamaath members requested collector K Rajamani to intervene and sort out the issue. Meanwhile, the national highways department demolished the mosque and temple located on the encroached land last week. Subsequently, the district administration gave permission to provide water connection to the under-construction mosque at Press Colony to perform prayers. However, Hindu Munnani and other Hindu outfit members raised an objection for performing prayers at the mosque triggering tension in the area. The rural police deployed more than 50 police personnel at Press Colony for the past four days to prevent communal clashes. On Tuesday, RDO Suresh held a peace committee meeting with the Hindu outfit members and jamaath members. He informed the jamaath members that the district administration had given permission to conduct prayer in the under-construction structure till they find an alternate place at Press Colony. “The jamaath members agreed that they won’t construct the mosque near the temple and they will vacate the place before January 21,” Suresh said. Additional deputy superintendent of police GS Anitha, special branch (SB) inspector Loganathan and police officials are camping at the spot to prevent any untoward incidents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/muslims-halt-mosque-work-ensure-communal-harmony/articleshow/79397404.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Amit Shah, JP Nadda among BJP top guns to campaign in GHMC polls||HYDERABAD: Except Prime Minister Narendra Modi, a dozen top leaders, including Union home minister Amit Shah, will be campaigning for BJP candidates in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation elections. The star turnout will begin on Wednesday with Union minister for women and child development Smriti Irani campaigning and releasing the party manifesto. Sources said Amit Shah is likely to come in the fag end of campaigning and address a few rallies. “The national party leaders’ campaign schedule has not been finalised yet. But, we have received confirmation of their visit,” N Ramchander Rao, MLC and city unit former president, told TOI. Party national president JP Nadda, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath and former Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis are expected to land in Hyderabad to canvass for the party candidates. Former cricketer, MP Gautam Gambhir and actress Khushboo, who had joined the saffron party recently, are also set to campaign. Insiders said soon after the Telangana party unit approached the national leadership to take up campaigning as it sees a strong chance of the party doing well in the December 1 polls, the party leadership decided to send top leaders to Hyderabad. “The battle is between the TRS and BJP. By sending top leaders here, the party wants to send a strong message among voters that the BJP is here to stay and also make a comparison between PM Modi’s administration and CM K Chandrasekhar Rao’s governance,” a party leader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/shah-nadda-among-bjp-top-guns-to-campaign-in-polls/articleshow/79397390.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 25, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Oppn demand judicial inquiry into custodial deaths||Bhubaneswar: The opposition on Tuesday launched a fresh attack on the state government over the alleged custodial deaths of two persons at Puri and Biramitrapur in Sundargarh district and demanded inquiry into the incidents by a sitting judge. Even though the state government has removed Akhileshvar Singh as Puri SP following the incident, the opposition demanded that the IPS officer be booked under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code (death or life term for murder). The issue was raised during an adjournment motion on the ‘deteriorating’ law and order situation in the state. Minister of state (home) Dibya Shankar Mishra, who responded to the debate, said the matters regarding alleged custodial deaths are being dealt as per the mandate of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC). “Judicial inquiry is being ordered as per NHRC guidelines. The Puri incident is being probed by judicial magistrate first class, Puri, Siddhant Mishra, while the Biramitrapur incident is being probed by sub-divisional judicial magistrate, Panposh, R K Pradhan. We should have faith in the judicial system,” the minister said. Earlier, participating in the debate, senior BJP leader Jaya Narayan Mishra said the alleged custodial death in Puri has shaken the conscience of humanity. “The family member of the deceased in Puri were deprived of taking part in his cremation,” alleged Mishra, even as Puri police had earlier released a video footage wherein the deceased’s father was seen present during his cremation. Senior Congress leader Taraprasad Bahinipati said suspension of some lower rank officials and transfer of SP is not enough. “The incident has brought shame to the police community in the state. Why the then Puri SP should not be booked under Section-302 of the IPC?” questioned Bahinipati. While the opposition members criticized the government over the ‘increasing’ crime rate in the state, the minister of state (home) said law and order situation in the state has been by and large peaceful. The minister said the government has always given priority to safety and security of people. “The safety of every citizen of the state is being protected as chief minister Naveen Patnaik has been continuously reviewing the law and order situation in the state,” Mishra said. On left-wing extremism, the minister said Maoist activities have gone down across the state. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/oppn-demand-judicial-inquiry-into-custodial-deaths/articleshow/79394980.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Kolkata||Mustard oil touches Rs 170 a litre in Kolkata, many opt for cheaper alternatives||KOLKATA: Price of mustard oil has added to the woes of households already troubled by reduced earnings and rising prices of essentials like potatoes and onions. Mustard oil, which is an essential cooking medium in kitchens across eastern and north-eastern India has breached its previous record to sell at Rs 160-Rs 170 (premium brands) a litre in Kolkata. Even a year ago, it sold at Rs 90-95 a litre. Many have reduced consumption, some have switched to a cheaper variety of edible oil, with “disastrous effects”. “The compromise would be huge. We cannot go out because of the pandemic. It is hard not to indulge in small gastronomic delights. So, we are still buying mustard oil burning a big hole in our pocket,” said Biswajit Roychowdhury, a university teacher. A Bengali family of five usually requires five litres of mustard oil a month. “So, it is a straight increase of Rs 300-Rs 350 per month only on mustard oil. Along with that, if you take into account a couple of litres of refined oils — such as soya or sunflower oil — the bill gets higher,” Anindita Ghosh, a householder at Bhowanipore, who has exceeded her budget every month, reducing her monthly small savings to nil. “The price of mustard oil is now largely driven by soya and palm oil, both of which are imported from Malaysia or Indonesia. Most of the packed fried items are dependent on palm oil. Since there is a demand-supply gap, the mustard oil price refuses to drop,” said Biswanath Agawal, general secretary, Posta Merchants’ Association. Posta is the biggest wholesale trade hub for essentials edibles. “Mustard is grown only in the rabi season or winter mostly in Haryana, Rajasthan, Punjab and Madhya Pradesh. The lockdown was announced at the time of harvesting. Hence, labour problems also played a big role in the crisis,” he added. Edible oils, across all categories have seen a steep price rise, “Groundnut oil price rose from Rs 156 last year to Rs 170 this year, soybean oil from Rs 80 to Rs 120. Rice bran oil from Rs 75-80 to Rs 125-30,” added Agarwal. The prices are unlikely to drop substantially till the new oil seeds reach the mills in February-March, he predicted. “We Kolkatans love deep fried items. So, a lot of oil is required for cooking a Bengali dish. If you cut down the use of mustard oil, the taste that the pungency of mustard oil brings to the palate goes away. People can cut down on meat and fish, but cutting down on mustard oil robs us of the taste of cuisines,” said Bonani Roy, an author of Bengali culinary books. Taking advantage of the gap in the demand-supply, the retailers have started selling edible oil on MRP (maximum retail price), which is normally Rs 20-30 higher than the normal price. Thus, the small dip in wholesale price doesn’t reflect in the retail prices, said Anupam Basak, a retail trader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mustard-oil-touches-rs-170-a-litre-many-opt-for-cheaper-alternatives/articleshow/79396060.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
November 25, 2020||Aurangabad||Farmer sets himself ablaze in Maharashtra's Beed district||AURANGABAD: A 49-year-old farmer set himself ablaze at the minor irrigation office at Barshi road of Beed district after his plea to remeasure the land acquired by the government was ignored by the authorities. According to sources, the farmer has been identified as Arjun Salunkhe and he has sustained around 90% burns. Some people present at the office tried to douse the flames, but failed. Police said they now are checking reports that few days ago the farmer had issued a written letter to the irrigation department, threatening to self-immolate if his plea was not considered. Superintendent of police R Raja said, “We have taken the incident on record and a probe has been initiated. Initially, the injured farmer was rushed to civil hospital, but due to the nature of burns, he has been taken to Aurangabad for further treatment.” Sources said Salunke’s inherited land was acquired by the irrigation department in 1962. He reportedly had objections over the size of land acquired from his farm as well as the granted compensation. He wanted the authorities to measure the acquired land as he feared that excess land had been taken by the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/farmer-sets-himself-ablaze-in-beed/articleshow/79394975.cms||Mohammed Akhef
November 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Show us list of Rohingya: Asaduddin Owaisi to BJP||HYDERABAD: All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen chief Asaduddin Owaisi challenged the Bharatiya Janata Party to show them a list of Pakistanis and Rohingya residing in the Old City. Addressing a public meeting in Bholakpur on Tuesday as part of campaigning for the GHMC polls, he said: “I challenge the Bharatiya Janata Party and RSS to not utter words such as Pakistanis and Rohingya until November 29 and talk only on development of the city.” He was reacting to Bharatiya Janata Party state chief Bandi Sanjay’s statement on ‘surgical strike’ in the Old City to get rid of Pakistanis and Rohingya after Bharatiya Janata Party wins the GHMC elections. Owaisi said the Bharatiya Janata Party government at the Centre did not bother to help despite floods and heavy rains ravaging Hyderabad. “How much money has the central government released towards relief fund for Hyderabad? Because of the lockdown, so many people have lost their jobs, especially in the informal sector. Why doesn’t the Bharatiya Janata Party talk about all these losses,” questioned Owaisi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/show-us-listof-rohingyaasad-to-bjp/articleshow/79397407.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Hyderabad||HC: Won’t interfere in SEC flood aid order||HYDERABAD: Telangana HC on Tuesday made it clear that it would not interfere with the order issued by the State Election Commission stopping the flood relief of Rs 10,000 due to the ongoing GHMC election process. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy said this while hearing a PIL filed by advocate S Sharath Kumar, who termed the SEC order as “inhuman” and for stalling the ongoing distribution of financial assistance in an abrupt manner. Senior counsel G Vidya Sagar, who appeared for the SEC, said they did not ask the state government to abandon the work altogether. “We had only asked them to stop it temporarily to ensure that the ruling party is not unduly benefited through distribution of Rs 10,000 to each affected family. The government can resume it after 10 days,” he said. The government sought time to explain its case. The judges said the SEC is not subordinate to the government and it could assess things and take decisions that are appropriate at the relevant point of time. “Its job is to ensure the purity of the election process by conducting elections in a free and fair manner. We will decide after seeing the government’s counter on the issue,” the judges said. Petitioner earlier said people who were living in mud and squalor ever since floods devastated their homes needed the assistance. “This is an ongoing work and not a new one announced after the election code came into effect. Yet, the SEC chose to stop it,” he said. The bench posted case to December 4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-wont-interfere-in-sec-flood-aid-order/articleshow/79397401.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Coimbatore||2 more directors of Green Crest held in Rs 65 crore cheating case||COIMBATORE: Two more directors of Green Crest, a multi-level-marketing firm, have been arrested in connection with cheating investors of Rs 65 crore. The Economic Offences Wing (EOW) sleuths identified the accused as B Padmavathi, 48, and her daughter B Saranya, 26, of Krishnasamy Nagar near Ramanathapuram in the city. Nearly four months ago, the EOW police had arrested Padmavathi’s second husband B Manikandan, 48, and her son B Sanjaykumar, 27, who were also directors of the firm that was floated in 2018, in the case. The firm had promised to pay its investors 0.5% interest on their investment on all working days for the plan period of 11 months, when the capital would be returned to them. A source with the EOW police said Manikandan and his son had gained publicity for the firm, by displaying their photos with cricketer and many actors online. Preliminary investigations revealed that more than 1,500 people from across the state had invested in the firm. “The firm used to pay the daily interest and it was stopped in May. When the investors met the directors of the firm, they threatened them,” the source said. More than 50 investors had also besieged their house, demanding their money back. One of the investors, S Manicakaraj, 53, of Sowripalayam, lodged a complaint with the EOW police, who registered a case on July 29 and arrested Manikandan and his stepson. The two were subsequently lodged in the Coimbatore central prison. The EOW police arrested Padmavathi and Saranya from a house in Chennai on Monday and they were booked under Sections 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 5 of the Tamil Nadu Protection of Interest of Depositors (TNPID) Act. The two were produced before the judge of a special court for TNPID cases the same night and were remanded in judicial custody. The source said they have received complaints from many people, who have together invested Rs 6.31 crore in the firm. “Victims can approach us for further action.” He said they were on the lookout for Srinivasan and Karthikeyan, who were working as agents with the firm. Police had earlier seized two cars, five mopeds and a goods auto from Manikandan. They have also sent a proposal to the government to attach his property.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-more-directors-of-green-crest-held-in-rs-65cr-cheating-case/articleshow/79397413.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Agra||79 new Covid-19 positive cases reported in Agra||Agra: At least 79 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra on Tuesday, taking the district tally to 8,782. These included two junior doctors of SN Medical College. Meanwhile, 41 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Tuesday. Out of the 8,782 cases reported in the district, 91.05% have been declared cured of the infection. The number of active Covid-19 cases increased from 586 on Monday to 624 on Tuesday. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “The current sample positivity rate is 2.66 percent. So far, 7,996 people have been cured of the infection and discharged from hospitals. People who had come in contact with Covid-19 patients are being screened. Random testing is being conducted in different parts of the city. The number of Covid-19 cases is likely to increase with a drop in temperature during winters. People are advised to wear face masks as much as possible and strictly practice social distancing”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/79-new-covid-19-positive-cases-reported-in-agra/articleshow/79394970.cms||Deepak Lavania
November 25, 2020||Bhubaneswar||85-yr-old man charged with raping Jajpur minor for months arrested||Kendrapada: A court in Jajpur district on Tuesday remanded the 85-year-old father-in-law of a senior Bhubaneswar-based state government officer in judicial custody after he was arrested on Monday evening for allegedly repeatedly raping and impregnating a 15-year-old girl. Prafulla Chandra Mohapatra was arrested by Jajpur Police following his discharge from a hospital in the state capital, where he had been admitted for the past few weeks for ill health. “We arrested Mohapatra on the charges of raping and impregnating a minor tribal girl of a village under Balichandrapur police station in Jajpur district. The crime was carried out when the girl worked as a maid in the accused man’s son-in-law’s house in Bhubaneswar, where the accused also stayed. The accused has confessed to his crime,” said deputy superintendent of police (Jajpur) Sangram Tudu. The octogenarian was produced in the court of the district and sessions judge in Jajpur, which rejected his bail application and remanded him in jail custody, Tudu added. The girl had returned to her village last month and narrated her ordeal to her mother. The mother, who had filed a police complaint against the accused in Balichadrapur police station on November 2, said her daughter had been repeatedly raped by the elderly man for the past 12 months. “The accused used to threaten her with dire consequences if she revealed her ordeal to anyone,” the complainant has said in the police complaint. Acting on the FIR , police filed a case against the octogenarian under sections 376 (rape) of the IPC, Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012, and Section 3 of the SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. The girl had earlier been examined by doctors of the district headquarters hospital in Jajpur and was found to be in the eighth month of pregnancy. As per the law, medical termination of pregnancy until only 20 weeks (4 months) is legal. For minors, written consent from parents is required to carry out an abortion. The child welfare committee (CWC) of the district recently directed that the girl be sent to a state-aided shelter home for care till she is delivered of her child. “We have shifted her to the government-run shelter home in Jajpur town,” said Niranjan Kar, District Child Protection Officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/85-yr-old-man-charged-with-raping-jajpur-minor-for-months-arrested/articleshow/79395004.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC elections: Bandi Sanjay Kumar promises ‘surgical strike’ on Old City, draws fire from all quarters||HYDERABAD: BJP Telangana chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Tuesday said the party, if voted to power in GHMC elections, will carry out a surgical strike and send Rohingya away from the Old City, stoking a fresh controversy and drawing fire from all quarters. He asked people “if they wanted patriotic BJP or deshdrohi like AIMIM and TRS”. Sanjay also dared chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to prove if details of the funds given to Hyderabad by the Centre, he collected through an RTI query, were wrong. “If they are wrong, book cases against me and send me to jail,” he thundered. He said the polling on December 1 will change the future of Hyderabad. “If we are given mayor seat, we will change the city completely,” he said, adding “people should teach a lesson to TRS and AIMIM.” Goshamahal MLA Raja Singh supported the comments of Sanjay. “Rohingya should be driven away, Old City people will teach lesson to TRS and AIMIM ,” he said. After a series of tweets, Bansi Sanjay changed tack and said: “Surgical strike will be on family rule and undemocratic rule in Telangana.” Hinting indirectly at KTR, he tweeted in Telugu” Your intention to win GHMC polls with the help of AIMIM will remain a daydream”. Do you want Bhagyanagar of Hindustan or Hyderabad like in Pakistan? We will not spare if any harm is meted out to BJP activists. We will attack Pragati Bhavan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bandi-promises-surgical-strike-on-old-city-draws-fire-from-all-quarters/articleshow/79397410.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Is Old City not part of India: Congress||HYDERABAD: Former minister Mohd Ali Shabbir on Tuesday condemned BJP state president Bandi Sanjay’s comments that saffron party will conduct a surgical strike on Old City after winning GHMC polls. “As a member of parliament Bandi Sanjay must know that surgical strikes are conducted on enemy territory and not on our own brethren. Is Sanjay trying to say that the Old City is not part of India? He is stooping to low level just to win a few seats in GHMC elections. Such statements have the potential to create a divide in society on the basis of religion and it is regrettable that neither the Election Commission nor Hyderabad police are taking any action against him for such provocative statements,” Shabbir Ali said. Stating that the issue of Rohingya should be dealt by the Centre, the Congress leader said BJP state president should question his own party which is in power for the last six years at the Centre, why it failed to resolve the issue. He also charged MIM president Asaduddin Owaisi with polarising voters on religious lines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/is-old-city-not-part-of-india-congress/articleshow/79397415.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Salem||Salem man sells six-month-old son for Rs 1 lakh to settle debts||SALEM: A 32-year-old man was arrested for selling his six-month-old baby boy for Rs 1 lakh to settle his debts. Police have also arrested his friend who persuaded him to sell the toddler and the buyer. A police officer identified the accused as Sowkath Ali, of Linemedu area in Salem city, his friend Seddu, 38, of Dhadhagapatty, and Sundaram, also from Dhadhagapatty. The officer said Ali’s wife Sharmila Bhanu had given birth to the baby boy six months ago. “On Monday, her relatives came to see the toddler. Ali told them the baby had died a few weeks ago. They felt something was amiss and lodged a complaint with the Annadhanapatty police.” During inquiry, police inspector A Saravanan and team found out that Ali had sold his son to Sundaram, who didn’t have any children, for Rs 1 lakh. The police inspector said Ali was out of work during the lockdown and borrowed Rs 1 lakh from Seddu, who mounted pressure on him to repay the amount. “Ali decided to sell his son based on Seddu’s advice. It was also Seddu who approached Sundaram with the proposal.” The officer said Ali had sold his son to Sundaram 20 days ago. Based on Ali’s statement, police rescued the baby boy from Sundaram’s house on Tuesday and handed him over to Sharmila Bhanu. The arrested trio were, meanwhile, lodged in the Salem Central Prison under judicial custody for 15 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/man-sells-son-for-rs-1l-to-settle-debts/articleshow/79397418.cms||Senthil Kumaran
November 25, 2020||Goa||Drugs worth Rs 20 lakh seized in another raid on cannabis plantation||PANAJI: In a major narcotics related raid, Pernem police have seized cannabis plants, ganja and charas worth Rs 20 lakh from Korgao, Pernem. Two accused arrested in the case are Mumbai-resident Larsen Richard, 34, and Rene Neel Santan D’Souza, 44, of Korgao. This is the sixth raid on a cannabis plantation at Pernem in the last two months. PI Jivba Dalvi said that after receiving information of drug-related activities in Korgao, a watch was being maintained over the last few days. Finally, on Monday, a raid was conducted by the team of Pernem police, during which ganja worth Rs 8,600, charas worth Rs 5.6 lakh and cannabis plants worth Rs 14 lakh were seized. The raid was conducted in a house at Korgao and during the raid it was found that favorable environment and atmosphere was created for cultivation of cannabis as tubelights, temperature moderating machines and exhaust fans were found to be placed in the cultivation room. An offence under provisions of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act has been registered. Further investigation is in progress under the supervision of SDPO Gajanan Prabhudesai and SP North Shobhit Saksena. On Monday, chief minister Pramod Sawant had complimented Goa police for efficient crime detection. “Over the past couple of months, the crime detection rate is the highest in the state,” he had said, congratulating the police for successfully seizing and confiscating drugs worth Rs 3 crore. He said that with regular instances of drug busts, the general perception is that the drug trade in the state has grown. “There is no increase in the drug trade, but there have been more seizures,” he had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/drugs-worth-rs-20-lakh-seized-in-another-raid-on-cannabis-plantation/articleshow/79398432.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Agra||Poor water supply affects 10 major localities in Agra city||AGRA: Water supply in at least 10 major localities in the city was affected on Tuesday due to leakages in supply pipeline and other mechanical faults. Residents said despite repeated complaints, the Jal Sansthan failed to send water tankers. People also complained about supply of foul-selling contaminated water. Water supply in old city areas is dependent on Jeevani Mandi waterworks station whereas nearly half of the city gets supply from Sikandra waterworks. However, neither station is not working on its full capacity. Besides, 50 million litre per day (MLD) of water is wasted every day in the city due to 20 pipeline leakages. So far, Jal Sansthan has no long-term city-wide plan to check the situation. RS Yadav, general manager of Agra Jal Sansthan, said, “We are working to fix all the leakages. The pipeline are too old and weak. They are not able to bear the pressure of water and therefore, spring a leak every now and then. We are working on a plan to lay new pipelines in areas where frequent leakages are reported.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/poor-water-supply-affects-10-major-localities-in-agra-city/articleshow/79394994.cms||Deepak Lavania
November 25, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Puri temple warns people against entering shrine||Bhubaneswar: The Shree Jagannath Temple Administration on Tuesday warned of legal action against people if they try to enter the shrine in the guise of servitors on the occasion of Nagarjuna Besha on November 27. The Nagarjuna Besha, which was observed last in 1994, will be conducted without the participation of devotees in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The administration will allow only duty-bound servitors and officials into the shrine for smooth conduct of the rituals. “We will put in place a three-tier security system around the temple for Nagarjuna Besha. Devotees are barred from attending the festival. We also request servitors not to encourage their guests to enter the temple by wearing priestly attire. FIR would be registered against the violators,” temple’s chief administrator Krishan Kumar said. Kumar said servitors and officials will not be allowed to carry mobile phones into the temple during Nagarjuna Besha. Sources said the district administration is likely to enforce prohibitory orders under Section 144 of CrPC outside the temple and Grand Road in Puri to prevent congregation of devotees on November 27. The government had clamped Section 144 of the CrPC during Rath Yatra and prevented participation of devotees. During Nagarjuna Besha, the deities Jagannath and Balabhadra will don the costume of warriors. “We discussed with the servitor-artisan, who is readying the costumes. The costume work has almost been completed. We have sought the cooperation of servitors, who would perform the rituals on November 27,” Kumar said. He said the costume would be preserved by the temple administration. Meanwhile, the administration has rejected a proposal by some servitors to offer an online darshan facility to devotees on Nagarjuna Besha. This time, the occasion will be observed after 26 years. Nagarjuna Besha, which was last observed on November 16, 1994, commemorates the killing of Sahashrarjuna by Parsuram, sources in the Puri temple said. It is observed in those years when “Panchuka”, the last five days of the holy month of Kartika, is observed for six days. This year will thus see Nagarjuna Besha being held on November 27, the sixth day of “Panchuka”. Before 1994, Nagarjuna Besha had been observed on November 26, 1993, November 3, 1968, November 16, 1967, and November 26, 1966. At least six pilgrims had died following a stampede during the 1993 event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/puri-temple-warns-people-against-entering-shrine/articleshow/79394990.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
November 25, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Nayagarh couple attempts self-immolation outside assembly||Bhubaneswar: A couple from Nayagarh district attempted self-immolation outside the assembly here on Tuesday in protest against ‘police inaction’ over the alleged abduction and murder of their 5-year-old daughter in July. Although police posted outside the assembly prevented Ashok Sahoo and his wife Soudamini from setting themselves ablaze, the opposition BJP and Congress created a furore inside the assembly after the couple accused cabinet minister Arun Kumar Sahoo of shielding the accused. “I had lodged a complaint with Nayagarh Sadar police on July 14 about the disappearance of my daughter, who was playing alone outside our home. After some days, we were shattered to find her skeletal remains inside a bag near our village. The DNA test of the skeleton confirmed that it was my daughter’s. But police have so far not arrested anyone due to political pressure. Some of the accused are close associates of minister Arun Sahoo, who is our local (Nayagarh) MLA,” Ashok told the media. As the assembly members were busy discussing law and order in the state against the backdrop of the alleged custodial killings in Puri and Sundargarh, the startling allegation against the minister came as a shot in the arm for the opposition, which demanded a reply from chief minister Naveen Patnaik on the Nayagarh issue. “It is shocking that a minister is trying to protect the killers of a child, whose parents have been denied justice. The chief minister should issue a statement in the House and sack the minister,” BJP MLA and leader of opposition Pradipta Naik said. “A couple tried to kill themselves outside the Odisha assembly today, insisting that a very prominent BJD leader is sheltering the rapist and murderer of their 5-year-old daughter,” BJP’s national vice-president Baijayant Panda tweeted. Congress MLA Tara Prasad Bahinipati also sought action against the minister. “The government’s shoddy justice delivery system has forced the bereaved parents to attempt suicide in front of the assembly. It is yet another instance of police inaction. Unless action is taken against police and the minister, we will continue to protest,” Bahinipati said. Neither Sahoo nor BJD reacted to the charges. However, speaker Surjya Narayan Patro has asked minister of state (MOS) for home Dibya Shankar Mishra to issue a statement in the assembly on Wednesday. The opposition members raised four issues — the threat to the security of the assembly, the couple’s self-immolation bid outside the assembly’s high-security zone, the alleged delay in police investigation into the couple’s complaint in Nayagarh and the name of the minister raised by the couple. “I have directed the MoS, home, to give a detailed statement by Wednesday,” Patro said. Nayagarh Police denied any political pressure on them. “Our investigation has been continuing in a fair manner. We are working on some clues. The motive of the murder and the identity of the accused person or persons is being ascertained,” Nayagarh superintendent of police, Pratyush Diwakar, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/nayagarh-couple-attempts-self-immolation-outside-assembly/articleshow/79395010.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
November 25, 2020||Surat||Community isolation centres to reopen as nCov cases surge||Surat: Anticipating a surge in Covid-19 cases in the coming weeks, the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has asked communities that had earlier set up community isolation centres (CICs) in the city, to reopen them for asymptomatic patients.In July, number of communities had set up isolation centres for patients with mild or moderate symptoms. The CICs were mainly for people who do not have isolation facilities at home. The facilities were offered free of cost by the communities. A total of 20 CICs with 1,212 bed capacity were set up during July and August when the Covid-19 infections were peaking. However, 17 centres closed after number of new cases dropped. “We are seeing a surge in Covid-19 cases. So, we have asked communities to re-start their CICs. At present, four centres are operational and within the next few days, all other centres will be open with full capacity,” said R J Makadia, officer on special duty (OSD), SMC. Most of the CICs provide basic medical facilities while some also provide oxygen support as well. “But if patients’ condition worsens, he has to be shifted to a hospital for treatment,” added Makadia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/community-isolation-centres-to-reopen-as-ncov-cases-surge/articleshow/79395025.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Ration shops to distribute free chana from December||COIMBATORE: From December, 1, 5kg of chana will be distributed free of cost to all the Antodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) and priority household (PHH) ration cardholders in the district through fair price shops. An official with the office of the district supply officer said the Union government had a few months ago announced the plans to provide 1kg chana to the AAY and PHH cardholders for five months from July to November under phase II of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY-II) scheme. The district has 9.76 lakh rice cardholders, of which 51,981 are AAY cardholders and 3.42 lakh are PHH cardholders, the official said and added 1,971 metric tonnes of chana was required to implement the scheme. He said they have been receiving chana since last week and they were in the process of distributing it to the ration shops across the district. Each ration shop would be stocked with required quantity of chana before the end of this week, he said. “The distribution would commence from the beginning of next month. The cardholders are advised to collect their quantity within the month-end. We have also instructed the sales people to handover the product after swiping the customers’ cards using PoS machines to prevent irregularities,” the official said. G Rajendran, state president of Tamil Nadu Ration Shop Employees’ Union, said instead of limiting the assistance just to the AAY and PHH cardholders, the government should consider distributing it to other cardholders also. “Chana is cooked only occasionally in our region and people might not be able to use the 5kg before it gets spoiled. It would be better if the government were to reduce the quantity and give that to other cardholders as well,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ration-shops-to-distribute-free-chana-from-december/articleshow/79397430.cms||Nivedha Selvam
November 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Notice for not attending training||Hyderabad: Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) commissioner-cum-election authority Lokesh Kumar on Tuesday said show cause notices were served on all those government employees who did not attend training programme for poll duties. However, the absentee employees would be given another opportunity to attend the training session for poll duties on Wednesday failing which stringent action would be taken. A large number of employees, drafted for polling duty, were seeking exemption from election duty. “They will not be exempted,” the officer said.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/notice-for-not-attending-training/articleshow/79397420.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 25, 2020||Amaravati||AP: Panchayat dept refuses to hand over schools||AMARAVATI: The panchayat raj department has refused to hand over schools in the villages which were merged with urban local bodies to the municipal administration department. Although the merger of local bodies into urban civic bodies mandates transfer of all of its assets including schools to the new municipal bodies, the panchayat raj department blocked the handing over of schools without assigning any specific reason. The decision was communicated through the school education department which manages the rural schools. School education commissioner Vadrevu China Veerabhadrudu on Monday directed regional joint directors and district educational officers (DEOs) not to initiate any process regarding handing over of the schools to the municipal authorities until further instructions. The decision of the PR department came almost six months after commissioner and director of municipal administration (CDMA) Vijayakumar sought the merger of about 2,100 schools into urban local bodies. Sources said that panchayat raj department was reluctant to handover the schools keeping in view of value of the assets owned by many schools. Most of the rural schools are located in vast campuses which the department is planning to utilise for the construction of other public utilities. “It is unfair to allow the panchayat raj department and school education department to run schools in municipal areas. We will take the issue to the notice of minister Botcha Satyanarayana,” said Municipal Teachers’ Federation (MTF) state president S Ramakrishna. Interestingly, the school teachers working in the merged village panchayaths have given their willingness to merge their services with urban local bodies. They have also requested the DEOs not to include their names in the proposed transfers of teachers in ZP schools as their services would be shortly merged with the municipal bodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/panchayat-dept-refuses-to-hand-over-schools/articleshow/79403796.cms||Samdani MN
November 25, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC polls: Andhraites hold key, parties scramble for votes||HYDERABAD: With the presence of a considerable number of people of Andhra origin in the city and they may decide electoral fortunes of candidates in about 20 divisions (wards), all political parties, especially TRS and BJP, are trying to woo them. TRS working president KT Rama Rao has recently said at a meeting that he too is also a ‘settler’ in Hyderabad as his family moved to the city from Karimnagar when he was in third or fourth standard. Similarly, during an interactive meeting with managements of educational institutions on Tuesday, he said the Andhra and Telangana native issue was over after bifurcation of the state and now all were ‘Hyderabadis’ and ‘Telanganites’. Apart from this, after announcing candidates for all 150 divisions, TRS announced it had given tickets to eight çandidates originally from Andhra region. All major parties are now trying to gain the support of people with roots in Andhra Pradesh residing in the city for decades. Some parties have entrusted the job to various caste leaders to influence them in their favour. BJP is trying to rope in leaders like Somu Veeraju, Kanna Laxminarayana and Daggubati Purandareshwari and other leaders to campaign in pockets where people from Andhra have been residing for a long time. TRS leaders, on the other hand, claim the KCR government is not discriminating any people based on their nativity. “Our party president KCR had made it clear several times before elections that there was no discrimination of Andhra or Telangana. Everybody is a Hyderabadi. Our city is a cosmopolitan city with people from different states and countries living peacefully here,” TRS general secretary Soma Bharat said. Some analysts, however, say Telangana and Andhra regional feelings did not have any impact in the 2016 and 2018 elections. “TDP, which was strong in surrounding areas, has now become weak, while YSRCP is not contesting this corporation elections and supporting TRS indirectly. We can construe that Andhra people are unhappy with BJP for not giving special status to AP. This will again help the ruling TRS,” political analyst Prof K Nageshwar said. Immediately after bifurcation of the state, voters with links to Andhra region, especially those settled in the surrounding municipal circles and assembly constituencies such as Kukatpally, Serilingampally, LB Nagar, Qutubullapur, Rajendranagar and Maheswaram, voted in favour of Telugu Desam Party in the 2014 elections. TDP and BJP had contested the 2014 elections as alliance partners and bagged 14 of 24 seats (TDP 9 and BJP 5). TRS had secured only three seats in Greater Hyderabad. In the 2016 GHMC polls, people who migrated from Andhra region had supported ruling TRS except a division in Andhra pockets. Mandadi Srinivas Rao of TDP had won from KPHB Colony ward in the Kukatpally assembly constituency. Political analysts say TRS strategically implemented ‘Operation Akarsh’ in view of the 2016 GHMC elections and lured all TDP MLAs into party fold. Again in the 2018 elections, though TDP tried to regain its strength, by even fielding Nandamuri Suhasini, from NTR’s family, the party could not succeed. BJP chief spokesperson K Krishnasagar Rao admitted there was a shift in vote from TDP to TRS in 2016 and subsequent elections. “Now, people who migrated to Hyderabad from Andhra region are completely disillusion with the TRS government. Apart from Andhra-origin voters , Bengalis, Gujaratis and Maharastrians are against the ruling party. Since anti-TRS vote is getting consolidated and coming to BJP, it will definitely help to our party. Even some castes like Kamma and Kapu are unhappy with the pink party due to its broken promises like land allotments,” Krishnasagar Rao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-bjp-set-their-sights-on-migrant-votes/articleshow/79397432.cms||Koride Mahesh
November 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Case against Nizamabad MP||Hyderabad: TRS party representative lodged a complaint with Banjara Hills police alleging that Nizamabad MP D Aravind had damaged the flexis of Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao and minister KTR, set up by the party after obtaining permission from GHMC near KBR Park on Monday. “The complainant, T Madhusudhan, also alleged that apart from damaging flexis, the MP also used abusive language against the CM and the minister. Police filed a case against Aravind under sections, 427, 504 and 506 of the IPC,” Banjara Hills inspector N Kalinga Rao said.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/case-against-nizamabad-mp/articleshow/79397425.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: 2 tonnes of PDS rice seized||COIMBATORE: Revenue officials conducted surprise checks in suspected stock points along the Tamil Nadu – Kerala border in Pollachi and seized about two tonnes of ration rice meant for smuggling into the neighbouring state. Officials had on Monday conducted searches at three places near Kottur where ration rice was hoarded to be smuggled to Kerala. They found 45 bags of PDS rice weighing about 2.2 tonnes. The rice was confiscated and the owners of the three places are being interrogated. Officials said they would mount vigil in places like Kottur, Meenakshipuram, Anaimalai and Vettaikaranputhur along the inter-state border to prevent smuggling. Officials said that they would slap Goondas Act on people caught smuggling. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-tonnes-of-pds-rice-seized/articleshow/79397441.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Bareilly||Home guard run over by train in bid to save mentally ill man||Bareilly: A 50-year-old home guard was run over by a train in a bid to save a mentally ill man who was running on railway tracks near Hulasnagar railway crossing on national highway 24 on Tuesday. The incident led to a traffic jam on the highway as the crossing gates remained closed for a few hours after the incident.The home guard, Ashok Kumar Srivastava, a resident of Kandharpura village in Khudaganj area of Shahjahanpur, was deployed at the crossing to control the traffic. According to police, the crossing gates were closed by gateman Ajeet Kumar for Saharasa-Anand Vihar Covid special train when a mentally ill man suddenly came on the railway tracks. Ashok shouted at him and asked him to move away from the tracks, but the man didn’t listen to him, said police. As the train was approaching, Ashok ran towards him in a bid to save him. Though Ashok managed to push the mentally ill man away from the tracks, he was run over by the train, said police. Katra police station SHO Harpal Singh told TOI, “Witnesses and the gateman confirmed that Ashok was run over by a train while attempting to save a mentally ill man, who later ran towards Fatehganj and disappeared. Ashok was in service for the past 22 years. We have sent his body for autopsy and informed his family.”“There were long queues of vehicles on both sides of the crossing for hours. We had to divert the traffic to clear the traffic snarl,” added the SHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/home-guard-run-over-by-train-in-bid-to-save-mentally-ill-man/articleshow/79395034.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 25, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Panchayat dept refuses to hand over schools||AMARAVATI: The panchayat raj department has refused to hand over schools in the villages which were merged with urban local bodies to the municipal administration department. Although the merger of local bodies into urban civic bodies mandates transfer of all of its assets including schools to the new municipal bodies, the panchayat raj department blocked the handing over of schools without assigning any specific reason. The decision was communicated through the school education department which manages the rural schools. School education commissioner Vadrevu China Veerabhadrudu on Monday directed regional joint directors and district educational officers (DEOs) not to initiate any process regarding handing over of the schools to the municipal authorities until further instructions. The decision of the PR department came almost six months after commissioner and director of municipal administration (CDMA) Vijayakumar sought the merger of about 2,100 schools into urban local bodies. Sources said that panchayat raj department was reluctant to handover the schools keeping in view of value of the assets owned by many schools. Most of the rural schools are located in vast campuses which the department is planning to utilise for the construction of other public utilities. “It is unfair to allow the panchayat raj department and school education department to run schools in municipal areas. We will take the issue to the notice of minister Botcha Satyanarayana,” said Municipal Teachers’ Federation (MTF) state president S Ramakrishna. Interestingly, the school teachers working in the merged village panchayaths have given their willingness to merge their services with urban local bodies. They have also requested the DEOs not to include their names in the proposed transfers of teachers in ZP schools as their services would be shortly merged with the municipal bodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/panchayat-dept-refuses-to-hand-over-schools/articleshow/79395018.cms||Samdani MN
November 25, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu cops nab accused in mobile phone heist in Madhya Pradesh||KRISHNAGIRI: The special team of Krishangiri district police on Monday arrested an accused in Madhya Pradesh in connection with the mobile phone heist case. The accused was produced before the judicial magistrate-2 in the Hosur sub-court on Tuesday evening. The court allowed police to keep him under custody for 10 days for interrogation. A 10-member gang looted 14,400 mobile phones from a container truck heading to Mumbai from Chennai via Krishnagiri district on October 21. The special police team investigating the case zeroed in on Ankith Janja gang of Madhya Pradesh. A team of 20 police personnel including four inspectors went to Madhya Pradesh to nab the gang. “We have identified Bharath Deewani, 37, of Indur in Madhya Pradesh as one of the key accused in the case,” a senior police officer said. He said the special team managed to arrest the accused on Monday and brought him to Hosur on Tuesday. Bharath Deewani acted as mediator to transfer the looted mobile phones to another gang from the Ankith Janja group. The JM-2 after verifying the case details, directed the police to keep the accused under their custody for 10 days for interrogation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/tn-cops-nab-accused-in-mobile-phone-heist-in-madhya-pradesh/articleshow/79397482.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Nagpur||VIP vehicle enters Tadoba sans guide||NAGPUR: Taking registered guides along for a jungle safari in tiger reserves, national parks and sanctuaries are mandatory as per the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) protocol, but the other day, rules were violated by none other than the Chandrapur district collector Ajay Gulhane himself. According to sources present at the spot, Gulhane, his family members and relatives had reached the Mohurli gate of Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) in two Gypsies for an evening safari on November 19 under the field director’s quota what is popularly known as the VIP quota. In one of the vehicles, there were seven persons and along with the guide it would have been eight. The woman forest guard at the gate told that only six persons are allowed in one vehicle and the extra person will be accommodated in the canter. Sources at the spot said the collector got annoyed and entered into an argument with the guard. In the advent of Covid-19, ideally, the protocol should have been followed. Gulhane later called up conservator of forests (CF) & field director Jitendra Ramgaonkar and told him that the seventh candidate was below 10 years and that the guard was not allowing him to enter the reserve. After a discussion with the field director, Gulhane dropped the guide and out of the two safari vehicles, one entered the park without a guide. Talking to TOI, Gulhane downplayed the incident. “It was all about accommodating a small child. I talked to the field director and the matter was resolved and the guard was also convinced,” said Gulhane. However, Gulhane was silent regarding one of the vehicles entering the park without a guide. He did not reply to a message on the guide issue. Ramgaokar confirmed that after the collector talked to him, he allowed them to enter the park. As per TATR tourism guidelines, two children below 8 years are allowed along with six persons in one vehicle. However, the question is whether the child accompanying the collector’s vehicle was below 8 years and also, what was the reason for dropping the guide? “I’m not sure whether the guide was dropped or not,” said Ramgaonkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vip-vehicle-enters-tadoba-sans-guide/articleshow/79397473.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
November 25, 2020||Surat||Surat mayor infected with Covid-19||Surat: Surat city mayor Dr Jagdish Patel tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday evening. He informed his colleagues and the public via social media and urged those who have come in contact with him in the last few days to get themselves tested. “I had come in contact with patients in large numbers in the first wave of Covid-19 since March and escaped infections. But it could not happen in the second wave. I had developed symptoms and got myself tested for Covid-19 and the report came positive,” Patel tweeted. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-mayor-infected-with-covid-19/articleshow/79395054.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Bareilly||E-ricks driver beaten to death after wheel touches foot of an accused in busy Bareilly market; 3 held||Bareilly: A 35-year-old e-rickshaw driver — lone breadwinner for the family — was “brutally beaten to death” on a busy road at Nariyawal market in Bithri town of Bareilly district allegedly by three men after a wheel of the vehicle touched the foot of one of the accused on Tuesday. Police arrested and booked all the three accused — Nazim, Naeem and Zakir — two of the accused are sons of a former district panchayat member — for murder. The accused were sent to jail.According to police, the accused and the victim are local residents, but they didn’t know each other. Meanwhile, pleading their innocence, the accused told police that they had beaten the victim in a fit of rage, but they did not intend to kill him. Bareilly SSP Rohit Singh Sajwan told TOI, “A tyre of the e-rickshaw had slightly touched the feet of one of the accused, which triggered the incident. We have booked the trio for murder and arrested them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/e-ricks-driver-beaten-to-death-after-wheel-touches-foot-of-an-accused-in-busy-bareilly-market-3-held/articleshow/79395068.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 25, 2020||Madurai||Madurai corporation initiates rain preparedness measures||MADURAI: Madurai Corporation has set up various equipment, materials and man power as part of its rain preparedness in view of the ensuing monsoon, even though no heavy rain is predicted in the city. There are 13 channels in the city with a total length of 61.25km. So far, around 50.50km have been cleared of silts and garbage. The city has storm water drains running up to 835km, out of which 656km have been cleared. Work is under way in the rest of the drains. Similarly, the corporation has cleared 338 out of the 382 culverts in the city. In order to harvest rainwater, the civic body has started clearing all its 33 waterbodies. So far, 22 have been cleaned. Corporation officials said that temporary shelters have been identified at 17 locations and provisions are stocked to start four community kitchens, which can serve up to 3,400 people. Teams were formed, which include 160 officials and 475 workers. As many as 12 flood affected areas have been identified. At least 20 saws to cut fallen trees, 11 water suction lorries, 13 earth movers, 16 generators and 8,150 sand bags have been stocked. The city town planning section of the corporation has identified 120 weak buildings so far. Notices have been served to the owners to either strengthen the structure or to pull them down. Disobeying the directives will attract severe action, the officials said. Meanwhile, traders have expressed concern over water stagnation at many commercial areas. They say that storm water drains often get clogged and higher officials should conduct random inspections to ensure that storm water drains are free from blockages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-corpn-initiates-rain-preparedness-measures/articleshow/79398468.cms||V Devanathan
November 25, 2020||Ranchi||Lalu luring Bihar NDA MLAs from Ranchi jail over phone: SuMo||Ranchi: Former Bihar deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi on Tuesday evening accused jailed RJD chief Lalu Prasad of trying to lure NDA legislators in the neighbouring state through phone calls. In a tweet, Modi wrote: “Lalu Yadav making telephone calls (8051216302) from Ranchi to NDA MLAs & promising ministerial berths. When I telephoned, Lalu directly picked up. I said don’t do these dirty tricks from jail, you will not succeed.” The phone number Modi mentioned in his tweet belongs to Lalu’s caretaker Irfan Ansari. The number was switched off when dialled 30 minutes after Modi’s tweet. Irfan has been allowed access to the former Bihar CM , who is in jail in connection with various fodder scam cases. Lalu, who is admitted to Ranchi’s Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) for treatment, is currently lodged at Kelly’s Bungalow, the official residence of the hospital’s director, on grounds of possible Covid-19 infection. Under the prison manual, Lalu is not allowed to use cellphones for communication and is supposed to meet visitors once every week. However, the manuals are being brazenly violated to keep RJD, a part of the ruling alliance, in good humour, opposition BJP has claimed on various occasions. Soon after Modi’s tweet, BJP’s Jharkhand president Deepak Prakash also tweeted: “Why has the honourable CM Hemant Soren kept his eyes shut on this matter?” Officials of Ranchi’s Birsa Munda Central Jail were not available for comments when contacted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/lalu-luring-bihar-nda-mlas-from-ranchi-jail-over-phone-sumo/articleshow/79395926.cms||Dhritiman Ray
November 25, 2020||Ranchi||Caregiving villagers kill nilgai, eat its meat in Chatra||Chatra: A group of villagers who took the responsibility to look after a nilgai at Daha village of Hunterganj block of Chatra killed the animal and ate its meat, said forest officials on Tuesday. On Saturday, the nilgai fell into a trench and injured itself. Foresters, along with villagers, rescued the animal and after initial treatment, the villagers were asked to look after the nilgai for a few days. However, on Monday, forest officials came to know that the animal was killed and its meat eaten. Forester Pawan Kumar confirmed the incident and said, “A probe has been ordered today (Tuesday).” This is not the first instance of villagers killing wild animals for their meat. Chatra is known for presence of deer in large numbers and reports about killings surface from time-to-time. This year in February, a few forest employees had killed a deer for its meat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/caregiving-villagers-kill-nilgai-eat-its-meat-in-chatra/articleshow/79395921.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Ranchi||Lack of foresight led to poor treasury health in Jharkhand: Jayant||Ranchi: Former Union minister of state for finance and incumbent MP from Hazaribag, Jayant Sinha on Tuesday blamed a poor fiscal prudence and lack of financial foresightedness of the Hemant Soren-led government for the poor health of the state treasury. Sinha, also a former Union minister of state for civil aviation, said the Hemant government should have focused on deficit spending by increasing its borrowing capacity to create capital assets in the state at a time when its revenues were down. “During the lockdown due to Covid-19, even the Union government’s revenues dipped like other states. Despite this, the Centre went ahead by rolling out several futuristic schemes to create long term assets. Many other states adopted a similar strategy by course correction of their fiscal budget. In Jharkhand, the trend has been high on revenue expenditure, but low on capital asset creation. No wonder, in 10 months, all infrastructural projects got stalled while those created by the previous Raghubar Das government turned worse,” said Sinha adding, that the state government’s constant rants against the Union government of non-cooperation in terms of funding is completely false and unsubstantiated. “I say this with great responsibility,” he said. Citing a few claims to substantiate his claims, he said, “When the coalition government came to power in December last year, the state’s deficit rate was 2.2% and the debt to GDP was 27%. This means, the state had enough borrowing capacity and revenue earning was good. The treasury inherited was in a good condition. However, when the Hemant government laid out its first budget, it stressed more on revenue expenditure (salaries, pension etc) and less on capital spending for creation of infrastructures. Naturally, more expenditure, coupled with fall in revenues, will empty the state treasury soon. Had the stress been more on capital expenditure, the situation would have been different.” The situation turned worse despite the Union government continuing to pump its shares into the state coffers, Jayant said. “Jharkhand is the blue eyed boy of Centre if one goes by the central shares that it gets. Five years back, the state used to get Rs 54,000 crore from the central shares. Today, it has gone up to 84,000 crore. In 2015, Rs 4,400 crore mining royalty was given. Today, it has gone up to Rs 8,000 crore and so on,” he said. Taking a dig at the government’s “misplaced priorities”, the veteran BJP leader said, “In my constituency and in a few other districts, the previous BJP government had set up medical colleges, but not a single penny has been invested to upgrade the infrastructure despite the raging pandemic,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/lack-of-foresight-led-to-poor-treasury-health-in-jharkhand-jayant/articleshow/79396136.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 25, 2020||Ranchi||Spot Cov test for Ranchiites caught without mask; those +ve will not be allowed to isolate at home||Ranchi: People found flouting pandemic safety norms and other traffic rules in Ranchi will be taken for immediate coronavirus tests and those testing positive will have to stay at Covid care centres or hospitals till they recuperate. The choice of staying in home isolation will not be applicable for these violators, district authorities said on Tuesday. On Monday, the administration had earmarked two testing centres at Sainik market and Khadgadha to test people moving around without masks. The district administration also said employees of commercial establishments violating the safety norms will be tested for Covid. The Ranchi district administration said stringent action will be taken against people out in public places without masks and those driving two-wheelers without helmets. On Tuesday, traffic police stopped violators at Albert Ekka Chowk and took them to various Covid test centres. Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan said, “If a person caught without a mask or driving around without helmet tests positive, he will be taken straight to a Covid care centre. There will be no provision for home isolation for these people,” Ranjan warned. Action will also be initiated by the traffic police under relevant sections of the Motor Vehicle Act. Ranjan added that the stringent measures have to be taken in view of the large gatherings that took place during Diwali and Chhath festivities recently. During the revelries and rituals, dozens of people were seen in large groups without maintain social distancing or wearing masks. The East Singhbhum district administration, has launched a crackdown on those who refuse to wear masks in Jamshedpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/spot-cov-test-for-ranchiites-caught-without-mask-those-ve-will-not-be-allowed-to-isolate-at-home/articleshow/79395814.cms||Sanjay Sahay
November 25, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Architect caught running online sex, video chatting racket||VADODARA: A 44-year-old architect was caught running a massive online sex chatting and video racket from his office by hiring women from various places in the posh Akota area. Acting on a tip-off, police raided a premise which was being run as an office of architecture and designing firm and arrested Nilesh Gupta, who was running the racket. Gupta, a native of Agra, ran a firm named Ray Design World, providing architecture design and consultancy. Police said that they had information about such illicit activities being run at an old building named at Hardik Chambers in Akota, based on which they kept a watch and conducted preliminary investigation before the raid. Gupta, who claims to be an architect, was found in the building along with two women he had hired for online sex chatting and video calling. Investigation revealed that Gupta used to provide content to a European-based adult video website ‘Chaturbate’ and hired women for video chatting with viewers in exchange for some tokens. A senior official said that the website had created its own tokens to hide the identity of its customers. “The website used to deduct its own share and allow Gupta to encash the tokens for bitcoins. We found 30 bitcoin addresses used by Gupta and seized a wallet containing 9.5 bitcoins,” said deputy commissioner of police Sandeep Chaudhary. The value of one bitcoin is Rs 1.5 lakh at present. Gupta’s accomplice Ami Parmar, who lives in Karelibaug, has been declared as absconding. Police said that while Gupta used to manage the finances, Parmar used to hire and train the women for the website. Gupta has been settled in Vadodara for some years and lives with his Russian wife at Shree Residency in Akota while his parents live in Manjalpur. Investigation revealed that he had divorced his first wife in 2012 to marry the Russian woman. “She went to Russia in the second half of last year and has been stuck there due to the lockdown,” said a police official. During interrogation, Gupta told police that he had been running this racket at different places since April 2019. Earlier he used to freelance as an architect, but the money in this illicit activity attracted him. Women hired for work at architecture firm Nilesh Gupta and Ami Parmar used to hire the women under the pretext of giving them work in the architecture firm. But during the interview with Parmar, the women would be informed that they would have to chat with men on the website and once they become comfortable, they would have to escalate it to pornographic video chats. Police learnt that women from Vadodara, Surat, Junagadh, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh in the age group of 18-25 years have worked for him. Sex toys seized During the raid, cops were surprised over the arrangements that Gupta had done for video chats and content creation. Two sex toys, 11 laptops, two web cams, two internet routers, two televisions, a mobile phone and Gupta’s car were seized. Passports of 19 women found As many as 19 passports and 40 bio-datas of women were found from Gupta’s house in Akota. A police official said that the 19 women could have been victims of the racket. “Our next step is to find all these 19 women and take their statements against the kingpin,” said a police official. Two portable hard disks were also found in which Gupta had saved pornographic videos and photos which he had shared on the adult website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/architect-caught-running-online-sex-video-chatting-racket/articleshow/79395524.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Rajkot||349 booked for violating night curfew||Rajkot: As many as 349 people have been booked for violation of government notification during night curfew in the last three days since Saturday, the Rajkot police said on Tuesday. Over 2,700 police personnel have been deputed in different parts of the city for strict implementation of night curfew. The city police on Tuesday asked people not to come out even on inside roads of the streets to avoid police action. The police is already using drones to keep watch on people during night patrolling. Deputy commissioner of police Manoharsinh Jadeja said, “Over 18,000 people have downloaded safe Rajkot mobile application which helps us in identifying Covid-19 patients. Over the past seven months we have traced over 19,500 people, who could have possibly came in contact a coronavirus infected. These traced persons were later quarantined to curb the spread of virus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/349-booked-for-violating-night-curfew/articleshow/79395945.cms||---
November 25, 2020||India||‘Very severe cyclonic storm’ to hit TN, Pondi & Andhra today||NEW DELHI: With the India Meteorological Department (IMD) upgrading its alert on Cyclone Nivar, which will made landfall as a ‘very severe cyclonic storm’ between Karaikal and Mamallapuram late on Wednesday evening with a wind speed of 120-130kmph gusting to 145 kmph, PM Narendra Modi on Tuesday spoke to chief ministers of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry and assured all support from the Centre. Acting on the IMD’s alert, the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has deployed 22 teams and kept eight teams on standby to help district administrations in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Andhra Pradesh. “Landfall may happen any time between 8 pm and 12 midnight,” IMD director general M Mohapatra said. He added that tidal waves about one metre higher than the astronomical tide was likely to inundate low lying areas of north coastal districts of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry near the place of landfall. NDRF director general S N Pradhan said the force was keeping a watch round the clock on Cyclone Nivar and was coordinating with local authorities in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Andhra Pradesh. He said in view of the Covid-19 scenario, the NDRF was well equipped with appropriate kits and it would take all precautions and work according to a protocol based on its experience in dealing with earlier cyclones ‘Amphan’ (May) and ‘Nisarga’ (June). In view of the cyclone, the IMD predicted fairly widespread rainfall in several districts of Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal, and over south coastal Andhra Pradesh and Rayalaseema till Thursday. It said major damage to thatched houses/huts, power and communication lines, standing crops in coastal areas and salt pans was expected during the landfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/very-severe-cyclonic-storm-to-hit-tn-pondi-andhra-today/articleshow/79399396.cms||---
November 25, 2020||India||Right to choose a partner intrinsic to right to life: Allahabad high court||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court has held that “right to choose a partner, irrespective of religion, is intrinsic to right to life and personal liberty.” Justice Pankaj Naqvi and Justice Vivek Agarwal made these observations while quashing an FIR of kidnapping, forcible conversion and case under the POCSO Act against a man accused of forcefully converting and marrying a Hindu girl. The court also observed that judgments delivered during two previous cases of interfaith marriages -- where it observed that “conversion for the purpose of marriage is unacceptable” -- were not “good laws”. Times ViewThis is an important judgment that demolishes the bogey of love jihad. By equating the “the right to choose a partner, irrespective of religion,” to “right to life and personal liberty” the high court has upheld the fundamental tenets of the Constitution. One hopes that the Supreme Court will also uphold this principle and provide a touchstone for all governments.“We hold judgments in Noor Jahan and Priyanshi cases as not laying good law. None of these judgments dealt with the issue of life and liberty of two mature individuals in choosing a partner or their right to freedom of choice,” the bench said. Read AlsoUP cabinet passes ordinance to check ‘unlawful’ religious conversionsGiving legal teeth to his promise of a crackdown on forcible conversions amid a spiralling row over "love jihad", Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath passed the UP Prohibition of Unlawful Religious Conversion ordinance on Tuesday. This makes forced religious conversion punishable in theThe HC was hearing a petition filed by Salamat Ansari and Priyanka Kharwar alias Alia of Kushinagar on November 11. The petitioners had sought quashing of the FIR lodged on August 25, 2019, at Vishnupura police station of Kushinagar. Quick Edit: UP’s ordinance on religious conversion is wrong at all levelsThe petitioners’ contention was that the couple were adults and competent to marry as per their choice. Counsel for the woman’s father opposed the petition on grounds that conversion for sake of marriage was prohibited and such a marriage had no legal sanctity. The court, after hearing both parties, observed, “To disregard the choice of a person who is an adult would not only be antithetic to freedom of choice of a grown-up individual, but would also be a threat to concept of unity in diversity. An individual on attaining majority is statutorily conferred with the right to choose a partner, which if denied would not only affect his/her human right, but also his/her right to life and personal liberty, guaranteed under Article 21 of Constitution,” the bench observed. The bench further said, “We do not see Priyanka Kharwar and Salamat as Hindu and Muslim, rather as two grown-up individuals who out of their own free will and choice are living together peacefully and happily over a year. The courts and constitutional courts in particular are enjoined to uphold life and liberty of an individual guaranteed under Article 21 of Constitution.” “Right to live with a person of his/her choice irrespective of religion professed by them, is intrinsic to right to life and personal liberty. Interference in a personal relationship would constitute a serious encroachment on the right to freedom of the two individuals. The decision of an individual who is of age of majority, to live with an individual of his/her choice is strictly a right of an individual and when this right is infringed upon, it would constitute breach of his/her fundamental right to life and personal liberty as it includes right to freedom of choice, to choose a partner and right to live with dignity as enshrined in Article 21 of Constitution,” the bench observed. “We fail to understand if the law permits two persons even of same sex to live together peacefully then neither any individual nor a family nor even state can have objection to relationship of two major individuals who out of free will are living together,” the judges observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/right-to-choose-a-partner-intrinsic-to-right-to-life-allahabad-high-court/articleshow/79399416.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
November 25, 2020||Business||Trai fines cell operators for pesky calls||BENGALURU: The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (Trai) has fined telecom firms BSNL, Airtel , Vodafone Idea, Reliance Jio and others for pesky calls and messaging during the lockdown period, according to court documents seen by TOI. Trai sent the orders to the telecom companies on Monday in violation of the Unsolicited Commercial Communications guidelines (UCC) guidelines, according to the regulator’s response in Delhi high court in a matter petitioned by Paytm, which has accused telecom companies of not preventing phishing activities on their networks affecting users. According to the Trai’s response to the court, it has fined BSNL for around Rs 30 crore, nearly Rs 1.3 crore for Airtel, Rs 1.8 crore for Vodafone Idea. Trai has mandated telecom firms to pay this within 20 days of issuance of the order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/trai-fines-cell-operators-for-pesky-calls/articleshow/79399423.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Goa||Goa's Chorao island in desperate need of full-time doctor||PANAJI: More than a year after petitioning several government authorities and elected representatives, residents of the island village of Chorao are yet to have their demand for a full-time doctor posted at the rural medical dispensary (RMD) fulfilled. The accommodation for doctors is in ruins and though the rural dispensary provides primary medical care during certain hours of the day, villagers say it is difficult to get immediate medical help during emergencies. The village has a population of about 5,000. The village panchayat had written to the director of health services highlight critical issues such as that of people having died on the ferry during the river crossing on the way to the hospital. “Two months ago a villager who tested positive for Covid died in a ferry while being taken to Goa medical college,” said Lawrance Colaco, a panch member of Chodan-Madel panchayat. Colaco said the doctor posted at the dispensary is available till 5.30pm and though there are two private doctors — one works for a hospital in Panaji and other is an ayurvedic physician — they aren’t available through the day and especially at night. “If somebody falls ill in the evening or later in the night and needs hospitalisation, we have to rush to Panaji. If the emergency happens after 2am, then one has to pay Rs250 for a special ferry service. That is why we have been asking for a doctor to be posted on the island 24X7,” he said. Villagers have the option of going to Bicholim since it does not require using the ferry service, but Colaco said that it is pointless to take a serious patient across town as normally all such cases get referred to GMC. He said they have approached authorities at various points but that has gone nowhere. In the last two months, he said, even the single ambulance posted on the island was withdrawn which has forced people to arrange a private vehicle during an emergency. Locals donated a refrigerator, a steriliser and a telephone set to the dispensary since the government failed to provide basics for the functioning of the rural dispensary, he said. Prior to 1990, Colaco said there was a full-time doctor posted on the island. The practice was stopped for undisclosed reasons. Since then the three living quarters meant for the doctors’ stay have been neglected. When there is a death on the island, there is no doctor to issue a death certificate villagers have to run from pillar to post to get the certificate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/chorao-island-in-desperate-need-of-full-time-doctor/articleshow/79397798.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Nagpur||160 contract workers sacked by Yavatmal GMC dean||YAVATMAL: Dean of Vasantrao Naik Government Medical College Dr Milind Kamble arbitrarily sacked 160 contract workers who were recruited for Covid-related work. The terminated workers were given jobs like cleaning toilets, wards and moving dead bodies of Covid patients during the lockdown period. The workers alleged that they have not been paid their salaries since the last two months and hence, their Diwali was dark. The aggrieved workers even approached the dean to request him to cancel his decision, which they termed as illegal, but he did not relent. Finally, the helpless workers approached the district unit of MNS. After hearing their grievances, the party took out a protest march to the district collector’s office and submitted a memorandum of demands on Tuesday. MNS unit chief Deva Shivaramwar requested the collector to reinstate the sacked workers as they are Covid-19 warriors who extended their services to the administration at the cost of risking their own lives. The collector assured the delegation that he would call for a detailed report from the dean and after verifying it, he would take the right decision. Chairman of MNS’s student wing Anil Hamdapure said that if the demands of the workers are not met then an agitation would be launched against the GMC administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/160-contract-workers-sacked-by-ytl-gmc-dean/articleshow/79396641.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: ED raids Shiv Sena MLA in money laundering scam, MVA cries foul||MUMBAI: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday carried out raids at several premises of Shiv Sena MLA from Thane and party spokesperson, Pratap Sarnaik, in a Rs 175 crore money laundering case it has registered against Tops Grup security, its promoter Rahul Nanda and others. The raids drew sharp political reactions from partners in the state’s ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi, who accused the Centre of political vendetta. The case is based on a Mumbai police FIR against Tops Grup, which provides private security services, and Nanda, registered on October 28. In the FIR, it is alleged that Tops Grup had cheated the state agency MMRDA, which had awarded it a contract to provide security guards. Sena MLA & son summoned by ED for questioning todayThe ED on Tuesday carried out raids at the premises of Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik. One of the former employees of Tops Grup is a complainant in the police FIR on which the ED case is based. During investigation, the ED found that Sarnaik had helped Rahul Nanda of Tops Grup get the MMRDA contract and benefited from the deal, sources said. NCP chief Sharad Pawar termed the raids a "classic case of abuse of power", while Sena's Sanjay Raut said Sarnaik was being targeted "as he had raised the issue of architect Anway Naik's death" in which Republic TV's Arnab Goswami, booked for abetment of suicide, was arrested before being released on SC's orders. State Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat alleged "Central agencies are targeting politicians speaking up against BJP." Sarnaik, who represents the Ovala-Majiwada constituency, had moved a breach of privilege motion against Arnab Goswami and sought reopening of the probe into the suicide of Anway Naik. Sarnaik was not at home when ED officials raided his premises and offices. He was not available for comment. The ED alleged Nanda illegally transferred the money out of the country. Nanda said Sarnaik was a friend and has no business relations with him, and the ED action has been initiated by two former senior management executives of his company. The ED collected the FIR from the police on the basis on which they have registered the case under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. ED officials picked up Sarnaik's elder son Vihang from Thane for questioning and brought him to their office in Ballard Pier in the afternoon. He was allowed to go home at 8pm. The ED has collected Vihang's phone for examination and he has been called for questioning again on Wednesday. The ED has also summoned Pratap Sarnaik for questioning on Wednesday. It also summoned Nanda for questioning, but he is stated to be out of the county. The ED raided Nanda and Sarnaik's premises along with others to collect evidence. A source said, "There is diversion of funds. Nanda took money abroad illegally and caused loss to the government." Nanda in a text message said, "Pratap (Sarnaik) is an old friend. I would like to clarify that he has not invested a single penny into my business or company ever. He or Shiv Sena has nothing to do with Tops. This allegation is completely absurd.'' ED officials requested for CRPF help for the raids.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-ed-raids-shiv-sena-mla-in-money-laundering-scam-mva-cries-foul/articleshow/79399473.cms||Vijay V Singh
November 25, 2020||Nagpur||Traffic police reject Metro’s proposal to install another signal at Ajni Square||NAGPUR: The DCP (traffic) Sarang Awad has rejected MahaMetro's proposal to install a traffic signal at Ajni square, a five road junction, to regulate the traffic movement in front of NKY Tower. He has also refused to install a traffic signal at the landing of Wardha road flyover at Hotel Pride T-point. In a letter to Awad, MahaMetro submitted three proposals about traffic management at either end of double decker Wardha road flyover. These included conversion of the link between Wardha road and Khamla road near Paul Commercial Complex into one-way road, provision of signal at Ajni square (five road junction) and provision of opening of U-turn with signaling before Hotel Pride junction. The DCP agreed with only the one-way proposal. After the construction of NHAI double decker flyover, the traffic movement from the Ajni side to Khamla via the service road beside Paul Complex was closed. Further, the traffic movement from the service road towards Chhatrapati square was also closed, so it cannot be used for traffic movement towards Wardha road. Hence, it is proposed to convert the link into one-way with only traffic from Chhatrapati square at ground road level and traffic coming from Pride hotel end on flyover allowed to move towards Khamla and Ajni. DCP gave its nod to this proposal. There is an opening in the median at Ajni Square to ensure the traffic movement from Khamla and RPTS roads on to Chuna Bhatti Road and vice-versa. It was observed that there was chaos at this point which got worse due to traffic coming from flyover. To address this, MahaMetro suggested a traffic signal at the spot. Awad said the median cut in front of NKY Tower has to be closed and he had already conveyed that to MahaMetro. Provision of opening for a U-turn with signaling before the Hotel Pride junction. As per the present arrangement, the traffic coming from Ajni as well as Manish Nagar ROB on the double decker flyover is taking U-turn at the Hotel Pride T-point resulting in some congestion there. The distance from the junction and end of flyover ramp is 280 metres. To avoid the congestion at Pride junction, it was recommended to provide an opening just before the junction and a new signal synchronized with the old one. Awad told TOI traffic signals at both the points will increase chaos.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/traffic-police-reject-metros-proposal-to-install-another-signal-at-ajni-square/articleshow/79396678.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
November 25, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur division now has 84% active cases of Vidarbha||NAGPUR: Vidarbha region reported 1,174 new cases of Covid-19 on November 24, while 830 patients recovered. Out of the 1,174 new cases, 919 were from Nagpur revenue division alone, while 5 districts in Amravati revenue division reported only 255 new cases. At present, out of 10,824 under-treatment patients in the region, 9,096 (84%) are in the six districts of Nagpur division, with 4,345 in Nagpur district alone. Amravati division has only 1,828 patients under treatment. This indicates that the infection spread is better under control in Amravati division, as compared to Nagpur division. Four out of six districts in Nagpur division now have more than 10,000 total cases of Covid-19. Out of the 1,174 new cases reported in a day in Vidarbha, Nagpur accounted for 356 cases, followed by Chandrapur (199), Gondia (117), Gadchiroli (110), Amravati (77), Wardha (75), Bhandara (62), Akola (59), Yavatmal (53), Buldhana (45) and Washim (21). Four districts in Nagpur division reported an addition of 100-plus cases, while no district in Amravati had 100 cases. Vidarbha’s total caseload reached 2,20,210. Out of the 830 recovered patients, Chandrapur accounted for 285, followed by Nagpur (133), Gondia (97), Amravati (67), Bhandara (66), Buldhana (52), Gadchiroli (37), Yavatmal (32), Akola (24), Wardha (23) and Washim (14). In all, 2,03,363 patients recovered till date. Now, the recovery rate of Vidarbha is 92.3%. Deaths due to Covid-19 continued to raise concerns, with 19 deaths reported on Tuesday. Of them, 11 were from Nagpur district alone. Chandrapur (2), Gadchiroli (2), Bhandara (1), and Gondia (1) from Nagpur division reported deaths. In Amravati division, death was reported only at Yavatmal. The death toll of Vidarbha reached 5,953. Case fatality rate of the region stands at 2.7%. Amravati: The addition of 77 cases took the district’s Covid case count to 17,433, even as no death was reported on Tuesday. The number of recoveries reached 16,591 after the discharge of 67 patients today. The recovery rate reached 95.2%. This left 469 active cases, including 235 in home isolation. Yavatmal: With the death of a 55-year-old man from Darwha, total deaths in the district reached 370. 2,122 test reports were received, of which 53 were found positive. 346 Covid patients are currently undergoing treatment. 11,115 people have tested positive so far, of whom 10,402 — including 32 today — have been discharged. Chandrapur: There were two deaths and 199 new cases in the district on Tuesday. The Covid-19 case tally is now 18,977 and death toll is 287. However, discharge of 285 patients was a breather for health authorities. This has raised the total of cured patients to 16,910, leaving 1,780 under treatment in the district. Wardha: There were 75 new cases of coronavirus on Tuesday, and 23 patients were discharged after recovery, taking the district’s total Covid cases to 7,507 and recoveries to 6,804. 1,131 test reports were received and 75 (47 men and 28 women) tested positive; the cases came from Wardha (48), Deoli (16), Hinganghat (4), Selu, Karanja (3 each) and Ashti (1). The active cases in district are 468. No death was reported on Tuesday, and the death toll stand at 235. Bhandara: While 62 new patients were reported on Tuesday, 66 patients recovered and were discharged. This took the district’s caseload to 10,180 and recoveries to 9,098. The death of a Covid-19 patient took the death toll of Bhandara to 244. 838 patients are still under treatment in the district. Gondia: 117 new patients were added to the positive tally, while 97 recovered in Gondia district on Tuesday. Death of a 76-year-old patient was also reported. 1,344 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours. Reports of 1,983 RT-PCR tests are still awaited. The district has 11,776 total cases, including 10,718 recoveries, and 154 deaths due to Covid-19. 904 patients are still under treatment. Gadchiroli: Two under-treatment patients — both men above 60 years of age and having severe comorbidities, died during treatment in Gadchiroli on Tuesday. This took death toll of the district to 77. Addition of 100-plus cases was reported on Tuesday, which took the total number of Covid-19 cases in Gadchiroli to 7,640. With 37 patients recovering in a day, 6,802 Covid patients have recovered so far. 761 patients are under treatment. Akola: The district reported 59 new cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday. This took the total number of patients to 9,120. The day also saw 24 patients recovering from Covid-19. This took the total number of recovered patients to 8,329. No death was reported, so the death toll remained unchanged at 288. In all, 503 patients are under treatment in Akola. Buldhana: The district received 820 reports of Covid-19 tests on Tuesday. Of these, 45 tested positive, which took the total cases in Buldhana to 10,913. On the other hand, 52 patients recovered in a day, taking their total to 10,440. No death was reported in Buldhana. 339 patients are still under treatment. Washim: The district reported 21 new positive cases and 14 recoveries. Cumulative caseload reached 5,988, including 5,668 recoveries and 145 deaths due to Covid-19. 174 patients are under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpur-division-now-has-84-active-cases-of-vidarbha/articleshow/79396744.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 25, 2020||Ghaziabad||Leopard walks into colony near Delhi, alert sounded||GHAZIABAD: A leopard sauntered into Raj Kunj colony on Tuesday morning, triggering panic among residents and prompting the administration to issue an advisory asking people to stay alert and not step out unless required. The animal that injured one person was last seen walking inside the Ingraham Institute campus, which has been shut for months. Three teams have been deployed to catch it. An image of the adult, female animal walking inside the colony was captured by a CCTV camera installed in front of a house. It was first seen near the official bungalow of the vice-chairperson of Ghaziabad Development Authority (GDA). “It must be around 11.15 am when one of my staff members, who had gone to the nearby generator room, saw the leopard resting. When the animal saw him, it got startled and ran towards a nearby lawn. There, it attacked Har Mohan, one of the two gardeners at the office,” said Kanchan Verma, the vice-chairperson, GDA. “The animal scratched the elbow of Hari Mohan and the other gardener managed to scare it with a stick. The leopard panicked, jumped a wall and went towards Raj Kunj colony,” Verma added. As the big cat entered the colony, a local resident’s CCTV camera captured the image. According to officials, the leopard started making noises and climbed the wall of Ingraham Institute, which is next to GDA VC’s bungalow. “Ingraham Institute has a sprawling campus with thick foliage and the place has been shut for months now. The animal was last seen disappearing into the campus,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate, Ghaziabad. He added that soon after the animal was spotted, the local forest office was altered and teams were sent to the spot to capture it. Currently, three teams have been deployed and a cage has been set up on the institute campus. “The teams are from Delhi and Meerut and there is also a local team,” said Pandey. Ganga Prasad, conservator of forest, Meerut range, said: “An analysis of pug marks found in the area shows that it is a female, adult leopard. The pugmarks of females are smaller compared to males. We believe the animal is still in or near Ingraham Institute and we have set up a cage in the area.” The administration has issued an advisory asking residents to stay alert. It has asked women, elderly people and children to stay indoors if they do not have any urgent need to step out. Residents have also been asked to keep doors and windows of their houses shut and leave outside lights on. He added that the leopard must have strayed out of a forested area in search of food. “Leopard sightings are not new in this area. In December last year, an adult leopard was captured from the Hindon IAF base and released in Saharanpur area in Shivalik forest range,” said Prasad. In 2017 a full-grown leopard was rescued from a house in Bhopura’s Krishna Vihar Kuti, in Sahibabad area. In its bid to escape, the leopard had injured two people. Talking about where the leopard must have come from, Prasad said: “The animal has a tendency to follow a ravine route in search of prey and we believe that this leopard took the Hindon ravine route. But there is another possibility that the animal may have come from Hindon IAF base or Dadri NTPC plant. We cannot say anything conclusively at this point. Our main aim is to capture the animal and right now, we are focusing on that.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/leopard-walks-into-ghaziabad-colony-alert-sounded/articleshow/79398123.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Nagpur||Multi-crore fraud: Cops recover Rs 48 lakh cash hidden in pit||NAGPUR: In a multi-level marketing scam unearthed by Rana Pratap Nagar police on November 16, it has surfaced that the accused Vijay Gurnule and his accomplices allegedly duped 25,000 investors to the tune of Rs 100 crore through Metro Vision Buildcon India Limited, Real Trade and Metro Coin. Police raided his relative’s home in Amravati and seized Rs 48 lakh from Gurnule, who allegedly hid the amount in a pit there. Police seized Rs 7 lakh from Gurnule from other places too, said DCP Noorol Hassan on Tuesday. Gurnule was away since an offence of fraud was registered by the city police. “He went to a relative in Amravati, where he dug a three-foot-deep pit and allegedly hid Rs 48 lakh in three boxes. The matter came to light during Gurnule’s interrogation,” Hassan said. A police team, under the guidance of senior police inspector Bhimrao Khandale of Rana Pratap Nagar station, went to Gurnule’s relative’s house in Amravati and seized Rs 48 lakh cash from the pit. So far, police have seized Rs 1 crore from Gurnule and his accomplices. tnn Following a complaint filed by one Ganesh Chafle, police had arrested Gurnule, Jeevandas Dandare, Ramesh Bisen, Atul Meshram, Avinash Mahadole, Raju Mohurle, Shrikant Nikure, Devendra Gajbhiye, Dnyaneshwar Bawne, Roshan Kadu and others. Like Gurnule, Gajbhiye is also a mastermind in the scam. “Gurnule used to offer expensive items like cars, washing machines, laptops to the agent through lucky draws and due to this modus operandi, he lured agents to invest heavily in the company,” Hassan said. The DCP added, “Investigations revealed Gurnule had set up a fraudulent network from Kashmir to Kanyakumari and had duped investors from Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jammu and Kashmir, Chandigarh and Assam.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/multi-crore-fraud-cops-recover-rs-48-lakh-cash-hidden-in-pit/articleshow/79396766.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Goa||Goa: 167 new infections, 85 recoveries and 2 deaths on Tuesday||PANAJI: With 167 fresh infections detected, Goa’s active Covid-19 cases rose to 1,220 on Tuesday. Recoveries for the day stood at 85. A 45-year-old man from Delhi, who was staying at a starred hotel in the city, was among the fresh cases detected during the day. With two Covid-19 deaths reported, the toll has increased to 680. A 58-year-old man from Assagao, who was declared brought dead to North Goa District Hospital, Mapusa, tested positive post mortem. Goa Medical College (GMC) dean and in-charge of Covid hospitals Dr S M Bandekar, said the relatives of the deceased denied that he had exhibited symptoms of the virus. The patient suffered from hypertension and diabetes mellitus. This is the third such case reported in the last few days wherein the relatives said the deceased did display any symptoms of Covid-19. The second death was that of a 65-year-old man from Margao, who was detected with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) shortly after hospitalisation. Besides diabetes he also suffered from nephropathy. He died in GMC after undergoing treatment. With 2,004 samples tested during the day, the case positivity rate was pegged at 8%. As many as 36 patients were transferred to hospital while 81 opted for home isolation. Panaji reported five new cases, bringing its caseload to 87, while that of Porvorim stood at 82. These are two centres with the highest caseload in North Goa. Cases at Mapusa and Sankhali, centres that saw a spike for over two months, have now dropped below 50. Cases reported by the Margao Urban Health Centre went up to 102, while the tally at Ponda, another centre with high numbers, stood at 83.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/167-new-infections-85-recoveries-and-2-deaths-on-tuesday/articleshow/79398194.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Goa||No Covid test at GMC for travellers: Health minister Vishwajit Rane||PANAJI: Health minister Vishwajit Rane on Tuesday stated that Goa Medical College (GMC) and the directorate of health services has been directed not to carry out Covid tests for travel purposes. “The health department is here to keep the people of Goa safe. The GMC and health services are already doing RT-PCR tests as per the existing standard operating procedures (SOPs) laid down by the government,” Rane said. He said people wishing to avail a Covid test for travel purposes should visit either the North Goa or South Goa district hospitals. “The RT-PCR test will be conducted on a chargeable basis, the decision on the same will be taken by the chief minister shortly,” he said. All tests pertaining to the safety of the citizens of Goa, which are recommended by the doctors of primary health centres, community health centres and flu outpatient departments (OPDs) will continue as before, Rane added. A couple of private laboratories and hospitals in the state are conducting RT-PCR tests. On Monday, the Maharashtra government made it mandatory for travelers from Goa and three other states to produce a report declaring them Covid free.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rane-no-covid-test-at-gmc-for-travellers/articleshow/79398230.cms||Bindiya Chari
November 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Efforts on to secure loans for irrigation projects in Rayalaseema||AMARAVATI: AP Rayalaseema Drought Mitigation Projects Corporation Limited (RDMPCL) has started negotiations with financial institutions and international lending agencies to secure loans to take up irrigation projects in Rayalaseema. With chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy keen on grounding as many projects as possible at the earliest, the irrigation authorities have put their efforts on mobilization of funds on fast track. The Union Corporate Affairs Ministry last week stamped its nod for registration of an exclusive company floated to take up these projects-Andhra Pradesh Rayalaseema Drought Mitigation Projects Corporation Limited (APRDMPCL). The state government gave green signal to APRDMPCL to take up 28 projects with a cost of Rs.39,980 crore. While the state government will spare 30 percent of the total cost, the corporation has been asked to mobilise loans to the tune of Rs.27,986 crore. All the projects put together would require acquisition of nearly 12,986 acres of private land in addition to the already available 4042 acres of government land. Senior officials readied a document for the presentation to the financial institutions on the need to take up the irrigation projects in Rayalaseema region on war-footing basis. “The Rayalaseema region comprises the Anantapur, Kurnool, Kadapa and Chittoor districts with 41% of the geographical area in the state. While cultivable area is about 36% and the irrigated area is only 20% of the state,” said CMD of RPDMCL and special chief secretary Dr Adityanath Das. He said that seema is a chronically drought prone area, with an average rainfall of 644 mm compared to the state average of 852mm. Anantapur receives the second lowest rainfall in the country after Thar desert in Rajasthan, he explained. As per the DPR, the local populace is highly dependent on ground water for their drinking, domestic, industrial and irrigation needs which has led to high stress situation in ground water in the region thus depleting ground water level to below 1100 ft. in Anantapur and Chittoor districts. It also highlighted the fact of large-scale migration of people to other areas in need of work as industries also finding it difficult to operate due to lower availability of water. Except Krishna, all other rivers flowing through the region are non-perennial due to construction of a large number of irrigation projects by the upper co-basin states. Further, the flows in river Krishna are also decreasing year after year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/efforts-on-to-secure-loans-for-irrigation-projects-in-rseema/articleshow/79395546.cms||Samdani MN
November 25, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra ex-CM Devendra Fadnavis dubs Uddhav Thackeray-led MVA govt as 'unnatural alliance'||MUMBAI: Terming the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) an "unnatural alliance", BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis said the day this tie-up breaks, his party will give a strong government to the state. "...but till that time, we will remain in the opposition," Fadnavis said at a press conference in Solapur on Tuesday. According to media reports, on Monday, Fadanavis had said that "the next swearing-in ceremony will be at the appropriate hour and it will not take place at dawn". He had made this statement exactly a year after his early morning swearing-in as CM with Ajit Pawar as his deputy after the Lok Sabha polls. However, the government lasted for only 80 hours, with Pawar tendering his resignation, paving the way for the MVA alliance to assume office. On the Uddhav Thackeray-led government's intention to inquire into the outstanding power bills during the previous BJP-led dispensation, Fadnavis said if the MVA starts an inquiry, it "will fall on its own face". "Why inquire about our five years, why not last 20 years (five of BJP and 15 of Congress-NCP rule)...Yes, we had some outstanding bills, but it was because we decided not to cut electricity connections of farmers," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-ex-cm-devendra-fadnavis-dubs-uddhav-thackeray-led-mva-govt-as-unnatural-alliance/articleshow/79399488.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Goa||Sakhali civic body cracks down on mask violators, fines them||BICHOLIM: Sakhali Municipal Council (SMC) officials began imposing fines on persons within its jurisdiction who were moving around in public places without face masks. Based on directives from SMC chief officer Pravinjay Pandit, the drive began on Monday. Pandit told TOI that the step was necessitated due to rise in Covid-19 cases in neighbouring states. He said the drive will continue if those in SMC jurisdictions are seen to be ignoring safety norms pertaining to Covid-19. Meanwhile, SMC has also started an awareness drive on the preventive measures against Covid-19, through a vehicle for campaigning. Officials were seen advising people from the vehicle to avoid crowded places, wear masks in public places, and to visit the nearest health centre incase anyone is suffering from fever and other such symptoms. The officials were also see using Konkani songs to convey the message.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sakhali-civic-body-cracks-down-on-mask-violators-fines-them/articleshow/79398256.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Noida||24 women home inmates test Covid-positive, taken to Sharda Hospital||GREATER NOIDA: Over 20 inmates from a women’s shelter for specially-abled, many of them minors, were admitted to Sharda Hospital, an L3 Covid facility, after testing positive for Covid-19. All of them are asymptomatic and have been kept in a separate ward and experts and staff from the psychiatry department have been engaged to monitor them. Currently, the hospital has 158 Covid patients. “A total of 24 women from Noida’s Sector 34 shelter have been sent here by the chief medical officer of Gautam Budh Nagar. While nine patients were sent on Monday evening, 15 more were sent on Tuesday. Many are minors. We have kept them in a special ward and are trying to figure out the best way to manage their condition,” said Dr Ashutrosh Niranjan, the chief medical superintendent (CMS), Sharda Hospital, Greater Noida. Officials said the reports of the 24 patients have come in the past 24 hours. The chief medical officer (CMO), Dr Deepak Ohri, said: “Adequate assistance will be provided to the hospital for their treatment.” Dr Ajit Kumar, spokesperson, Sharda Hospital, said: “Most of the patients have chronic schizophrenia and two of them have a history of seizures.” Asked about the source of infection, officials said it was not known clearly. Dr Niranjan said: “We have requested the CMO that the attendant who looks after them at the shelter be allowed to join them at the hospital so that they have a familiar face around.” While Dr Kunal Kumar, professor and head of department, psychiatry, Sharda Hospital, and his team were busy gathering case histories of the patients from the shelter, a 24-member team has been set up to handle the patients at the ward. The team has six junior doctors and 18 nurses. “The health workers would be guided by Dr Kumar and his team from now on,” said Dr Niranjan. The patients are responding well to the treatment, said Dr Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/24-women-home-inmates-test-positive-taken-to-sharda/articleshow/79398258.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
November 25, 2020||Vadodara||Testing upped in wake of second wave of Covid||Vadodara: The administration increased testing in wake of the possibility of another Covid-19 wave hitting the city and district. As many as 3,698 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours till Tuesday evening out of which 106 persons were found positive. With the new cases, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the city and district registered so far went up to 17,355. The fresh cases included 40 from the rural areas of the district and 66 from within city limits. The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) confirmed one more death after a death audit taking the total number of deaths to 219. The healthy discharge rate of patients also continued and 115 persons were discharged from hospitals or home quarantine taking the total number of discharged persons to 15,979. After the fresh round of discharges, 1,157 persons remained under treatment including 65 on BIPAP machines or ventilators. As many as 167 patients were breathing with the help of oxygen support. 12 cops test positive Vadodara: Mass testing in the Godhra B Division police station led to 12 policemen there testing positive for Covid-19. The policemen include personnel ranging from LRD jawans to head constables. Police inspector K P Jadeja said that the men had tested positive in rapid tests. He said that the functioning of the police station would not be affected in a major way as there was sufficient staff to manage work. Those who were found positive will go in home isolation or hospitals as per doctors’ advice, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/testing-upped-in-wake-of-second-wave-of-covid/articleshow/79395548.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra reports 1,085 new Covid-19 cases, 8 deaths||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 1,085 Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the cumulative case load to 8,63,843. The toll increased to 6,956 as eight more people succumbed to the disease on Tuesday. As many as 1,447 patients were declared cured. There are currently 13,024 active cases with 8,43,863 cumulative recoveries as of Tuesday. Other than Krishna, all other districts achieved at least 95 percent recovery rate. There are less than 500 active cases in six districts. Krishna reported 224 new infections on Tuesday, followed by Chittoor (142 cases), West Godavari (138), Guntur (126), and East Godavari (116). The remaining eight districts recorded less than 100 cases. Anantapur witnessed 10 infections, the lowest number of the day. East Godavari, the novel coronavirus disease epicentre of the state, has a cumulative case load of 1.21 lakh infections. West Godavari took the distant second place with 91,789 cases, followed by Chittoor (83,268). Eight districts have a case load of at least 60,000 infections. Vizianagaram stood at the bottom of the table with 40,527. Of the eight deaths registered on Tuesday, two are from Krishna and one each from Chittoor, East Godavari, Guntur, Kadapa, Nellore and Visakhapatnam. Andhra Pradesh conducted 65,101 Covid-19 tests and detected 1,085 cases with a case positivity rate of 1.6%. The overall case positivity rate stood at about 9% against the national average of 7%. The mortality remained stable at 0.8%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/andhra-reports-1085-new-covid-19-cases-8-deaths/articleshow/79395557.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Rs 1 crore worth jewellery stolen||Vijayawada: Unidentified miscreants broke into a locked house in Gurazada village of Pamidimukkala mandal in Krishna district and made away with gold and silver jewellery worth Rs 1 crore. According to Pamidimukkala police, the incident took place between November 19 and 23 but came to light only when the family returned home on Monday night. The house belongs to 70-year-old Challa Rajeswari. Upon receiving information, police reached the spot with the clues team and noted that several household articles were scattered around the house. Police are also examining local CCTV footage. Vuyyuru circle inspector Ch Naga Prasad has been tasked with the investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/rs-1-crore-worth-jewellery-stolen/articleshow/79395574.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Govt cancels land allotment to Kintea Power||Vijayawada: The state government on Tuesday issued orders to cancel 840 acres land allotted to Kintea Power Limited for failing to establish thermal power project at Krishnapatnam. The land at Thamminapatnam and Momidi villages of Chillakuru mandal in Nellore district was given to Kintea Power in 2009 and 2012 respectively to establish 1080 mw power plant at Rs 2,997 crore investment. It was also aimed at providing employment to 600 people and the plant should come into operation in two years. However, the government said that the Kintea Power had failed to establish the power plant, despite repeated reminders from the APIIC since then. Instead, the Kintea Power had transferred the land to Jindal Group and changed the company name as KPL against the agreement. The government said that inquiries were held and communication continued between the Kintea and APIIC since then. The APIIC on 31 December 2014 had recommended to the state government for cancellation of the land allocation. The APIIC had again reviewed the agreement and its 2014 recommendation at its meeting on November 22, 2020 and wrote to the state government for cancellation of the land allotment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-cancels-land-allotment-to-kintea-power/articleshow/79395589.cms||Gopi Dara
November 25, 2020||Goa||Pernem locals annoyed at hike in Camurlim-Tuem ferry fare||SALIGAO: Users of the special ferry services from Camurlim to Tuem over the Chapora are upset with the hike in the ferry charges from the earlier Rs 100 to Rs 250. The service connects the northern talukas of Pernem and Bardez and is in great demand with residents of both talukas. Locals from Pernem taluka regularly commute to Panaji via Mapusa for work. However, as the Patradevi to Mapusa highway expansion work is underway, most are dependent on the ferry service. The rates for the special ferry service was recently hiked by the river navigation department. A senior official of the river navigation department said that the revised charges are within reasonable range. “In fact, even for regular ferry services we are charging a very nominal amount for four-wheelers, while the service is free for two-wheeler riders,” he said. For Pernem residents, who travel to Mapusa town and then further to Panaji daily for work, not only is the ride from Patradevi to Mapusa currently a rough one due to the ongoing highway expansion work, the second main route from Mapusa to Chopdem and then Siolim is very a long stretch of road. That is the reason most prefer the Camurli-Tuem waterway. “Due to the delay in the regular ferry service, commuters order special ferries. We earlier paid Rs 100, but last month, the special ferry service rate has been more than doubled. This is an additional expense for locals whose income has already been affected due to the Covid-19 pandemic,” said a Pernem resident. Locals said they would protest if the hike was not withdrawn.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pernem-locals-annoyed-at-hike-in-camurlim-tuem-ferry-fare/articleshow/79398260.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Vijayawada||‘To-let’ boards abound in Vijayawada as tenants move to outskirts||VIJAYAWADA: House rents in Vijayawada seem to have come down following the pandemic outbreak. Sights of to-let boards have become quite common as people move to the outskirts where rents are lower as job losses have impacted incomes. Vijayawada saw a sudden spike in house rent in 2015. Two and three-bedroom houses saw a huge spike in demand and rent in some areas touched Rs 20,000 a month. Many tenants found it unfeasible and moved to smaller homes. The demand for shelter in urban slums too saw a rise. But now, the situation has changed quickly. With the pandemic causing job losses and companies to cut salaries and the proposed shift of executive capital to Visakhapatnam, more and more people are choosing to move to the outskirts in hope of cheaper rents. K Santosh Chaitanya, who works at a private company, said, “My organisation reduced my salary by 40%. So I have had to cut down on my monthly expenses. I have moved to Gudavalli recently where houses are more affordable.” As a consequence, house-owners are having a tough time as tenants keep vacating houses. Around 20% houses have been vacated over the last few months and have not found new takers. M Hanumantha Rao of Durgapuram said, “My family is entirely dependent on rent. Five single-bedroom flats in my house are lying vacant for the last three months. Tenants have moved out for various reasons. We have cut rent by 30%, but still haven’t found any takers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/to-let-boards-abound-in-vij-as-tenants-move-to-outskirts/articleshow/79395608.cms||Venu Lanka
November 25, 2020||Visakhapatnam||One dead, 15 hurt in road accident||Visakhapatnam: One person died and 15 others were injured as the car (SUV) they were travelling in overturned near Rajumamidi village of Munchingiput mandal in Visakhapatnam Agency on Tuesday morning. The group from Gadugupalli village of Pedabayalu mandal in Visakhapatnam Agency was going on pilgrimage to Kedupada in Odisha. One person, 65-year-old Korra Seethamma, died at the spot. Another, a 7-year-old girl named Korra Lavanya was critically injured and hospitalised. Others sustained minor injuries. In another incident, a woman was killed and four others injured upon being hit by a car near Anandapuram in Vizag. The deceased has been identified as T Kondamma. Police have registered a case and investigation is going on. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/one-dead-15-hurt-in-road-accident/articleshow/79395626.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 25, 2020||Delhi||Help douse farm fires, add 1,000 ICU beds: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to reserve 1,000 ICU beds in central government hospitals in Delhi for Covid patients and also sought his intervention to get rid of pollution caused by stubble burning in the neighbouring states. The requests were made during Modi’s meeting with CMs of different states to review the coronavirus situation in the country. Briefing the PM, Kejriwal said the third wave of coronavirus in Delhi peaked on November 10 with 8,600 positive cases, but the positivity rate was now declining. He added that an adequate number of non-ICU Covid beds were available, but there was a shortage of ICU beds. “Of the total beds reserved for Covid patients in government and private hospitals, 9,400 are occupied and 8,500 are vacant. We aren’t concerned about non-ICU (common) beds since they are in adequate numbers,” said the CM. “Of the total ICU beds, around 3,500 are occupied and 724 vacant. Union home minister Amit Shah is helping in increasing the ICU beds, but if 1,000 beds are reserved for the people of Delhi in central government hospitals like Safdarjung and AIIMS, it will be a great support to us. We are thankful for all the help that we and the people of Delhi have received from the central government during the epidemic,” said Kejriwal. Updating Modi, Kejriwal said Delhi faced the first Covid wave in June during which 20,000 samples were collected every day. Delhi government increased the collection of samples in September to 60,000 per day. “Since November 10, the positivity rate has been constantly declining, but the rising mortality rate is a matter of concern. We have to reduce the mortality rate. We hope that it will reduce along with the declining positivity ratio in coming days,” he added. Mentioning that, among several factors, pollution from stubble burning was a significant contributor in making the third Covid wave more dangerous, Kejriwal requested the PM, “We want that under your leadership, the CMs of Delhi, Punjab and Haryana work together as a team to eliminate stubble burning.” The CM also sought the PM’s intervention in resolving the stubble burning issue with the help of the bio-decomposer technology developed by Indian Agricultural Research Institute at Pusa, which was used across the farmlands in Delhi to convert crop residue into manure. Meanwhile, amid the surge in the number of Covid-19 cases, Kejriwal ordered for immediate procurement of 1,200 BiPAP machines from Council of Scientific and Industrial Research for the new ICU beds being added in Delhi’s hospitals this week, an official said on Tuesday, adding that this move would allow the new beds to become operational immediately. On Monday, health minister Satyendar Jain had attributed the high Covid-19 death rate to pollution caused by stubble burning and said that he expected a downtrend in the next two-three weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/help-douse-farm-fires-add-1000-icu-beds-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal/articleshow/79399531.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Visakhapatnam||VMRDA finds 663 unauthorised layouts in Vizag, Vizianagaram||Visakhapatnam: The Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) has identified 663 unauthorised layouts in Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam districts. The exercise was carried out by deploying 46 ward planning and regularisation (WPRS) secretaries. The VMRDA conducted a review meeting on the same on Tuesday here at its office in Siripuram. Speaking on this occasion, VMRDA metropolitan commissioner P Koteswara Rao said the VMRDA received 3,764 applications under the layout regularisation scheme, of which 2,562 were from Visakhapatnam and 1,202 from Vizianagaram. “The applicants need to attach the site plan, layout sketch, encumbrance certificate, registered documents, etc. with their applications. The VMRDA conducted meetings in 18 mandals to create awareness among the public on the LRS scheme. Regularisation of the unapproved layouts will entitle the applicant to get building permission from the competent authority. The deadline for the LRS applications is December 31 and we request the public to utilise the opportunity,” said Koteswara Rao. The metropolitan commissioner asked officials to set up a dedicated call centre in which the public could clear its doubts over the scheme. Additional commissioner Manazir Jeelani Samoon and others were present at the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vmrda-finds-663-unauthorised-layouts-in-vizag-vizianagaram/articleshow/79395631.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Rabi season shortened to complete coffer dam||Rajahmundry: The irrigation advisory board (IAB) has decided to shorten the Rabi season to 120 days in order to finish the coffer dam of the Polavaram project. The IAB meeting of the twin Godavari districts was held in Rajahmundry on Tuesday. The meeting was presided over by minister Dharmana Krishna Das. Irrigation authorities have also decided to stop releasing water to irrigation canals by May 31 for Polavaram construction works. Meanwhile, peoples’ representatives of the two districts have asked irrigation authorities to make sure that water reaches the full ayacut of the Godavari delta. It was decided at the IAB meeting that the construction of the coffer dam will be completed by December 2021, without disruption in provision of irrigation water. Authorities have formulated a Rabi action plan to release 90–97 tmc water like every year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/rabi-season-shortened-to-complete-coffer-dam/articleshow/79395644.cms||Samson Raj
November 25, 2020||Mumbai||Should Maharashtra speaker be put to notice, asks SC||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked whether the Maharashtra speaker be put to notice in the contempt proceedings it has initiated against an officer of the state assembly who admitted to have acted on the presiding officer's instructions to warn TV anchor Arnab Goswami of contempt of House proceedings for approaching the SC with a writ petition. On November 6, Goswami's counsel Harish Salve had drawn the SC's attention to the October 13 letter sent from the office of secretary, Maharashtra Vidhan Sabha Sachivalaya, which was signed by Vilas Athawale, assistant secretary, Maharashtra Vidhan Mandal Sachivalaya. Goswami had challenged the breach of privilege notice to him on an MLA's complaint accusing him of dishonourably referring to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian had taken serious view of the letter which it construed as an attempt to dissuade a citizen from approaching the SC exercising his fundamental right under Article 32 of the Constitution. The letter had said, "You were informed that the proceedings of the House are confidential... Despite this, it has been observed that you have presented the proceedings of the House before the Supreme Court on October 8, 2020. No prior permission was taken from the speaker of the Maharashtra assembly before presenting such proceedings in court. You have knowingly breached the orders of the speaker of Maharashtra assembly and your actions amount to breach of confidentiality. This is definitely a serious matter and amounts to contempt."  The SC had initiated contempt proceedings against Athawale saying the threat administered through the letter was unprecedented and tended to interfere with the administration of justice. In his reply, though Athawale tendered unconditional apology, he said he had acted on instructions of the speaker to send the letter. The officer, who was granted exemption from personal appearance on Tuesday, also said the petition filed by Goswami had become infructuous as the speaker had now sent the matter to the privileges committee for appropriate action. Salve said since the officer claimed that he had acted on instructions from the speaker, should it be recorded that the speaker was already put to notice in the case? Appearing for Athawale, senior advocate Dushyant Dave, who had recently complained to the SC against speedy listing of petitions filed by Goswami, said it would not be necessary to put the speaker to notice as he (Dave) would be able to convince the court during the next hearing to drop the proceedings as there was no obstruction to administration of justice on the officer's part. Full report on www.toi.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/should-maharashtra-speaker-be-put-to-notice-asks-sc/articleshow/79399543.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Police dept seeks more IPS officers from DoPT||Vijayawada: DGP D Gautam Sawang met additional secretary of department of personnel and training (DoPT) in New Delhi on Monday and sought allocation of more IPS officers to the state. Sawang informed the additional secretary that the state did not get an adequate number of IPS officers post-bifurcation and many senior rank posts are lying vacant. With the state heading towards the formation of new district police units and commissionerates, the police department needs more officials. Sources said that DGP Sawang received assurance from the Centre on allotment of sufficient number of IPS officers soon. “The vacancies lie mainly at senior DIG and ADG levels. At the same time, there is a dearth of SP-rank officials as well,” a senior police official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/police-dept-seeks-more-ips-officers-from-dopt/articleshow/79395657.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
November 25, 2020||Gurgaon||Congress veteran Ahmed Patel passes away following Covid complications||GURUGRAM: Senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel, who was undergoing treatment at a Gurugram hospital after testing positive for the Covid-19, breathed his last after multi-organ failure in the wee hours of Wednesday, his son Faisal confirmed. He was 71.  In a tweet, Faisal said that the Rajya Sabha MP from Gujarat died at 3.30am on Wednesday. @ahmedpatel https://t.co/7bboZbQ2A6— Faisal Patel (@mfaisalpatel) 1606257136000 "With profound grief & sorrow, I regret to announce the sad & untimely demise of my father, Mr. Ahmed Patel at 25/11/2020, 03:30 AM. After testing positive for Covid-19 around a month back, his health worsened further due to multiple organ failures. May Allah grant him Jannatul firdaus, inshallah," he tweeted, requesting all their well-wishers to adhere to the Covid-19 regulations by avoiding mass gatherings.  "...also maintain social distancing norms at all times," Faisal tweeted.  Patel, also the Treasurer of the Indian National Congress, had tested positive for the Covid-19 on October 1 and was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit of Medanta Hospital in Gurugram on November 15.  On October 1, Patel, while disclosing that he was tested positive for the Covid-19, had urged all those who came in contact with him in past few days to undergo self-isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/congress-veteran-ahmed-patel-passes-away-following-covid-complications/articleshow/79399552.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Corporations claim big gap in Covid death count||NEW DELHI: The three municipal corporations have once again red-flagged alleged discrepancies between the official Covid death count and the number of funerals carried out in Covid-designated crematoria and burial grounds of the city. The civic bodies claimed on Tuesday that more than 10,318 Covid-protocol funerals have been carried out till November 23 while the official death count till Monday was 8,512. The north corporation claimed to have carried out 4,521 funerals, east corporation 1,512 and south corporation 4,285. AAP: Death of people from outside Delhi counted in their states’ tallyResponding to these claims, Aam Aadmi Party said that the civic bodies had earlier failed to provide any proof to back their claims. A statement issued by the party also pointed out that the city was receiving a large number of patients from other states and their deaths are counted in the tally of their own states. There was no response from the state government. The Delhi government had in April constituted a threemember death audit committee, headed by a former director general of health services, and all hospitals had been directed to report all such deaths to the committee along with a copy of the case sheet. This committee of experts goes through the patient’s medical case sheets, other relevant information and death summary to decide if the Covid-19 viral infection was the primary cause of death – and not other terminal co-morbid conditions, like cancer – before adding it to the daily bulletin. The BJP-led corporations have been alleging that the committee is used to manipulate the daily count by keeping cases pending. The mayors had earlier flagged the mismatch on June 11 when they had claimed that the Covid funeral count of 2,098 was more than double the official death count of 984. AAP had then pointed out that Delhi high court had declared that “the death audit committee is working in an appropriate manner and that the work of the committee cannot be questioned”. Several additions were, however, made during the month of June citing old backlog data, which was not reported by the hospitals. The highest number of daily additions was made on June 16 when 437 cases were added. The government had also issued showcause notices to AIIMS, LNJP Hospital, RML Hospital and Safdarjung Hospital, asking them to explain the reasons for the delay in reporting cases of death in June. In the current round of controversy, north corporation mayor Jaiprakash said on Tuesday that last rites of 4,521 bodies of Covid positive and suspected cases have been performed in their facilities between March and November 23. “The overall number of Covid deaths in the city has gone beyond 10,000. We don’t want to play politics on such matters but the Delhi government should not be hiding the true picture from the public. There is no point in adding the death counts after several weeks and months and people should be aware of the real-time situation in their city,” he added. Of these Covid-protocol funerals, 2,636 were carried out in the City SP zone, 496 in the Karol Bagh zone, 640 in the Keshavpuram zone and 749 in the Rohini zone. A statement said that out of the 4,521 bodies received between May 31 and November 23, there were 578 cases of suspected Covid deaths. These are cases in which the test report may be awaited or who showed Covid-like symptoms and could eventually be diagnosed as Covid cases. East corporation mayor Nirmal Jain said the “real death figures are much higher and these are proven cases with medical documents”. According to a corporation report, 1512 Covid-protocol funerals had been carried out at its Covid-designated facilities at Karkardooma, Ghazipur, Shastri Park, Mulla Colony and Seemapuri. A senior official said that out of these 1512, till Monday, 843 funerals were held in the Shahdra South zone, 669 in the Shahdra North zone. EDMC saw 1,173 Covid confirmed funeral cases and 339 Covid suspect cases. In the jurisdiction of the south corporation, 2197 funerals were held at the crematorium in Punjabi Bagh, 1,139 at Lodhi Road, 328 at Hastsal, 328 at Sector 24 of Dwarka, 292 at Ferozshah Kotla and one at Sarai Kale Khan. The total figure included 139 suspected Covid cases. South corporation mayor Anamika Singh alleged that the government wanted to show lower fatalities. Mayors playing politics, says AAPAn AAP spokesperson said it was unfortunate that mayors were playing politics by making unsubstantiated claims on death count. “They had made such claims earlier too... but they couldn’t submit any details,” he said. “Besides, thousands of patients from other states come to Delhi for receiving critical care. In case of their death, they are cremated in Delhi but their number gets added to the death count of respective states,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-corporations-claim-big-gap-in-covid-death-count/articleshow/79399580.cms||Paras Singh
November 25, 2020||Mumbai||TRP scam: Republic TV executive connived with cable guys & MSOs, says chargesheet||MUMBAI: The chargesheet filed by the police in the TRP scam on Tuesday stated that Republic TV was a free-to-air channel and Ghanshyam Singh, its distribution head, allegedly connived with the other arrested accused and made payments to them to increase TRPs. Singh would formalise agreements with the other accused after discussing terms and conditions and rates. He was also required to monitor if these operators fulfilled the terms of the agreement, the police said in the chargesheet. The city police had on October 6 registered a case in the TRP manipulation racket and have been investigating Republic TV, Fakt Marathi, Mahamovies, News Nation, Box Cinema and Wow music channels for rigging TRPs. India Today has been given a clean chit by the police, though one of the suspects had alleged that that channel had also rigged viewership figures. To measure TRPs, the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) had contracted Hansa Research to install barometers in the homes of select audiences to gauge viewing patterns. Hansa Research is the complainant in the case. ACP Shashank Sanbhor and assistant inspector Sachin Waze submitted the chargesheet comprising 1,400 pages before the 37th Esplanade Metropolitan Magistrate court on Tuesday. The chargesheet has been filed against 12 accused, which includes former employees of Hansa Research and the owners of Fakt Marathi and Box Cinema. It contains statements of 140 witnesses, of which eight had deposed before the magistrate and have given confessional statements under Section 164 of the Criminal Procedure Code, which are admissible as evidence during trial. Mumbai police filing the chargesheet within the stipulated period of 60 days assumes significance in the wake of the Enforcement Directorate conducting a parallel probe into the money laundering angle under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. The police probe has revealed that confidential information on the locations of metered television sets was leaked and viewers were paid to keep their sets tuned to specific channels. The chargesheet has been filed under Indian Penal Code sections of cheating, forgery, breach of trust, destruction of evidence and criminal conspiracy. Police said that the investigation into the acts of some of the owners and directors of the channels under scanner is continuing. The crime branch has summoned the proprietor of Wow Music channel, Jayanti Gada and Akshay Gada, to join the investigation on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-trp-scam-chargesheet-covers-cheating-criminal-conspiracy/articleshow/79399610.cms||Ahmed Ali
November 25, 2020||Delhi||DU assures court of PG results by November 30||NEW DELHI: Delhi University on Tuesday assured Delhi High Court that the pending results for various postgraduate and undergraduate courses would be declared by November 30. Taking note of the undertaking, the court made it clear that DU’s “neck is on board” if it failed to stick to the deadline. DU’s submission came in response to an application alleging that there was violation of the court’s earlier order, when the university had undertaken to declare the results by October 31. Following the submission, a bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad deferred its order and listed it for hearing on December 2. The high court had earlier disposed of two pleas by law student Prateek Sharma and National Federation of Blind seeking to set up effective mechanism for visually impaired and specially abled students, so that educational instructions could be imparted to them properly, and teaching material was provided through online mode during the Covid-19 pandemic. The court also questioned the maintainability of a fresh plea filed by Sharma. “Why did you file an application in a decided matter. Answer us on the maintainability first and not on merits... We have reservations in entertaining the application in a disposed of petition,” the bench said. The petitioner, however, stated in the application that DU had violated the October 12 order where, the varsity itself, had undertaken to adhere to the timeline for declaration of PG and UG courses’ results, the last of which had to be declared by October 31. On October 12, the high court had also directed the university to upload the marksheets on its website and that no student should be asked to physically come to collect them. The court had earlier asked Delhi University and its examiners to expedite the evaluation process of online open book examination (OBE) and declare the results preferably by the first week of October.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/du-assures-court-of-pg-results-by-november-30/articleshow/79399616.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Mumbai||10-member Maharashtra taskforce for smooth delivery of vaccine||MUMBAI: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday informed Prime Minister Narendra Modi the state has formed a task force to iron out all issues related to procurement, transportation and distribution of the Covid-19 vaccine. Headed by the chief secretary, the 10-member task force will include senior secretaries from the planning, finance, public health and medical education departments, some members from the state taskforce on Covid- 19 and senior doctors from JJ and KEM hospitals. "The task force has been set up as some more clarity is required on the vaccine. It will study the requirement, procurement, distribution, cost and even possible side effects of the vaccine," said Thackeray. Thackeray along with CMs of other states attended two meetings chaired by Modi to review the Covid-19 situation and discuss vaccine distribution. Thackeray said the Maharashtra government is in touch with Adar Poonawalla, CEO of Serum Institute of India (SII), which is a partner in the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine. Public health minister Rajesh Tope said five vaccines are currently under various stages of development in the country, of which two are indigenous and the rest are private efforts. "A priority sector for the vaccination drive has been finalised and the state is preparing a list. However, there is still no clarity on when the vaccine will be ready for use and there are questions regarding efficacy and duration of immunity," said Tope. He said as per the discussions regarding the vaccination drive, it is understood that the Centre will be steering the effort. "We understand the cost of the vaccine too will be borne by the Centre as there has been no talk regarding the state spending on the vaccine yet," Tope said. He said the state was currently working on filling gaps in the cold chain system and training adequate personnel for the immunisation drive. Dr Shashank Joshi, dean of Indian College of Physicians, who is also on the vaccine task force, said storage of doses, priority groups and administration protocol would be key focus areas. He said a vaccine is expected earliest by December end and latest by early March. "However, vaccinating a majority of the population would take more than a year. Till then, people must follow masking and social distancing," he said. He added while at least four vaccine candidates have moved to stage III trials, the scientific community is still waiting to learn the duration of protection it would offer and efficacy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/10-member-maharashtra-taskforce-for-smooth-delivery-of-vaccine/articleshow/79399624.cms||Bhavika Jain
November 25, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Man rapes, blackmails Class 8 girl; arrested||GURUGRAM: A 14-year-old girl studying in Class 8 was allegedly repeatedly raped and blackmailed by a neighbour in New Colony area. The 19-year-old accused man was arrested on Tuesday. In her complaint to police, the girl’s sister stated: “The youth lived in our neighbourhood and used to visit our home. On November 6, when she was alone at home, he raped her for the first time and threatened to kill our family members if she revealed what had happened. After that, he started exploiting my sister.” Over the next few days, the behaviour of the girl changed and she started remaining silent and upset, her sister added in the complaint. When she was pressed about what had happened, she shared her ordeal with her sister on Monday, said police spokesperson Subhash Boken. Based on her sister’s complaint, the youth was booked under Section 4 (penetrative sexual assault) of POCSO Act and IPC Section 506 (criminal intimidation) at the New Colony police station. On Tuesday, police picked him up from his house. After being produced in a district court, he was sent to judicial custody. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/man-rapes-blackmails-class-8-girl-arrested/articleshow/79398441.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Vadodara||Universities withdraw WFH option||Vadodara/ Surat: The Gujarat government has deferred its earlier decision of reopening colleges and universities across the state from November 23. But, amid rising cases of Covid-19, thousands of teachers and students are invariably coming to the university campuses. Starting Monday, MS University withdrew work from home (WFH) option that was available to its teaching staff. University officials said that they were so far flexible as some teachers were out of town while everybody also had a Diwali break. But now teachers will have to come to the campus to take virtual classes unless they are sick. Thousands of students in Gujarat’s education hub - Vallabh Vidyanagar in Anand district – have already started attending their practical sessions in their college laboratories affiliated to Sardar Patel University (SPU) for over a month. In fact, internal exams of undergraduate (UG) students have already been conducted by the colleges and their marks uploaded on SPU’s website. Sources said that during a meeting of the head of departments on Monday, SPU decided that barring one or two, all departments of the university will conduct practicals of postgraduate (PG) students. In absolute terms, nearly half of the total student strength of SPU and its affiliated colleges are already attending practicals in their college campuses. “We have nearly 60,000 students of which 30,000 are studying in science, technology and allied streams. They are regularly attending their practicals which also helps teaching,” said a top official, adding that nearly 50 % students are already in the education hub. Some colleges in central Gujarat have started conducting offline classes without any official announcement. Situation is no different at Veer Narmad South Gujarat University (VNSGU) and its affiliated colleges in South Gujarat where 30,000-odd science students are already attending practicals regularly. “We have continued holding practicals for science students in college with a presence of 15- 20 students by strictly following social distancing rule,” said a senior teacher from a science college affiliated to VNSGU. Some teachers rued that while the government is deferring offline classes, it is also insisting that teachers come to the campus to conduct online classes. “Isn’t it ironic that even those teachers who can very well conduct online classes from their home are being called to take online classes from university campus?,” a teacher wondered. (Inputs from Bharat Yagnik from Ahmedabad)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/universities-withdraw-wfh-option/articleshow/79395572.cms||Prashant Rupera
November 25, 2020||Rajkot||Gambling den of BJP leader’s sons busted||Rajkot: Two sons of former Junagadh BJP president were among 20 persons nabbed in the late Monday night raid at their resort opposite the Sakkarbaug Zoo. The special operations group (SOG) of Junagadh police had received information about gamblers gathering at Essel Park. Manish Dhaduk and his brother Viral, sons of former Junagadh BJP chief Karsan Dhaduk, are owners of the resort which is closed at present. The duo was running the gambling den for the past fortnight, police said. However, the brothers claimed that they had gathered for the first time on Monday when the police raided. The two brothers are also members of the BJP. Police seized Rs 14 lakh cash, 18 mobile phones and four cars from them. “Since the resort was closed due to Covid-19 guidelines, they had started a gambling den. People including businessmen and traders from across Saurashtra have visited for gambling in the last 15 days,” said inspector JM Vala of SOG. Cops are interrogating the brothers about who all besides the 18 found on Monday evening had visited their resort for gambling and how they used to contact them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/gambling-den-of-bjp-leaders-sons-busted/articleshow/79395777.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Ranchi||E Singhbhum active cases at 4-month low, but Cov hosps told to keep beds ready for 2nd wave||Jamshedpur: Even though the number of active Covid cases, new infections and casualties in East Singhbhum district have fallen sharply in the last six weeks, the district administration, fearing another surge in infections, are going all out to ensure that there is no shortage of Covid beds at hospitals in the coming days. The district health department has issued directions to all dedicated Covid hospitals to keep existing beds ready for the patients infected in the second wave of the pandemic, which, experts who have studied the behaviour of the virus in other parts of the country and around the globe believe, is likely to begin sometime in mid-December. With 16,985 positive cases and 16,318 recoveries till Monday, the district has just 317 active Covid cases left. The figure is the lowest since July 6, according to state government data. With 350 deaths, the district is the worst affected in the state as far as the toll is concerned and is second on the list of cumulative caseload after Ranchi. The health authorities have also made sure that 10 beds are reserved for Covid patients at all the nine Community Health Center (CHCs) in the district. “Of the 10 reserved beds, five are equipped with oxygen supply,” district surveillance officer (DSO) Sahir Pal said. Pal said the district has more than 1200 Covid beds at seven dedicated hospitals and care centres in Sidhgora and Musaboni among other localities. “The capacity seems to be sufficient for the next surge, but we also have the resources to increase the number if required,” he added. With a special Covid testing drive beginning on Monday, the health department is not ruling out the possibility of an increase in corona cases. “The purpose of our testing camp at Tatanagar railway station and RT-PCR testing at static locations is to detect all symptomatic and asymptomatic patients and avert any possibility of a largescale spread of the new virus,” Pal added. On directions from the administration, all private enterprises and public institutions in the district have asked their employees who were on leave during the festive season to get tested for Covid before rejoining work. “Several government employees and private company officials came in for TrueNat testing on Tuesday as they have to carry the copy of the report to the institution to rejoin work,” Pal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/e-singhbhum-active-cases-at-4-month-low-but-cov-hosps-told-to-keep-beds-ready-for-2nd-wave/articleshow/79396184.cms||B Sridhar
November 25, 2020||Ranchi||No student drivers in Steel City soon, parents & schools to give undertaking||Jamshedpur: When schools reopen, parents and the educational institutes of the Steel City will have to give an undertaking to the district administration that their children will not drive down to the institutions. The move, officials said, is aimed at curbing the menace of underage driving and road accidents. In case a student is found violating the norms, his/her parents will be held liable. Notably, months after the July 2019 incident of 13-year-old Aditya Pathak dying in a road accident while driving his two-wheeler helmetless, the state government had introduced changes to the Motor Vehicles Act to penalise parents of erring children with fines, jail terms and cancellation of licenses. East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar said, “I have asked the district education officer (DEO) to take a declaration from the principals of all private and public schools. Meanwhile, parents have to submit to the schools that they will wear helmets while dropping their children to schools.” Helmets are also a must for schoolchildren riding pillion and parents have to sign a declaration to the tune. “Parents will also have to give a declaration that they are nor triple carrying while dropping their kids to the schools and agree that the administration is free to take action upon violation of the norms,” Kumar said. While the school managements will keep a record of the declarations, they will have to furnish the same before the administration during surprise inspections. “Action will be taken against the schools if they fail to furnish the documents,” said Kumar. In a guarded response to the move, Jamshedpur Abhivavak Sangh (JAS) said the administration should also ask the schools to run pick-up vans and buses for the safe movement of the children. “Due to the lack of sufficient school-controlled vehicles and overloaded private pick-up vans, parents are forced to drop their wards to the school on personnel vehicles,” said JAS convenor Umesh Kumar. Welcoming the initiative, St Mary’s English School said the step will help in checking road mishaps. “Our school will cooperate with the administration in its effort to prevent underage schoolchildren from driving down to schools,” said the school’s spokesperson A K Pandey. On an average, every year at least 140 people are killed in about 280 road mishaps in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/no-student-drivers-in-steel-city-soon-parents-schools-to-give-undertaking/articleshow/79396314.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 25, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal CM beats Amit Shah's ‘outreach’ with ailing girl’s medical costs||BANKURA: The Bengal government has taken the responsibility to provide treatment to the ailing daughter of the Adivasi couple who hosted lunch for Union home minister Amit Shah during his recent Bankura outreach programme on November 5. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced the state’s decision at the district administrative meeting on Tuesday. Shah’s lunch at Bibhishan Hansda’s Chaturdihi village home had already triggered a political tug of war between the Trinamool Congress and the BJP ahead of the assembly polls. The recent development comes weeks after the state government offered a Home Guard job to an Adivasi woman, Geeta Mahali, from Naxalbari in north Bengal. In 2017, Shah had had lunch with Mahali’s family. “The state government is taking the responsibility of his (Hansda’s) ailing daughter. Have we done something for her?” Banerjee said at the meeting. Officials informed her that a doctor visited the girl in Chaturdihi on Monday and health workers were in touch with the family. Rival leaders have been frequenting Hansda’s place ever since the Union minister’s visit. BJP MP from Bankura Subhas Sarkar, who is a doctor by profession, assured the family of medical help a few days ago. According to Sarkar, Hansda’s daughter is suffering from diabetes insipidus. It is an uncommon disorder that causes an imbalance of body fluids and requires continuous treatment. At the meeting, Banerjee laid stress on issues concerning SC/STs and backward classes who comprise the majority of population in Jangalmahal in general and Bankura in particular. She pulled up the forest and backward classes department over poor progress. It may be mentioned that the BJP won both Lok Sabha seats here in 2019. “I see 87.5% cases are pending with the district forest department while the backlog is 66.67% for the backward classes department. Ensure that victims of elephant attacks are quickly compensated. Don’t delay issuing caste certificates either,” she said. Banerjee also announced formation of two cultural-cum-development boards — one for the Bagdi community and the other for Bauris. The chief secretary allotted Rs 5 crore to each board and gave an instant go-ahead for a community hall under the Bauri Development Board, headquartered in Bankura. The CM further promised a Matua Development Board at Thakurnagar in North 24 Parganas, with an allocation of Rs 10 crore. Like tribal icon Birsa Munda, Banerjee announced a state holiday on February 11 to mark the birth anniversary of Rajbanshi reformer Panchanan Barma, better known as Thakur Panchanan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/didi-beats-shah-outreach-with-ailing-girls-med-costs/articleshow/79397731.cms||---
November 25, 2020||Kolkata||BSF hands over 4 immigrants to Bangladesh in a goodwill gesture||KOLKATA: In a goodwill gesture, the Border Security Force (BSF) handed over a family of four illegal immigrants, including two minors, to the Border Guard Bangladesh (BGB), on Monday. The family had entered India illegally through the porous Indo-Bangladesh border and travelled to Burdwan where the adults worked as labourers. They were apprehended by the BSF on Monday while attempting to enter Bangladesh at Nonaganj in Nadia district. “Troops of the 8Bn BSF, posted at the Nonaganj BOP, acted on specific intelligence inputs and stopped the family while they were approaching the International Border around 6.05 am on Monday. Normally, such illegal immigrants are handed over to the local police station and prosecuted under the Foreigners Act. However, in some cases, we make an exception and hand over such people to the BGB as a goodwill gesture. This was one of them,” a senior BSF official said. The four have been identified as Gopal Chandra Malo, his wife Saraswati Rani and children Nayan Chandra (13) and daughter Nandita Rani (2). They are from Manikganj in Bangladesh. Calling their effort a humanitarian one, BSF officers said that cordial ties between the two forces had helped in the transfer. “The commander of the BSF camp sought a flag-meeting with the BGB commander from Benipur across the border and the transfer was made around 10 55 am,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bsf-hands-over-4-immigrants-to-bangladesh-in-a-goodwill-gesture/articleshow/79397924.cms||Jayanta Gupta
