November 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Suchitra Krishnamoorthi is debuting a new version of her stage production in Bengaluru||Actor, writer and musician Suchitra Krishnamoorthi is headed to Bengaluru this weekend, to premiere a new version of her stage productionThe Queen Of Drama. This is going to be the first big show at Chowdiah Memorial Hall in months. "I have written, composed the music, written the lyrics and am now producing it too," Suchitra says, about the production. "The show happens to be on my birthday and I thought it would be a good way to start the new year," she adds. On choosing to work during the pandemic, Suchitra points out that "One can either wait it out forever or do what needs to be done." That said, the hall will operate at just 20 per cent its capacity, for the show. "Chowdiah is taking extra care to sanitize the place. It is time to start living again, but with caution. As an artiste what else can one do? We have to live and perform," she says, adding about The Queen Of Drama, "It is a fun and light watch. Given that it has been such a hard time for everyone, I just want people to come and have a good laugh and go back home." In the initial years of her career, Suchitra has worked across different film industries. "At that time, the offers came easily and I just did them without much thought. I was quite whimsical, so I didn't use the opportunities I got well enough. Now, I feel is my second innings and I am all charged," she shares, adding that she yearns for good roles now. She also adds that actors have it better today. "Earlier, there were only certain kind of stories being made and only people with a certain look or personality got a break. Now, it has opened up a lot more with newer spaces like the web and unconventional stories coming out. It is a lot nicer and more equal. When I was busy, I was on top of the inequality ladder. In our time, the big task was getting a break. Now, everyone gets that break, but the task is to sustain," Suchitra points out. Speaking her mind...Talking about her social media presence and never holding back from commenting on issues, Suchitra says, "I suffer from what you call spontaneous combustion. I feel very involved in the world around me. If I think there is something wrong, I always tend to stand up for what I believe is right. Sometimes it works and sometimes it backfires. But I just stick to my conscience." But doesn't she worry about being trolled? "I am used to being trolled. It no longer affects me. I feel everybody has a right to their opinion. So even the trolls are entitled to theirs. I am totally fine with being trolled," she explains. Coming up next: A new singleSuchitra is also gearing up to release a new single. "In the lockdown, I wrote two beautiful songs. I have recorded the scratch for one of them and should be shooting the video in January and putting it out," she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/suchitra-krishnamoorthi-is-debuting-a-new-version-of-her-stage-production-in-bengaluru/articleshow/79411953.cms||Sunayana Suresh
November 26, 2020||Business||Cabinet approves Rs 6,000 crore infusion in NIIF debt platform||NEW DELHI: The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved equity infusion of Rs 6,000 crore in NIIF Debt Platform sponsored by National Investment and Infrastructure Fund. This was informed by information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar after the Cabinet meeting. The proposal to invest Rs 6,000 crore as equity into NIIF is part of the Aatmanirbhar Bharat 3.0 package announced earlier this month. To support the funding of the National Infrastructure Pipeline of Rs 111 lakh crore, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in her Budget speech this year had said that about Rs 22,000 crore has already been provided. This would be towards equity support to infrastructure finance companies such as India Infrastructure Finance Company Ltd (IIFCL) and a subsidiary of NIIF, the minister had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cabinet-approves-rs-6000-crore-infusion-in-niif-debt-platform/articleshow/79416031.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Provide protection to Ravi Pujari, Karnataka court tells Mumbai police||BENGALURU: Citing threat to his life, gangster Ravi Pujari has moved the Karnataka high court challenging a Bengaluru court order sending him to 10-day Mumbai police custody. After hearing the petition, Justice Nataraj Rangaswamy has ordered notice to Mumbai police. The judge has also asked Mumbai police to ensure all safety measures to protect Pujari if he’s shifted to Mumbai before November 27, the next date of hearing. Mumbai police have to send him back to Bengaluru central prison after his appearance before the Mumbai special court. On November 13, the 62nd Additional City Civil And Sessions Judge in Bengaluru sent Pujari to Mumbai police custody. The order was passed on an application submitted by CID, enclosing a letter from a special court indicating the requirement of Pujari’s appearance to answer charges in a pending criminal case. Pujari has contended that sending him to 10-day police custody violates the extradition order, which only specifies the 2007 Shabanam Developers shootout case registered by Tilak Nagar police in Bengaluru. According to him, shifting him from one place to another is tedious and the state has to incur a lot of expenditure towards it. Almost all the cases are now being investigated on the jail premises and the trial is also being held through video conference in view of the Covid situation, he added.  “If the petitioner is taken to Mumbai, there’s no chance for him to return and conclude the cases pending in Karnataka,” the petition stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/provide-protection-to-pujari-court-tells-mumbai-police/articleshow/79416139.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: One pelican dies in Kokkare Bellur, more fall from trees||MYSURU: Spot-billed Pelicans began arriving at Kokkere Bellur Community Reserve in Maddur taluk from mid-October and a month later, the shadow of death has followed the flocks, in a grim rerun. Three days ago, a pelican fell to the ground and died soon and many more are now dropping out of trees. Every year, the pelicans arrive from north India in November-December, fleeing the harsh winter for breeding, and return by June-July with their chicks. While the cause of the deaths, year after year, is yet to be established, experts have found nematodes, water-borne worms and mostly found in ponds, in their stomachs. As pelicans completely rely on fish for their diet, they are more prone to infections. In 2019, 25 pelicans died, while 15 died the year before. It was a carnage in 2017 as 75 died.  Pelican Conservation Group chief B Linge Gowda said postmortem revealed nematodes in the dead bird’s stomach. “After the fall, they survive for two to three days and die,” he rued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/1-pelican-dies-in-kokkare-bellur-more-fall-from-trees/articleshow/79416142.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
November 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: NTPC is lowest bidder to supply 90 e-buses for BMTC||BENGALURU: NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam Ltd, a subsidiary of NTPC Ltd, has emerged as the lowest bidder to provide 90 non-AC electric buses for BMTC, sources said. Apart from NTPC, Hyderabad-based Evey Trans Private Limited (Olectra) took part in the tender under the Bengaluru Smart City project. NTPC, a PSU under the Union power ministry, reportedly quoted Rs 44 per km without electricity and Rs 52 per km with electricity. BMTC is now negotiating with NTPC to reduce the cost. “Our operational cost for non-AC diesel buses is Rs 55 per km. In addition to the quoted amount, we’ve to spend Rs 12 per km for conductors’ salaries. It will be a 12-year contract in which we pay on a per km basis and they will take care of the operation and maintenance,” said a BMTC source. The plan is to induct 90 non--AC midi (9m) electric Metro feeder buses with a passenger capacity of 30 to 35. It will be deployed to and from Metro stations like Mysuru Road, Byappanahalli, Banashankari and Indiranagar. NTPC has formed a JV with its original equipment manufacturer partner JBM. JBM starts trial run of e-busThe one-month e-bus trial run by Olectra Greentech Limited, which has a JV with China’s BYD Auto Industry Company, ended recently. The 12-metre-long AC bus can accommodate 37 passengers and runs up to 200km on single charge. “We operated on 10 routes with sand bags equivalent to the weight of passengers. Other manufacturers are bringing their buses. It will help us understand how these buses perform on bad roads,” said an official. JBM has now deployed its e-bus on similar arterial routes. Other firms like Ashok Leyland, Tata Motors, Haryana-based Foton PMI and city-based Veera Vahana are also willing to conduct trials. This is part of the 300 e-buses planned under the Centre’s FAME-II scheme. BMTC has floated another tender for 300 non-AC e-buses. While the Centre’s department of heavy industries is giving a subsidy of Rs 55 lakh per bus, the state has allocated Rs 33.33 lakh per bus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ntpc-is-lowest-bidder-to-supply-90-e-buses-for-bmtc/articleshow/79416149.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
November 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka HC reserves verdict on PILs on BBMP polls||BENGALURU: The high court on Wednesday reserved its verdict on a batch of petitions seeking directions for conducting BBMP elections. This was after advocate general Prabhuling K Navadgi replied to the contentions raised by the petitioners, which included the State Election Commission (SEC) and several ex-corporators. The AG claimed in the absence of a proper challenge, the recent amendment to Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act, 1976 through which BBMP wards were increased from 198 to 243 cannot be ignored as it has now become a valid law, enacted by the state legislature. Asserting that the state government is not against holding timely elections, he said the court can monitor the process by stipulating timelines within which the new delimitation process and subsequent polls are to be held. The delay was only due to the pandemic, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/hc-reserves-verdict-on-pils-on-bbmp-polls/articleshow/79416150.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Bengaluru||New export cargo terminal will open at Bengaluru airport in January||BENGALURU: An export cargo terminal, supposed to be the first in the country, will be unveiled at Kempegowda International Airport cargo complex in January 2021 alongside an all-new digital platform for cargo operations, thus eliminating paperwork completely. Satyaki Raghunath, chief strategy and development officer, Bangalore International Airport Limited (BIAL), announced the dedicated cargo terminal to facilitate operations of key players, including DHL and FedEx, inside Bengaluru airport cargo complex. The new building is coming up adjacent to Air India SATS Cool Port cargo complex at the terminal. Raghunath said an air cargo community system to handle logistics thoroughly through a digital platform is getting ready. “Effective across all partners of cargo operations, the digital platform will completely eliminate paperwork,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/new-export-cargo-terminal-will-open-at-bengaluru-airport-in-january/articleshow/79416152.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Not paid for 6 months, say pourakarmikas||BENGALURU: Pourakarmikas across the city have been complaining that they haven’t received payments for six months, but the BBMP claims a minuscule number of employees are affected due to systemic issues. “I’ve been working through the pandemic, but BBMP has not paid me a single paise for six months now. We’re also not getting any health benefits,” said a pourakarmika from Jayanagar. Another worker from Kavalbyrasandra said her family has piled up debts as she is not getting salary. “My friends and I’ve been working regularly and we registered our attendance on the biometric system, but contractors vandalise these machines and claim we never worked. When we complain to senior health inspectors, they ask us to speak to the contractors. But they threaten to remove us from our jobs, which is worrisome,” she added.  “There are stray cases of pourakarmikas not receiving salaries,” Randeep D, special commissioner, SWM, said, adding such cases will be handled individually. According to Randeep, the number of pourakarmikas in the city has come down post the Covid-19 outbreak. “We initially had 18,500 pourakarmikas, but now the number might be 11,000 or 13,000 as many have quit and some have not resumed work,” he added. There could be others called by engineers for work but who are not registered in the biometric system. Their attendance could have been taken through a register, he said, adding the matter will be looked into and wages released.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/not-paid-for-6-months-say-pourakarmikas/articleshow/79416155.cms||Nithya Mandyam
November 26, 2020||Business||India import hurdles hit Apple iPhone, Xiaomi devices from China: Report||NEW DELHI: India’s tight control of quality clearances for electronic goods from China slowed the import of Apple’s new iPhone model last month and held up other products made by companies like Xiaomi, according to two industry sources. Applications to the quality control agency, the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS), typically used to be processed within 15 days, but some are now taking up to two months or longer. BIS started delaying approvals in August for China-made imports of devices like smartphones, smartwatches and laptops, part of the fallout from deteriorating ties with China after a border clash in June that left 20 Indian soldiers dead. Since the clash India has tightened rules for investments from China and banned hundreds of Chinese mobile apps, including from tech giants Tencent, Alibaba and ByteDance. It banned 43 more apps on Tuesday. When Apple’s new iPhone 12 was caught in the delays, Apple India executives called on BIS to speed its approval up, giving assurances that the company would continue to expand its assembly operations in India, the two sources said. It was not clear how long the iPhone 12 application was delayed, and Apple did not respond to a request for comment. The company has assembly operations in India, but newer models and the iPhone 12 are imported from China, where contract manufacturers make the bulk of Apple’s devices. As of Wednesday, 1,080 applications to BIS for laptops, tablets and other devices were pending, with 669 of those waiting more than 20 days, according to the agency’s website. These included applications for devices from China-based factories of Wistron and Compal Electronics, and from Hangzhou Hikvision, the data showed. Some of the applications for approval have been pending since September. Calls for boycotts Indian traders and Hindu nationalist groups have for months called for boycotting imported products from China because of the border clash, while Prime Minister Narendra Modi continues to promote self-reliance and local production. “While the BIS is delaying approvals for products like smartwatches, the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology is pushing companies to make these devices in India,” said one of the sources. Under BIS’s registration scheme, certain electronic goods - whether imported or locally made - need to meet certain standards. After companies get their products tested in a certified laboratory, BIS approves the applications. Wistron and Compal did not respond to requests for comment. Hikvision declined to comment. BIS Director General Pramod Kumar Tiwari and India’s tech ministry did not respond to requests for comment. The clearance delays are the latest headache for technology companies whose supply chains were hit by the COVID-19 curbs, pushing some smartphone makers to resort to imports of even models made in India. The delays also come during India’s festive season when customers make big ticket purchases of everything from mobile phones to gold and cars. The BIS delays have also hit smartwatch imports for companies including Xiaomi and Oppo, the two sources said. Xiaomi and Oppo did not respond to requests for comment. In July, trade ministry also restricted inbound shipments of TVs by requiring importers to get a special licence, a move that one of the sources said continues to hurt companies such as Xiaomi and Samsung Electronics. Xiaomi was denied the special licence to import roughly 30,000 units of TVs, while Samsung has faced similar import hurdles, the source said. Samsung did not respond to a request for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/india-import-hurdles-hit-apple-iphone-xiaomi-devices-from-china-report/articleshow/79416174.cms||---
November 26, 2020||India||NIA arrests PDP youth wing president Waheed Parra||SRINAGAR: The National Investigation Agency arrested on Wednesday PDP youth wing president Waheed-ur-Rehman Parra in connection with the DSP Devender Singh and Hizbul Mujahideen commander Naveed Babu case. Parra was arrested after being questioned by the agency for two days at its New Delhi office, a top NIA official said. DSP Devender Singh, Hizb commander Naveed Babu and a lawyer were arrested on January 12 while travelling in a vehicle from Srinagar to Jammu. On January 19, a fourth person was arrested in Pulwama in the same case. Meanwhile, the People’s Democratic Party, headed by Mehbooba Mufti, claimed the arrest was a “clear attempt by a central agency to meddle” in the electoral process and influence it in favour of “cronies of New Delhi”. “Ahead of the DDC election, which was purportedly to give an opportunity to a new youth leadership in Jammu and Kashmir, the government of India, through its ruthless brigade, arrested Waheed-Ur-Rehman Para,” PDP said in a statement. Parra was supposed to contest the polls from his home constituency, Pulwama, the statement said. “He was arrested immediately after filing his nomination for the polls,” PDP said, adding that it condemned New Delhi’s latest “ruthless action against its youth leader, who was a beacon of change in society and always upheld the values and principles of nonviolence and democratic engagement”. “Waheed’s arrest signals the level of depravity to which the BJP and RSS can go in targeting and damaging its political opponents. These actions of New Delhi will not deter PDP. Our actions and our voices will become louder,” PDP said, adding that Parra’s “return for investing his past, present and future in the democratic functioning of a volatile zone such as Kashmir has cost him his own freedom”. It said “we in J&K are seeing how BJP is constantly favouring and protecting its own candidates for the upcoming elections”. Installing “puppets and criminalising genuine efforts” towards democratic functioning in Kashmir is how BJP greatly undermines the spirit of democracy, PDP, a part of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nia-arrests-pdp-youth-wing-president-waheed-parra/articleshow/79416695.cms||M Saleem Pandit
November 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Containment zones in Bengaluru fall from 40,000 to two in three months||BENGALURU: The Karnataka capital, which once reported the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country for several days at a stretch, now has only two containment zones — down from 40,563 in August. “Bengaluru was never prepared for a pandemic and we were only reacting (to it). All issues have now been streamlined,” Rajendra Cholan, BBMP special commissioner (health and IT), said at a webinar organized on Wednesday by Namma Bengaluru Foundation in association with RWAs and BBMP health officials to throw light on the pandemic management. “We’ve reduced the testing target to 30,000 from the earlier 50,000. This is because the positivity rate has come dome drastically,” Cholan added. According to data presented at the webinar, Mahadevapura zone has the highest positivity rate at 2.3% followed by RR Nagar 2%. South and west zones, considered hotspots earlier, has a positivity rate of 1.3%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/containment-zones-in-bluru-fall-from-40k-to-2-in-3-months/articleshow/79416320.cms||---
November 26, 2020||India||J&K’s 1st DDC polls a battle between ballot & bullet: Thakur||JAMMU: Union minister of state finance Anurag Thakur, who is BJP’s poll in-charge for Jammu and Kashmir, on Thursday described the first-ever district development council (DDC) polls as a “battle between ballot and bullet”. The first phase of the elections to the DDCs, which will complete three-tier structure of panchayati raj institutions in Jammu and Kashmir, will be held on November 28. “If you remember, a long time back Rajiv Gandhiji said he wants to strengthen the Panchayati Raj institutions, but unfortunately they did not, especially in J&K. After abrogation, our motive has been to strengthen democracy and involve elected representatives. This clearly shows we believe in ballot while others propagated bullet. People will cast ballots and shun bullets in the form of Gupkar alliance,” Thakur told TOI at the BJP office in Jammu. Asked to elaborate on description of bullet for the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), Thakur claimed the constituents of the group are sympthasiers of anti-national elements. “Farooq Abdullah is seeking help from China for restoring Article 370 in Kashmir, Omar Abdullah is speaking the language of Pakistan and Mehbooba Mufti is disrespecting the national flag.” Commenting on annulment of Article 370, he said, “First thing we committed was there will be peace in the Valley. The 70-year wait for rights which were not given to Gurkhas, Valmikis, West Pakistan refugees and Scheduled Tribes has ended now. People living on international border have got 4% reservation. People who colluded with banks for state schemes and officials to encroach land worth Rs 25,000 crore under Roshani Act are being exposed. Similarly, LG Manoj Sinha has given a list of 13,000 people who will be recruited and 30,000 more will be given (jobs).” The Hamirpur MP insisted that the elections will be a referendum on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s work. “800 million people have been given free food grain and pulses during Covid, 20-crore plus Jan Dhan holders have been given Rs 1,500 each, three crore widows, disabled and old age people have been given Rs 1,000 each,” he said. Thakur, who is campaigning in Jammu division, described the attacks by terrorists to target some BJP workers in the Valley as desperate attempts to derail peace process but said his party will not be cowed down. “We are the third generation of the party and would not give up our struggle and fear terrorism. Bharatiya Jan Sangh and its founder Shyama Prasad Mukherjee, who hailed from West Bengal, quit his job as a minister and fought for the state of Jammu and Kashmir. He coined the slogan: Ek desh mai do vidhan, do nishan, do Pradhan nahin ho sakte hai. Fight and fightbacks go on,” he said. Watch Jammu and Kashmir: DDC polls a battle between ballot and bullet, says Anurag Thakur||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jks-1st-ddc-polls-a-battle-between-ballot-bullet-thakur/articleshow/79416937.cms||Rohan Dua
November 26, 2020||India||Poll gun loaded with Roshni ammo, BJP demands lawsuit against Farooq||JAMMU: A lawsuit should be filed against National Conference chief Farooq Abdullah for cheating, forgery and encroachment of public property, Union minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur demanded on Wednesday as BJP launched into a poll blitzkrieg against the "Gupkar gang" with ammunition provided by the Roshni land scam probe. In one salvo after another targeting Farooq and other former ministers and senior functionaries of the NC, PDP and Congress, Thakur said the erstwhile state of J&K had been systematically looted in the name of the Roshni land transfer scheme that was meant to help reclaim the value of encroached public property and finance energy projects with the proceeds. "They must be held accountable for looting the valuable resources and vast stretches of public land in J&K...During earlier regimes of these parties, J&K residents were forced to lead a life of hardship amid a web of systemic failures brought on by the inefficiency their leadership," he alleged. Thakur, who is BJP's election in-charge for J&K, made the remarks while addressing a series of campaign rallies for the Union Territory's first-ever District Development Council polls. He and several other top BJP functionaries, including national secretary Dr Narinder Singh and vice-president Sham Lal Sharma, visited Khour and Bhalwal Brahmana in Jammu's Sungal-Akhnoor to campaign for party candidate Suraj Singh. At Chenani in Udhampur district, local MP and Union minister of state for Northeast development Dr Jitendra Singh said the new land laws that have taken effect in J&K had been designed to end the "politician-administration nexus" rather than take away what belongs to the average citizen. On the instructions of the J&K high court, CBI is currently probing all allegedly illegal land transfer cases under the defunct Roshni scheme. Farooq and his son Omar Abdullah on Tuesday contested allegations that any of the land they own had been acquired under the scheme. "Besides top politicians and their relatives, senior bureaucrats and business people who financed these parties benefited from this sham of a scheme," Thakur said. "Nobody is above the law. All the other corruption cases and forgeries, too, will be in the public domain soon." In Srinagar, Apni Party functionary and former minister Mohammad Dilawar Mir said the probe into the Roshni scheme "should be taken to its logical conclusion and no illegal beneficiaries, irrespective of their power and position, must escape scrutiny under any circumstance". He said the administration should also ensure that genuine beneficiaries with small land holdings do not face any kind of inconvenience or harassment under the garb of investigation. (With inputs from Saleem Pandit in Srinagar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/poll-gun-loaded-with-roshni-ammo-bjp-demands-lawsuit-against-farooq/articleshow/79416981.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
November 26, 2020||India||Ahmed Patel, Congress’s man for all seasons, dies at 71||NEW DELHI: The passing of veteran Congress leader Ahmed Patel, or ‘AP’ as he was referred to, on Wednesday morning at a Gurgaon hospital after a long battle with Covid-related complications brings the curtain down on an eventful phase in Congress's history in which he and Sonia Gandhi as party chief had an influential say in decision-making in the organisation and the UPA government. Coming at a time when the party is faced with an ascendant BJP, and is having to grapple with a leadership void, dissidence and a growing crisis of confidence among its ranks and allies, the 71-year-old Rajya Sabha MP’s departure spells a blow to Congress. Known for his networking savvy and ability to manage contradictions and conflicting interests, Babubhai, as he was fondly called, was for all practical purposes the sheet anchor for the Congress-led UPA and the quintessential backroom manager. Designations can be misleading. Some convey an extravagant sense of authority about essentially ornamental perches. Yet few could be as off-target as the one Patel sported during the Congress-dominated decade. The innocuous sounding ‘political secretary to Congress president’ was an utterly inadequate job description for someone who was arguably the most powerful person during the decade-long UPA regime. The perception was derived from the lived experience of the influential and the rich. On paper, it was Manmohan Singh who held the office of PM, while Sonia was the power-behind-the throne. In reality, however, the reins were held by AP. It was the veteran from Gujarat who decided the make-up of the cabinet and Sonia’s team, worked out the terms of power sharing with coalition partners and, very often, influenced key bureaucratic appointments, including those in the PMO. After Rajiv Gandhi, nobody had so many Union ministers, CMs, governors and others comprising the powerful set reporting to one person. He could pick unfancied figures, languishing on the middle benches and reconciled to an “also ran” existence, and get them appointed as CMs. Political has-beens were similarly plucked out of obscurity for Raj Bhavans. All the choices were supposed to reflect Sonia’s judgment and Patel would make it sure that is how they appeared. But few had doubts as to who had shaped the preferences. When asked to explain some unexpected decisions, Patel would put it all down to the beneficiary’s luck. Few were taken in by the disclaimer and 23, Mother Teresa Crescent, the official residence he stuck to despite being entitled to a bigger bungalow, was the fount of power. The politically influential, as well as top corporate honchos, made a beeline to the modest-sized ‘kothi’ where he would receive visitors until 2am. Very often, he had five different visitors, some of them rivals, seated in different corners, with none getting a clue about the others’ presence. The power he wielded was directly proportional to the toil he put in to keep the coalition going, reconciling the competing demands of factions and ambitions within Congress and getting coalition partners to yield on their demands that he, an ardent Congress loyalist, believed the party should not acquiesce to. It was he who could get Shibu Soren to resign from the cabinet when his name figured in a murder case and, in 2009, persuade M Karunanidhi to relent from DMK’s expansionist claims for portfolios. When Pranab Mukherjee, a close friend and confidante, pressed his claim for Rashtrapati Bhavan, it fell to Patel to bluntly tell him to back off. His adroitness came in handy in handling Samajwadi Party, which had crossed over from the rival column to support the nuclear deal with the US in lieu of a promise for help with Mulayam Singh Yadav’s legal troubles. It was AP who told Manmohan Singh that he had crossed a line over the Sharm El-Sheikh fiasco. From conjuring missing numbers during the trust vote over the N-deal to thrashing out power-sharing with NCP in Maharashtra when Sharad Pawar finished with better numbers or aligning with Babulal Marandi for Jharkhand polls — a call which helped Congress snatch a narrow victory from defeat — it all came down to Ahmedbhai. So crucial was the Congressman from Bharuch, who rose from the ranks and was elected to Lok Sabha for three consecutive terms before moving to Rajya Sabha, that an entire flock of political journalists were compelled to time their sleeping pattern to suit his eccentric and punishing schedule. A workaholic who could return calls at 3am, he was unrelentingly stingy with information. Yet, the wait was worth its while. For, even a non-committal “may be” or a laconic “let us see” was enough. Of course, he could also send a reporter off the scent if seeking confirmation for something embarrassing for the ‘leadership’ and the party. He did not slog because he was hankering after power. To the contrary, Patel disliked prominence. He did not join the governments of Narasimha Rao and Manmohan Singh, preferring to work in the organisation. He was driven by a sense of commitment to the party — a loyalty which was appreciated by the ranks who voted overwhelmingly for him in the CWC. It was recognised by Rajiv Gandhi who appointed him as his parliamentary secretary and, later, by Sonia who preferred him over her ‘loyalists’ who had worked hard on her distrust of Rao. He was also convinced of the party’s mission to be in power, something which explained the ruthlessness with which he made demands of allies and dealt with the challenge of rivals. He may have enjoyed being an understated ‘politico’ and liked being away from the limelight and was soft spoken to a fault, but he had a ‘lethal punch’ felt by many in the party and opponents. The tough side to him was on display in the way he eked out his last RS win in defiance of BJP’s intense challenge and in circumstances which are being litigated in court. He rushed to be by the side of the party cashier when a team of tax people were questioning him about the source of funds and did not let his worries about an ED problem into his links with the fugitive businessmen Sandesaras cramp his style. The decisive say in the UPA decade came with a cost in terms of flak for ‘dirty’ jobs that needed to be done to keep the arrangement going. The nuclear deal, perhaps Manmohan Singh’s biggest achievement as PM, became possible also because of horse-trading, with Patel and Amar Singh taking the entire blame. When ‘crony capitalism’ under UPA was diagnosed as one of the chief factors behind the party’s electoral debacle in 2014, many in the party pointed fingers at him. Criticism in the newly-empowered quarters in the party of the ‘old guard’ and the declaration that the ‘ancient regime’ had been toppled was also seen as aimed against him. These saddened him and he would confide his hurt in those whom he trusted. Yet, he did not flinch from reporting for duty. He was not keen on his new responsibility as party treasurer but gave in after Sonia pressed. In his new role as a member of opposition, he took to social media with enthusiasm and scaled up his participation in Parliament. He was instrumental in saving the Ashok Gehlot government in Rajasthan and, also, in facilitating Sachin Pilot’s return. AP also used his authority as ‘Bhaijaan’ to ensure that the protest by G-23 stayed within safe limits. Sonia, already withdrawn because of health-related issues, will certainly miss him. As for those who aspire to take his place, one can only sympathise with them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ahmed-patel-congresss-man-for-all-seasons-dies-at-71/articleshow/79417033.cms||---
November 26, 2020||India||Kerala governor signs ordinance to kill Sec 118A||T’PURAM/KOCHI: Governor Arif Muhammed Khan signed on Wednesday a repeal ordinance nullifying the earlier ordinance that had introduced Section 118A in the Kerala Police Act, 2011. The amendment (Sec 118A) had the potential to muzzle all dissenting voices through all mediums. The governor signed after the state government decided to withdraw the amendment, and the cabinet recommended that the governor promulgate a repeal ordinance, the first time this has happened in the state. The amendment being nullified had been promulgated last Saturday. In the case of the first ordinance, the governor had held on to it without signing the ordinance for 30 days, while the repeal ordinance was signed in a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kerala-governor-signs-ordinance-to-kill-sec-118a/articleshow/79417247.cms||---
November 26, 2020||India||Sushil Modi releases audio of Lalu ‘luring’ Bihar BJP MLA||PATNA: Former Bihar deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi on Wednesday released an alleged audio clip of jailed RJD chief Lalu Prasad asking BJP’s MLA from Pirpainti, Lallan Paswan, not to vote in the election for the state legislative assembly Speaker’s post. Lalu, in the alleged telephonic conversation, promised Paswan a ministerial berth after the fall of the NDA government in Bihar. BJP MLA Vijay Sinha has been elected the Speaker. “Paswanji, congratulations... you support us in the election of Speaker tomorrow (Wednesday) and we will take your career ahead. We will make you a minister as we will bring down the government as the Speaker will be ours,” Lalu is heard saying on Tuesday in the audio. TOI does not authenticate the audio. When Paswan said he is in the party (BJP), Lalu is heard asking him to abstain from voting on the plea of having been infected with Corona. Paswan told ANI on Wednesday that he received the call from Lalu, who offered him a ministerial berth, which he refused. “My PA (personal assistant) received the call and the person on the other side said Lalu Prasad wanted to speak to me. My PA asked him where he was calling from, to which the person said from Ranchi. I thought Laluji wanted to congratulate me for my victory in the election. He congratulated me and I also sought his blessings as he is an elderly person. Later, he asked me to be absent during the Speaker’s election,” said Paswan. Paswan said he was with Sushil Modi when the call came. “I informed Sushil Modiji immediately and the entire conversation happened in front of him,” added Paswan. “Lalu Yadav making telephone call (XXXXXXXXXX) from Ranchi to NDA MLAs & promising ministerial berths. When I telephoned, Lalu directly picked up. I said don’t do these dirty tricks from jail, you will not succeed (sic),” tweeted Sushil Modi. TOI is not revealing the number. RJD functionaries claimed the audio was doctored. “Sushil Modi does this every day to keep himself in the limelight. This has been his nature, although people don’t believe him. Sushil Modi is making baseless claims with no truth at all,” said RJD’s Maner MLA Bhai Virendra. Deputy CM Renu Devi, however, condemned the incident. “It is condemnable if someone tries to break the ruling alliance, which has got the people’s mandate in Bihar. Our alliance is strong,” she said. JD(U) members also attacked Lalu and targeted the Hemant Soren government in Jharkhand. “This large-heartedness of Jharkhand government is beyond our comprehension. The government is rampantly violating norms to please a party with just one MLA in Jharkhand. Lalu is staying in the bungalow of Rims director and is involved in all sorts of unethical practices, including horse trading of MLAs,” said JD(U) spokesperson Rajeev Ranjan Prasad, demanding a CBI inquiry into the incident. In Ranchi, Jharkhand IG (prison) Birendra Bhushan said that under the jail manual, no convict can use mobile phones. “Lalu Prasad is not in jail but in hospital for treatment. At present, the responsibility lies with the local administration,” he said. Bhushan said no special facility has been provided to Lalu Prasad by the jail administration. Lalu was shifted to Kelly’s Bungalow from Rims on August 5 as a precautionary measure against Covid-19 infection. Earlier, he was in shifted from Hotwar jail in Ranchi to the prison ward at Rims for treatment of multiple health disorders. (With inputs by Jaideep Deogharia in Ranchi)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sushil-modi-releases-audio-of-lalu-luring-bihar-bjp-mla/articleshow/79417403.cms||Piyush Tripathi
November 26, 2020||India||Adult woman free to live wherever, with whoever she wishes, says Delhi HC||NEW DELHI: An adult woman is free to live wherever and with whoever she wishes, the Delhi high court has said, reuniting a 20-year-old woman with her husband. The ruling by a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rajnish Bhatnagar comes at a time when moves by Uttar Pradesh and other BJP-ruled states to enact laws against "love jihad" have sparked a nationwide debate on the freedom and right of an adult to marry anyone s/he chooses. The HC directed that the woman, Sulekha, be permitted to reside with Babloo, brushing aside objections by her family who alleged that she had been kidnapped and claimed that she was a minor. Read AlsoRight to choose a partner intrinsic to right to life: Allahabad high courtThe Allahabad high court has held that “right to choose a partner, irrespective of religion, is intrinsic to right to life and personal liberty.” Justice Pankaj Naqvi and Justice Vivek Agarwal made these observations while quashing an FIR of kidnapping, forcible conversion and case under the POCSOAfter interacting with Sulekha via video-conference and verifying that she was an adult when she left home, the court asked police to escort her to Babloo's residence. "The police authorities shall also counsel the petitioner and the parents of Sulekha not to take the law into their hands or threaten either Sulekha or Babloo," the bench categorically directed in its order while hearing a habeas corpus filed by the sister. The Delhi HC order comes a few days after the Allahabad HC quashed a criminal case against a man in an interfaith marriage and noted that "interference in a personal relationship would constitute serious encroachment into the right to freedom of choice of the two individuals". Read AlsoMadhya Pradesh govt extends provision of rigorous imprisonment up to 10 years in law against `love jihad'Taking a cue from the BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh government, Shivraj Singh Chouhan-led Madhya Pradesh government has decided to extend the provision of five years of rigorous imprisonment to ten years, against those involved in forceful religious conversion and marriage by lure or fraud.The Allahabad HC had said that "courts… are enjoined to uphold the life and liberty of an individual guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India", adding that the core issue in such cases is "right to freedom of choice [of two individuals] as to with whom they would like to live". Echoing similar reasoning, the Delhi HC highlighted that Sulekha was an adult when she willingly left her house and married a man of her choice. "As per the status report, she was born in the year 2000, and therefore, even on the date when she went missing, she was a major. She states that she went with Babloo of her own free will and accord and that she has married him," it said. The court directed that the mobile number of an official of the jurisdictional police station be provided to the couple to get in touch in case of need. In her habeas corpus petition, Sulekha's sister sought her immediate production before the court. Appearing through advocate Sharad Malhotra, the sister said Sulekha went missing on September 12 and the family suspected Babloo to have been behind it. Watch Adult woman free to live wherever, with whoever she wishes: Delhi HC||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/adult-woman-free-to-live-wherever-with-whoever-she-wishes-says-delhi-hc/articleshow/79417417.cms||Abhinav Garg
November 26, 2020||India||PM Narendra Modi ticks off Maharashtra, Bengal for cold-shouldering pet projects||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday ticked off some of the state governments for not coming on board for his government’s prominent schemes and projects and suggested that the Centre will not drop the plans even if they did not cooperate. Prominent among them were the bullet train project, where the Maharashtra government has failed to keep its part of the bargain. During the Pragati meeting with Union and state government officials, Modi asked the railways to complete the Ahmedabad-Mumbai bullet train project at least on the Gujarat portion in time, if the issues don’t get resolved for the stretch falling in Maharashtra, sources told TOI. In the first interaction after a 10-month gap, the PM also expressed his unhappiness over the slow progress in the pre-construction activities in Maharashtra for the ambitious bullet train project. So far, the National High-Speed Rail Corporation Ltd has bid out works for 325km out of the 349km of this corridor, which falls in Gujarat. The land acquisition in Gujarat is close to 85% for this project while less than 25% land has been acquired in Maharashtra. On September 6, TOI had first reported “Despite delay, bullet trains could start running in Gujarat before 2024”. Sources told TOI that the PM pulled up the West Bengal administration for the dismal progress of PM SVANidhi, a highly subsidised micro-financing scheme for street vendors hit by the nationwide lockdown. “PM told the state chief secretary it was up to the state whether it wanted to take this benefit to the poor. He dismissed the state’s view that they had announced Rs 2,000 ex-gratia for street vendors. He said the question is whether the state’s priority is to revive their livelihood or provide ex-gratia,” said an official. So far, only 60 street vendors in Bengal have availed the subsidised loan of Rs 10,000 each against the target of three lakh. Modi also asked the Assam government to ramp up this scheme. The PM flagged how the ambitious Delhi-Mumbai Industrial Corridor (DMIC) project has not been completed in the past 15 years despite different governments having made the commitment to finish it. The PM also urged the Odisha government to expedite relocation of families affected due to a railway project. During the review, Modi asked the UP chief secretary to prepare a detailed plan for the development of Ayodhya to meet the infrastructure needs for the next 30-40 years considering huge increase in the pilgrimage to this holy city once the Ram Temple is built. Watch Constitution Day: One nation, one election need for India, says PM Narendra Modi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-ticks-off-maha-bengal-for-cold-shouldering-pet-projects/articleshow/79417995.cms||Dipak K Dash
November 26, 2020||India||West Bengal, Kerala agree to Centre’s plan to meet GST shortfall||NEW DELHI: Kerala and West Bengal, two of the bitter opponents of the Centre’s plan on borrowing to compensate states for the GST revenue shortfall have accepted Option 1 proposed by the Union government, marking an end to the stand-off on the issue. Now only three Congress ruled or supported states which include Punjab, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh are holding out and are yet to make up their mind on the issue. The GST Council had debated the matter and had held a special session to discuss and arrive at a consensus on the borrowing plan to compensate states for the revenue shortfall. These states had argued that the Centre should borrow the money from the market as it would get a better rate while borrowing by the states would put a burden on their debt servicing and also they would have to borrow at a higher rate. The number of states who have chosen this option has gone up to 25. All three UTs with legislative Assembly (Delhi, J&K and Puducherry) have also decided in favour of Option 1, according to a statement from the finance ministry. The states and UTs who choose Option 1 are getting the amount of shortfall arising out of GST implementation through a special borrowing window put in place by the Centre. The window has been operationalised since October 23, 2020 and the Centre has already borrowed an amount of Rs 24,000 crore on behalf of the states in four instalments and passed it on to the states and UTs who had expressed their preference for Option-1. Now, Kerala and West Bengal will also receive funds raised through this window starting from the next round of borrowings. Under the terms of Option-1, besides getting the facility of a special window for borrowings to meet the shortfall arising out of GST implementation, the states are also entitled to get unconditional permission to borrow the final instalment of 0.50% of Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) out of the 2% additional borrowings permitted by the Centre, under the Atmnirbhar Abhiyaan on May 17, 2020. This is over and above the Special Window of Rs.1.1 lakh crore. On receipt of the choice of Option-1 from the governments of Kerala and West Bengal, the Government of India has granted additional borrowing permission of Rs 4,522 crore to Kerala (0.5% of Kerala’s GSDP) and Rs 6,787 crore to the West Bengal (0.5% of West Bengal’s GSDP) .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/west-bengal-kerala-agree-to-centres-plan-to-meet-gst-shortfall/articleshow/79417943.cms||---
November 26, 2020||World||China slams apps ban; Xi asks PLA to be battle-ready||NEW DELHI: Reacting to India's ban on 43 more Chinese Apps, Beijing on Wednesday said it firmly opposed New Delhi using national security as an excuse even as President Xi Jinping told the armed forces to strengthen training under real combat conditions and raise the capability of winning wars during a meeting of the Central Military Commission. On the Indian action, China said the two countries should work together to bring economic relations back "to the right path". China also reiterated that the ban on Chinese mobile Apps violated WTO rules and asked India to rectify )its "discriminatory approach". It is significant that the Indian decision came at a time when Indian and Chinese militaries are in the process of discussing a de-escalation plan at the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh. While Xi has previously called on armed forces to be alert and battle- ready, the People Daily reported his fresh remarks to the armed forces on Wednesday. His remark came while addressing the Central Military Commission. "He urged the military to improve their real combat capability through training and accelerate the building of new combat forces and the training system to further liberate and develop its combat capability," said a CGTN report. "China expresses serious concerns over India's claim," said Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian. "For four times since June, India has imposed restrictions on smart phone Apps with Chinese backgrounds under the pretext of national security. These moves, in glaring violation of market principles and WTO rules, severely harm the legitimate rights and interests of Chinese companies. China firmly rejects them," he added. The official claimed that the government always asked Chinese companies to observe international rules and local laws and regulations when doing business overseas and that the Indian government had the responsibility to follow market principles and protect the lawful rights and interests of international investors, including Chinese companies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/china-slams-apps-ban-xi-asks-pla-to-be-battle-ready/articleshow/79418203.cms||---
November 26, 2020||India||China slams apps ban; Xi asks PLA to be battle-ready||NEW DELHI: Reacting to India's ban on 43 more Chinese Apps, Beijing on Wednesday said it firmly opposed New Delhi using national security as an excuse even as President Xi Jinping told the armed forces to strengthen training under real combat conditions and raise the capability of winning wars during a meeting of the Central Military Commission. On the Indian action, China said the two countries should work together to bring economic relations back "to the right path". China also reiterated that the ban on Chinese mobile Apps violated WTO rules and asked India to rectify )its "discriminatory approach". It is significant that the Indian decision came at a time when Indian and Chinese militaries are in the process of discussing a de-escalation plan at the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh. While Xi has previously called on armed forces to be alert and battle- ready, the People Daily reported his fresh remarks to the armed forces on Wednesday. His remark came while addressing the Central Military Commission. "He urged the military to improve their real combat capability through training and accelerate the building of new combat forces and the training system to further liberate and develop its combat capability," said a CGTN report. "China expresses serious concerns over India's claim," said Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian. "For four times since June, India has imposed restrictions on smart phone Apps with Chinese backgrounds under the pretext of national security. These moves, in glaring violation of market principles and WTO rules, severely harm the legitimate rights and interests of Chinese companies. China firmly rejects them," he added. The official claimed that the government always asked Chinese companies to observe international rules and local laws and regulations when doing business overseas and that the Indian government had the responsibility to follow market principles and protect the lawful rights and interests of international investors, including Chinese companies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/china-slams-apps-ban-xi-asks-pla-to-be-battle-ready/articleshow/79418202.cms||---
November 26, 2020||India||SC vacates media gag order on AP Amaravathi land scam case||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Wednesday vacated a two-month-old order of the Andhra Pradesh high court gagging the media from reporting an FIR registered against former advocate general D Srinivas and 13 others, including two daughters of a senior SC judge, for illegal purchase of land in Amaravathi area. The Andhra Pradesh police had received a complaint on September 7 about the accused persons purchasing land in Amaravathi region even before a decision between Amaravathi and Vijayawada for the new capital of the state, after Telangana was carved out, was taken. It was alleged that they had insider knowledge about the decision to be taken by the then Chandrababu Naidu government. It registered the FIR on September 15. On a petition filed by Srinivas alleging vendetta by the Andhra Pradesh government headed by Y S Jaganmohan Reddy, the HC had stayed investigation into the FIR and restrained the police from taking any coercive step on the basis of the FIR while restraining the media from reporting the contents of the FIR. Appearing for the Andhra Pradesh government, senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan said the police had found a series of transactions and it was unprecedented that an HC proceeded with unseemly haste to restrain further investigation and granted anticipatory bail to the accused while gagging the media. Appearing for Srinivas, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi and Harish Salve termed the FIR a “naked attempt” to mar the reputations of the ex-AG and others. “A capital city requires 50,000 acres of land. The decision about Amaravathi being chosen as the capital was in public knowledge since June 2014. Thousands purchased land in the area as it was open to the public to buy land. What is wrong in land purchases made in July 2015? Because the CM faced a flurry of cases and got no relief from the HC, he is doing this through the police. The police are being used as the infamous Gestapo of the Nazis. The HC is also seized of a petition accusing the government of slandering the HC and its judges through vituperative social media posts," Rohatgi said. Salve said the matter was of grave concern. “It is a vote of no confidence against the HC by the state government. From September 15 till date, the government has not filed a reply in the HC in the pending case and has moved the SC. They could have moved the HC and sought vacation of the stay order,” he added. Referring to the Jaganmohan Reddy government as “revenge regime”, Salve said when the government did not succeed in damning the reputation of the ex-AG and others through the FIR because of the HC’s intervention, the CM wrote a letter to the CJI complaining against an SC judge. “The government is talking of the gag order. But despite the gag order, the adviser to the CM held a press conference on October 10 and narrated the contents of the FIR while distributing the CM's complaint letter to the CJI,” he said. “This is how this revenge regime functions.'' Since Salve borrowed the "revenge regime" phrase coined by Dhavan when he was appearing for J Jayalalithaa at a time when she was facing the heat of prosecution in many cases, Dhavan responded by saying that he did not disagree that the “revenge regime” concept existed. But he asked, "Should a complaint disclosing illegal land deals be not investigated just because it was allowed to happen in the previous regime?" The bench sought responses from the ex-AG and the police on the Andhra Pradesh government's petition and asked the HC not to "finally decide" Sirinavas's pending petition. It posted the state government's appeal for final hearing in the last week of January.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-vacates-media-gag-order-on-ap-amaravathi-land-scam-case/articleshow/79418220.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
November 26, 2020||India||With a bribery rate of 39%, India worst in Asia: Survey||Only 47% of people surveyed in India believe that corruption has increased over the past 12 months and 63% believe that the government is doing a good job in tackling corruption. Perhaps, the ‘feel good’ factor ends here. India has emerged as having the highest bribery rate of 39% in the Asian region. It also has the highest rate of people (46%) who used personal connections to access public services, according to a recent survey-report released by Transparency International, a global civil society. Nearly 50% of those who paid bribes were asked to, while 32% of those who used personal connections said they would not receive the service otherwise. Cambodia had the second highest bribery rate of 37%, followed by Indonesia at 30%. The Maldives and Japan maintained the lowest overall bribery rate (2% each), followed by South Korea (10%) and Nepal (12%). However, even in these countries, governments could do more to stop bribes for public services, pointed out Transparency International. In Japan, only 4% of those who accessed public services had to rely on personal connections. While the percentage figure in India was significant at 46%, it was also relatively high at 36% in Indonesia. In an earlier report, issued by Transparency International, which was released in January at Davos at the World Economic Forum, India had been ranked at 80th position among 180 countries in the Corruption Perception Index. For this newly released survey-report, ‘Global Corruption Barometer — Asia’, Transparency International surveyed 20,000 people across 17 countries — largely between June and September, seeking their perception of and experiences with corruption in the past twelve months. Six key public services are covered in the report, viz: police, courts, public hospitals, procurement of identity documents and utilities. Of the people surveyed in India, who came into contact with the police, 42% paid bribes. Use of bribes was also rampant (41%) to obtain official documents such as ID papers. Use of personal connections was also largely made in dealings with the police (39%), procurement of ID documents (42%) and in relation to courts (38%). An issue of concern, reflected in the report is that while reporting of corruption is critical, as many as 63% of those in India, were concerned about retaliation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/with-a-bribery-rate-of-39-india-worst-in-asia-survey/articleshow/79418356.cms||---
November 26, 2020||India||BJP, oppn clash over J&K net clampdown at panel meet||NEW DELHI: A meeting of the parliamentary standing committee on information technology headed by Shashi Tharoor saw a sharp exchange between BJP and opposition over whether “national security” issues can be taken up in the context of suspension of internet and telecom services, particularly in Jammu & Kashmir. The commitee proceedings saw home secretary Ajay Bhalla writing to the panel saying rule 270 of conduct of business of Lok Sabha allowed the government to withhold a document if it was judged to be prejudicial to the interest of the state. He said it was verified from the Lok Sabha secretariat that the committee intended to primarily discuss J&K. BJP MPs Rajyavardhan Rathore, Nishikant Dubey, Anil Agarwal and Sanjay Seth argued that area-specific internet clampdown in J&K was a “law and order issue” and a state subject and was further pending in the Supreme Court, and could not be taken up by the committee. Tharoor, however, overruled the objections on grounds that this was an ongoing discussion. This led to a heated discussion with Dubey saying that central rule in ertwhile J&K was repeatedly extended from 1990 to 1996 and it was understood that the situation there was extraordinary. Similarly the current internet curbs were based on specific assessment that Pakistan backed terrorists can misuse the facilities. Sources said he also spoke with Tharoor over phone, who assured him that the committee was “not interfering” in matters of national security. Subsequently, MHA officials appeared before the panel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-oppn-clash-over-jk-net-clampdown-at-panel-meet/articleshow/79418362.cms||---
November 26, 2020||India||Explain refusal of PC to some women officers, SC tells Centre||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked the Centre to explain why permanent commission was not granted to some women army officers who have since approached the court alleging that the decision was “illegal” and smacked of “gross arbitrariness”. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud, Indu Malhotra and Indira Banerjee also asked the government not to take any "precipitative action" in furtherance of its decision which means that the women officers who were not given permanent commission would not be relieved from the job without the court's approval. Additional Solicitor General Sanjay Jain told the bench that there was no illegality in the process and sought two weeks’ time to file a detailed reply. Around 50 women officers have so far approached the court against denial of permanent commission. Senior advocates P S Patwalia and Meenakshi Arora told the bench that the Centre's claim that 422 officers have been granted PC was wrong as only names of 277 officers had so far been approved. They pointed out that even those officers whose contributions to defence services was recognised by the apex court in its judgement have been denied PC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/explain-refusal-of-pc-to-some-women-officers-sc-tells-centre/articleshow/79418414.cms||Amit Anand Choudhary
November 26, 2020||India||States impose night curfew, penalty to curb Covid spread||Close on the heels of Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Himachal and Rajasthan imposing night curfew in Covid-hit cities and Haryana shutting down schools, more states announced restrictions on Wednesday in a bid to check a possible second wave of the pandemic in the north, with Punjab bringing back night curfew, Uttar Pradesh extending the Essential Services Management Act (ESMA) for six months and Uttarakhand’s capital Dehradun making testing of those coming from Delhi mandatory. The fresh curbs come on a day when the Maharashtra government started implementing strict restrictions on people travelling from Delhi, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Goa by undertaking Covid tests of travellers. Citing the grim Covid situation in Delhi-NCR, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh announced re-imposition of night curfew in all towns and cities in the state as well as doubling of fine from Rs 500 to Rs 1000 for not wearing masks or following social distancing norms with effect from December 1. The curbs, which will be reviewed only on December 15, also restrict timings of all hotels, restaurants and marriage venues till 9.30pm. Night curfew will remain in force from 10pm-5am. Amarinder is following the example of Delhi, which had increased the fine for not wearing mask in public from Rs 500 to Rs 2000 last week. Similarly, Rajasthan had last week imposed night curfew in eight cities, including Jaipur and Jodhpur, to check post-Diwali surge in the pandemic which has taken daily fresh cases in the state to a record level. With a spurt in the number of tourists from Delhi, the health department in Dehradun decided to conduct mandatory tests of those arriving from the capital. The tests will take place at the railway station and airport, apart from the Asharodi check post in Dehradun. Nainital, too, is mulling to start Covid testing at its border. In order to prepare itself for a second wave of the pandemic, the UP government extended the imposition of ESMA for another six months, thereby prohibiting strikes. ESMA was initially invoked on May 22 in the light of the pandemic. In Guna district of Madhya Pradesh, the administration, alarmed over people not wearing masks in public, announced that the violators would be detained for 10 hours and a fine would be imposed. The order will be effective from November 27. A temporary ‘jail’ has been set up in Ambedkar Bhawan in the city to house the defaulters, district collector Kumar Purushottam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/states-impose-night-curfew-penalty-to-curb-covid-spread/articleshow/79418538.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Pune||Pune: I was fed up with people pestering me for dues, says Gautam Pashankar||PUNE: Businessman and two-wheeler dealer Gautam Pashankar said on Wednesday he owed money to people and the lockdown made matters worse for him as he started getting calls from creditors and some even spoke to him in a language he was not used to. “At one point, things simply went beyond my capacity to think and I decided to leave home never to come back,” Pashankar (65) told reporters after a city police crime branch team brought him to Pune from Delhi via Mumbai, a day after tracing him to a hotel in Jaipur on Tuesday. The businessman was reported missing since October 21. “For me, it was small amount of dues, but the lockdown had limited my sources and people would call and say anything,” he said, without naming any person. “I just lost my mind. Everything was going against me. Then I decided to leave home and the city. I was firm not to return but thoughts about family members started popping up in my head and I had almost made up my mind to return in next few days, but by that time, the police located me. I don’t know how they located me,” he said. Pashankar said, “Before leaving my office, I wrote a note stating that I was going to commit suicide, but while travelling I gave up the thought of ending my life. I thought that I am a heart patient and I shall die anyway,” he said. He said, “Since 2016, I had repaid most of my loan dues. But in the post-lockdown period, I never saw such days.” Pashankar described in some details how he carried Rs80,000-90,000 cash with him to travel from Pune to Kolhapur, then to Bengaluru, Madurai and several other places, the days he spent in small hotels, his travel by bus and train, and the continuing thought process as to where and what decisions went wrong in business. “After leaving my office, I took an autorickshaw to Swargate, from where I hired a taxi to Kolhapur. From there, I went to Bengaluru by bus and then travelled either by bus or train to Coimbatore, Kolkata, Delhi and Jaipur, among other cities,” he said. “I did not use phone or read my emails, nor read newspapers. I was completely unaware about what was happening in Pune,” he said. During his journey, Pashankar visited different temples, including the Balaji temple in Tirupati. His son, Kapil, said, “He (Pashankar) never revealed to us all these days as to what was going through his mind and I have no idea as to who precisely said what to him.” When the police were searching for him, Kapil had written to the Pune police naming a few people and apprehending that they might have harassed his father for dues. “I had no intention to cause trouble to anyone, but I mentioned the doubt to the police,” he said. Assistant commissioner of police (crime) Surendra Deshmukh said the police would record a fresh statement to shut the inquiry/investigation of Kapil’s application.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pashankar-i-was-fed-up-with-people-pestering-me-for-dues/articleshow/79417025.cms||Gitesh Shelke
November 26, 2020||Pune||Two back-to-back accidents on Katraj-Dehu Road bypass, three hurt||PUNE: Three persons were injured in two back-to-back accidents, barely 100m away from each other and involving five vehicles, around 2.15am on Wednesday on Katraj-Dehu Road bypass, near the Swami Narayan temple in Narhe. All the injured persons were discharged from hospital after treatment. Police said a speeding container first crashed into another slow-moving container from the rear, injuring its cleaner. As the traffic slowed down around the accident site and police and some people were busy removing the accident-hit vehicles, another speeding truck came from the rear and rammed a third container moving slowly, about 100m away from the first accident site. The container hit a sports utility vehicle (SUV) in the impact of the dash from the rear and the three vehicles crashed into the road divider. The spot where the two accidents occurred has a downward gradient. Vehicles tend to come at high speed from the Katraj viaduct to the bypass. Senior inspector Devidas Gheware of the Sinhagad Road police said, “The accidents occurred because the drivers of the two offending vehicles were feeling drowsy.” All the vehicles involved in the two accidents were heading towards Mumbai from Belgavi via Katraj-Dehu Road bypass. The Sinhagad Road police have registered two separate FIRs. Police sub-inspector Deepak Khedkar said, “Sachin Dadappa, the cleaner of the container that crashed into another container in the first accident, suffered fracture to one of his legs. We have registered an offence of rash and negligent driving against Basavraj Basavanna Chandragi (27) of Belgavi, driving the offending container. Ashok Saran (31) of Jodhpur, driving the other container, lodged a complaint.” Khedkar and other police officers had rushed to the spot and were clearing the road when the second accident occurred. “An SUV was moving at a slow pace, followed by another container. At this moment, the truck came from the rear and rammed the container, which then hit the SUV,” Khedkar said. “Dhanush Selvan, who was driving the truck, and his cleaner, Dnyanasur Natnarayan, were were stuck in the driver’s cabin,” the police said. A city fire brigade team rescued them. Krushnappa Devappanavar (34) of Dharwad, who was driving the container in the second accident, lodged an FIR against Selvan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-back-to-back-accidents-on-katraj-dehu-rd-bypass-3-hurt/articleshow/79417019.cms||Gitesh Shelke
November 26, 2020||Lucknow||UP government is covering its failures behind love jihad: Akhilesh Yadav||LUCKNOW: Mounting a pointed attack on BJP, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav said on Wednesday that the state government was resorting to statements like ‘Ram naam satya kar do’ and ‘jihad‘ to cover its failures. His statement came a day after the state cabinet approved a proposal to enact a law to check forced religious conversions often referred to as ‘love jehad’. Earlier, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had announced that the government would come out with a law to deal with ‘love jihad' and used the chant ‘Ram Naam Satya Hai’ to caution those who don't respect women. “Farmer are committing suicide after failing to pay their loans, youths are ending their life after failing to get employment, women and girls are consuming poison to escape sexual exploitation. But these issues have failed to draw the CM’s attention. For him there is only one solution to all the problems – ‘Ram naam satya kar do,” said Ahkilesh. He said the governments which follow ‘Ram Naam Satya’ motto cannot think of people’s welfare and never spare time to launch welfare schemes which can bring relief to people. “The government has no time to fulfil promises it had made during the election like ensuring 150 per cent return for farmers on the cost of their crop, employment to youths and Rs 15 lakh to every individual,” he said. Akhilesh said the CM wants to rake up jihadi conflicts in order to shift the people’s focus from real issues. “To divide the society by spreading hatred is an old strategy of the BJP-RSS combine. New laws are being introduced merely to hide the government’s failures. Talking tough is not enough and cannot bring any change. It is not the law which is stringent or lax, it is the manner, intention and sincerity with which a law is implemented that makes the difference,” Akhilesh said. The SP chief said the BJP government talks about zero tolerance towards corruption and similar slogans for controlling crime, but none of them seem to have seen the light of the day. “People have understood that this government can only coin slogans and cannot bring any relief to people. Now people have decided to chant “Ram Naam Satya” for the government in the 2022 elections,” Akhilesh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-is-covering-its-failures-behind-love-jihad-akhilesh/articleshow/79417903.cms||Pervez Siddiqui
November 26, 2020||Business||Future Retail can’t avoid arbitration process in Singapore||BENGALURU: The Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) has rejected Kishore Biyani-led Future Group’s demand that Future Retail not be considered for arbitration in its dispute with Amazon. The international arbitrator has said the arbitration process will proceed with both Future Retail and Future Coupons, two sources aware of the matter said. “Future Retail told SIAC that it does not want to be part of the arbitration process since it is not part of the agreement with Amazon,” a person aware of the matter said. The dispute comes from Amazon’s Rs 1,431-crore investment in Future Coupons, which held about 10% stake in Future Retail. Amazon has said that Future Retail cannot go ahead with its planned Rs 24,700-crore sale of its assets to Reliance Retail without Amazon’s concurrence. Read AlsoCCI approves RIL-Future’s retail business dealNEW DELHI: In a major setback for US e-tailer Amazon, the Competition Commission of India (CCI) on Friday approved Reliance Industries (RIL)’s bid to acquire the retail, wholesale, logistics and warehousing businesses of Kishore Biyani-led Future Group. Amazon, which is locked in a bitter legal feudSIAC had granted interim relief to Amazon last month. The arbitration proceedings will start soon. The interim order is valid for 90 days. Future Retail has said the interim order is not enforceable in India and has filed a case against Amazon in the Delhi high court to stop Amazon from “interfering” in the Reliance deal. The court proceedings are under way and an order is expected in the coming days. Last week, the Competition Commission of India cleared the Reliance-Future deal. Amazon had told CCI to consider the Singapore interim order before passing any orders. Meanwhile, email communications reviewed by TOI show the National Stock Exchange (NSE) had pulled up Future for not making timely disclosures about Amazon trying to block the deal. Following this, Future made necessary disclosures. Read AlsoReliance Industries, Future Group stocks rally on strong demandShares of Reliance Industries (RIL) jumped nearly 4 per cent in early trade on Monday after the Competition Commission approved the company's proposed acquisition of retail, wholesale, logistics and warehousing businesses of Future Group.Amazon had written to the bourses and markets regulator Sebi about the interim order and had said the same should be considered before the deal is cleared. When contacted, Amazon India, Future Retail and NSE declined to comment on these developments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/future-retail-cant-avoid-arbitration-process-in-spore/articleshow/79418193.cms||Digbijay Mishra
November 26, 2020||Patna||State trade unions, bank staff to join strike today||PATNA: All trade unions and organisations, bank employees, farmers, masons, auto-drivers and daily wagers among others across Bihar will take part in the nationwide strike today called by 10 central trade unions, to protest against the Centre’s ‘anti-labour’ policies. The associations are demanding a roll-back of the new labour enactments by dismantling the 27 existing laws in the name of ease of doing business and also scrapping of the three new farm laws passed by the Centre. “Over 1 lakh farmers from across the state will protest by organising dharna, roadblock and led-march against the Centre’s policies,” said Ashok Singh, general secretary of the All India Kisan Sabha- Bihar. Over 40,000 bank employees under the banner of Bank Employees Federation of India (BEFI) and Bihar Provincial Gramin Bank Employees Association (BPGBEA) will join the protest. B Prasad, president of BEFI and BPGBEA told this newspaper that all commercial banks, Gramin banks, regional banks would remain closed on Thursday. “No banking activities (deposit or withdrawal) will take place on November 26. We will start the march from the UCO bank general office at Maurya Lok to Gandhi Maidan via Dak Bungalow and Exhibition road, urged the banking employees to join the protest. All ATMs of the bank branch will also remain closed,” he said. The strike is also supported by the All India Bank Employees’ Association and the Bihar Provincial Bank Employees Association (except State Bank of India Staff Association). The auto-rickshaw and e-rickshaw drivers have also decided to keep off the roads in the state. Employees involved in loading and unloading of parcels in railways and sanitation workers have also expressed their solidarity with the strike and protest under the banner of All India Railway Contract Workers Union. Raj Kumar Jha, general secretary of Bihar State Auto-Chalak Sangh said only a few auto-rickshaws and e-rickshaws would run on some routes for health emergencies due to the Covid- 19 pandemic, however, most of the public transport would remain off the road. “Under the banner of All India Road Transport Workers Association, Bihar, we will stop the train at Meethapur rail line,” he said. Chandra Prakash Singh, president of the Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC)- Bihar said all the labourers and employees of civic bodies, masons among others will join the protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-trade-unions-bank-staff-to-join-strike-today/articleshow/79414224.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 26, 2020||Business||Corp credit dips, individual loans grow||Mayur.Shetty@timesgroup.com Mumbai: Outstanding loans with banks shrunk by 1% during the first half of the current fiscal with agriculture emerging the biggest consumer of incremental bank credit, followed by home loans. The decline in bank credit was triggered by a 5% drop in advances to large corporates to Rs 22.9 lakh crore in end-September from Rs 24.1 lakh crore in end-March 2020. Within the industry, the telecom sector saw the sharpest fall in outstanding credit, which came down by nearly Rs 29,000 crore to Rs 1,14,825 crore. The first half saw deleveraging by Reliance, which repaid debt from the funds it raised through a series of equity issuances to international investors. While this is the lowest growth in bank credit in two decades, banks say that the figure does not give a true picture of funds flow to corporates, who are raising capital via bonds. Agriculture and allied activities saw loans grow by Rs 36,700 crore to almost Rs 12 lakh crore. Besides agriculture, the only other segment that saw loan growth was credit to individuals. Loans to individuals grew by Rs 18,000 crore to Rs 25.7 lakh crore, driven by home loans, which expanded by almost Rs 21,000 crore to Rs 13.6 lakh crore. During the first half, individual borrowers repaid loans worth Rs 16,300 crore raised against fixed deposits. They also reduced credit card debt by nearly Rs 2,500 crore to Rs 1,05,640 crore despite fears that loss of income might force people to spend more on cards. Loans to the services sector declined by Rs 18,700 crore to Rs 25.8 lakh crore. This was largely on account of banks cutting loans to NBFCs, micro-credit institutions, shipping and other services. With credit to the services segment shrinking marginally, the share of personal loans in total credit at 28% is on a par with the share of services. Lenders say the share of home loans is set to increase after a huge jump in disbursements during October 2020 due to reduced interest rates, incentives on stamp duty and rate reduction by builders. Agri loans are also expected to increase with the government nudging banks to lend more under the Kisan Credit Card scheme. “As part of Atma Nirbhar Bharat package, the government has proposed to cover 25 million farmers under the Kisan Credit Card scheme with a credit boost of Rs 2 lakh crore through the saturation drive. So far, 15 million farmers under this scheme have been covered, with a sanctioned credit limit of Rs 1.35 lakh crore. This scheme ensures cost-efficient credit delivery and accelerating agriculture production, apart from raising farm incomes,” said Bank of Baroda chief economist Sameer Narang.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/corp-credit-dips-individual-loans-grow/articleshow/79418132.cms||Mayur Shetty
November 26, 2020||Patna||Patna’s air quality slips from ‘poor’ to ‘very poor’ category||PATNA: The overall air quality of Patna slipped from ‘poor’ to ‘very poor’ category on Wednesday. Around 4pm, the city’s air quality index (AQI) stood at 316 which falls in the ‘very poor’ category, according to ‘Sameer’, an app of the Central Pollution Control Board. The air quality early warning system of the ministry of earth sciences has predicted that Patna’s AQI will further deteriorate on Thursday and Friday due to unfavourable meteorological conditions for the dispersion of pollutants. Environmentalists claim that low temperature and calm winds slow down the dispersion of air pollutants. According to Bihar State Pollution Control Board (BSPCB) chairman Ashok Ghosh, thermal inversion is another factor for the rise in air pollutants. “Due to thermal inversion, the warmer air rises and acts as a lid trapping the colder air close to the ground. As a result, suspended pollutants from various sources are trapped in the atmosphere,” Ghosh told this newspaper and added that the geographical location of Bihar also led to poor air quality during the winter season. In a bid to control pollution, the BSPCB had prepared an action plan that has been implemented to “some extent”. Ghosh said, “Vehicular emission, construction activities and fuel combustion are the other reasons for air pollution.” Senior programme officer at the Centre for Environment and Energy Development, Ankita Jyoti, also pointed out that factors like thermal inversion and dry weather led to a rise in air pollutants, primarily PM 2.5 and PM10. The AQI is rated as ‘good’ (0-50), ‘satisfactory’ (51-100), ‘moderate’ (101-200), ‘poor’ (201-300), ‘very poor’ (301-400) and ‘severe’ (410-500). Pollution of the ‘very poor’ category can lead to respiratory illnesses on prolonged exposure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patnas-air-quality-slips-from-poor-to-very-poor-category/articleshow/79414417.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 26, 2020||Chandigarh||UT to take call on night curfew today||CHANDIGARH: As the Union home ministry on Wednesday asked states, Union territories to strictly enforce containment measures and allow only essential activities in the containment zones, the UT administration will take a call on night curfew in the city on Thursday. UT adviser Manoj Parida said, “As of now, there are no such immediate plans. However, UT administrator V P Singh Badnore will take the final decision in the review meeting on Thursday”. A senior UT official said the UT is keeping close eye on the developments taking place in neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana as well. Punjab chief minister on Wednesday ordered night curfew in all cities and towns with effect from December 1. Releasing a new set of guidelines, which shall remain effective till December 31, the MHA on Wednesday has asked states to strictly enforce SOPs on various activities, Covid-appropriate behavior and exercise caution and regulate crowds. Citing the recent spike in new cases in few states/ UTs, ongoing festival season and the onset of winter, the MHA has asked states to maintain caution and to strictly follow the prescribed containment strategy. States and UTs have been asked to ensure careful demarcation of containment zones by the district authorities, at the micro level, taking into consideration the guidelines prescribed by ministry of health and family welfare. The MHA has said that the local district, police and municipal authorities shall be responsible to ensure that the prescribed containment measures are strictly followed. State/ UT governments shall ensure the accountability of the officers concerned in this regard, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-to-take-call-on-night-curfew-today/articleshow/79415990.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
November 26, 2020||Business||Ventures under Tata Industries may be shifted to other group companies||MUMBAI: The Tata Group is considering a rejig of the business portfolio of Tata Industries, best known for incubating new ventures for the conglomerate. The plan, though in early stages, involves a possible merger of its health services (Tata Health app), e-commerce (Tata Cliq), ready-to-eat food (Tata Q) and digital classroom content (Tata ClassEdge) businesses with sister Tata companies having a play in similar categories. The proposed rejig is part of group chairman N Chandrasekaran’s consolidation efforts as he bets on consumer-focused businesses to boost the conglomerate’s growth. Tata Cliq, which has largely remained a fringe player in the online shopping space, for instance, could be brought under Tata Digital, the newly created vehicle for the group’s e-commerce initiatives. Tata Digital is in advanced stages of discussions to acquire majority control of Bigbasket. Likewise, Tata Health (a platform to book doctor appointments, lab tests, and order medicines) could be clubbed with Tata Medical and Diagnostics, the group’s new healthcare arm. Tata Medical recently launched Covid-19 test kits. The conglomerate is also in talks to acquire online pharmacy retailer 1mg. An emailed query sent to Tata Industries remained unanswered till the time of going to the press. Tata Industries’s digital ventures — Tata Cliq and Tata Health (its services are available largely in Bengaluru) — have a limited play in the market and a consolidation including inorganic acquisitions will help Tata Group catch up with bigger rivals like Amazon, Walmart and Reliance Industries, a source said. Tata Q, the ready-to-eat food brand, could be brought under Tata Consumer Products, which recently acquired the packaged foods business of sister company Tata Chemicals. Similarly, Tata ClassEdge fits with Tata Consultancy Services’s iON platform, which is into digital learning. In the past too, Tata Industries has transferred certain businesses to other group companies to facilitate consolidation. For instance, the defence unit. Chandrasekaran has been ramping up efforts to streamline and simplify corporate structure across businesses to reduce legal costs, leverage synergies and scale up operations. Tata Group hasn’t made any final decision on the potential business restructuring at Tata Industries and these proposals are just preliminary considerations, another source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ventures-under-tata-industries-may-be-shifted-to-other-group-cos/articleshow/79418349.cms||Reeba Zachariah
November 26, 2020||Patna||Railways increases speed limit of 9 trains||PATNA: Railways has further increased the speed limit from 110 kmph to 130 kmph on the Jhajha-Patna-Pt Deendayal Upadhaya Junction mainline route for at least nine pairs of mail and express trains. Railways has already increased the speed limit up to 130km/hr of 12 pairs of mail and express trains on this route, said East Central Railway (ECR) chief public relations officer CPRO) Rajesh Kumar on Wednesday. Kumar said the speed limit has been increased for Saharsa-Patna Express special (02567/02568), Anand Vihar-Agartala Express special (04019/04020), Rajendra Nagar Terminal-New Delhi Jalpaiguri Express special (03245/03246), Katihar-Delhi Express special (05485/05486), Secunderabad-Danapur Express special (02787/02788), Rajendra Nagar Terminal-New Delhi Express special (03293/03294), Rajgir-New Delhi Express special (03391/03392), Bengaluru-Danapur Express special (06509/06510) and Ahmedabad-Patna Express special (09447/09448). According to the CPRO, railways has also increased the speed limit on the Dauram Madhepura-Murliganj (50 kmph to 100 kmph), Murliganj-Banmankhi (75 kmph to 100 kmph) and Banmankhi-Purnea Court (60 kmph to 100 kmph) routes. Besides, speed limit on the Dhanbad-Gaya-Pt Deedayal Upadhaya Junction Grand Chords route has been increased to 130 kmph while work is going on to increase the speed limit on the Kursela-Karagola (70 kmph to 100 kmph), Moinuddinnagar-Bacchwara (75 kmph to 90 kmph) and Raxaul-Choradani (50 kmph to 80 kmph) routes of the ECR, he said. Speed limit of Rajendra Nagar-New Delhi Rajdhani Express special (02309/02310), Rajendra Nagar Terminal-New Delhi special (02393/02394), Patna-Lokmanya Tilak special (03201/03202), Patna-Howrah special (023023/02024), Patna- Ahmedabad special (02947/02948), Danapur-Secunderabad special (02295/02296), Muzaffarpur-Ahmedabad special (09083/09084), Howrah-New Delhi special (02303/02304), Darbhanga-Delhi special (05955/05956), Agartala-New Delhi special (02501/02502), Bhagalpur-Anand Vihar special (02367/02368), Darbhanga-New Delhi special (02423/02424) and Madhupur-Anand Vihar special (02465 /02466) has been increased to 130 kmph recently, the CPRO said. Railways has increased the speed limit up to 130 kmph to reduce journey hours on the Patna-Delhi and Patna — Howarh routes by 30 to 40 minutes. The Danapur division is presently coping with the operational needs of about 280 pairs of passenger trains. Thus, an increase in the speed limit up to 130 kmph will maintain uniformity in the speed limit on the Howrah-Jhajha-Patna-Pt Deendayal Upadhaya Junction-Kanpur-Tundala-New Delhi mainline route, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/railways-increases-speed-limit-of-9-trains/articleshow/79414645.cms||Kumod Verma
November 26, 2020||Nashik||Civic chief orders eviction drive against illegal hawkers, vendors in Nashik||NASHIK: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has decided to undertake an eviction drive against illegal hawkers and vendors across the city. Municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav on Wednesday told TOI that he has issued orders to all six divisional officers to initiate the drive with immediate effect. According to Jadhav, civic officials have observed that illegal roadside vendors selling materials ranging from clothes to electric appliances often cause overcrowding on footpaths and, at times, even violate social distancing norms. It may lead to further spread of Covid-19, added Jadhav. Earlier this month, the municipal corporation had undertaken action against erring citizens and shopkeepers for not adhering to social distancing norms and failing to wear face masks in public places during Diwali. NMC squads had slapped fines on around 1,200 people for not wearing masks in market places during the festive period. “Coronavirus cases are still under control in Nashik, but considering the rise in patients in some states, th eNMC has started taking precautions to ensure that there is no overcrowding in market places and social distancing is being maintained at all times,” said an official from the municipal corporation’s health department. Nashik city has a number of market places including Shalimar, Main Road, Raviwar Karanja, M G Road, Bohorpatti, Saraf Bazar and others where illegal vendors and hawkers set up their stalls, not only causing traffic jams, but also leading to overcrowding. “We have observed that many people step out of their homes unnecessarily. We want this to change. people should not leave home unless they have any important work,” a civic official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/civic-chief-orders-eviction-drive-against-illegal-hawkers-vendors-in-city/articleshow/79414849.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 26, 2020||Lucknow||No plans to seal UP-Delhi border, says health minister||LUCKNOW: Despite the surge in Covid cases in New Delhi, there are no plans to seal the border as of now, said UP's health minister Jai Pratap Singh on Wednesday. "While intensified surveillance activities will continue, there is no plan to seal the UP-Delhi border,” Singh said in Gautam Budh Nagar. He warned people against any kind of rumours regarding lockdown or increase in the penalty for not wearing masks. "As of now, UP is not thinking about lockdown or increasing the penalty for not wearing masks," he told reporters after inspecting the integrated control and command centre set up by HCL group for the district administration. In response to a query whether there was a community spread of the pandemic virus in UP, the minister said: “There is no community spread whatsoever in any part of UP.” Singh also said that so far, UP has done a great job as far as Covid-19 containment was concerned. “UP’s strategy has worked well so far. It is a result of this strategy that the state's Covid-19 burden has been much lower than many states despite a hefty population. Also, our work has been lauded by the union government besides being termed exemplary with agencies like World Health Organisation,” he stated. Detailing the reporters about the strategy, the minister said that contact tracing has been the mainstay of UP’s combat against the pandemic virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/no-plans-to-seal-up-delhi-border-says-health-minister/articleshow/79417610.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Lucknow||‘University changed me from an introvert to speaker, author’||LUCKNOW: Author Chandra Shekhar Varma believes that Lucknow University gives so much confidence to its students that even an introvert like him could become a motivational speaker and a writer. “Participation in extra-curricular activities on the campus made me confident,” said Varma, who studied at the univeristy in the ’80s. “My father and grandfather also had a close association with the university. My grandfather and noted writer Bhagwati Charan Varma didn’t study at LU but used to judge various literary events organized at the university,” he said. “My grandfather supported literary activities on the campus while my father was an active student leader who fought for student rights. He was elected general secretary of the students’ union in 1957,” he said. Varma said the greatest contribution of his father was that as a student he was the first to convert the students’ union from a political centre to a cultural hub. “A kavi sammelan featuring poets of international repute like Sumitranandan Pant, Harivansh Rai Bachchan, Bhagwati Charan Varma and Pt Narendra Sharma was organized,” he said. “LU has produced legendary teachers, bright students and eminent persons in almost every field. It has a great alumni strength and teachers with extraordinary research record,” Varma added. He said to make the next 100 years brighter, the university should appoint new talent as teachers, make attendance strict and introduce latest professional courses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/univ-changed-me-from-an-introvert-to-speaker-author/articleshow/79417815.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Goa||KTC halts buses to 11 routes from Goa||PANAJI: The Kadamba Transport Corporation limited (KTC) has suspended interstate buses on 11 routes owing to the lack of load factor due to lesser passengers. These are buses to Mumbai, Pune, Shirdi, Solhapur, Kolhapur, Sawantwadi, Vengurla, Malvan among other destinations. Besides the poor response, restrictions imposed by the Maharashtra government on people travelling to their state from Goa also has pushed KTC to anticipate a further lack of load factor leading them to temporarily suspend the services from Wednesday night onwards. “The number of passengers is starting to decrease now that they must mandatorily have a Covid check,” general manager, Sanjay Ghate said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ktc-halts-buses-to-11-routes-from-goa/articleshow/79417036.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Patna||‘Less dengue cases reported due to coronavirus this year’||PATNA: While Covid-19 cases have already made life difficult for many people, vector-borne dengue has added to the woes. This year, 373 dengue cases have been registered across the state, including 255 in Patna, till Tuesday. Doctors have cautioned people to take all precautions. However, the number of cases registered by the health department this year is much less than those in 2019. As per the health department’s data, 6,667 dengue cases were registered last year. Doctors cited several reasons for this fall in number. “First, because of Covid-19, many patients prefer a private clinic to government hospitals for dengue check-up and are not registered. Those having mild symptoms prefer to remain indoors than getting themselves tested because of the fear of coronavirus,” a doctor said. Also, AIIMS-Patna and Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) this year have been designated as dedicated Covid-19 hospitals, which otherwise used to have sizeable chunk of dengue patients. Even IGIMS, which used to have rush during the dengue season, has capped the number of patients in general medicine OPD to 150 per day, which used to be around 400 earlier. More patients in the OPD meant more tests and hence more cases. IMA senior vice-president Dr Ajay Kumar said he gets two to three dengue patients every day, nearly the same previous year. Dr Diwakar Tejasvi also admitted no drop in the number of patients visiting his clinic with dengue every day. However, he said there has been drop in severity. IGIMS superintendent Dr Manish Mandal also said they were not getting severe cases this year. “Last year, we used to have many severe cases of dengue requiring ICU and platelets transfusion. Patients used to come in unconscious state. But this year, we are not getting such severe cases. People are coming to OPD and going back,” said Dr Manish. Even though the number of severe cases has reduced, doctors cautioned people to take all precautions. “One should use net, not let the water get accumulated and cover the body. Remember, prevention is the cure,” said Dr Ajay. Doctors also advise people to keep body hydrated and fever under control by taking paracetamol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/less-dengue-cases-reported-due-to-coronavirus-this-year/articleshow/79414499.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 26, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal issues advisory on dengue-Covid attacks||KOLKATA: The Bengal government in an advisory on Tuesday said that even though dengue cases have been under control this year, the threat of an outbreak persists since mosquitoes can continue to breed until the temperatures go below 14°C. Asking all stakeholders to step up guard against dengue, it said that with more public mobility now — compared to the Covid restrictions earlier — the disease can spread till early December too. Cases of twin attacks of dengue and Covid have been already been reported in recent weeks. The state health department, after a high-level meeting, said that entomological surveys often find moderate or high larval indices at different places. It also said that adult aedes mosquitoes are found in significant numbers at some places. “We had rain till the third week of last month. So, there is a good number of water stagnation spots and wet containers in the environment,” the advisory said, stressing on the need for house-to-house visits and vector-control measures. Early diagnosis of dengue is critical in this Covid season since it has a completely different treatment protocol. Since the two diseases may have similar symptoms, it is important to quickly identify if a patient is suffering from both, said doctors. Treating a patient suffering from a twin attack could be tricky, pointed out RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS) consultant Arindam Biswas. “While Covid patients need steroids, those with dengue must be kept away from them. So, round-the-clock monitoring is essential,” he said. The advisory also stated that spread of dengue through infected people had so far been restricted since the pandemic had led to curbs on movement. “Once public life is back to normal, viruses may be carried to places with an aedes aegypti (the mosquito that carries the virus) population. This can result in disease upsurge in places where the environment and community behaviour are congenial for mosquito breeding,” it said. The advisory also warned against “focal outbreaks of dengue and chikungunya in early December”. It was important to check dengue at a time when Covid is still on the prowl, pointed out Belle Vue Clinic internal medicine consultant Rahul Jain. “It could be fatal if one is taken for the other since the treatments are diametrically opposite. While for dengue, you need to ensure that the patient gets enough fluids, it is not the case for Covid. While Covid leads to blood clots, dengue causes haemorrhage. So the treatment protocol, too, is completely different. While Covid is treated with steroids and blood thinners, dengue patients should be kept away from these,” Jain explained. “While dengue can be tackled through monitoring and immediate measures, Covid is more tricky since we know very little about it. So, a patient suffering from both must be screened every hour,” said internal medicine consultant Dhiman Sen. “While we can’t time the onset of Covid, dengue onset is easy to gauge. The latter worsens on the fifth and sixth days while Covid could be most dangerous from the ninth day. If these two coincide in a patient, the consequences could be fatal. So, every Covid patient needs to be screened for dengue and vice-versa,” Jain said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-issues-advisory-on-dengue-cov-attacks/articleshow/79415992.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
November 26, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Covid-19 tally reaches 2,32,460 with 763 new cases||PATNA: Altogether 763 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in Bihar on Wednesday, taking the state’s tally to 2,32,460. Besides, four deaths — one each from Patna, Bhagalpur, Jamui and Rohtas — were registered after which the toll reached 1,237. However, with 350 recoveries, there are 5,424 active cases in the state. Patna, where 194 cases were reported on Tuesday, witnessed a spurt with 292 people testing positive for coronavirus on Wednesday. With 39,064 recoveries and 320 deaths, there are 1,735 active cases in the district. Muzaffarpur (34), Katihar (26), Nalanda (26), Purnea (28), Saharsa (22), Gaya (19) and Vaishali (19) are some other districts where corona cases were registered. The All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna (AIIMS-P) reported four deaths, including those of a 78-year-old man from East Champaran, a 53-year-old from Jamui, a 65-year-old man from Purnea and an 88-year-old from Siwan. AIIMS-P nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, told TOI that 15 patients were admitted to the hospital and 12 discharged on Wednesday. “Former Union minister Dr C P Thakur is showing improvement. The condition of Patna Medical College and Hospital’s former superintendent Dr Lakhinder Prasad is also stable and Dr Pradeep Kumar Verma of Anugrah Narayan Medical College and Hospital has been discharged,” Dr Sanjeev said. The Nalanda Medical College and Hospital did not report any death. While one patient was admitted there, another was discharged from the hospital. Over 1.40 crore samples have been tested in Bihar so far. CORONA STATUS Cases today: 763 Total cases: 2,32,460 Recoveries: 2,25,797 Deaths: 1,237 Suicides: 2 Active cases: 5,424||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-19-tally-reaches-232460-with-763-new-cases/articleshow/79414687.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 26, 2020||Kolkata||Demand for centralized counselling after colleges in Kolkata struggle with vacant UG seats||KOLKATA: The clamour for holding a centralized counselling session for admissions to the first-semester undergraduate programmes from next year is growing as more and more colleges report vacancies. With the registration process ending soon, several colleges in Kolkata are waiting for a nod from the government and Calcutta University to conduct another round of admissions as large huge number of seats fell vacant after candidates opted to stay away from registering with the university. The principal of Lady Brabourne College, Siuli Sarkar, reported on Wednesday that the college had 150 empty seats at present. “After the state sought a declaration from students, many opted to withdraw from the courses. We reported almost 107 vacancies. Now, as we are drawing towards closing the registration process, we have 150 seats lying vacant. This is a huge loss for the state considering the fabulous infrastructure we offer the students. We even have hostel accommodation,” Sarkar said, adding that students started to express their disinterest after the counselling process for admissions to the various engineering colleges started in September. “It is terrible to know that we can’t offer seats to those who are genuinely interested and have been inquiring about any decision to reopen the admission process,” she said. Sarkar pointed out that centralized counselling is one of the solutions to bring an end to the vacancy issue. At Bethune College, only 309 students have registered for the 560 seats. “We had 540 admissions in the beginning,” said principal Krishna Roy. Several principals have written to the higher education department and CU, seeking permission to reopen the admission process. The state had closed the admissions on October 30 and the new academic session is set to start from December 1. Another college principal explained that one of the reasons for candidates’ withdrawal could be the prevailing pandemic. “We received several candidates from districts, but some of them decided to pull out. Maybe they are unsure of studying in Kolkata amid the pandemic and uncertainty. These students may prefer a college near home,” he said. The principal added that many might have also chosen professional courses, counselling for which was on. In Surendranath College, around 700 of the 2,500 seats in Honours and general courses are reported to be vacant. “Around 200 students, who had taken admission in the first semester, expressed their desire to leave when we sought a declaration,” said principal Indranil Kar. Several more refused to register once the process opened. “We have several seats available in economics, Sanskrit, philosophy and political science,” Kar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/demand-for-centralized-counselling-after-colleges-struggle-with-vacant-ug-seats/articleshow/79416001.cms||Somdatta Basu
November 26, 2020||Business||Unacademy sees valuation rise 40% in 2 months to $2 billion||BENGALURU: US-based marquee investors Tiger Global and Dragoneer Investment Group have pumped fresh capital into Unacademy, valuing it at $2 billion. In less than two months, the edtech startup’s valuation has shot up by over 40% as online education companies continue to attract strong investor interest aided by pandemic-induced demand for e-learning. In September, the Bengaluru-based startup had raised $150 million from SoftBank’s Vision Fund at a valuation of $1.4 billion. According to a source, Unacademy has raised $90-100 million in new capital in this round. Part of the funds will used for providing some angel investors a partial exit. The company did not disclose the amount it has raised in the latest round. While Tiger Global has made several bets on local startups, Dragoneer has backed major US-based startups like Uber, DoorDash, and Slack. Tiger Global invested in Byju’s this year. It is an investor in another edtech firm, Vedantu. The five-year-old Unacademy had previously raised $260 million in two rounds this year from social media major Facebook, private equity firm General Atlantic, and SoftBank. Sequoia Capital, Elevation Capital (earlier known as SAIF Partners) and Blume Ventures are some of its existing investors. “Happy to have both Tiger and Dragoneer on board on our mission to build iconic products that democratise education and make it more accessible and affordable,” Unacademy co-founder and CEO Gaurav Munjal tweeted. Unacademy was valued at $500 million at the beginning of the year and the steep jump in its valuation this year is a reflection of the rapid pace of student sign-ups during the pandemic. TOI reported earlier this week that Byju’s was closing a $200-million funding round at a $12-billion valuation. Byju’s was valued at $8 billion in January. TOI also reported in September that Unacademy’s annualised revenue run rate has increased four times since February, from $30 million to $120 million. The startup, which has primarily focused on test preparation for exams like UPSC (civil services), IIT-JEE, and medical colleges, has plans to expand into several new areas, including the K-12 segment. On Wednesday, the company said it has over 47,000 educators. The courses are taught in more than 14 Indian languages, with students spread across 5,000 cities. It said it is conducting over 150,000 live classes on the platform every month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/unacademy-sees-valuation-rise-40-in-2-mths-to-2bn/articleshow/79418335.cms||Digbijay Mishra
November 26, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad HC seeks govt reply in PIL on fee waiver for lockdown period||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court has asked the state government and concerned authorities to file replies in response to a PIL seeking exemption of school fee of private schools during the ‘lockdown period’ and also promotion of students upto class 8 without conducting any examination until physical classes resume in the state. Hearing a PIL filed by Masoom Bachpan Foundation, a division bench comprising Chief Justice Govind Mathur and Justice Siddhartha Varma fixed December 4 as the next date of hearing of the case. The petitioner had raised the issue of health hazards among the children caused by prolonged exposure to electromagnetic waves emitted by laptop/ computer/ mobile screens during online classes. The electronic devices are having huge impact on anxiety or stress level, logical thinking, memory, mood and mental stability of the tiny tots. Therefore, several educationists have suggested “no examination system”. Hence, in this backdrop of the situation, the students upto class 8 should be promoted without conducting any examination till the physical classes are resumed in the state, it was stated. It has also urged the court to pass a direction to the education authorities to promote the students of primary classes to next class for the educational session of 2020-21 without undertaking examinations. According to the petitioner, during the period of lockdown, no educational institution remained open, therefore, no fee from the students for that period can be charged. “Certain instances have been pointed out where fee is demanded by certain educational institutions.” The petitioner had also sought regulation of accounts of unaided schools, including fee of the students and salary of the teachers. This order was passed on November 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-seeks-govt-reply-in-pil-onfee-waiver-for-lockdown-period/articleshow/79416367.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
November 26, 2020||Allahabad||Health department focus on testing contacts of Covid-19 patients||PRAYAGRAJ: Health department officials are maintaining a strict vigil to check the spread of novel coronavirus. While Prayagraj district’s recovery rate has reached 94.7%, the number of containment zones has also reduced to 519. Officials are focussing on testing of close contacts of Covid-19 patients to check the spread of the disease. The city has reported less than 100 active cases in the past 48 hours. On Monday and Tuesday, 65 and 63 new Covid-19 cases were recorded in the city respectively. Additional chief medical officer (ACMO) and nodal officer Dr Rishi Sahai said, “Of the 26,112 Covid-19 cases recorded in the city, 24,729 have recovered till now. We are focussing on tracing and testing close contacts of Covid-19 patients to check the spread of the disease. The health department is testing around 6,000 samples every day.” Till now, 340 patients have succumbed to Covid-19 in the district so far. Officials said that there were many reasons behind the decline in the number of containment zones and Covid-19 cases. “We had appealed to people to get themselves tested if they develop any Covid-19 related symptoms. Acting as responsible citizens, they contacted the nearest health centre and get themselves tested. Early detection of cases is helping authorities in treating patients properly.” In April, the health department had declared the first containment zone in the city. By early July, as Covid-19 cases rose, an area was declared a containment zone if three or more positive cases were reported from there. The city saw the maximum number of containment zones in August and September. Meanwhile, police has taking strict action against those found not wearing masks in public places. So far, police has penalised over 3,000 residents for not wearing masks while stepping out their homes. A senior police official said, “If someone is caught not wearing a mask, cops ask them to fill up a ‘Sankalp Letter’, so that they always wear one the next time they step out from the homes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/health-dept-focus-on-testing-contacts-of-covid-19-patients/articleshow/79416289.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Chandigarh||PGI to test if Vitamin D can save critical Covid patients||CHANDIGARH: Can vitamin D reduce the coronavirus load and ventilator-support duration of critically ill patients who have any co-morbidity? After ethical clearance, the PGI will start with a trial to know. In one of its first randomised clinical trials on the asymptomatic or moderately ill Covid-19 patients, the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research found that the group to receive a high dose of vitamin D had more recoveries than the vitamin-deficient group. The results were published in the British Medical Journal. Of the 40 participants in a single blind trial, 16 were in the intervention arm (the ones who got at high dose of nano oral vitamin D), while 24 were in the controlled arm (not given the supplement). Study's co-author Dr Ashu Rastogi said: “We provided one group with vitamin D supplementation of 60,000 IU daily. Appropriate levels of vitamin D or its immunomodulatory effects were not known, so we chose an arbitrary cut-off of more than 50 ng/ml to render an immunomodulatory effect unlike 30 ng/ml purported to be adequate for bone metabolism.” It was found that 62.5% of the intervention-arm participants achieved vitamin D levels more than 50 ng/ml after 17 days and turned negative for the virus. Dr Rastogi said: said: “We are now drafting this dosage for those who have comorbidities and are infected severely. A study in Italy found that the vitamin D supplementation reduced the days of ventilation in critical patients. Depending on ethical clearance, we can also find the role of the supplement in these cases. The supplement's immunity-builder role is known in some adenovirus cases of lung disease but it was not tried on Covid-19 cases. Also, how much dosage is required for the vitamin to work was not known. The PGI took this as a hypothesis and carried it forward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pgi-to-test-if-vitamin-d-can-save-critical-covid-patients/articleshow/79415996.cms||Shimona Kanwar
November 26, 2020||Patna||‘Bihar govt yet to finalize fresh guidelines on Covid’||PATNA: The state government is going through the union home ministry’s fresh guidelines to curb further spread of Covid-19 pandemic, state additional chief secretary (home) Amir Subhani said on Wednesday. As per fresh guidelines, state governments have been mandated to strictly enforce containment measures, follow SOPs, exercise caution and regulate crowds. “We will notify the fresh guidelines once finalized,” Subhani told TOI. Another senior bureaucrat added, “Previous state guidelines for October were issued at the end of September and was extended till November. State government had adopted the same guidelines.” In the fresh guidelines, to be effective from December 1 to 31, the union ministry of home affairs has suggested strict enforcement of containment zones and local restrictions. “Keeping in view the recent spike in new cases in few states/ UTs, ongoing festival season and onset of winter, it is emphasized that to fully overcome the pandemic, there is need to maintain caution and to strictly follow the prescribed containment strategy, focused on surveillance, containment and strict observance of the guidelines/SOPs issued by MHA and Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MOHFW),” read a part of the order. It has asked the state governments to give the responsibility to local district, police and municipal authorities to ensure that the prescribed containment measures are strictly followed. The Union government has instructed the states to list all positive cases and trace 80% of their contacts within 72 hours. Gathering in a closed area, which earlier had a cap of 200, can be reduced to 100 by the states, depending on the Covid-19 situation in that area. Though local restrictions have been permitted, the Union government has not allowed sealing of interstate borders without the permission of the states concerned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-govt-yet-to-finalize-fresh-guidelines-on-covid/articleshow/79414438.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 26, 2020||Patna||Covid-19 pandemic shadow over big, fat weddings||PATNA: Limited number of guests, smaller venues, masks and sanitisers, limited menus, the weddings that have been planned under the shadow of the pandemic are far from the traditional, grand affair they generally used to be. The second wedding season this year is slated to commence in the next few days. However, the pandemic has made it difficult not only for the residents but is also causing heavy losses to banquet hall owners, wedding planners and event organisers. Ankit Kumar, founder of a Patna-based event management firm said, “Last year, we had almost 25 weddings to plan and organize. But this year, the number has reduced to 10. This has affected our business as people have curtailed the events in the wedding as well as the guests list. In fact, many people are not roping in wedding planners.” He added, “The pandemic has shifted the priorities of families. Instead of long guest lists and lavish food spreads, people are giving more preference to sanitisation of the wedding venue.” The band parties, which generally made huge profits during wedding season, are also ruing heavy losses this year. Suresh Prasad, founder of a city- based band party said: “We are paid Rs30,000 to 35,000 for a wedding. We have got bookings for around 30 weddings for this entire wedding season which is much less than the previous year.” He added: “Due to the pandemic, we are taking proper care of sanitization and also have lesser number of people in the group to ensure physical distancing.” The pandemic might have affected the business aspect in the big fat weddings but the excitement of couples remains the same. Sumit (29), is planning to get married this wedding season. He said, “My wedding was postponed in the summer season due to the pandemic but now we have decided to solemnize it ensuring all the safety measures. We have invited only 50 guests and sanitization is our top priority rather than decoration or lavish food.” Shimpy (32), a resident of Boring Road said that attending a wedding amid Covid-19 pandemic involves lot of risks. “We have been invited to attend two weddings this season but we will be attending those virtually as they have virtual arrangements for the guests too through video calls.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-19-pandemic-shadow-over-big-fat-weddings/articleshow/79414627.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Patna||Hundreds caught in snarl for hours||PATNA: Hundreds of commuters are facing hardship everyday due to long traffic jam on the Gandhi Setu connecting north Bihar to the state capital. On Wednesday, the scene was no different and vehicles remained stranded for hours together on the bridge. The situation could be gauged from the fact that even two-wheelers remained stuck in the traffic congestion for several hours in the morning. The office-goers were the worst hit as they were getting late due to the traffic jam on the bridge over the river Ganga. The traffic personnel tried to divert the two wheelers and cars towards pontoon bridge but it failed to ease the traffic on the bridge. It took more than three hours to reach Hajipur in Vaishali district from Zero Mile in Patna. The traffic snarl on the Gandhi Setu led to heavy congestion on the National Highway-30 between Zero Mile (Pahari Par) and Fatuha. The vehicles also remained stranded on the Patna-Gaya road. A long queue of vehicles was witnessed on the road between Dhanuki Mor and Deedarganj in Patna City also. Several people were seen crossing the bridge on foot. A few of them were carrying their luggage either on shoulders or heads. Women and children had to face a lot of difficulty as they had to walk on foot for several kilometres to cross over the bridge to reach their destination. “I have to catch my train at Patna junction but I have been caught in the traffic jam on the bridge. I am running short of time. So I decided to walk on foot to cross over the bridge,” said Manish Kumar Bhartiye, (35), a resident of Darbhanga. Bhartiye, a resident of Madhopatti village near Darbhanga, was walking on foot along with his wife and two minor children. They had alighted from the bus in the middle of the bridge and were seen proceeding towards Patna from Hajipur side. Bharaiye, who works in a shoe factory in Kanpur, is not alone. Sunil Saurabh, who works with a private firm in Haryana, echoed similar views. “I left home in Samastipur district early in the morning to avoid traffic jam on the bridge but in vain,” a visibly upset Saurabh said. The traffic police, however, blamed the technical snag in heavy vehicles for the traffic congestion. They also accused the drivers’ tendency to overtake vehicles on the bridge. “The traffic on the eastern flank of the bridge has been banned for rehabilitation,” a police official posted at Gaighat checkpost said. SP (Traffic D Amarkesh along with other traffic personnel was spotted trying to ease the movement of vehicles on the bridge. However, the situation remained almost the same throughout the day. Hajipur Sadar SDPO Raghav Dayal said, “There is a huge rush of vehicles on the Gandhi Setu due to the wedding season. This has compounded the problem on the setu.” Bid to regulate Setu traffic Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Agarwal said on Wednesday that a detailed strategy has been chalked out to regulate traffic on the Gandhi Setu and other parts of the state capital. The divisional commissioner said the plying of sand-laden trucks on the Gandhi Setu has completely been banned and empty trucks coming from Hajipur side towards Patna will be diverted through the JP Setu. In addition, separate police checkposts will be set up both in Patna side and the Hajipur side of the bridge to keep a surveillance on the movement of vehicles. “Lane driving systems will be put in place and those flouting the rules or found overtaking the vehicles will be penalized,” Agarwal told this newspaper The district administration has also decided to launch a special drive to remove encroachments on roads. The decision to this effect was taken at a meeting attended by the divisional commission Agarwal and IG, Patna range, Sanjay Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hundreds-caught-in-snarl-for-hours/articleshow/79414292.cms||Ramashankar
November 26, 2020||Business||Sensex dives 1,000 pts from lifetime high||Mumbai: In highly volatile trades on Wednesday, the sensex lost over 1,000 points from the day’s high at 44,825 points, also its all-time high level, to close at 43,828, down 695 points on the day on the back of selling in financials and IT stocks. The session started on a high on the back of Dow Jones rallying past the 30,000-point mark for the first time and also closing above it after US President Donald Trump conceded defeat in the election that raised the chances of a smooth transition at the White House. However, profit-booking started within the first couple of hours and the index hit an intraday low towards the close of the session. and settled just a bit higher from the day’s low point. In the process, the index also reversed its three-session winning run. On Thursday, there could be higher level of volatility as derivatives contracts for the current month are set to expire, market players said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-dives-1000-pts-from-lifetime-high/articleshow/79418322.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Business||Sebi restores select pre-Covid F&O norms||Mumbai: Markets regulator Sebi has withdrawn some of the steps it had taken to limited market volatility in March this year. These steps include reversal to a lower cash margin for stocks that are not traded in the futures & options (F&O) segment, which was the case in the pre-Covid period. On Wednesday, it also eased some of the trading rules for stocks in the F&O segment, including allowing higher position limits. Sebi had put in these measures on March 20 when the markets were in a free fall, only reversing the trend from March 25. At that time, stricter rules were required as part of the regulator’s surveillance measures. However, with a “changed market environment”, some of those rules have been revised while some will continue. Rules relating to dynamic price band in the F&O segment will continue to be in force, Sebi said. The regulator also said that some rules relating to market-wide position limits (MWPLs), which specify the upper threshold to build F&O positions, would be withdrawn “subject to continuation of certain conditions till further directions”. The relaxed MWPL rules are expected to make it easier for investors to take higher risks. The new rules will be effective after markets close on Thursday, Sebi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sebi-restores-select-pre-covid-fo-norms/articleshow/79418315.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Patna||‘43% of married women in state face spousal violence’||PATNA: Experts raised concerns over high rate of violence against women and girls. At a webinar organized by International Growth Centre (IGC) and ADRI on ‘Violence against women and girls’, it was stated that 43.2% of married women in Bihar have experienced spousal violence as per National Family Health Survey (NFHS)-4 report. Also, 18% of women and girls between 15 and 49 years across the globe have experienced physical or sexual violence by an intimate partner in the previous 12 months (UN Women 2020), while in India it was 24%, as per NFHS-4. Moderating the webinar, Priya Nanda, senior program officer, Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, said: “The National Commission of Women (NCW) data shows that 1,477 complaints of domestic violence were registered during the lockdown period of March 25 to May 31 than those received between March and May in the previous 10 years.” Centre for Catalyzing Change’s Anamika Priyadarshini said sensitization programmes in schools are needed. “Shelter homes can be revived and engaged in income generation activity and create a space where women feel safe. In Bihar, community level collectives have been successful in curbing violence against women,” she said. World Bank’s Girija Borker said there was a huge mismatch in female labour force participation. “The sectors where women want to work do not have enough jobs, whereas the sectors which are wanting more women, face dearth of the same,” she said. Padma Deosthali of CEHAT said though ministry of health has issued medical care guidelines for rape survivors, there is no guidelines for domestic violence. “The current concern with the public health sector is how to respond to domestic violence cases and how survivors should be treated in such a case especially psychologically,” she said. ADRI director Prabhat P Ghosh emphasized the need to have access to more data around this issue. “Violence against women hinders educational attainment and earnings potential and has significant economic and social costs. COVID-19 has exposed the fault lines of gender equality, with increases in the incidence of domestic violence during lockdown,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/43-of-married-women-in-state-face-spousal-violence/articleshow/79414476.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 26, 2020||Patna||Guv, CM condole Ahmed Patel’s demise||PATNA: Governor Phagu Chauhan, chief minister Nitish Kumar and leaders cutting across party lines condoled the death of Congress veteran Ahmad Patel on Wednesday. Chauhan said Patel’s demise was a big loss to the country, especially Gujarat. Nitish said apart from a noted politician, Patel was also a social worker and his demise is an irreplaceable loss in the political and social sphere. Former CM Rabri Devi and Mahagathbandhan leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav recalled Patel’s contributions to the society. State Congress president Madan Mohan Jha said Patel was committed to the party’s ideology and acted as a troubleshooter in the party. “He was one of the main strategists in the party. His absence will be badly felt,” Jha said. Congress legislative party leader Ajit Sharma expressed his condolence and said he had always worked to strengthen the party. Among others who expressed condolences were party’s campaign committee chairman Akhilesh Prasad Singh, former governor Nikhil Kumar, former CLP leader Sadanand Singh, MLA Shakeel Ahmad Khan, MLC Prem Chandra Mishra, former minister Kripa Nath Pathak, former MLA Narendra Kumar, AICC chief media convener Sanjeev Singh, spokesperson Rajesh Rathorre and manifesto committee head Anand Madhab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/guv-cm-condole-ahmed-patels-demise/articleshow/79414305.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Patna||80% aspirants appear for BPSC (Mains) exam||PATNA: Nearly 80% candidates wrote the 65th combined competitive (Mains) examination conducted by the Bihar Public Service Commission (BPSC) at 10 centres in Patna on Wednesday. Altogether 6,300 aspirants had qualified for the Mains after cracking the preliminary test. They wrote the Hindi paper in the first sitting from 9.30am to 12.30pm, and the general studies paper (I) from 2pm to 5pm. Controller of examination, Amrendra Kumar, told this newspaper that the exam, which was postponed twice in October, went off peacefully as no untoward incident was reported from any centre. “Covid safety protocols were followed and face masks and sanitizers given to the examinees. Everyone underwent thermal screening and other security checks,” Amrendra said. Candidates will write the general studies paper (II) on Thursday and optional subject paper on November 28 at 10 centres in Patna. All coordinators have been asked to get the centres sanitized after each exam and ensure that social distancing norms are followed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/80-aspirants-appear-for-bpsc-mains-exam/articleshow/79414431.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 26, 2020||Patna||PMC conducts anti-larva operation||PATNA: With a view to controlling dengue cases, the Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) is carrying out mosquito fogging, sanitization and anti-larva operations in the city. According to the figures of the health department, lesser number of dengue cases have been reported this year. “Altogether 4,254 dengue cases had been registered till November 29, 2019. However, only 246 cases have been reported in Patna so far. We are taking all steps to control the mosquito menace along with protective measures against coronavirus,” PMC commissioner Himanshu Sharma told this newspaper on Wednesday. The civic body has hired 75 more portable hand-fogging machines for all the 75 wards in its six circles — Azimabad, Bankipore, Kankerbagh, New Capital, Patliputra and Patna City. “Apart from fogging, our workers spray bleaching powder and sanitize the infected areas,” Sharma said. However, panicked over rising dengue cases in some areas, the residents are claiming that they have not come across any fogging drive. Kankerbagh resident Abhishek Kumar said, “Mosquitoes have been wreaking havoc for the past few weeks. One can see them buzzing around oneself all day long.” 51-year-old Rakesh Kumar Singh, a resident of Bhoothnath Road, echoed similar views. He said mosquitoes were present everywhere. “I saw a fogging machine in my area last week, but it was of no help,” he added. Bandar Bagicha resident Chandan Kumar rued, “The dumping yard near the Patna Junction is the main breeding ground for mosquitoes. In order to stay safe, I close all the doors and windows in my house.” On the other hand, the executive officer of Bankipore circle, Devendra Suman, claimed that no complaint had been received about the mosquito menace from any locality. Kankerbagh circle’s executive officer S K Mishra said, “Our workers cover one locality each week.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pmc-conducts-anti-larva-operation/articleshow/79414580.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 26, 2020||Pune||Pune's Gultekdi market yard to stay shut today||PUNE: The Gultekdi market yard would remain closed on Thursday in the wake of the daylong protest of the union of porters, mathadis (head loader) and tempo drivers working at the Agriculture Produce Market Committee across the district against the Centre’s farm bills. The Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) authorities of Pune decided to keep the Gultekdi facility shut for a day because of the agitation. The submarkets at Moshi, Khadki, Manjri and Uttamnagar, and other markets across tehsils may function, though. Satish Konde, the deputy secretary of the APMC, Pune, said, “Without the workers, we cannot run the market. Hence, we have advised farmers not to bring their produce to the Gultekdi facility on Thursday. The market will function normally from Friday.” Santosh Nangre, the president of Shri Chhatrapati Shivaji Market Yard Tempo Chalak Sangathana, and the secretary of Kamgar Sangathna, said, “About 300 workers will participate in the agitation at Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar statue at Pune station. Thereafter, we shall give our memorandum to the district administration peacefully.” He said, “The bills are against us and farmers. The existing APMC markets will close because of these. Over 25,000 workers of these markets would be jobless in months to come.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gultekdi-market-yard-to-stay-shut-today/articleshow/79417032.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Visakhapatnam||5-year-old raped and left critically injured in Andhra Pradesh's Kakinada||KAKINADA: A five-year-old girl was allegedly raped and left critically injured by an unidentified person under One Town police station limits in Kakinada in the early hours of Wednesday. Speaking to TOI, East Godavari district SP Adnan Nayeem Asmi said the girl and her father were staying at her grandparent’s house as her mother works in Hyderabad. The girl and her grandfather were sleeping on the ground floor of the house on Tuesday night while her father slept just outside the house. When her grandparents woke at around 4 am on Wednesday, they noticed that the girl was missing. The girl’s family then alerted the neighbours and a search was launched. Around 6 am, a person from the search party found the girl lying under a tree at a distance of half-a-kilometre from the house, injured and bleeding. The girl, who suffered internal and external wounds and was also bitten by the accused, was admitted to Kakinada Government General Hospital where doctors performed surgery on her. Doctors in the intensive care unit who treated her said they are trying to control bleeding and infection and it will take a few days for her to be out of danger. Police said the girl has given some indications about the identity of the culprit. A search is underway for the accused based on CCTV footage and other clues. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/5-yr-old-raped-and-left-critically-injured/articleshow/79414870.cms||Samson Raj
November 26, 2020||Chandigarh||In last 6 months, 12k challaned in Mohali for not wearing masks||Mohali: If one goes by the data provided by the Mohali police officials, in a period of six months, they have fined 12,078 people for not wearing masks at public places. The Mohali police had started penalising violators from May 21, 2020 and the TOI had procured the data starting from the first day till November 22, 2020. Along with the face mask challans, the Mohali police have also registered a total of 63 FIRs against those, who violated the social distancing norms. The cops claimed that these FIRs have been registered under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code. A traffic official on the condition of anonymity said, “Every day, our senior officials instruct us during the morning meeting that we should challan people for not wearing face masks.” Officials claimed that a fine of Rs 56.03 lakhs has been collected as challans from people roaming without face masks. Not only this, the Punjab police has also been distributing free masks to people regularly and if one goes by the data provided by the officials, a total of 24,340 free masks have been distributed in the Mohali district till November 22, 2020. Superintendent of police (SP), investigation Harmandeep Singh Hans said, “Regular instructions are being given to the entire police force to penalise those who don’t wear masks and nobody is spared. My team has also been instructed to register FIRs if social distancing is not followed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/in-last-6-months-12k-challaned-in-mohali-for-not-wearing-masks/articleshow/79416002.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Pune||Pune: Trio held for kidnapping toddler from Daund||PUNE: The Hadapsar police arrested a woman (33) from Daund taluka, her sister and their brother-in-law on Monday for kidnapping a one-year-old boy while he was sleeping under the flyover at Gadital with his mother, in the early hours of Monday. The suspect, who didn’t have children of her own, kidnapped the toddler. But, fearing police action, the trio left the boy from where they had kidnapped him, in early hours Wednesday. Police traced the suspects and took them into custody from Chaufula village. The boy’s mother, Sharmili Kale, had lodged an FIR with the Hadapsar police on Monday stating that unidentified person/s picked up her son around 5am on Monday, while she was sleeping inside their makeshift shelter under the flyover. “When we checked CCTV camera footage, we found two women running away with the boy,” Kadam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/trio-held-for-kidnapping-toddler/articleshow/79417026.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Patna||NDA’s Vijay elected Speaker amid din, chaos||PATNA: Amid unprecedented opposition, NDA candidate Vijay Kumar Sinha was elected as the Bihar legislative assembly Speaker through headcount of the MLAs, defeating grand alliance (GA) nominee Awadh Bihari Choudhary on Wednesday. The BJP MLA from Lakhisarai got 126 “yes” votes against 114 “no” votes registered by the opposition against him. The NDA has 125 MLAs against GA’s 110 and 8 others in the 243-member House. While Jitan Ram Manjhi as pro-tem Speaker was not reckoned for the headcount, the two extra support that Sinha mustered was from LJP and Independent MLA. Two MLAs did not participate in the headcount. One AIMIM MLA did not stand up for being counted while another from BSP remained out of the House during the voting process. “All our five MLAs went with the grand alliance. However, we did want the unanimous election of the Speaker, which could not happen. We could not have gone with the BJP to support the NDA,” AIMIM senior MLA Akhtarul Iman said. However, the start of the process for electing Sinha as Speaker was marked by cacophony and raucous noise made by the opposition members on various counts. The opposition members led by RJD’s Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, Congress legislature party leader Ajeet Sharma and CPI(ML) legislature party leader Mahboob Alam insisted that CM Nitish Kumar should not be present in the House during the election, while ministers Ashok Choudhary from JD(U) and Mukesh Sahani from VIP should also be asked to go out as they were not members of either assembly or the legislative council. The opposition also demanded election through secret voting besides the removal of several unknown persons present in the House by checking the attendance register. Manjhi and parliamentary affairs minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary said Nitish could remain present as he was leader of the House. They said Ashok and Mukesh could also be present and the three of them will not participate in the election of the Speaker. Unsatisfied, the opposition members entered the well of the House, defying the repeated appeals of Manjhi and Choudhary that they return to their seats. The persistence of the opposition for an adjournment of the House was such that Manjhi took the unprecedented step of adjourning it for five minutes, even after he had formally started the process for the election of the Speaker, when the assembly staff had already done the headcount of the standing MLAs who favoured Sinha as the Speaker. The adjournment finally lasted for slightly over 10 minutes, after which the House met again, but Ashok and Sahani did not enter the House, after which the opposition members allowed themselves to be “head-counted” to register their votes. Finally, after Sinha was declared elected, Manjhi vacated the chair. CM Nitish Kumar and Tejashwi as the leader of opposition led Sinha to the chair of the Speaker. CM Nitish, Tejashwi, Choudhary, Congress’s Ajit Sharma and CPI(ML) member Mahboob Alam extended their greetings to Sinha. Outside the House, the opposition leaders said an attempt was made to “murder democracy or make a mockery of it”, like the ruling NDA had committed a “theft of the mandate” using questionable means during the assembly elections. Deputy CM Tarkishore Prasad and other BJP leaders accused Tejashwi and other opposition members of creating unruly scenes in the House.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ndas-vijay-elected-speaker-amid-din-chaos/articleshow/79416009.cms||Abhay Singh
November 26, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Guest norm changed nuptial plans||JAIPUR: The government’s sudden decision to reduce the number of guests in weddings have forced people to make alterations in the venues and budgets. Many have cancelled bookings, several have cut budgets and a lot of people have again become unemployed. Due to the rising number of Covid cases, the government had reduced the number of guests from 250 to 100. Lakshya Saini, owner of a wedding planning company in Jaipur, said that after months, a ray of hope was seen. “From 250 guests to 70 -100 people. We have to reduce decorations, catering requirements and the other expenses. Clients are not ready to pay and we are stuck,” said Saini. There are lot of payment related issues. Due to the change in the number of guests, people who had booked big LED screens, have now opted for small ones. Sunil Sharma, an LED screen supplier, said that he had to remove screens at many places. Situation has become such that they are not been able to pay the rents of godowns on time. Reema Aggarwal, owner of Purple Grapes Events, said decoration requirements have gone down. “It depends on the demand of the client and some people are not ready to pay a lot for 100 guests.” General secretary of Jaipur Sound Union Virendra Kumawat said due to the fear of the administration, people have started to cancel ‘sangeet’ functions. “Around half of my bookings have been cancelled. We had called labourers from villagess who were jobless. Though there is no restriction on playing music, but unnecessary fear is making people take such decisions. Even our labourers are not ready to travel after sunset due to lockdown,” said Kumawat. There have been many changes in organising any event. People have made it compulsory to have hand sanitizers and spray machines at the entry gates at the venues. Some people are very cautious about the seating arrangements, too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/guest-norm-changed-nuptial-plans/articleshow/79417038.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM appeals residents to follow Covid guidelines||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has made an emotional appeal to wedding guests to follow Covid guidelines in view of the sudden spike in infections. The state witnesses an estimated 20,000 weddings including 6,000 in Jaipur this season from November 25 to December 11. In a series of tweets, Gehot said, “As the wedding season begins from today, my appeal to all is to comply with rules & regulations put in place to contain the spread of #Covid infection. All must wear a mask, maintain social distancing & not exceed the number of guests allowed in a function.” Reaffirming the confidence, he said his government was taking all steps to ensure lives are saved during this pandemic. “The restrictions announced are for our own safety. Please celebrate happy occasions but do not neglect health protocols. Let us defeat #corona by remaining cautious & abiding by the rules. #Rajasthan,” tweeted Gehlot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cm-appeals-residents-to-follow-covid-guidelines/articleshow/79417039.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Bhubaneswar||BJP MLA moves bill to protect whistle-blowers||Bhubaneswar: Senior BJP MLA Mohan Charan Majhi on Wednesday moved a private members’ bill, the Odisha Whistle Blowers’ Protection Bill, 2020, which intends to provide protection to government employees for disclosure of corruption. Private members’ bill is referred to a bill, which is introduced by any member in the assembly, who is not a minister. Several BJP members and Congress leader Taraprasad Bahinipati demanded that the bill be passed in the assembly to check corruption in the system. Another BJP MLA Mukesh Mahaling also introduced a private members’ bill called the Western Odisha Development Council (amendment) Bill, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/bjp-mla-moves-bill-to-protect-whistle-blowers/articleshow/79414893.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Cases of students peddling ganja rise||VIJAYAWADA: The recent bust of a ganja peddling racket by the Commissioner’s Task Force (CTF) has once again exposed the drug network among college students in the city. On November 22, around 55 students were sent to Vijayawada Government General Hospital (GGH) for rehabilitation. According to CTF sources, the principals of some private colleges had written to the police seeking action against their students and ganja peddlers. City police point out that over 100 cases have been registered against youngsters and other techies from March to October. Most of these students are registered in Intermediate, degree and BTech courses in four prominent colleges. Taking cognisance of growing instances of drug addiction, the city police tied up with rehabilitation centres. Police explained that Vijayawada has conventionally been a major transit point for ganja, but it is only during recent years that the city has become a major location for peddlers. The main reason behind the increase in peddling, police said, is growing student involvement in the business. “Interestingly, apart from getting addicted to ganja, many students themselves have ventured into peddling. We arrested at least 32 peddlers in the last six months, between the ages of 20 to 25,” a CTF official said. Cases of ganja being supplied to students have been registered across Gannavaram, Ibrahimpatnam, Bhavanipuram, Patamata and Krishna Lanka police station limits in recent months. Police sources said the students are being lured by dealers on a referral basis. “Initially the students are offered free sample packets of ganja. If they (students) like the product, the peddlers ask them to bring in more customers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cases-of-students-peddling-ganja-rise/articleshow/79414898.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
November 26, 2020||Varanasi||Youth tied to tree, thrashed brutally on suspicion of theft||VARANASI: On the suspicion of theft of battery, a youth was tied to a tree and thrashed brutally at Amrethu village in Didarganj police station area of Azamgarh district on Wednesday. The police rescued the youth and booked eight persons including the son of Phoolpur block pramukh. The matter was being investigated. According to reports, two batteries of Suresh Yadav’s tractor were stolen by someone a few days back. Suspecting a local youth Shivam Pandey behind the theft, Suresh with his two brothers caught him and took him to their place, where they thrashed him. Later, they tied him with a tree and continued beating him. Shivam’s father Jitendra Pandey informed the police on 112 for the rescue of his son. After sometime a police team reached the village and rescued Shivam. When the police team was returning with Shivam, the block pramuk’s son Tiger reached there and allegedly tried to take Shivam from police protection with his supporters. However, he could not succeed in his attempt as additional police forces reached the village by then. Later, on the complaint of Shivam’s father the police lodged a case against Tiger, Suresh, Dinesh, Ramesh and four other unknown persons. Azamgarh SP Sudhir Kumar Singh said that the Gangster Act would also be initiated against the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/youth-tied-to-tree-thrashed-brutally-on-suspicion-of-theft/articleshow/79416098.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Cop thrashed while trying to stop DJ||JAIPUR: A head constable was manhandled and abused when he tried to stop a DJ box which was playing at the wedding function in Kardhani on Monday night. The head constable, Ram Chandra, was with the patrolling unit which was monitoring the night curfew restrictions. “The police personnel saw that the DJ was playing despite the restrictions and went to the venue to stop it. The organisers first started abusing him and said that the DJ would continue to play and he cannot do anything to stop it. Following this few people stooped to hitting him and manhandling,” said an official of Kardhani police station. The head constable lodged a FIR against the organisers as well as the persons who manhandled him though no one has been arrested yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cop-thrashed-while-trying-to-stop-dj/articleshow/79417044.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Allahabad||‘Bihar Mein Ka Ba’ fame folk singer faces heat for song on Allahabad University||PRAYAGRAJ: A new song, posted on social media platform by a folk singer from Bihar, Neha Singh Rathore, has garnered a strong reaction from the student fraternity of Allahabad University. The song, sung by Rathore, who had hogged the limelight by singing the song ‘Bihar Mein Ka Ba’, is in Bhojpuri wherein she has passed strong comments on the student leaders of AU and the overall atmosphere in and around the campus. In her song, Rathore goes on to mention that the campus of AU has a negative impression in the society and that crude bomb, country-made pistol and violence has taken the front seat. Soon after making her song online, Rathore is being trolled on FB, with the students and student leaders coming down hard on the folk singer. Among the many strong reactions from the campus, vice president of AU teachers association, Prof AR Siddiqui says, “Neha has seen all the in-famous aspects of AU, what about large numbers of academicians, IAS, PCS, people in judiciary and scientists etc. that this institution has produced, perhaps she has missed the brighter side”. Eminent folk artists and singer associated with AU, Vivek Ranjan said, “Lok Geet (folklore) surely can have retaliation and resistance but it cannot ridicule an institution like AU which has given so many renowned scientists, politicians and eminent personalities to the country. Neha’s song may be exposing the shortcomings of AU but pointing out the flaws is not the only characteristic of a folksong. It should also incorporate positive sentiments.” Shailjakant Tripathi, a student of the law department of AU, writes on his Facebook page, “The so-called folk singer, Mohatrama # Neha Rathore ji should also mention 75 civil judges from the Law Department of this AU and hundreds of officers selected in every Uttar Pradesh PCS exam. If her market of singing did not shine in Bihar, is she trying her luck here?” ResearchJicholar Kuwar Singh writes on his FB page, “Neha Singh ji, you are a folk singer and respected in that art form, but without knowing about the culture of AU and the behaviour of seniors in the campus, this is an insult of the institution and our seniors.” After the song going online, thousands of students associated with AU have started reporting the song on FB along with their comments. Neha too, has sought help on social media. She wrote on her FB page, “Your support is required, some people are reporting my post due to the song I have written on AU. Yes, I have indeed presented my views in a critical manner. You don’t have to be so emotional. AU was also called ‘Oxford of the East’, but now there is nothing like it," she wrote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/bihar-mein-ka-ba-fame-folk-singer-faces-heat-for-song-on-au/articleshow/79416397.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Govt moves Centre for second AIIMS in state||Bhubaneswar: The state government has moved the Centre to set up second AIIMS in Odisha at Sundargarh for the benefit of people in western Odisha. Chief secretary Asit Tripathy in a letter to Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said a second AIIMS has been established in Bihar and similar proposal is under consideration for another state. “We made the proposal in view of the healthcare requirements of our state,” he said. Tripathy said infrastructure is available for a college and hospital in Sundargarh. The state government signed an MoU with National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) to establish a medical college and hospital in the district. It will be part of the PSUs corporate social responsibility initiative. Sources said construction of the project is over and procurement of equipment is underway. The hospital is designed for 500 beds and the college will be able to accommodate 100 students in MBBS. “This infrastructure can be utilised for establishment of AIIMS within a short period of time. It will cater to the need of the tribal population in the area and help in providing quality tertiary care in the backward area of western Odisha. The place is easily accessible through road, rail and air (Jharsuguda airport),” said Tripathy in his letter. Odisha has a fully functional AIIMS at Bhubaneswar. The hospital has emerged as one of the leading AIIMS in the country in terms of medical education and healthcare. Recently, Tripathy conducted a review of the progress of three medical colleges in the state. The medical college at Sundargarh will also admit 100 students per year. He had directed officials to complete furnishing of the building by December 2020 and move the Medical Council of India (MCI) for necessary permission to commence admission from the next academic session.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-moves-centre-for-second-aiims-in-state/articleshow/79414924.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
November 26, 2020||Varanasi||Now, mushrooms grown by SHG women to be added in MDM menu||GORAKHPUR: In an initiative towards health and women empowerment by the Deoria district administration, an MoU was signed between Mahalaxmi Producer Company and Basic education department under National Rural Livelihood Mission on Wednesday. As per the MoU mushrooms produced by self-help group women using stubble, agricultural waste will be incorporated in MDM scheme. The programme was inaugurated by DM Amit Kishore, joint magistrate Sumit Yadav and self-help group women with lighting of lamps. “The children will get nutritious food and SHG women will get financial independence. Also, the SHG women will help in providing meals to school children,” said the DM. The DM also appealed to farmers to not burn residue and use it for growing Mushrooms. The joint magistrate said in the first phase, 100 schools of Desahi block have been selected, in the next phase schools of 8 blocks have been proposed and in the third phase the schools in rest of the blocks will be proposed for providing mushroom for MDM by Mahalaxmi Producer company. SHG women will grow mushrooms and Mahalaxmi Producer Company will purchase from them. Basic education officer Santosh Kumar Rai said that it is a pilot project and mushrooms will be a part of Friday MDM menu in the selected schools. The menu will be applied in the entire district on the basis of feedback. Mahalaxmi producer proprietor, Sudhakar said that they will give technical training to women and also provide them seeds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/now-mushrooms-grown-by-shg-women-to-be-added-in-mdm-menu/articleshow/79416039.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Lucknow||Israeli government aid oasis for UP’s parched Bundelkhand||LUCKNOW: To help improve water availability in the parched districts of Bundelkhand, UP government has sought help from Israel. Israelis, known internationally as experts in waste water use, will be assisting UP with generating water, drip irrigation and advanced agricultural solutions. State jal shakti minister Mahendra Singh said an MoU has been signed with the Israeli government and they will draw up a detailed plan of projects and their implementation as per the three areas of cooperation. “Israel is an expert in water management and India has very strong ties with the country. Currently, we are looking at all possible means of improving water availability in Bundelkhand. Other than providing piped water to all districts within the next two years, we also have to work out ways of water conservation which is where Israel is helping us,” he said. Citing data shared by the Israeli government, an official said that Israel treats about 92% of its water, of which 75% is used for agricultural irrigation. By the end of 2025, the country intends to recycle 95% of its waste water for irrigation use. The India-Israel-Bundelkhand water project, for which UP government has signed an MoU with the Israeli government, will roll out in 25 villages of Jhansi’s Babina block in phase-1. The project has been developed by Dan Aluf, councillor of MASHAV Agriculture, Israel, and will use modern techniques of irrigation and also suggest measures for water conservation and supply of water. An official in the UP government said that under the project, irrigation will be carried out in the region using advanced agriculture techniques and integrated drip irrigation. Water from the Pahuj Dam in Jhansi will be used for the drip irrigation facility which will be extended to all of Jhansi and some areas around it. The state government is giving a major push to drip or micro irrigation, especially in areas like Bundelkhand where water availability is limited. “We will move beyond just technology transfer and will have continuous access to experts from Israel who will help us with capacity building and in resolving any other issue that comes up,” the official said. For the time being, the programme implementation will take place over a period of two years but can be extended depending on the need of the area. Agriculture production commissioner, Alok Sinha, who signed the MoU on behalf of UP government, said the programme for groundwater conservation, irrigation practices and potable water distribution would prove to be a role model for water conservation and irrigation practices for the entire country to follow. “As per the MoU signed between the two countries, the joint steering committee has not only approved the feasibility study but also approved of the formation of a working group. The feasibility study in the 25 villages in Babina block will be conducted by experts from Israel. The expenditure for this will also be borne by them,” Sinha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/israeli-govt-aid-oasis-for-parched-bundelkhand/articleshow/79417783.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra CM YS Jagan Mohan Reddy launches zero interest loans to support vendors||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Wednesday launched Jagananna Thodu extending zero-interest loans to vendors and artisan across the state. He paid Rs 905 crore to banks to extend Rs 10,000 interest-free loan to 9.05 lakh small traders. Speaking on this occasion, Jagan Mohan Reddy said that small and petty vendors and artisans need not approach money lenders and burden their lives by paying heavy interest. He said that they can now avail interest-free loans from banks under the scheme Jagananna Thodu. The chief minister said that he had seen the plight of small vendors and artisans during his 3,648-km padayatra, and observed that vendors and artisans cater to the needs of the public irrespective of the adverse weather conditions, by selling vegetables, flowers in the streets in order to ensure their survival. As the vendors come under the unorganised sector, the banks do not provide them with loans and they end up approaching moneylenders and take loans at high-interest rates to run their businesses. Such high interest loans often push them into debts, the chief minister said. The state government is implementing the scheme in collaboration with banks to better the lives of small traders and vendors. The banks shall credit the loan amount of Rs 10,000 to the beneficiaries’ accounts within a week or 10 days. The beneficiaries will also be provided with QR-based smart ID cards and if they repay the loan amount within the given timeline, the state government shall reimburse the interest once in every three months directly to the beneficiaries’ accounts, and further, they will be eligible to take the next loan. The chief minister stated that vegetable vendors, fruit vendors, small shopkeepers, pushcart vendors and traditional artisans are eligible to apply for the scheme and if any eligible person is not covered under this scheme, they could still apply through volunteers, and upon verification, will be provided with the benefits of the scheme in a month or two. Further, eligible persons can call the 1902 toll-free number to get themselves enrolled. Ministers Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy, Kodali Venkateswara Rao, Botcha Satyanarayana, Adimulapu Suresh, Sankara Narayana and other officials and bankers were present at the launch event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cm-launches-zero-interest-loans-to-support-vendors/articleshow/79414925.cms||Gopi Dara
November 26, 2020||Jaipur||New bribery complaint against Mumbai cops||JAIPUR: One more complainant has come forward in the corruption case against the Mumbai cops who were arrested by Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) on Tuesday. DG (ACB) B L Soni said, “An accountant has come forward who claimed that the accused cops had taken Rs 90,000 from him as well. We will get in touch with Mumbai police to get the track records of all the accused who have been arrested.” ACB had arrested a sub-inspector along with three constables while accepting a bribe of Rs 2 lakh in Jaipur on Tuesday. The SI Prashant Shinde and the three constable are of Mumbai police and stationed in Borivali police station. ACB had received a complaint that a person from Mumbai had taken his house on rent in Jaipur and the tenant has case of fraud registered against him in Maharashtra. The four persons had detained the complainant’s father and were pressurising him to get the tenant arrested. They demanded a bribe for not arresting the complainant’s father. The cops had come to find an accused, Vinod who is from Mumbai but was staying in Jaipur for work. “While they could not find the accused, they had found that Vinod was in touch with the accountant and were building pressure on him to tell the former’s whereabouts. They took the money claiming that they would otherwise arrest him,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/new-bribery-plaint-against-mum-cops/articleshow/79417042.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Jaipur||Day 1: Confusion & chaos prevail among people over party norms in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The first day of the year’s last wedding season amid the absence of clarity in the revised guidelines for marriages led to utter confusion among wedding parties in the state. Sources said families kept running from local police station to the collectorate seeking clarifications on organising processions and late-night movements especially in the eight districts having night curfew. Officials said chaos and confusion among wedding parties prevailed till late in the night sparked by the sense of fear instilled by the guidelines. Senior officials had to direct the officers in the field to treat marriage parties kindness and respect. Jaipur district collector Antar Singh Nehra said there were over 3,000 marriages in the city making it an impossible task for his teams to reach out to all venues. “I gave my teams the target of checking at least five venues and issued directions they should be courteous with those following the guidelines. But, if anybody misbehaves with them, they should immediately issue a challan. Also, if there are more than required number of guests anywhere, they must issue a challan,” he said. Till last report came in, the local administration had not compiled a list of violations in the city and inspections were going on. The local administrations in Jaipur, Jodhpur and Udaipur known for destination weddings faced the challenge of inspecting these marriages which either happened on the outskirts or within a portion of the hotel. Om Prakash Bunkar, additional district collector of Udaipur, said they were aware of such weddings and had deputed tehsildars and BDOs to keep a watch on them along with local police. “So far, no one has been caught violating the protocols. Our preparation on the first day will set the tone for the entire wedding season or till the rules are in force,” he said. Over 800 marriages were solemnised in Ajmer amid counselling and appeals by the district administration. Police kept extra check since the city was registering a heavy patient load of 200 and several infection cases. District collector Prakash Rajpurohit along with officials Devika Tomar, Vishal Dave and Avdesh Meena were on the field counselling wedding parties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/day-1-confusion-chaos-prevail-among-people-over-party-norms/articleshow/79417041.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Varanasi||Two wanted criminals arrested in police encounter||VARANASI: A wanted criminal Anil Yadav, who had managed to escape when his gang leader Monu alias Moni Chauhan was gunned down during exchange of fire with the police in Nakkhighat area under Jaitpura police station on Sunday night, was arrested and injured after a police encounter on Tuesday night. Another criminal, who was involved in several sensational loot cases, was arrested by Ballia police on Tuesday. Police had kept a cash reward of Rs 50,000 on both criminals. Varanasi SSP Amit Pathak said that a joint team of crime branch and Jaitpura police led by SP (city) Vikas Chandra Tripathi got inputs about the presence of Yadav, and cordoned off the Nakkhighat road on Tuesday night. Yadav passed through the area when the cops tried to intercept him. However, he started firing on the police team in an attempt to escape. The police also fired at him in retaliation, following which Yadav suffered bullet injuries in the leg and fell from his motorcycle. Later, he was sent to SPG divisional hospital. Police recovered his pistol and his motorcycle from the spot. The SSP said that Yadav had managed to escape from Ring Road when the police team eliminated his gang leader Monu Chauhan on the night of November 22. Police had kept a cash reward of Rs 50,000 on Chauhan as well. The duo had been involved in the killing a trader and firing at a woman in the past fortnight. Meanwhile in Ballia, a joint team of crime branch and Narahi police arrested a dreaded looter Chandan Yadav while he was trying to move towards Bihar border after opening fire on the police team, informed Ballia SP Devendra Nath. A pistol, live cartridges, cash worth Rs 70,000, chequebooks, pan card, Aadhaar card, other documents, mobile phone and a motorcycle were recovered from his possession. The documents and cash recovered were looted by Chandan from a bank’s service centre on October 1 in Sikandarpur area, while on November 9, he had robbed a man when he was returning home after withdrawing cash from a bank in Nagra area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/two-wanted-criminals-arrested-in-police-encounter/articleshow/79416048.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Ajmer||Low turnout on 1st day of Pushkar religious fair||AJMER: Few devotees took a dip in Pushkar Sarovar on the first day of the religious fair on Wednesday. The six-day religious fest kicked off at the Brahma temple. Extra police personnel were deputed to ensure that people followed Covid guidelines strictly. Usually, the first day of the event remains crowded with thousands of devotes from all over the country taking a dip in the water. Though there were devotees at the ghats of Pushkar Sarovar, their numbers remained low throughout the day. According to priest Sanjay Parashar, the six days of Kartika month is flooded with thousands of devotees. But this year, Covid has prevented devotees from thronging the place. For the last three days, officials have been making rounds to see the arrangements in the market, near the temple and at the ghats. Officials said going to the temple was not banned but maintaining social distancing and wearing masks were mandatory. “The main reason why people are not coming here this year is because the cattle fair has been cancelled,” said another priest. Though few guest houses have been booked, most hotels are empty. The rituals of dipping in Pushkar Sarovar will continue till November 30. Some organisations have made arrangements to feed the devotees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/low-turnout-on-1st-day-of-pushkar-religious-fair/articleshow/79417191.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Lucknow||Sea of humanity bids adieu to Kalbe Sadiq||LUCKNOW: The air hung heavy with grief as people from all walks of life began trickling into Unity College campus in Thakurganj since early Wednesday to pay homage to Shia cleric Maulana Kalbe Sadiq, who passed away late Tuesday. Within hours, the motley crowd turned into a sea of mourners who then walked over two-and-a-half kilometres, taking the 83-year-old cleric on his last journey to Imambara Ghufranmaab, where he was laid to rest. An Islamic scholar and an educationist with scientific temperament, senior vice-president of All-India Muslim Personal Law Board Maulana Kalbe Sadiq breathed his last around 10pm on Tuesday at Era’s Lucknow Medical College. He was battling cancer for the last three years. In ICU on November 17, the cleric died of severe pneumonia, septic shock and kidney failure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sea-of-humanity-bids-adieu-to-kalbe-sadiq/articleshow/79417905.cms||Yusra Husain
November 26, 2020||Lucknow||Like his life, Kalbe Sadiq unites all in death||LUCKNOW: Shia-Sunni unity, education specifically that of the girl child and peace among all religions were at the core of Shia cleric Maulana Kalbe Sadiq’s teachings. And when the funeral for the 83-year-old was held on Wednesday, it was all these and more that converged at his feet. As soon as the news of his death spread on Tuesday night, tributes started to pour in from across the world. In a letter addressed to his widow, Taj Sultana, President Ram Nath Kovind lauded Sadiq’s charitable works and said he was a scholar of different religions. “He was a humanitarian who was dedicated in the upliftment of children who were not at the mercy of good fortune. He always stressed on peace and unity between people of various religions and faiths and he will always be remembered for his contribution to society and his legacy,” wrote the President. Mahant Divyagiri of the Mankameshwar Mandir, Imam of Aishbagh Eidgah Maulana Khalid Rasheed Farangi Mahali, Shaher Qazi Maulana Abul Irfan Firangimahli, Imam of Teeley Wali Masjid Maulana Fazle Mannan, deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma, joint commissioner of police Naveen Arora also paid tribute to the Shia cleric. UP Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu also visited the funeral while Priyanka Gandhi Vadra spoke to the family over phone. “My uncle’s services towards education can never be forgotten. The fact that his funeral procession had thousands in attendance shows how respected and loved he was,” said Maulana Kalbe Jawad. His death was also condoled by president of AIMPLB and rector of Darul Uloom Nadwatul Ulama, Maulana Raabey Hasani Nadwi. AMU vice-chancellor Prof Tariq Mansoor and AMU Old Boy’s Association Lucknow also sent their condolences to the family. Employees of the UP Sunni Central Waqf Board also held a condolence meeting for the cleric. “During Lucknow’s communal riots of 1969, when anti-social elements were targetting a Sunni imam of a mosque at Ghulam Husain ka pul, Maulana Kalbe Sadiq plunged to the imam’s safety. In his early 30s then, he threw himself on the imam and while saving his life got severely injured. Later he moved about requesting people to return to their homes so that the tension subsides, but was lathicharged in the process and jailed for over four months,” said journalist Syed Husain Afsar. “Sadiq and I knew each other since the age of five. We studied together at Madrassa Nazmiya. His work for the community is ideal and there will be no one else like him. A revolutionary who was humble and sans any ego, Sadiq respected knowledge like no other,” shared Maulana Hamid-ul-Hasan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/like-his-life-kalbe-sadiq-unites-all-in-death/articleshow/79417752.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Jaipur||Rs 68,000 fine levied for violations at 3 weddings in Rajasthan||JAISALMER: Taking strict action against people for violating guidelines on marriage functions, the district administration on Wednesday collected Rs 67,500 fine from three places. In Barmer too penalty was collected from violators. Jaisalmer sub-division officer Dinesh Vishnoi, UIT secretary Anurag Bhargava, city SHO Balwantram, revenue and police team taking action at a marriage function in a hotel in Gandhi Colony collected a penalty of Rs 30,000 for not following the corona guidelines. Similarly, in a hotel at Sam in a marriage function penalty was imposed for lack of sanitisers, screening, masks etc. In a marriage function at Jainarayan Vyas Colony in Jaisalmer city marriage was being solemnised without being informed. There were more than 100 guests. People were also bursting firecrackers. A penalty of Rs 32,500 was collected. Covid in-charge and UIT secretary Bhargava said that a lot of information is being received about violations of guidelines and the district administration and police teams went for checking the wedding venues. Penalties were imposed for violating guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rs-68k-fine-levied-for-violations-at-3-weddings/articleshow/79417047.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Lockdown delay in treatment sees rise in urological ailments||Visakhapatnam: City-based urologists have noticed an increase of around 30-40 % in the number of patients with urological complexities in recent months. The out-patient department (OPD) of King George Hospital (KGH) has also seen a five to six-fold increase in patients with urological problems during this period. Medical experts say a majority of these patients are those who had stopped treatment midway or delayed seeking medical attention fearing exposure to Covid-19 in hospital visits. Most of these cases are of complicated bladder ailments, ureteric stones, bladder stones and kidney stones, renal carcinoma, bladder cancer and urinary tract infections. Speaking to TOI, assistant professor of urology at KGH Dr G Manohar said, “During lockdown, mainly due to Covid-19 fear and unavailability of transport, we would hardly get one or two in-patients per week, which has now increased to five to six cases a week and at times goes above 10 cases. Simultaneously, we are seeing 50-60 cases on an average per day at the OPD, while during and just prior to lockdown, we used to get five to 10 cases per day at the OPD. However, due to delay in getting themselves treated or operated, some cases have become more complicated and carcinomas have progressed.” Dr G Ravindra Varma, senior consultant urologist, Asian Institute of Nephrology and Urology, Visakhapatnam said, “Delaying simple surgeries like kidney stone removal could lead to major issues in the long run. During lockdown, around 20-30 % patients came with urology-related ailments. Since then, the percentage has been rising and has now gone up to 60-70 %.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/lockdown-delay-in-treatment-sees-rise-in-urological-ailments/articleshow/79414937.cms||Sulogna Mehta
November 26, 2020||Lucknow||HC concerned over no action against DM||Lucknow: The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court on Wednesday expressed concern that the state government has not taken any action against the district magistrate. The state counsel, however, submitted before the court that the Hathras DM had acted in a bona fide manner and hence no action was taken against him. The court fixed December 16 for next hearing. The CBI furnished its status report of the case and assured the bench that it would conclude its investigation by December 10. Hearing the case at length, the bench of justice Pankaj Mithal and justice Rajan Roy expressed concern over the state government’s stand of not shifting Hathras DM to any other district. The bench also granted more time to the government and amicus curie, senior advocate JN Mathur, to deliberate on proposed modalities regarding guidelines for cremation of bodies in Hathras-like situation. Earlier, while filing affidavit, senior advocate SV Raju and additional advocate general VK Sahi told the bench that the DM had acted in a bona fide manner and handled the situation properly. “Neither the victim’s family has questioned the DM’s role nor has the investigation agency found that he influenced the probe. There is no reason to transfer or suspend the DM only on the whimsical demand of any political party as it would demoralize bureaucracy,” they said. When Seema Kushwaha, lawyer of the victim’s family, submitted that the government should allot a house to the family in Delhi, the court said it had taken suo motu cognizance on a limited issue and it was not an adversarial litigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/hc-concerned-over-no-action-against-dm/articleshow/79417704.cms||Ravi Singh Sisodiya
November 26, 2020||Lucknow||More French companies may invest in UP, says ambassador||LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath met French Ambassador Emmanuel Lenain on Wednesday “They spoke about the relations between France and India, especially the connection with UP and how it can be taken forward,” said a government spokesperson. The CM spoke about the historical relations between France and UP. He also thanked the French government for delivering Rafale fighter jets on time and said that France has always supported India in its fight against terrorism. Inviting France to invest in UP, Yogi spoke about how UP has been developed into a favourable hub for investments. “To promote investments, the state government has declared several sectoral policies and focused on ease of doing business,” he said. Lenain said that France wants to increase cooperation between the two countries, and especially with UP. He said that students from the state would be invited to study in French universities. The French delegation had visited IIM Lucknow during its visit and will also be touring other universities in the state. The Ambassador said that France would like to extend cooperation with UP in the field of education, adding that they may even sign an MoU to this effect. He said several French companies were shifting base out of China and many were looking at India as a priority destination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/more-french-companies-may-invest-in-up-says-ambassador/articleshow/79417881.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath campaign blitz for Hyderabad civic polls on Saturday||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath will touchdown in Hyderabad on November 28 to campaign in the high-stakes Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections to 150 wards that straddle 24 Assembly seats, where BJP is trying to make inroads. The saffron mascot is likely to launch his campaign blitz in Golconda area of Old City. Though corporation elections are usually a local affair, BJP is pulling out all stops to win the polls by paradropping top guns, including Amit Shah, Yogi Adityanath, Smriti Irani and former Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis. In fact, there are reports Prime Minister Narendra Modi could hit the campaign trail, which has over the week witnessed a polarisation streak. “The chief minister will be participating in a road show on November 28. He will be campaigning for a day,” confirmed his office. GHMC polls scheduled for December 1 has turned into a prestige battle for BJP and this clear from its star-studded list of campaigners, something rare for a municipal election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-campaign-blitz-for-hyd-civic-polls-on-sat/articleshow/79417910.cms||Neha Lalchandani
November 26, 2020||Lucknow||UP to increase exports to Rs 3 lakh crore in 3 years: Minister||LUCKNOW: The state cabinet has approved UP Export Policy 2020-25 aimed at easing exports, promoting Make in UP and Make in India brands and increasing exports from Rs 1.2 lakh crore in 2019-20 to Rs 3 lakh crore in the next three years, besides increasing the income of farmers. Minister for investment and export, Sidharth Nath Singh said, “The new policy has been drafted to help UP benefit from the industries moving out of China after Covid-19 outbreak. China’s share of exports to several countries was huge, but its international relations have soured after the pandemic. We should try and integrate India’s manufacturing with the global supply chain as mentioned by Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently.” “UP’s exports were Rs 1.20 lakh crore in 2019-20. We plan to increase our exports to at least Rs 3 lakh crore in the next three years,” Singh added. The UP Export Policy 2020-2025 aims to promote development in export sector, increase competitiveness, and provide export-related assistance and services to export subsidiaries and establishment and development of technical and physical infrastructure to increase exports. “A detailed implementation strategy has been drawn up to achieve the objectives of the policy,” said a government spokesperson. “As per the plan, export process will be simplified by reducing procedural formalities through a single-window system, appointment of a coordinator by the Export Promotion Bureau for troubleshooting, development and promotion of Make in UP and Make in India brands, and cooperation in registration of geographical indicators for exportable products,” he said. The state government will organise capacity development and training programmes for service providers, establish B2B exchanges for small entrepreneurs so that they are able to take advantage of online trading, and introduce special provisions to increase exports from service sector. The key focus areas of the new policy are handicrafts, agriculture and processed food products, engineering goods, handloom and textile, leather products, carpets and rugs, glass and ceramic products, wood products, sports goods, defence products, services sector, education, tourism, IT and ITES, medical value travels and logistics. The export policy will also adopt all components not covered by the Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Promotion Policy for doubling the income of farmers. The policy is also aimed at making available UP’s natural and human resources in the international market which would help in employment generation for the youth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-to-increase-exports-to-rs-3lcr-in-3-years-min/articleshow/79417888.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Lucknow||Swedish giant IKEA to kick off India’s biggest outlet in Noida||LUCKNOW: Swedish flat-pack furniture giant IKEA is likely to kick off work at its Noida outlet, touted to be its biggest store in India, in coming weeks and has committed to completing the project by 2025. The company had signed an MoU with UP government in December 2018 for Rs 5,000-crore investment in Noida and other UP cities over next few years. Industries minister Satish Mahana said, 47,833 sqm land had been allotted to the company, but work didn’t take off due to pending payments. “All issues have been cleared and the company has committed to finishing the project by 2025. I have issued directions to ensure the company gets quick possession of land,” said Mahana. IKEA, which opened its first outlet in India in Hyderabad in 2018, has proposed to set up an integrated commercial project in Noida giving direct employment to 1,000 and indirect jobs to another 1,000. The company intends to expand to 40 cities by 2030. Officials said, IKEA initially signed an MoU with the previous government in 2015 to set up three stores in Lucknow, Agra and Noida with an investment of Rs 500-crore in each city. However, its plans evolved over the years and a fresh MoU was signed in 2018. “We are looking to set up a mix of large and smaller city centre format stores across the state, which would be accompanied by an e-commerce platform in coming months. The immediate plan is to set up a big-format IKEA store in Noida with estimated investment of Rs 1,000 crore,” Peter Betzel, CEO IKEA India said. Sources said, a typical IKEA store has an average size of 4,00,000 sqft. Since it is difficult to find such a large space within a city, the company is looking to change its model and develop smaller stores, either standalone or even within malls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/swedish-giant-ikea-to-kick-off-indias-biggest-outlet-in-noida/articleshow/79417890.cms||Neha Lalchandani
November 26, 2020||Lucknow||Jagan to replicate Kashi’s waste management model in Andhra Pradesh||LUCKNOW: Inspired by the cleanliness of the ancient pilgrim town of Varanasi and the success of Namami Gange project, the Andhra Pradesh government is planning to replicate the solid and liquid waste management system in the state. Andhra Pradesh chief minister Jagan Mohan Reddy is sending a team led by his principal secretary, general administration, on a two-day visit to the city. The team, which is likely to reach Kashi on November 28, will also scout for land to establish a Tirupati Tirumala Devasthanams Temple in Varanasi. In December 2019, the Tirupati Tirumala Board cleared a proposal to build Lord Venkateswara temples in Varanasi and Jammu and Kashmir. Taking the proposal forward, the Andhra Pradesh team will be looking for 5acre for the temple in Kashi, said an official, adding the Varanasi administration would shortlist options before the arrival of the AP team led by principal secretary to chief minister, Pravin Prakash. A government spokesperson confirmed the Andhra Pradesh government had sent a letter to UP chief minister’s office and praised work done in Varanasi under Namami Gange programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/jagan-to-replicate-kashis-waste-management-model-in-andhra/articleshow/79417871.cms||Neha Lalchandani
November 26, 2020||Agra||In UP, health, frontline workers to get vaccine shots on priority||LUCKNOW: Over 8 lakh health staff and frontline workers will get priority in Covid-19 vaccination in Uttar Pradesh. According to health officials, the vaccine would be provided to all in a phased manner. They claimed UP has raised the demand of at least four crore vaccines in first phase. “One obvious group for priority in vaccination is of health workers. UP has prepared a list of about 8 lakh Covid warriors. Then there are about 3.75 crore people who are over 50 years of age and 1.5 crore are in the age group of 40-50 years. Other priority groups may include pregnant women and children below 10 years of age,” sources said. Union health ministry officials revealed that Covid-19 vaccination programme would take place in a phased manner. The National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19, led by Dr Vinod Paul, is identifying groups of people who would get the vaccine first. Even as trials for Covid-19 vaccine are underway in different countries and in India, the Uttar Pradesh government has launched a massive exercise to put systems and mechanism in place to store Covid-19 vaccine. A mega gap-analysis was undertaken with the help of Unicef to assess availability of infrastructure and requirement of additional space for storage of Covid-19 vaccine. Based on the findings of the assessment that used National Cold Chain Vaccine Management and Resource Centre’s Cold Chain Space Calculation Tool, funds to the tune of Rs 264.6 lakh have been sanctioned by the National Health Mission (NHM) for construction of additional storage space and procure required equipment like deep freezers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/in-up-health-frontline-workers-to-get-vaccine-shots-on-priority/articleshow/79424659.cms||Shailvee Sharda
November 26, 2020||Lucknow||In UP, health, frontline workers to get vaccine shots on priority||LUCKNOW: Over 8 lakh health staff and frontline workers will get priority in Covid-19 vaccination in Uttar Pradesh. According to health officials, the vaccine would be provided to all in a phased manner. They claimed UP has raised the demand of at least four crore vaccines in first phase. “One obvious group for priority in vaccination is of health workers. UP has prepared a list of about 8 lakh Covid warriors. Then there are about 3.75 crore people who are over 50 years of age and 1.5 crore are in the age group of 40-50 years. Other priority groups may include pregnant women and children below 10 years of age,” sources said. Union health ministry officials revealed that Covid-19 vaccination programme would take place in a phased manner. The National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19, led by Dr Vinod Paul, is identifying groups of people who would get the vaccine first. Even as trials for Covid-19 vaccine are underway in different countries and in India, the Uttar Pradesh government has launched a massive exercise to put systems and mechanism in place to store Covid-19 vaccine. A mega gap-analysis was undertaken with the help of Unicef to assess availability of infrastructure and requirement of additional space for storage of Covid-19 vaccine. Based on the findings of the assessment that used National Cold Chain Vaccine Management and Resource Centre’s Cold Chain Space Calculation Tool, funds to the tune of Rs 264.6 lakh have been sanctioned by the National Health Mission (NHM) for construction of additional storage space and procure required equipment like deep freezers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/in-up-health-frontline-workers-to-get-vaccine-shots-on-priority/articleshow/79417657.cms||Shailvee Sharda
November 26, 2020||Trichy||3,200 evacuated from vulnerable areas in Thanjavur||Thanjavur: Being one of the delta districts likely to face the wrath of Cyclone Nivar post landfall, Thanjavur district administration evacuated a total of 3,203 people from low-lying areas and made them stay in 78 relief centres as rain continued throughout Wednesday. The district administration said arrangements were made to provide them food and clean drinking water during their stay. The government-appointed monitoring officer for the district, N Subbaiyan, appealed to the people in vulnerable locations to go to the relief centres voluntarily. Reviewing the preparedness of revenue and other departments, Subbaiyan said sand bags and saw machines were kept ready for flood prevention on the bank of Vennaru in Kalancheri. Thanjavur district collector M Govindarao was also present. The monitoring officer visited the cyclone centre at Olaiyakunnam village in Madhukkur union in Pattukottai and also took stock of the essential commodities and medicines available. He reviewed the water level at Nasuvini and Sellikurichi rivers and also visited the fishing harbour at Mallipattinam and Ambuliyar Nedugai. The fishermen were asked to dock their trawlers at a safe distance. Arrangements were made to accommodate 15 fishermen who came from Karaikkal to Mallipattinam. Two more animal medical mobile ambulances (Amma) from Erode and Theni have been brought to Thanjavur for attending to cattle here. People have been asked to report their complaints to the district administration at 1077 toll-free helpline and to follow the government’s instructions without panicking.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/3200-evacuated-from-vulnerable-areas-in-thanjavur/articleshow/79418125.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 26, 2020||Lucknow||Narendra Modi takes dig at Congress in Lucknow University ‘atmanirbhar’ call||LUCKNOW: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday called upon Lucknow University teachers and students to take up the challenge to make every district in the varsity’s jurisdiction ‘atmanirbhar’ by manufacturing products of international standard and not go the same way as Rae Bareli Coach factory venture, which remained defunct for years till NDA revived it. He was speaking at the valedictory function of LU’s centenary celebrations through video-conference. “The university should do research to add value to local products of every district under one-district-one-product scheme and run skill development courses for local citizens to help them make goods globally competitive,” the PM said. He cited Lucknow’s chikankari, Aligarh’s locks and Moradabad’s brass utensils, which have the potential to compete at the world level. Recently, the state government increased LU’s jurisdiction to four adjoining districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/modi-takes-dig-at-cong-in-lu-atmanirbhar-call/articleshow/79417911.cms||Mohita Tewari
November 26, 2020||Trichy||700 SDRF, 140 TNDRF personnel pressed into service||Trichy: The state central zone police have deployed more than 9,500 police personnel in the nine districts including Mayiladuthurai to join hands with the revenue and other officials to effectively handle the post-cyclone situation. Camping at Nagappattinam and Mayiladuthurai districts from Tuesday, inspector general of police, central zone, H M Jayaram said that police personnel in the entire zone have been roped into the relief measures. As many as 700 state disaster response force (SDRF) trained police personnel were also put into service in the district. A total of 140 commandos from Tamil Nadu disaster response force (TNDRF) have also been sent to Nagappattinam, Thanjavur and Tiruvarur. IGP listed out that Nagappattinam, Mayiladuthurai Thanjavur and Tiruvarur have been allotted 90,55,114 and 150 SDRF trained police personnel whereas 72 personnel are deployed in Trichy, 62 in Pudukottai, 60 in Ariyalur and 40 in Karur. IGP Jayaram appealed to the people not to venture out during the cyclone and post-cyclone to avoid any untoward incidents. “We are making announcements in the vulnerable locations that people should not come out unnecessarily,” he told ToI. Police have been keeping vigil in the 1,108 vulnerable locations including 179 villages in Thanjavur, 212 in Thanjavur, 195 in Nagappattinam and 201 in Mayiladuthurai. As many as 3,319 volunteers have come forward to assist the police personnel in the relief measures. Around 25% of them were fishermen who will be more helpful in rescue operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/700-sdrf-140-tndrf-personnel-pressed-into-service/articleshow/79418128.cms||Gokul Rajendran
November 26, 2020||Rajkot||Mystery shrouds death of four farm labourers at Panchmahal||RAJKOT: Four farm labourers from Panchmahal district have died under mysterious circumstances in Botad government hospital since Tuesday evening. Police suspect some kind of poisoning or consuming spurious liquor as possible reasons for the death. They had returned three days ago and were employed in the farm of Amrut Patel. Of the five people working in the farm, one died on Tuesday night and four others were brought to government hospital. Two died on Wednesday noon and one more succumbed in the evening. Talking to TOI, Ashok Yadav, inspector general of police, Bhavnagar range, said "Doctors suspect some poisoning or spurious liquor as the cause of deaths. We have called forensic teams from Bhavnagar and Amreli to ascertain the exact cause." The labourers had taken a brief halt near Vadodara while returning to Botad and they had had dinner there. Their health started deteriorating the next day. The deceased were identified as Kanta Nayak (55), Trikam Nayak (58), Fatehsinh Bariya (60) and Ratan Nayak (52). Another worker, Pravin Nayak, is under treatment and his condition is said to be stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/mystery-shrouds-death-of-four-farm-labourers/articleshow/79414965.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Now, shops & offices flouting Covid-19 norms to be sealed||BHOPAL: In the time limit (TL) meeting, district collector, Avinash Lavania, asked all the SDMs and SHOs to tour the areas under their jurisdiction regularly and prevail upon the people to wear masks at public places and observe social distancing. He further said that shopkeepers and staff at the commercial establishments should also be cautioned to wear masks necessarily, and if they are found without masks, their shops and establishments must be sealed for three days. He also asked officials to take complaints received on CM Helpline and revenue matters seriously and dispose them of within stipulated time limit. He said that revenue collection in Bhopal district must be increased and efforts should be consistently made to put Bhopal among top three states in revenue collection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/now-shops-offices-flouting-covid-19-norms-to-be-sealed/articleshow/79416058.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
November 26, 2020||Lucknow||Sanskrit kavi sammelan at LU||For the first time in 95 years, the historic Malaviya Hall of Lucknow University echoed with shlokas and poetry during a Sanskrit kavi sammelan organised as part of the centenary celebrations. The moment the teachings of Shaivism was recited during the kavi sammelan, the hall was filled with applause. Famous Sanskrit and Persian poet and a former student of LU, Sarvesh Tripathi, read: ‘Mradti Nrityati Vachi Shivgama’, the teachings of Shaivism. Padma Shri awardee and director of Abhinavgupta research institute of LU Brijesh Kumar Shukla, Vice-Chancellor of Sampurnanand Sanskrit University, Varanasi, Prof Ashok Kumar Kaliya and president of Sanskrit Sansthan Vachaspati Mishra also graced the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sanskrit-kavi-sammelan-at-lu/articleshow/79417857.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 26, 2020||Bhopal||Sharp fall in Covid death rate in November, but active cases rise in Bhopal||BHOPAL: During the current surge of pandemic, active cases have increased across the state while the recovery rate has decreased. But the silver lining during these trying times is that Covid deaths have reduced by more than 50% in the month of November. As per the official figures, Covid-19 had claimed 635 lives in the month of October. On an average, 20 people died every day, last month. In sharp contrast, this month till November 24, a total 232 deaths were reported. This averages to around 9.6 deaths reported per day in the month of November so far. This is despite the fact that Covid-19 cases have started increasing and active cases—the patients who have been tested positive and are under treatment at this time—have increased by a whopping 45%. There were a total of around 8929 active patients in the state as on October 31—registering an increase of 4050 in past 24 days—they has now increased to 12979 as on November 24. Similarly, there has been a significant drop in the recovery rate of Covid patients in the state in the month of November. As on October 31, the cumulative recovery rate of Covid-19 patients in the state was 93.06%. This meant that out of every 100 positive cases reported till October 31, 93.06 had recovered. This recovery rate has fallen by more than 1% this month. As on November 24, the cumulative recovery rate of such patients in the state is 91.7%, which means, of every 100 patients who have been tested positive so far for coronavirus in the state, only 91.7 have recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/sharp-fall-in-covid-death-rate-in-nov-but-active-cases-rise/articleshow/79416052.cms||Amarjeet Singh
November 26, 2020||Business||Aurobindo’s NJ unit had leaking ceilings, flouted CGMP norms: FDA warning letter||Hyderabad: The New Jersey facility of Aurobindo Pharma’s subsidiary AuroLife Pharma LLC violated good manufacturing practice (CGMP) regulations for finished pharmaceuticals, rendering the products manufactured there adulterated, the US Food & Drug Administration (USFDA) has said in its warning letter to the company. The warning letter, which was issued on October 16, 2020, pertains to the inspection conducted by the USFDA investigators from January 13 to February 12, 2020. According to the warning letter, investigators found that the firm failed to thoroughly investigate unexplained discrepancies or failures of its drug batches. Citing the example Olanzapine tablets manufacturing at the facility, it said: “You did not adequately investigate…impurity test failures. You released five of these API lots for finished drug production and rejected one. In the rejected lot, you observed a high unknown impurity…You had prolonged problems assuring maintenance of the required temperatures of the refrigerated storage unit in which this API was stored.” The letter also stated that the company not only failed to maintain buildings used in the manufacture, packing or holding of its drug products in a good state of repair, it also failed to establish and follow written procedures for cleaning and maintenance of equipment. The warning letter said that while the facility had around nine incidents of water leakage from the ceiling of the encapsulation room and packaging rooms, during inspection its investigators “observed surfaces covered in powder throughout your facility including API sampling rooms, raw material dispensing rooms, common production corridor areas, granulation rooms, and compression rooms.” The letter also said the company failed to establish adequate written procedures for production and process control designed to assure that the drugs it manufactures have the identity, strength and purity that they purport to possess. “To reduce the manufacturing process time for three strengths of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets, you implemented a manufacturing process change,” the warning letter said. The drug regulator has strongly recommended that the company engage a qualified consultant to assist it in meeting CGMP requirements and has warned that failure to correct violations may result in legal action. USFDA also said it may withhold approval of requests for export certificates and pending new drug applications or supplements that list the facility as a supplier or manufacturer until the above violations are corrected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/aurobindos-nj-unit-had-leaking-ceilings-flouted-cgmp-norms-fda-warning-letter/articleshow/79416081.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
November 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Day on, no clue of realtor accused of killing family||Ludhiana: Even after a day, the city police have not been able to trace Rajiv Sunda, accused of murdering four members of his family. The city cops have alerted the Ludhiana rural police also, as they are suspecting he escaped towards Jagraon. While the police are probing the case from all angles, close relatives of the Sunda family are finding it hard to accept that Rajiv brutally killed his family. According to the police, on Monday evening, Rajiv made the last call to Rakesh Sood, his brother-in-law (wife’s brother) who was his good friend too. Rakesh said, “It was just a causal call of a few seconds. I don’t even remember what Rajiv said. I can only say that it is hard to believe that he could do this. He was the type of person who would get scared easily. Rarely have I seen him get aggressive. I can’t believe he killed his family.” On the other side, Sunda family’s daughter-in-law Garima’s family has refuted the allegations of demanding money or threatening to implicate Rajiv in a dowry harassment case. They said Rajiv used to stop Garima from visiting them. Ashok Gulati, father of deceased Garima, said, “My wife Anita died on October 13 due to a cardiac arrest. My daughter-in-law is also living separately due to a dispute with my son Gaurav. For the past few days, Garima was coming to our house to cook for us. On Saturday, Garima came home and cooked food for us. In the evening, I dropped her home and did not find any problem in the family.”“On Monday night, I talked to Garima on phone and did not sense any tension though I knew Rajiv used to stop her from coming to our house. I don’t understand what happened that caused this incident. Besides, I never demanded or took money from Rajiv. Also, we never threatened to implicate him in a dowry case,” he added. Ashok said early Tuesday morning when Saket called him up to tell that Garima was being beaten up, he immediately woke up and started getting ready to reach there. About four minutes later, he called Saket again to ask him to capture a video, but he did not answer the calls, he claimed. Assistant commissioner of police (west) Gurpreet Singh said, “The police could not trace Rajiv in the area people had seen him going. The road leads to Jagraon, so the Ludhiana rural police have been alerted. Mobiles of all family members have been sent for forensic examination to Phillaur.”Autopsy report: First hit on heads with axe On Wednesday, a board of three doctors, comprising Dr Bindu, Dr Anmol Ratan and Dr Sheetal Sharma, conducted the post-mortem on the bodies. As per the autopsy report, all family members were first attacked on heads with an axe, at least twice. After that, the accused hit on their necks. Garima was attacked on the neck multiple times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/day-on-no-clue-of-realtor-accused-of-killing-family/articleshow/79415009.cms||Payal Dhawan
November 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Beware! Your PAN, Aadhaar cards can be sold for Rs 100||Ludhiana: In a joint operation, Ludhiana police cyber cell, CIA-II and counter-intelligence busted a gang of inter-state cyber fraudsters with the arrest of seven. Besides availing loans on fraudulently-procured ID proofs, the accused also assisted other cyber criminals. With their arrest, the city police have learned about a racket that was selling Aadhaar and PAN cards of gullible people for merely Rs 100 to cyber criminals. The arrested have been identified as Vijay Kumar Bittu of Krishna Nagar, Anshuman Singh of Lakshmi Nagar, Sushil Kumar Patel of Mahadev Nagar, Sooraj of Makkar Colony, Sanjay Kumar of Prem Nagar, Rohit of Bhora Colony and Ram Narayan of Lakshmi Nagar. The police have recovered Rs 5.45 lakh, 11 mobile phones, three credit cards, 17 SIM cards, two laptops, one scanner, one coloured printer, 45 PAN cards, six memory cards and 11 debit cards from their possession. Commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal said, “Among these seven, Rohit is a courier boy, who was aware that the accused were using ID proofs of other people. He used to deliver the debit cards issued by banks to them at different places. All the accused are matriculate, but have so much knowledge that they can easily dupe people. Other six cyber fraudsters are a part of the inter-state gang. They used different modus operandi for different types of crimes. They all are from Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh, but were operating from Giaspura in Ludhiana.”“This gang also provided genuine Aadhaar and PAN cards to other cyber criminals for online frauds and helped them in opening bank accounts using these ID proofs. These documents were also used to avail loans online, as there are some mobile applications like Dhani and Red Carpet that give loans without verification. By getting new SIM cards, they managed to get several cashbacks on different mobile applications,” added Agarwal. The accused had been active for the past one year, during which they created more than 100 bank accounts to deposit ill-gotten money. Additional deputy commissioner of police (crime) Rupinder Kaur Bhatti, who is also heading the cyber cell, said, “The accused were aware that the instant accounts of some banks can be opened easily without physical verification. They needed bank accounts to deposit the money, so they used this technique. In Punjab, they used to get the bank accounts opened with the IDs of people belonging to UP, Jharkhand, West Bengal and Uttarakhand. Similarly, IDs of Punjab people were sold to the cyber fraudsters of other states.”ADCP Bhatti added, “All these accused either worked at mobile stores or are distributors of SIM cards, so they were aware of the system. When customers came to them for getting a new SIM card, they kept details of their Aadhaar and PAN cards. The gang leader is at large and police are trying to trace him. He was training some youngsters for these frauds.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/beware-your-pan-aadhaar-cards-can-be-sold-for-rs-100/articleshow/79415012.cms||Payal Dhawan
November 26, 2020||Dehradun||Five persons, including Nepalese pensioners of Indian Army, killed after jeep falls into gorge||PITHORAGARH: At least five people from Nepal, including Nepalese pensioners of the Indian Army, were killed and as many sustained injuries after the jeep they were travelling in fell into a 250-foot-deep gorge at Buddha (Nepal) near the Indo-Nepal border. The deceased include four women who had come to India to withdraw the pension of their late husbands, all ex-Indian Army personnel. According to a Nepalese police source, the accident took place when they were returning to Gothalapani (Nepal) after withdrawing pension from the Jhulaghat (Pithoragarh) branch of State Bank of India (SBI). Earlier this week, the Indo-Nepal border was opened (from November 23 to November 27) for pensioners and their kin to collect their pension from the (SBI) branches located on the Indian side. The deceased have been identified as — Kalawati (75), Bhagirath Pande (77), Parwati Chand (72), Parwati Devi (70), and Krishna Lal (58), the source added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/five-persons-including-nepalese-pensioners-of-indian-army-killed-after-jeep-falls-into-gorge/articleshow/79415007.cms||Prem Punetha
November 26, 2020||Trichy||154 relief centres kept ready in Trichy||Trichy: Despite not facing a severe threat from Cyclone Nivar, Trichy district was also put on alert with the district administration keeping relief centres ready at more than 150 locations on Wednesday. District collector S Sivarasu said the administration identified 154 locations under four categories as very high, high, medium and low vulnerable zones based on the precedence of flood. The only three very high vulnerable locations -- Odathurai, Ukkadai in Ariyamangalam and Devadhanam areas in Trichy city -- come under Trichy east taluk while the rest of the 11 taluks had no such location. "The relief centres have been kept ready near all the identified vulnerable locations. In case of emergency, people in the vulnerable areas will be shifted to relief centres," the collector told TOI. Lalgudi taluk, where the cyclone’s taluk could be comparatively higher, has been given additional attention. After the day dawned with cloudy skies, drizzling and mild shower continued from noon. The rainfall report showed the district realized 39.6 mm of rain between 8 am and 4 pm with an average rainfall of 1.58. Pullambadi registered the highest of 9.8 mm and Nandhiyar Head 8.6 mm. Trichy town recorded 3.4 mm of rainfall while Thuraiyur got 4 mm. The water level in Cauvery was 1000 cusecs as of now and officials ruled out the possibilities of it rising, or in Kollidam. The district administration was in anticipation that traffic could be thrown out of gear if heavy rain lashes the city for an hour or two post-cyclone. Waterlogging on the arterial roads would be unavoidable in such circumstances thanks to the drainage and sewage systems. Very high vulnerable zones – 3 High vulnerable zones – 38 Medium vulnerable zones – 41 Low vulnerable locations – 72||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/154-relief-centres-kept-ready-in-trichy/articleshow/79418136.cms||Gokul Rajendran
November 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Amid Covid surge, sampling falls in Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Even as the health authorities anticipate further surge in Covid-19 cases in Ludhiana district in the coming days, the number of samples being collected is much below the target of 5,200 set by them. They say they are not getting adequate number of people for testing.A health department data suggests that the sampling has not reached even 3,300-mark in November month. In fact, on 15 days out of 24 this month, testing has been below 2,000-mark, while on six days, it was between 2,000 and 3,000 and on three days above 3,000-mark. The figures show that testing had dropped to as low as 1,280 on November 17 and it was 1,428 twice on November 4 and 16.Going by the data, the Covid sampling was higher in September. Around the first week of the month, it had increased to 5,200. On September 5, 5,212 samples were collected by the health works and 5,102 a day after. Between September 10 and 20, 5,260 samples were collected on September 11, 5,217 on 13th, 5,311 on 17th and 5,521 on 18th. Maximum for the month 5,636 samples were collected on September 25.The data further shows that in October, not once the samples collected had touched the target and crossed the 5,000-mark only twice — 5,009 on October 1 and 5,053 on October 7.There has been a significant fall in testing ahead of the second surge anticipated around the second week of December, though the health department authorities say they are trying their best to increase it.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said there is a need for greater awareness among the people, so that they come forward for testing. He added that they are soon going to get an IEC (information, education and communication) van for the purpose.A health department officer involved in the sampling process said there is hesitation among the people, especially in rural areas, for getting themselves tested. They are trying to dispel their doubts and increase testing, as early treatment and effective contact tracing are the best ways to check the pandemic spread, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/amid-covid-surge-sampling-falls-in-ludhiana/articleshow/79415021.cms||Shariq Majeed
November 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Winter comes early: Coldest Nov day in 23 yrs chills city||Ludhiana: The city shivered as it recorded the coldest November day in 23 years on Wednesday.According to the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) report, the day temperature dipped to 19 degrees C, which is 5.2 degrees less than normal. The minimum (night) temperature was recorded at 11.6 degrees C, which is 2.7 degrees more than normal. A PAU weather expert said it was the coldest day in November in more than two decades. “The day temperature had dipped to 18 degrees in November-end in 1997. But since then, the drop in maximum temperature has not been so much. As per our records, Wednesday’s day temperature was the lowest in November after 1997,” said PAU agrometeorologist Kulwinder Kaur Gill.“Weather is likely to remain cloudy and there are chances of isolated showers in the next 24 hours after which dry conditions are expected in Ludhiana. The day temperature is likely to increase from Thursday,” she added.The fall in mercury is attributed to multiple reasons. “Since Punjab is the first plain land state after hilly ones, snowfall in the latter has an impact on the temperatures here. Also, as weather was dry for around one-and-a-half months before November 15, western disturbances gained strength and affected the temperatures. As compared with recent years, winter has arrived early in Ludhiana,” said Gill. The meteorological department website predicts rise in day temperature to 24 degrees till Saturday followed by a fall to 22 degrees the next day. The night temperature is expected to fall to 8 degrees till Saturday and remain the same on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/winter-comes-early-coldest-nov-day-in-23-yrs-chills-city/articleshow/79415061.cms||Shariq Majeed
November 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Virus snuffs out 2 lives; case count is 22,346 as 104 more test positive||Ludhiana: Two residents of Ludhiana died of Covid-19 and 104 tested positive on Wednesday.As per the local media bulletin, the district casualties included a 46-year-old man of Lal Kothi Model Town and a 72-year-old man of Satjot Nagar on Dhandran Road, who had hypertension.The day also saw three outsiders succumbing to the virus and nine testing positive here.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the district death count has risen to 888 and that of outsiders to 375.To date, 4,41,320 persons have been tested.Of the 104 new cases, 42 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), 37 positive cases’ contacts, eight from OPD, 10 through tracing process, four healthcare workers, two pre-operative cases and one interstate traveller.The local health department officials said the case count of Ludhiana has increased to 22,346 and that of outsiders to 3,148.The civil surgeon said to date, 20,599 patients have recovered, which constitutes 92.18% of the total cases.There are 856 active cases in the district. The number of persons home quarantined is 1,944.On Wednesday, 196 persons were quarantined and 3,544 samples collected.There are 147 ventilators in private hospitals, including four government ones at CMCH.Seven patients, including a Ludhianvi, are on ventilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/virus-snuffs-out-2-lives-case-count-is-22346-as-104-more-test-positive/articleshow/79415037.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Dehradun||HC asks Uttarakhand to furnish info on steps to check Covid spread during Kumbh||NAINITAL: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Wednesday directed the state government to file an affidavit within a week detailing the measures it is planning to take to check the spread of Covid-19 during the upcoming Kumbh Mela. While hearing a bunch of PILs about the state’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, a bench of Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Ravindra Maithani noted that it is “imperative” for the state to strictly adopt additional measures for the religious event slated to begin on January 1. The first Shahi Snan (ritual dip) would be held on March 11 for which thousands of people are likely to visit the holy town. Lawyer Shiv Bhatt, appearing for one of the petitioners, said, “We had raised concern whether social distancing norms will be followed during the Kumbh Mela as lakhs of people are likely to visit Haridwar. Hence, the court has given the state government a week’s time to provide the details about the steps to curb the virus spread.” According to estimates, more than five crore people had visited Haridwar for the last Kumbh Mela in 2010. Meanwhile, the court also directed the state government to file an affidavit detailing the assistance provided to the public reeling under the Covid-19 crisis. “We had cited several Acts and schemes of the government through which help can be provided to the people worst affected by the pandemic. The government, on its part, said that it has done whatever is possible to help the public. The HC has now given them time till December 23 to place the details before the court,” Bhatt added. The court then posted the next hearing for Wednesday, where it will consider the government’s affidavit on Kumbh and the suggestions put forward by the district-level monitoring committees appointed to tackle the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hc-asks-ukhand-to-furnish-info-on-steps-to-check-covid-spread-during-kumbh/articleshow/79415029.cms||Prashant Jha
November 26, 2020||Hyderabad||SC vacates media gag order on AP Amaravathi land scam case||HC had banned reporting on FIR against ex-AG and SC judge’s daughters Dhananjay.Mahapatra@timesgroup.com New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Wednesday vacated a two-month-old order of the Andhra Pradesh high court gagging the media from reporting an FIR registered against former advocate general D Srinivas and 13 others, including two daughters of a senior SC judge, for illegal purchase of land in Amaravathi area. The Andhra Pradesh police had received a complaint on September 7 about the accused persons purchasing land in Amaravathi region even before a decision between Amaravathi and Vijayawada for the new capital of the state, after Telangana was carved out, was taken. It was alleged that they had insider knowledge about the decision to be taken by the then Chandrababu Naidu government. It registered the FIR on September 15. On a petition filed by Srinivas alleging vendetta by the Andhra Pradesh government headed by Y S Jaganmohan Reddy, the HC had stayed investigation into the FIR and restrained the police from taking any coercive step on the basis of the FIR while restraining the media from reporting the contents of the FIR. Appearing for the Andhra Pradesh government, senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan said the police had found a series of transactions and it was unprecedented that an HC proceeded with unseemly haste to restrain further investigation and granted anticipatory bail to the accused while gagging the media. Appearing for Srinivas, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi and Harish Salve termed the FIR a “naked attempt” to mar the reputations of the ex-AG and others. “A capital city requires 50,000 acres of land. The decision about Amaravathi being chosen as the capital was in public knowledge since June 2014. Thousands purchased land in the area as it was open to the public to buy land. What is wrong in land purchases made in July 2015? Because the CM faced a flurry of cases and got no relief from the HC, he is doing this through the police. The police are being used as the infamous Gestapo of the Nazis. The HC is also seized of a petition accusing the government of slandering the HC and its judges through vituperative social media posts," Rohatgi said. Salve said the matter was of grave concern. “It is a vote of no confidence against the HC by the state government. From September 15 till date, the government has not filed a reply in the HC in the pending case and has moved the SC. They could have moved the HC and sought vacation of the stay order,” he added. Referring to the Jaganmohan Reddy government as “revenge regime”, Salve said when the government did not succeed in damning the reputation of the ex-AG and others through the FIR because of the HC’s intervention, the CM wrote a letter to the CJI complaining against an SC judge. “The government is talking of the gag order. But despite the gag order, the adviser to the CM held a press conference on October 10 and narrated the contents of the FIR while distributing the CM's complaint letter to the CJI,” he said. “This is how this revenge regime functions.'' Since Salve borrowed the "revenge regime" phrase coined by Dhavan when he was appearing for J Jayalalithaa at a time when she was facing the heat of prosecution in many cases, Dhavan responded by saying that he did not disagree that the “revenge regime” concept existed. But he asked, "Should a complaint disclosing illegal land deals be not investigated just because it was allowed to happen in the previous regime?" The bench sought responses from the ex-AG and the police on the Andhra Pradesh government's petition and asked the HC not to "finally decide" Sirinavas's pending petition. It posted the state government's appeal for final hearing in the last week of January.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sc-vacates-media-gag-order-on-ap-amaravathi-land-scam-case/articleshow/79418159.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
November 26, 2020||Rajkot||Himmatnagar traders to close shops by 4pm||PALANPUR: Concerned over the rising cases of Covid-19, traders in Himmatnagar and Idar town have voluntarily decided to down their shutters early for the next two weeks. The traders will shut their shops by 4 pm from Thursday in both Idar and Himmatnagar. The decision came after a joint meeting of Sabarkantha district collector C J Patel with the traders, municipal president and the local MLA on Thursday. Patel said that the traders decided to shut their shops early on their own due to fear of rise in Covid cases. While traders in Idar will observe the early shutdown till December 9, those in Himmatnagar have decided to close shops by 4 pm till December 10. “The trade associations in Idar had earlier observed a complete shutdown for a week to ensure that the virus doesn’t spread further,” said Kisan Soni, one of the traders in Idar. “Lot of customers from adjacent villages flock our town and hence the risk of Covid-19 infection increases manifold. So it was decided to reduce the shop timings and to reduce contact with people,” said Naresh Desai, president, Choksi Association, Idar. As per the official figures, Sabarkantha has so far tested 1,443 Covid positive cases including 12 deaths of which 276 positive cases and two deaths are from Idar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/himmatnagar-traders-to-close-shops-by-4pm/articleshow/79415057.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Nashik||Ahmednagar district: More schools reopen, parents still hesitant||NASHIK: Three days since the schools reopened in Ahmednagar district, over 9,000 students from standard IX to XII are attending classes with a gradual rise in the number daily. District officials said that parents of only 18,828 students, from the total 2.5 lakh enrolled students, have given their consent for allowing their children to physically attend the school. “Out of these, 9,473 students are attending the school in person,” an official said. So far, 308 schools have reopened in Ahmednagar though all the 1,209 schools have been granted permission to start classes as per the government guidelines. Ahmednagar district collector R B Bhosle said, “We have ensured that the Covid-19 tests of at least one teacher, headmaster, clerical staff and peon have been conducted and the report has come back negative for the school to reopen. The Covid-19 tests of nearly 10,000 school staff have been conducted and 41, who tested positive, are taking treatment.” Officials said that several villagers are still resisting reopening of the schools, though the teachers and the other staff is ready. The administration along with the health officials are in talks with the villagers to allow students to come to school though there is no pressure on them. “The process of attending the school physically is absolutely optional,” the officer said, adding that the online education will continue till further notice. “Our district collector has given us strict guidelines that the schools will open up only if the parents and the children are willing to join. There should be no pressure at all. The health teams and the teachers both are carrying out dialogue with the villagers,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/more-schools-reopen-parents-still-hesitant/articleshow/79415067.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Fresh survey to find tuberculosis, leprosy patients||NASHIK: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has decided to conduct a fresh survey of 7.5 lakh residents, mainly from the slum and densely-populated areas, to detect leprosy, tuberculosis patients in the city. The survey is to be conducted as per the guidelines of the state and central government between December 1 and 16. The main objective of the survey is early detection and timely treatment to the patients. NMC officials said 142 teams of Asha workers and other employees have been formed for the survey. “Other diseases such as leprosy and tuberculosis have been ignored for the past eight-nine months. Hence, it has been decided to detect patients of these two diseases and provide them proper treatment,” a civic official said. Officials said major focus will be on Cidco division, which is densely populated, along with Bhadrakali and old Nashik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/fresh-survey-to-find-tb-leprosy-patients/articleshow/79415034.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 26, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Private labs flooded with inquiries on RT-PCR test by travellers||RAJKOT: Frequent travellers from Saurashtra region, especially traders from Rajkot, are put in a fix as they now have to plan much ahead with Maharashtra government making RT-PCR negative test mandatory for entering the state. This decision of Maharashtra government, taken with the view of curbing Covid-19 spread has led to a surge of inquiries with private laboratories in Rajkot for RT-PCR tests. Private laboratory operators authorised for the Covid-19 tests said that post the Maharashtra government’s decision, the demand for RT-PCR testing has gone up by 10-15%, most of them domestic travellers. Dr Kirit Patel, in-charge at Metropolis laboratory Rajkot said, “We are getting more inquiries for last two days and are expecting the number of tests to go up by at least 10%. We send samples to Mumbai and some of the other authorised laboratories are sending samples to Ahmedabad. So, it takes 24-36 hours to get the results. Now, with the mandatory Covid-19 test rule, a person will have to calculate travel date with a buffer of at least three days for the testing.” Rajkot has four private authorised for Covid-19 testing and there is one laboratory of PDU Medical College. Of these, three private labs send samples outside for testing. Dr. Darshita Shah, who is running a collection centre of Supratech laboratory said, “We are receiving calls from the people who are confused weather they need RT-PCR test and what problem they will face if they are going without a test.” According to district health officials, before Diwali they were conducting 350-400 rapid antigen tests per day. But after state government’s insistence on RT-PCR tests, they are testing 800 people per day since last four days. The RT-PCR test is currently compulsory for crime accused and patients who are required to undergo surgery. Persons who are going abroad too need to undergo RT-PCR test. Dr Manish Bhanderi, Rajkot district health officer said, “We will come to know in the next couple of days the increase in RT-PCR tests done by domestic travellers. We are expecting rush to increase in government as well as private laboratory.” In Surat too, there is a surge in inquiry for RT-PCR test. “In the last three days, inquiries about the RT-PCR tests have increased. We are receiving 40 inquiry calls per day now. Most of the inquiries are coming from those people who regularly visit Maharashtra for business purposes,” said Dr Dhanji Rajani, director of Surat-based Microcare Laboratory and Tuberculosis Research Centre (TRC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/pvt-labs-flooded-with-inquiries-on-rt-pcr-test-by-travellers/articleshow/79415096.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand governor Baby Rani Maurya tests Covid positive for second time||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand governor Baby Rani Maurya on Wednesday tested positive for coronavirus for the second time in the last four days. Dr UB Mishra, dean All India Institute Of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Rishikesh, said that her vital stats are stable. “Her Covid-19 test report again came out positive on Wednesday. She is suffering from cough and cold but we are monitoring her. She is also being given oxygen," added Dr Mishra. Meanwhile, the state reported 482 fresh cases of coronavirus and recorded deaths of 12 Covid-19 positive patients on Wednesday. With this, the case tally shot up to 72,642 and the toll of the virus touched 1,185 in the state. “Among the 482 new infections, the maximum of 157 Covid-19 cases were recorded in Dehradun, followed by 59 in Nainital, 50 in Haridwar, 47 in Pauri, 44 in Pithoragarh, 41 in Chamoli, 23 in Udham Singh Nagar, 15 in Tehri, 12 cases each in Rudraprayag and Champawat, 10 in Almora, seven in Uttarkashi, and five in Bageshwar,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. According to the health department, over 12,000 new samples were collected for Covid-19 testing on Wednesday and as many as 9,779 samples tested negative for the virus. Till Wednesday, the mortality rate of coronavirus infection in the state was 1.63% and the sample positivity rate was reported at 5.7%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/governor-tests-covid-ve-for-2nd-time/articleshow/79415086.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 26, 2020||Kolhapur||Three deaths, 16 cases in Kolhapur district||KOLHAPUR: The Kolhapur district reported 16 fresh Covid cases and three more deaths on Wednesday. The number of active cases, meanwhile, has come down to 494 after 44 patients got discharge. The total number of cases in the district has touched 48,966 so far, including the 1,676 patients who have succumbed to infection and 46,796 who have recovered. Of the new cases, three are from Kolhapur city. Plasma donated by senior civic officials Kolhapur Municipal Corporation’s deputy commissioner Nikhil More and assistant commissioner Sandip Gharge donated plasma at the Chhatrapati Pramila Raje Civil Hospital. Civic chief Kadambari Balkawade applauded the officers and appealed to others to donate plasma and save lives of critical patients. No new deaths in Sangli dist & Solapur city Sangli district reported 57 new Covid cases and 19 patients were discharged on Wednesday. However, there have been no new deaths here. The district has 441 active cases. Meanwhile, Solapur city reported 34 cases and no deaths. In the rural areas, there were four deaths and 216 new cases. Satara district reports 12 Covid deaths In Satara district, 248 new cases and 12 deaths were reported on Wednesday. The total number of active cases in the district is 1,157.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/3-deaths-16-cases-in-kolhapur-dist/articleshow/79413910.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Sewri-Worli connector by 2023, to cost Rs 1,300 crore||MUMBAI: Work on the long-delayed Sewri-Worli connector is expected to start soon as the MMRDA has finalised the contractor for the Rs 1,276-crore project. The 4.5km flyover will connect the under-construction Mumbai Trans-Harbour Link (MTHL) with the Bandra-Worli Sea Link (BWSL), cutting down an hour’s travel time between the two points to just 10 minutes. “The flyover’s section above the Parel-Prabhadevi tracks will have a double-decker design similar to a section of the Santacruz-Chembur Link Road,” said an MMRDA official. “The contractor, J Kumar Infra Projects Ltd, has been given a deadline of 2023.” To cross the Parel-Prabhadevi tracks section, MMRDA had earlier toyed with the idea of an underground stretch, but dropped it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sewri-worli-connector-by-2023-to-cost-rs-1-3k-cr/articleshow/79418161.cms||Manthan K Mehta
November 26, 2020||Rajkot||Man jumps to death from 12th floor in Rajkot||RAJKOT: A 21-year-old man hurled himself to death from the 12th floor of a building between Shital Park and Madhapar Chowkadi in Rajkot on Wednesday. Though it was a clear case of suicide, it created quite a sensation as the CCTV footage of the incident went viral on WhatsApp and social media. The deceased was identified as Bhavik Bhatelia. A preliminary investigation by the police revealed that Bhatelia was suffering from a psychological ailment. A S Chavda, inspector with University police station, told TOI: “We didn’t find any suicide note. We couldn’t find any reason behind his extreme step. However, it has come to light that Bhavik was under psychiatric treatment. We are probing the reasons for the crime.” Bhavik had completed Bsc. His father works in LIC, while his mother is a retired bank employee. “We are also probing whether there was any family dispute that drove Bhavik to such an extremity,” added Chavda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-jumps-to-death-from-12th-floor-in-rajkot/articleshow/79415126.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Dehradun||Nepal seeks opening of Dharchula bridge twice a week to facilitate residents’ movement||Pithoragarh: The district administration of Darchula in Nepal has requested its Indian counterpart to open the suspension bridge connecting Dharchula in Uttarakhand at least twice a week to facilitate the movement of citizens for daily activities. The Himalayan country had closed all its international borders on March 23 in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak and they remain shut ever since. Even though the border points were expected to be reopened on November 13, the Nepalese government had deferred the move to December 15 due to virus surge. However, the latest request by the Nepal district administration comes amid continuing difficulties faced by thousands of its residents who are heavily dependent on the Indian side for their day-to-day activities. Businessmen in Uttarakhand, too, have been detrimentally affected by the border closure. Commenting on the issue, Pithoragarh district magistrate Vijay Kumar Jogdande said that the Nepalese side has sought the opening of the border on Wednesday and Saturday every week to facilitate business and other non-essential activities. He added that the request has been forwarded to the state home department for further instructions. The DM said that the border opening is at present allowed only for emergency purposes, adding that Nepal now wants a permanent arrangement to minimise inconvenience caused to residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nepal-seeks-opening-of-dharchula-bridge-twice-a-week-to-facilitate-residents-movement/articleshow/79415113.cms||Prem Punetha
November 26, 2020||Business||BSE too expels Karvy Stock Broking, says investors can seek help||Hyderabad: A day after the National Stock Exchange (NSE) expelled scam-tainted Karvy Stock Broking Ltd (KSBL) and declared it a defaulter, the Bombay Stock Exchange has followed suit. In a circular issued late Tuesday night, BSE said it has also expelled KSBL and declared it defaulter with effect from November 24, 2020. BSE also advised investors with outstanding claims against KSBL to file their claims with the exchange within 90 days from the issue of notice, which is February 22, 2021, to be considered eligible for compensation of up to Rs 15 lakh from the Investor Protection Fund (IPF) as per Sebi norms. “The eligible claims filed before the end of aforesaid specified period would be considered for compensation from the IPF...to the maximum extent of Rs15 lakh per client,” BSE said in its circular. BSE said investors can either file their claims at its concerned regional investor centres or through its website under e-complaint registration. Sebi too issued a confirmatory order on Tuesday stating that KSBL, through its actions relating to Sebi’s ex parte order issued in November 2019, had accepted its wrong doings as it did not take the opportunity to present its case, including through a personal hearing with Sebi officials. Sebi’s order stated that on the eve of each hearing date, KSBL sought adjournment citing reasons such as “Covid-19 pandemic, heavy rains in Telangana, sickness of its chairman, sickness of the buyer, etc.” KSBL had, over several years, transferred the securities of its clients into its own demat account without their permission and illegally pledged them to raise funds that were eventually diverted to group companies like Karvy Realty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bse-too-expels-karvy-stock-broking-says-investors-can-seek-help/articleshow/79416175.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: Mandatory Covid test puts brakes on travel bookings||KOLHAPUR: Mandatory Covid testing of people arriving from Goa, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Delhi-NCR to Kolhapur has halted travel bookings leading causing losses to the travellers and the tourism industry. More than 20 buses ply passengers from Kolhapur city to Goa every day and over 30 buses pass through Kolhapur city. The state government has made it mandatory for travellers coming from severely Covid-hit states to undergo test before entering Maharashtra. The travellers also have the option to get the test done at their own cost after arrival. However, many are unaware of this option. Navnath Surve, a tour organiser, said, “In the last couple of days, bookings to Goa have stopped. We have also seen that those who have gone to Gujarat are trying to return soon as they may face difficulties in getting the test done in the non-native state.” The tour operators got the permission to carry passengers in full capacity of the buses recently. Earlier, only 50% of the passengers were allowed on a bus. The travel industry was picking up slowly, but now, the Covid test decision has hampered the business of the operators. Satishchandra Kamble, a travel agent from Kolhapur city, said, “Currently, only screening of passengers at the border checkpoints is done. Those with symptoms are asked to get themselves tested at their place of destination and are advised to stay in home quarantine till the results arrive.” The tour operators are ready to get the travellers tested. However, they are unable to get access to the Covid testing centres in Goa. Therefore, they are seeking priority for their clients at testing centres or to make a facility to conduct rapid antigen testing avialable. The RT-PCR labs of government are overburdened at present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/mandatory-covid-test-puts-brakes-on-travel-bookings/articleshow/79413996.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Business||IIL to set up viral antigen unit, to cater to Covid-19 vaccine||Hyderabad: Vaccine maker Indian Immunologicals Ltd (IIL), which is developing a Covid-19 vaccine candidate along with Griffith University of Australia, is setting up a new viral antigen plant in Hyderabad’s Genome Valley at Karkapatla at an investment of Rs 75 crore. The facility is expected to be ready for operations by October 2021. Tto be spread over 2,000 sq metres, it will be a Bio Safety Level 2 and 3 facility that will cater to the viral vaccines in the company’s development pipeline, including its potential Covid-19 vaccine candidate as well as those for dengue, zika and varicella, IIL said on Wednesday. In addition to the viral antigen facility, the ground breaking for which was done on Wednesday, IIL also inaugurated a Rs 75 crore sterile filling facility at Karkapatla that was commissioned last year. IIL said the new filling facility enhances its production capacity by over 35%, helping it ramp up supply of lifesaving vaccines, such as anti-rabies vaccine Abhayrab, to key markets. The expansion will increase IIL’s headcount from around 1300 to 1,500. Terming the investment as strategic, IIL managing director K Anand Kumar said the total investment of over Rs 150 crore is part of IIL’s vision to increase production capacities to ensure a reliable and affordable supply of high-quality vaccines to larger communities. IIL currently has four manufacturing facilities, including three in India and one in New Zealand. It has capacities for human vaccines and animal health formulations at Karkapatla as well as human biologicals and animal vaccines units at Gachibowli in Telangana. It also has an anti-rabies vaccine production unit at Ooty in Tamil Nadu and a new bovine serum facility at Dargaville in New Zealand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/iil-to-set-up-viral-antigen-unit-to-cater-to-covid-19-vaccine/articleshow/79416189.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Covid takes shine off gala winter weddings||JAIPUR: The wedding season kicked off as an extremely low-key affair on Wednesday as compared to previous years when there would be massive snarls, processions and huge crowds in front of the venues. Although there was very less police presence in front of the wedding venues including hotels, traffic was very less as compared to usual days before the night curfew was imposed. The big processions, which included elephants and camels, were reduced to a bare minimum. A constable manning a check point in Hasanpura told TOI, “At present, we are not penalising anyone for being out during curfew hours and are only counselling them. As the wedding season has kicked-off, we checked people for required documents and all of them had valid reasons to be out. Actually, people themselves are concerned and paying heed to the guidelines and so not much policing is required. When the lockdown was imposed in March, people were caught unawares due to which there were more violations but at present that is not the scenario.” As majority of the weddings are held in Jaipur, the invitees wore masks and maintained the limit of 100 guests. Moreover, there were negligible wedding processions and fire shows during the initial rituals of the events. A penalty of Rs 5,000 was imposed on a person named Mahesh Sharma, manager of Shiv Vilas marriage garden at Kukas, for not wearing masks, SDM Aamer Laxmikant Katara said. “The organiser of the marriage was also named in the challan.Today, we ran a campaign explaining people that they should follow Covid protocol and maintain social distancing at the marriages. Else, heavy penalties would be imposed,” said Katara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/weddings-a-low-key-affair-this-season/articleshow/79417292.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Trichy||BJP cancels Vetrivel yatra citing cyclone Nivar||TRICHY: Citing cyclone Nivar, BJP Tamil Nadu president L Murugan on Wednesday announced cancellation of party’s Vetrivel Yatra in the remaining locations except in Thiruchendur where the yatra will conclude on December 5 as planned. “Vetrivel Yarta was held in Karur yesterday (Tuesday). The yatra planned in Thanjavur yesterday in Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam today and in Trichy tomorrow (Thursday) has been cancelled. Likewise, the schedule in Theni and Madurai has also been cancelled due to cyclone Nivar,” Murugan told reporters in Trichy. He said the yatra evoked a huge response from people. “After worshipping the Lord Muruga in the four other Arupadai Veedu temples, we will conduct the final programme of the yatra at Thiruchendur,” he said. Murugan appreciated the chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami for taking precautionary measures in the wake of cyclone Nivar. “The BJP will always keep public welfare a priority. We will join hands with the state government in helping the people during the cyclone. Our cadre and functionaries have already started helping the people evacuate and stay in relief centres,” he said. He also dismissed reports of the BJP seeking 40 seats in the AIADMK alliance as assumptions adding that National Democratic Alliance (NDA) will come to power in Tamil Nadu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bjp-cancels-vetrivel-yatra-citing-cyclone/articleshow/79418158.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Dehradun||DGP designate forms six committees to make policing ‘effective’ and ‘efficient’||Dehradun: Director general of police (law and order) designate Ashok Kumar, who will assume office on November 30, constituted five departmental committees on Wednesday to make all units of the police department more effective and efficient. DGP designate Ashok Kumar said that the aim of the committees is to suggest measures to introduce SMART (S-Sensitive & Strict, M-Modern with Mobility, A-Alert & Accountable, R- Reliable & Responsive, T-Trained & Techno-Savvy) policing in the state. "We are going to take steps to strengthen all units of the police department and increase the efficiency of the police personnel to ensure quick response to the public grievances and their solution," said Ashok Kumar. The six committees include — operational performance committee headed by IG AP Anshuman, modernisation committee headed by IG Amit Sinha, manpower review committee headed by IG Pushpak Jyoti, budget review committee headed by IG V Murugeshan, welfare committee headed by IG Abhivan Kumar, and traffic committee headed by DIG Kewal Khurana. The committees are mandated to prepare future action plans so that smart methods can be adopted in enforcement of law and order system, maintaining traffic system, dealing with drug problem, cyber crime, etc. Along with this, there will be renewed work on police welfare and police modernisation, said Ashok Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dgp-designate-forms-six-committees-to-make-policing-effective-and-efficient/articleshow/79415136.cms||Gaurav Talwar
November 26, 2020||Jaipur||People in Jaipur find ways to ‘slot’ max guests at ceremonies||JAIPUR: As the government prohibited guests over 100 persons in weddings, the organisers have resorted to multiple ways to ensure that they can accommodate maximum number of people though not at the same time. While few organisers have given slots to guests for the wedding day, others have called people for separate wedding functions. O P Rathore, whose grandson is set to get married on November 27, said, “We are having four different functions for the wedding and in the invites we tick the particular function for which the guest is invited. As we have also gone to various functions of others, it is important that we invite them too. As there is a limit to the number of guests, we decided to slot them for days.” Few people who pre-mediated the restrictions got only certain number of invites printed and Nitesh Parumwal who is getting married in Sikar said, “We got only 51 invites printed and the remaining persons we send the invites through WhatsApp. On the main wedding day, we decided that while 60 persons will be maximum from the groom’s side, the remaining 40 will be from the bride side to ensure that we do not cross the limit.” Apart from these measures, people have also given time slots to the guests and Santosh Pareek whose daughter is to get married on December 1 added, “People understand the Covid situation and since we are having just the main wedding function, we decided that around 50 people would come in the afternoon, while 100 persons would come in the night. As the couple will get court marriage done first, we decided to just throw a reception.” As the wedding season has kickstarted, cops will also keep a vigil on the proceedings and officials claimed that SHOs of their respective police stations will be visiting the venues to ensure that there is no violation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/people-find-ways-to-slot-max-guests-at-ceremonies/articleshow/79417285.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Jaipur||55-year-old undergoes special bone marrow transplant in Jaipur||JAIPUR: City doctors performed a bone marrow transplant on a 55-year-old patient who is suffering from multiple myeloma, a type of white blood cell called a plasma cell that makes antibodies for fighting infections in the body. The patient was discharged from the hospital on Monday. “We decided to give high dose of chemotherapy and autologous bone marrow transplant. Before chemotherapy, we collected patient’s hematopoietic stem cells that form blood and immune cells. Following that, we gave the patient a high dose of chemotherapy. On the next day, we infused the hematopoietic stem cells back into his body and lodged them in the bone marrow, which started producing blood again in the body,” said Dr Hemant Malhotra, director of the Ram Cancer Centre, Mahatma Gandhi Hospital, which became the third hospital in the city for performing bone marrow transplant. Dr Ajay Yadav, medical oncologist of the hospital said, “The patient was diagnosed as having multiple myeloma in May. He was having complains of bone pains and lump in the chest region. The disease was initially treated with chemotherapy and it was responded well. After which autologous bone marrow transplant was performed this month. The patient was admitted in strict isolation for nearly a month.” The transplant was performed on November 6. He remained in the isolation for at least 14 days as there were high chances of infection as the immunity of the patient was quite low to fight against any infection. The process of bone marrow regeneration takes 2-3 weeks during which the patient is severely immunocompromised and is to remain admitted under strict isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/55-yr-old-undergoes-special-bone-marrow-transplant/articleshow/79417294.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur’s garbage woes continue even as new boards take over||JAIPUR: Although elections to the new municipal corporations in city are done and new mayors elected, yet there is hardly any visible change in terms of the sanitation condition in the city. Many complaints are being filed in both the corporations – Greater and Heritage — about irregular door-to-door garbage collection and increasing the number of garbage depots. Except for the central areas of the city, vehicles are irregular in most areas and piles of garbage can be seen on street corners. Dinesh Aman, a resident of ward no. 34 of JMC, Greater, said, for the last five days, no vehicles came to his colony. “It’s been more than five days since the last vehicle arrived in my colony. People have started to dump garbage at various points. The situation is bad. The new councillors have no clue how to handle the situation, making things worse,” said Aman. In Walled City, garbage vats can be seen at various spots. Kushal Sharma, a resident of Gangauri Bazaar, said in many areas, garbage vats lie stationed for three days without being unloaded. Looking at the degrading condition of sanitation in the city, Jaipur Municipal Corporation Greater has decided to take up Sanganer/Jhotwara zone under its wing. Officials in the JMC have accepted that the contractors do not have enough number of hoopers prompting them to include the zone under them. Arun Garg, deputy commissioner of JMC-Greater said, “We want contractors to focus in other parts of the city while we will take up one zone. A committee has been formed in which the deputy commissioner (health) and executive engineer project will be members. The committee will submit a report on the how the work will be executed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/citys-garbage-woes-continue-even-as-new-boards-take-over/articleshow/79417297.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Chandigarh||UT set to revive Sukhna Lake management plan||CHANDIGARH: The UT administration has started the process to revive the proposal on preparing Sukhna Lake management plan. After getting approval from the higher authorities, the UT administration is once again going to take up the matter with the World Wide Fund (WWF), India, to prepare the plan. The plan got delayed due to nation-wide lockdown. Earlier, the UT administration, in 2019, had taken up the matter with the WWF for preparing the Sukhna Lake management plan. But as there was no response and later lockdown was enforced, the UT deferred the plan. Under the proposal, the UT administration will prepare a rulebook to regulate and control activities like boating, including number and types of boats and their timings, trekking in the Sukhna sanctuary, facilities for tourists in and around the lake, desilting, water availability in case of poor rainfall, management of migratory birds, fishing and maintenance of the lake. In 2012, a study report of the National Institute of Hydrology (NIH), Roorkee, was submitted to the UT administration. NIH, in its report, had stated that water scarcity problem of the Sukhna Lake was mainly due to rainfall deficit. If the UT administration desires to ensure availability of water in deficit years, then it can be done only through an alternative source of water, the study added. The study said the main problems of the lake were water availability, weed infestation and siltation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-set-to-revive-sukhna-lake-management-plan/articleshow/79415140.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
November 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh schools opt for online nursery admissions||CHANDIGARH: The admission process in various schools will be online this academic session. The four convent schools in the city namely Carmel Convent School in Sector 9, St John’s School in Sector 26, Sacred Heart School in Sector 26 and St Anne’s School in Sector 32 will hold online admissions. Vivek High School has also created an online portal and a column to upload scanned documents. Delhi Public School in Sector 40, Chandigarh, too will have an online system for submission of applications. Reema Dewan, principal of the school, said, “The application process will be online this year. We are working on the modalities.” The convent schools too have stated that: “Complete online form must be downloaded and duly filled and uploaded with payment and supporting documents between December 3 and December 16 as shared in the common admission schedule. According to the common admission schedule, schools will start giving admission forms from December 3 to December 16 and will be receiving the forms between the same duration. There are also schools, which are allowing parents to take and submit paper applications from the school premises. These include Strawberry Fields School in Sector 26, Saupin’s School in Sector 32 and AKSIPS. Jasdeep Kalra, director of AKSIPS, said, “We will not keep the process only online. We will be opting for other options like drop boxes.” Strawberry Fields High School, which has already shared its admission schedule, has shared that that registration form for admission can be downloaded from their website or collected from the school from December 3. The form, duly filled, must be submitted in the school office between December 3 and December 16 from 10 am till 1 pm.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/city-schools-opt-for-online-nursery-admissions/articleshow/79415151.cms||Kamini Mehta
November 26, 2020||Chandigarh||City get coldest Nov day in decade as temp drops to 19C||Chandigarh: The city recorded the coldest November day after more than a decade on Wednesday. According to the data shared by the Chandigarh Meteorological Center, Sector 39, the maximum temperature in the city was 19.2 degrees temperature, which was 6 degrees below normal. From the data, it can be seen that the November has been getting colder from the last three years. In 2018, the lowest maximum temperature recorded in Chandigarh was 24 degrees, while in 2019 it was 21 degrees. Last year, the city had witnessed record breaking temperatures. In comparison to Tuesday, the city witnessed a drop of around 3 degrees on Wednesday. On Tuesday, the maximum temperature in the city was recorded at 22 degrees. The minimum temperature in the city on Wednesday was recorded at 13 degrees, while on Tuesday it was recorded at 12.3 degrees. Earlier on November 16, the city not only witnessed the first winter shower, but also highest the 24-hour rainfall in more than a decade. According to Surender Paul, director of the Chandigarh Meteorological Centre, Thursday is expected to witness thundery development and light rainfall. For Thursday, the weathermen have stated, “Generally cloudy sky with likely thundery development or light rain.” The maximum temperature is expected to be around 20 degrees, while minimum is expected to be around 14 degrees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/city-get-coldest-nov-day-in-decade-as-temp-drops-to-19c/articleshow/79415155.cms||Kamini Mehta
November 26, 2020||Jaipur||Over 6% Covid cases reported in last 5 days, Rajasthan tally past 2.5 lakh||JAIPUR: For the fifth day in a row, the state reported over 3,000 daily Covid-19 infections, taking its overall tally to 2,53,767. Eighteen persons died, while 3,285 others tested positive in the state on Wednesday. In the past five days, the state reported 16,098 Covid cases, which accounted for over 6.3% cases reported in the state since the first person was found infected with the virus in March. The graph of active cases has also gone up as state reported a big jump from 20,923 to 26,320, touching a new high in such cases. Since daily new cases may further go up as the marriage season has started, the health department has appealed to people to take precautions while taking part in ceremonies. With the rise in active cases, the need for beds in hospitals has also increased. Health minister Raghu Sharma asked patients can book beds, ICU and ventilators at hospitals by calling the toll free Helpline 181. The service of medical teams, medicines for patients in home isolation and those who do not have the isolation facility can also be availed by calling this number. Besides, one can call the helpline for issues like consultation, oxygen and or while having difficulty in breathing. While the public is eagerly awaiting the arrival of Covid vaccine, the state government is busy completing the infrastructure for the vaccination programme. The health department has checked the storage capacity for Covid vaccine and found that they can store one crore vaccines. The problem that the department may face is with regards to staff who can administer the vaccine. The department has 27,500 vaccinators across the state and 63,000 vaccination sites. A senior health department official said, “They might involve other paramedical staff, who will be trained in administrating vaccine to the people.” Meanwhile, with 18 deaths, the state’s toll rose to 2,218. Ajmer reported four deaths, taking its toll to 173, while Jaipur reported two, taking its casualties to 421. Two deaths were also reported from Jodhpur which took its fatalities to 225. Kota reported two deaths, taking its toll to 129. Bikaner witnessed its 159th death, Udaipur 86th, Pali 84th, Srigangangar 37th, Dungarpur 29th, Baran 27th, Jhalawar 15th and Hanumangarh reported its 11th Covid casualty. The districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (615), Jodhpur (370), Alwar (296), Kota (270), Ajmer (245), Bhilwara (185), Udaipur (140), Sriganganagar (147), Nagaur (115), Bikaner (97), Bharatpur (99), Sikar (93), Pali (76), Churu (59), Jhunjhunu (52), Sirohi (52), Sawai Madhopur (51), Dungarpur (49), Chittorgarh (43), Bundi (36), Hanumangarh (33), Tonk (32), Barmer (30), Jaisalmer (23), Jalore (19), Rajsamand (17), Jhalawar (14), Dausa (10), Karauli (6), Banswara (6), Pratapgarh (4) and Baran (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-6-covid-cases-reported-in-last-5-days-raj-tally-past-2-5l/articleshow/79417298.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Kolhapur||Extra seats sought for Maratha students hit by SEBC quota stay||KOLHAPUR: Rajya Sabha MP Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati has sent a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, demanding the addition of seats in educational institutes to accommodate the Maratha students affected by the interim stay over SEBC reservation. Citing the previous instances of governments — both centre and state — deciding to add supernumerary seats to accommodate various sections of students, Sambhajiraje said adding seats in such a manner will not affect students of reserved or unreserved categories. At present, the admissions to MBBS and BDS are going on without SEBC quota. Many parents and students are angry as they have not got seats in the first round and are unlikely to get seats in the government medical colleges in subsequent rounds. They have sought a fresh process after adding the supernumerary seats. “Supernumerary seats were earlier added for students from the Northeast, Marathi students from Mauritius, displaced students from Kashmir etc. I also demand an immediate meeting with the CM and ministers concerned for speedy implementation of the suggestion,” wrote Sambhajiraje. BJP also in favour BJP state president Chandrakant Patil said, “We too are of the view that the government should add supernumerary seats to pave the way for admissions of Maratha students. I don’t know why the government is not doing this? If all Maratha outfits want, BJP is ready to steer the agitation against the state government’s decision to initiate admissions without giving justice to Maratha students.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/extra-seats-sought-for-maratha-students-hit-by-sebc-quota-stay/articleshow/79414007.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Passenger reservation centre to get CCTV cover||NASHIK: The passenger reservation service (PRS) area of Nashik railway station will soon get CCTV cameras to keep an eye on any illegal activities. Bhusawal divisional railway manager Vivek Gupta, who was on a day’s tour of Nashik on Wednesday, ordered the installation of the CCTVs at the passenger reservation service centre outside platform number 4. “I had received a report about touts in the PRS. The CCTV cameras will be the lens of the security forces all the time,” Gupta said. In the month of October, two people complained against touts who had forced them to buy reservation tickets. The touts had allegedly forced them to cough up Rs 1,600 for the tickets valued at Rs 800 for the ‘service’ provided by them. The railway protection force teams arrested the touts in the area. In the meantime, there was a demand from the commuters to shift the PRS back to its original space near PF 1 as the new spot was not very convenient and the road leading to it was very narrow. “The purpose of shifting the PRS to the new location was to de-congest the entrance of the station. While there was some demand from passengers, we have decided that the security at the will PRS will be increased to thwart any such attempts in future,” Gupta said. The inspection of the railway section between Ghoti and Manmad by the general manager is scheduled on December 4. Gupta and the team inspected the route on Wednesday. “This year, the inspection by the general manager is likely to focus on the safety of the tracks, the infrastructure and cleanliness, other factors won’t be sidelined. This is keeping in mind the Covid-19 problems and thus limiting the interactions with the staff. Today, there were some minor observations and instructions have been passed on to those concerned,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/passenger-reservation-centre-to-get-cctv-cover/articleshow/79415160.cms||Abhilash Botekar
November 26, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun Municipal Corporation to set up Swachhta Sena to keep city clean||DEHRADUN: The Dehradun Municipal Corporation (DMC) has decided to create a ‘Swachhta Sena’ across all 100 wards of the city to maintain cleanliness across the city. Each team will comprise 10 members, who will create awareness among the residents of their respective wards regarding the importance of clean public spaces. The team members, all locals, will also be given the authority to impose fines on the public if they find anyone violating rules and throwing garbage on streets or in sewage. The team members will be given an honorarium of up to Rs 1,000 based on the number of fines levied by them every month. Notably, the DMC had planned this project back in January but it got delayed due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dmc-to-set-up-swachhta-sena-to-keep-city-clean/articleshow/79415152.cms||Mohammad Anab
November 26, 2020||Jaipur||‘Boost participation of agriculture students’||JAIPUR: Rajasthan governor Kalraj Mishra on Wednesday said there is a need to increase the participation of agriculture students in agricultural enterprises and suggested the universities to create practical courses after holding discussions with farmers. He said agricultural universities should update their courses according to the intention of the new education policy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/boost-participation-of-agri-students/articleshow/79417326.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Inter-state borders sealed in Panchkula, alternate routes made for public||PANCHKULA: The inter-state border areas in Panchkula were sealed by the administration on Wednesday ahead of the farmers’ ‘Delhi Chalo’ national protest. Farmers of Haryana and Punjab gave a protest call ‘Delhi Chalo’ for November 26 against the Centre’s three farm laws. To maintain law and order situation, the administration has installed several inter-state check-posts. The district police force as well as the duty magistrates will monitor the situation 24×7 till November 27. “The access to the main highways was also blocked and alternative routes were provided to citizens for smooth movement of traffic,” said the administration. DC M K Ahuja also cancelled leaves of all the employees so as to get everybody on work. The order states that all the government officials must remain present in their offices from November 25 to 27. “If any officer or employee disobeys the above orders, action will be taken as per the rules,” stated the orders of the DC. Officers have also been asked to keep their mobile phones switched on at all times. Besides, the administration is focused to ensure that the common man does not face any trouble during these three days. Alternative routes have also been marked to avoid inconvenience to the public so that the route can be diverted by barricading the main road. The borders adjacent Punjab near Baltana and in Sector 20, were sealed by installing road blockades. While, at other check-posts inside the district, duty magistrates have been appointed along with adequate police force. The duty magistrates will monitor the area day and night to ensure peace, law and order. Deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Mohit Handa ensured that enough police force has been deployed to strengthen law and order in the district. Violators will be dealt with strictly, said the DCP. DCP Panchkula Mohit Handa imposed Section 144. The orders will remain in force till November 27 unless withdrawn earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/inter-state-borders-sealed-in-pkl-alternate-routes-made-for-public/articleshow/79415180.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Aurangabad||GMCH starts virus research lab amid talks of 2nd wave||Aurangabad: Amid the speculations of the second wave of Covid, the Virus Research and Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL) at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Aurangabad, has started its services on Wednesday. This will help GMCH, which has been at the forefront of handling severely infected patients including those with a history of comorbidities. District collector Sunil Chavan inaugurated the laboratory on Wednesday in the presence of limited number of people including GMCH dean Dr Kananbala Yelikar and heads of the departments. The Indian Council of Medical Research, (ICMR), New Delhi, sanctioned the VRDL in September 2019. The testings were carried out in the state-of-the-art TB lab which was already functional in the department. Though the VRDL was approved, work could not be started there. Dr Jyoti Iravane, the HOD of microbiology and professor, who heads VRDL, said, “ The laboratory was approved by the central government on March 29 this year. Since then 1,26,610 samples have been tested through RT-PCR test in the TB lab. The VRDL here is capable of testing up to 2,000 such samples per day, making it the most efficient lab in the region.” Yelikar said, “GMCH VRDL could handle the daily load of samples due to its dedicated team along with a seamless supply of kits, consumables, instruments and contractual employees by the district administration.” In the absence of VRDL, GMCH had made a make-shift arrangement at the TB lab for testing the Covid samples. Meanwhile, the construction and electrification work at the dedicated lab was carried out from June to September this year. Authorities said with the starting of this lab, the TB lab will continue its dedicated task of examining TB related samples.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/gmch-starts-virus-research-lab-amid-talks-of-2nd-wave/articleshow/79414040.cms||Mohammed Akhef
November 26, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand celebrates Igas, its very own Diwali||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand’s traditional festival Igas (Budhi Diwali) was celebrated with much fervour across the state on Wednesday. While chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, BJP Rajya Sabha MP Anil Baluni and its national president J P Nadda greeted residents of the Himalyan state, many senior ruling party leaders visited their native villages to celebrate the festival. “I wish the people of Uttarakhand a very happy Igas. I wish peace, happiness and prosperity for all,” tweeted the chief minister. He also urged people in the hills to wear masks and maintain social distancing while celebrating the festival. Following a campaign launched by Baluni, who had urged BJP leaders and ministers to celebrate Igas in their constituencies, BJP MP from Nainital Ajay Bhatt celebrated Igas at his native village, Dankhal, in Almora. Dinesh Negi of Almora, who celebrated Igas in his native village after almost a decade and has been living here for the past five months, ever since he lost his job in the pandemic, informed, “Igas is celebrated 11 days after Diwali,” adding that according to myth, Kunti refused to celebrate Diwali after her son Bheem, the third Pandava, left for the jungle and failed to return on Diwali. He returned 11 days after Diwali, when the entire family celebrated the festival, leading to the tradition of Igas. “Yet another popular belief behind Igas is that residents of the Himalayan state got the news of Lord Rama’s return to Ayodhya after 11 later,” he added. As per another tradition followed in Kumaon, wood from pine trees is set on fire and locals fry fritters (pakora) and distribute it among neighbours and relatives to mark Igas. In Jaunsar, the festival of lights is celebrated a month after the rest of the country celebrates Diwali. This year, it will be marked in the second week of December.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-celebrates-igas-its-very-own-diwali/articleshow/79415175.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 26, 2020||Nashik||No water supply across Nashik city on Saturday||NASHIK: Nashik city will face water cut on November 28 owing to the repair work at the major supply lines connecting Gangapur dam and water treatment plant at Nashik Road. The work will be undertaken by the water supply department of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC). The civic body has issued a statement in this regard. In addition, Mukane dam, which is another major supplier of water to the city besides Gangapur dam, will also remain non-operational on November 28. There will be no power supply at the pumping station located at Mukane dam as the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Ltd (MSEDCL) will be undertaking repair work at power sub-station there. Hence, the NMC has declared that there will be no water supply in the entire city on Saturday. Moreover, water supply will resume on Sunday with low pressure and it will be regularized from Monday. Gangpuar and Mukane dams are the major sources of water for Nashik city. The NMC is supplying 510 million litres per day (MLD) water to the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/no-water-supply-across-nashik-city-on-saturday/articleshow/79415173.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 26, 2020||Jaipur||Nation, Rajasthan get first organ donor memorial||JAIPUR: The work on country’s first memorial for organ donors has entered the final stages near Central Park on SMS Hospital Road in the city. To be inaugurated by chief minister Ashok Gehlot on the National Organ Donation Day through virtual platform on November 27, it acknowledges the contribution of organ donors. The names of donors, whose organs saved the lives of 120 people not only in Rajasthan but also in Delhi and Mumbai, will be etched on the memorial. The structure, which celebrates the precious souls from the state who donated their organs, is in the form of a sculpture inspired by Jaipur’s iconic Jantar Mantar. It portrays life looking at cosmic heavens in gratitude, compassion and love. It is being built jointly by the Mohan Foundation Jaipur Cultural Forum (MFJCF) and Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC). “The organ donors’ memorial will keep encouraging people on the theme of ‘ek khamoshi-anek muskaan, aaokarein angdaan', for organ donation,” said Rajiv Arora, founder chairman, MFJCF. The state has come a long way after the first cadaver donation in 2015. Since then, 38 families have donated organs of their near and dear ones after being declared brain dead. Majority of them were road accident victims, who remained unconscious during treatment at hospitals and were later declared brain dead. The counsellors in hospitals and NGOs encouraged the families to donate organs. “The memorial will send a message that don’t take your organs to heaven. Heaven knows they are needed on earth,” said Bhavna Jagwani, convenor, MFJCF. With the cadaver organ donations from the state, over 120 people have been given a new lease of life. The organisation’s founder trustee, Anil Bakshi, said that it has the names of all donors. Mohit, a resident of Alwar, was the first who donated his organs in 2015. “We wait in line at the grocery store, at doctor’s clinic, but nothing is quite like waiting for a lifesaving organ. You can help by registering as an eye and tissue donor today,” said Govind Gurbani, member, MFJCF.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nation-raj-get-first-organ-donor-memorial/articleshow/79417328.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Kolhapur||Bandh from November 28 over inflated bills in Kolhapur district||KOLHAPUR: Residents of villages in Kolhapur district are going to observe a bandh from November 28 to protest against the inflated electricity bills and to demand the waiver of power bills issued during the lockdown. The decision to observe bandh in the city will be taken after a meeting of the city-level forum of activists. Pratap Hogade, convenor of the district forum demanding waiver, said, “The state government is taking a U-turn on the power bill waiver issue. Our demand is that the power bills of six months be waived. We want waiver for consumers using up to 300 units.” “The villages will observe bandh in a rotating manner. We expect similar protests to be held in other districts too,” he said. To start with, Kini, Ghunki and Wathar in Hatkanangle taluka and Padali, Koge and Balinga in Karveer will remain shut. Every day three villages from each taluka will observe the bandh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/bandh-from-nov-28-over-inflated-bills/articleshow/79414021.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Rajkot||Notification throws cold water over Dhoraji’s big, fat wedding fiestas||RAJKOT: Everything was ready from band, bajaa to the baraat — the ubiquitous revelries associated with the big, fat Indian weddings. But, on Wednesday all the enthusiasm ended in a naught when a sudden decision by the Dhoraji mamlatdar to take back authority from Dhoraji municipality to issue permissions for organizing marriage functions threw cold water over the grand designs. Miffed fathers of about 50-odd brides held a demonstration at Dhoraji mamlatdar office, holding the invitation cards in their hands. The Dhoraji mamlatdar office on Tuesday issued a notification to the effect that permission for organizing marriage functions will have to be taken from Dhoraji municipality. However, barely 24 hours later, the mamlatdar office revoked its decision, snatching back the authority from the Dhoraji municipality and taking control of the permission business. Now, according to the new guidelines, those wanting to hold such function will have to fill up a 10-page form and submit it to the Dhoraji mamlatdar office. The guideline also stipulate that the father of a bride has permission to invite not more than 100 guests, while the groom’s can only have 50 guests. The notification also asks the applicant to fill up details of guests like numbers of their aadhaar cards, among a list of other documents. “Are we supposed to go door-to-door of our guests, asking them to furnish their aadhar cards and other details. Should we prepare for the function or waste our time in such legalities,” thundered Dhiru Vaghasia, a father of a bride, who registered his ire with TOI. “The mamlatdar office should have given the parents of the brides and grooms a period of 15 days in advance to fulfil such formalities. Overnight, such legalities can’t be fulfilled,” said Lalit Vora, president of Dhoraji Chambers of Commerce. When contacted Dhoraji deputy mamlatdar D D Nandaniya told reporters: “If somebody has a function planned in the next two days, they only need to fill the form. There is no requirement of aadhaar card. The notification in this regard has been issued on the instruction of the district collector.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/notification-throws-cold-water-over-dhorajis-big-fat-wedding-fiestas/articleshow/79415202.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Trichy||45K people moved to 179 relief camps in Nagai, Mayiladuthurai||Nagapattinam: The Nagappattinam district administration has evacuated 45,632 people including 10,245 children and 18,330 women residing from low lying areas the district as well as Mayiladuthrai to relief camps set up at 179 locations in the two districts. People residing in 53 coastal villages and low lying areas in the districts have been moved to relief camps in Nagapattinam, Kilvelur, Thirukkuvalai and Vedaranyam in Nagapattinam district and Sirkazhi, and Tharangambadi in Mayiladuthurai district. As many as 10,783 families were evacuated in Vedaranyam. The district started receiving rain from Wednesday morning. Kollidam in Nagapattinam recorded a maximum of 36.40 mm rainfall. Sirkazhi and Mayiladuthurai received 35.60 mm and 29.20 mm rainfall till 3 pm on Wednesday. Both the district recorded a total of 202.40 mm rain on Wednesday. Commercial establishments except vegetable and medical shops remain closed across the districts. All the important roads and bazaar streets sported a deserted look. As most of the people from the districts, particularly from the rural pockets took precautionary measures and stocked vegetables, groceries and other essentials. As per the directives issued by the fisheries department, around 30,000 fishermen in the district have moved their trawlers 100 meter into the land from the shore using tractors. Inspector general of police (IG), central region, H M Jayaram visited various parts of the coastal areas including Samanthanpettai in Nagapattinam district along with district superintendent of police Om Prakash Meena. District collector Praveen P Nair along with the monitoring officer of the district C Munianathan inspected the preparedness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/45k-people-moved-to-179-relief-camps-in-nagai-mayiladuthurai/articleshow/79418162.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Schools blocking kids from online classes, complain parents||JAIPUR: Due to non-payment of school fees, many private schools have started blocking students from online classes. All Rajasthan Parents’ Forum lodged a complaint with the district administration on Wednesday on this issue. Parents have complained that when the matter related to fees is already subjudice in the Rajasthan High Court, private schools do not have the right to block students from studies. Sunil Yadav, a member of the All Rajasthan Parents’ Forum said that private schools are violating the norms of the high court. “Rajasthan High Court has already said that until the decision is announced, private schools cannot force parents to pay the school fees. Many parents are complaining that they are being harassed for payment of fees,” said Yadav. Schools have asked parents to deposit 70% of the fees by November 30. One private school has even put a fine of Rs 15 per day for any delay. Replying to this allegation, Ashok Vaid, member of Rajasthan Private Schools’ Forum said that government had asked them to take permission from parents to let their ward attend online classes. “If parents are not paying fees, that means they do not want their children to attend online classes. We will not strike off their names from the school register but will not allow them to attend classes,” said Vaid. Thousands of private schools’ owners in the state have become pennyless and have to lay off their staff due to cash crunch. There have been reports of school owners committing suicide due to non-payment of loans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/schools-blocking-kids-from-online-classes-complain-parents/articleshow/79421965.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Schools blocking kids from online classes, complain parents||JAIPUR: Due to non-payment of school fees, many private schools have started blocking students from online classes. All Rajasthan Parents’ Forum lodged a complaint with the district administration on Wednesday on this issue. Parents have complained that when the matter related to fees is already subjudice in the Rajasthan High Court, private schools do not have the right to block students from studies. Sunil Yadav, a member of the All Rajasthan Parents’ Forum said that private schools are violating the norms of the high court. “Rajasthan High Court has already said that until the decision is announced, private schools cannot force parents to pay the school fees. Many parents are complaining that they are being harassed for payment of fees,” said Yadav. Schools have asked parents to deposit 70% of the fees by November 30. One private school has even put a fine of Rs 15 per day for any delay. Replying to this allegation, Ashok Vaid, member of Rajasthan Private Schools’ Forum said that government had asked them to take permission from parents to let their ward attend online classes. “If parents are not paying fees, that means they do not want their children to attend online classes. We will not strike off their names from the school register but will not allow them to attend classes,” said Vaid. Thousands of private schools’ owners in the state have become pennyless and have to lay off their staff due to cash crunch. There have been reports of school owners committing suicide due to non-payment of loans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/schools-blocking-kids-from-online-classes-complain-parents/articleshow/79417324.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Jaipur||3 commit suicide in 2 incidents in Barner||JAISALMER: A couple in love was found hanging from a tree in Binjraj police station area in Barmer district on Wednesday morning. Both are said to be from different religions. The woman was from the minority community and the boy’s family did not approve of the relationship. In another incident of suicide, a 22-year-old married woman jumped into a water tank at her parents’ house and died in Chauhatan police station area. She got married two years ago. Police are investigating the case. Binjrad SHO Jetharam said that Mukesh Bhil (21) resident of Sarupo ka Tala village and a 16-year-old girl from the minority community were found hanging from a tree. Both had committed suicide together and are residents of the same village. They were in love. Police sent the bodies to mortuary and later handed them over to family members after the postmortem. Police are investigating the case. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/3-commit-suicide-in-2-incidents/articleshow/79417339.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun: Man’s body found with bullet wound, cops suspect suicide||DEHRADUN: The body of a 50-year-old man was found with a bullet wound in his head in the Tibetan market of Dehradun on Wednesday morning, triggering panic in the whole area. On receiving information, Deputy Inspector General (DIG) Dehradun Arun Mohan Joshi, superintendent of police (city) along with other senior cops reached the spot for investigation. The deceased has been identified as Sanjay Bisht, who was employed in a shop in the Tibetan market for the last 25 years, said Shweta Choubey, SP (city). Police also recovered a 32 bore country made pistol from the spot, police said. The weapon was seized and was sent for forensic examination. It is suspected to be a case of suicide, said DIG Arun Mohan Joshi, adding that police are probing the death from all angles. A team of forensic experts also visited the shop where the body was found and collected evidence for further investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/mans-body-found-with-bullet-wound-cops-suspect-suicide/articleshow/79415199.cms||Gaurav Talwar
November 26, 2020||Nashik||Deolali Gaon murder case: Police arrest main suspect||NASHIK: Upnagar police have arrested a 19-year-old youth in connection with a murder case that took place in Deolali Gaon area of Nashik Road on November 15. The suspect, identified as Harsh alias Tonu Suresh Mhaske (Paikrao), was detained by the crime branch and handed over to Upnagar police. “A 21-year-old youth — Yogesh Pannalal Chayal, a resident of Deolali Gaon — was attacked by four to five people with sharp weapons over some previous fued. After the incident, commissioner of police Deepak Pandey and deputy commissioner of police Sangramsinh Nishandar had instructed the crime branch officials to trace the killers and arrest them at the earliest. Subsequently, the investigation was handed over to the central unit of crime branch. Working on the guidance of senior police inspector Seetaram Kolhe, the crime branch started collecting information about Mhaske who is the main suspect in the murder case. The crime team got information that Mhaske was coming to the Jail Road water tank area of Nashik Road area on Monday evening. Accordingly, a trap was laid and Mhaske was arrested. “The suspect has many serious offences registered against him with the city and rural police,” a police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/deolali-gaon-murder-case-police-arrest-main-suspect/articleshow/79415189.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Solar plants: UT seeks report from Crest||CHANDIGARH: The UT administration has sought a report from Chandigarh Renewable Energy and Science and Technology Promotion Society (Crest) about the installation of solar-energy plants in the city. Crest, project's nodal agency, is on with a survey to check the demand for rooftop units of the Resco (Renewable Energy Service Company) model, which was brought on with UT administrator V P Singh Badnore's approval as residents were wary of the initial capital investment. Under the scheme, the agency will install 2,400-odd rooftop SPV power plants on the build-operate-transfer (BOT) model on a first come first serve basis. The details and the application form are on www.solarchandigarh.com. The plant's capacity will be 5 to 10kWp (kilowatts peak) for the residential sectors. Under the Resco model, private companies will install solar-energy plants on private property, and in return, charge the building owner a much lower tariff (Rs 3.44 per unit) than the normal electricity rate (Rs 2.75 to Rs 5.20) for about 15 years (or whatever period is agreed in the tender). Thereafter the house owner will get the plant. The building owner and the private company will sign a deal. The plant will be installed under the net metering mode, whereby a solar-energy unit is connected to the building's electricity system and the solar energy exported to the grid is adjusted in terms of units imported from the electricity department during a billing cycle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/solar-plants-ut-seeks-report-from-crest/articleshow/79415196.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
November 26, 2020||Dehradun||Nepalese held with leopard hide in Tanakpur||RUDRAPUR : The forest department officials on Thursday arrested a Nepalese man with leopard skin in Tanakpur town of Champawat. Acting on a tip-off, a team of Sharda forest range officials, led by sub-divisional officer (SDO) RK Maurya, arrested Balraj Sarki, a resident of Brahmdev village in Kanchanpur district of Nepal, from Purnagiri-Tanakpur road. SDO Maurya said, “After getting the information, we intensified vigil in the area and managed to arrest the accused with the skin.” Accused Sarki told the forest officials that he was carrying the leopard skin from Nepal to deliver it to a man in Tanakpur. The leopard, a male, was over five feet long and is assumed to be around three years of age. “He said that the leopard was killed by someone else and some other person handed over the skin to him for delivery and he was promised a commission,” Maurya said. The accused has been booked under relevant sections of the Wildlife Protection Act, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nepalese-held-with-leopard-hide-in-tanakpur/articleshow/79415210.cms||Aakash Ahuja
November 26, 2020||Jaipur||1,971-km bicycle rally to mark 1971 Indo-Pak war win||JAISALMER: Konark Corps of Indian Army plans to organise a 1,971km cycling expedition in Gujarat and Rajasthan to commemorate the commencement of the Golden Jubilee Victory Celebrations of Indian Armed Forces in the Indo-Pak War of 1971. December 3 will mark the commencement of the 50th year of the decisive victory of Indian Armed Forces in war. The expedition will commence on November 26 from the outpost near Lakhpat and culminate on December 6 at Longewala. Defence spokesperson said, “Lt Gen Anil Puri, GOC, Konark Corps, envisaged the expedition to inculcate spirit of adventure among troops of the Indian Armed Forces & paramilitary forces. The expedition will spread awareness about Covid among the rural populace with the core theme of social distancing-masks-sanitisation and reach out to ex-servicemen, kin of battle casualties and differently abled. Ex-servicemen and families will be informed about entitled financial benefits, welfare schemes and efforts will be made to help them resolve their pension related problems. War veterans of 1948, 1965 & 1971 and Veer Naris will be felicitated during this expedition.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/1971-km-bicycle-rally-to-mark-1971-indo-pak-war-win/articleshow/79417368.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Trader held with Rs 31 lakh gutka||NASHIK: The Bhadrakali police on Tuesday arrested a 41-year-old trader for stocking and selling banned gutka and tobacco products worth over Rs 31 lakh. The trader has been identified as Dastagir Usman Shaikh of Usmania Towers, Dwarka. Police said that they received a tip-off about Shaikh storing the banned product along with flavoured tobacco. Acting on the information, police raided his house and recovered various tobacco products, including pan masala and gutka, all worth Rs 31.81 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/trader-held-with-rs-31l-gutka/articleshow/79415205.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Charge sheet filed in 5-yr-old forgery case||Chandigarh: Around two years after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court here had rejected the closure report filed by the CBI in a case over forgery of documents to avail a bank loan, the investigative agency has filed a charge sheet against four accused. Out of the four persons charge-sheeted, two are members of a family, Jagjit Kaur and her son Hamrit Singh Chawla, and the two others, Gurcharan Singh and Sarabjeet Singh, whose names had appeared as the witnesses in the forged documents. A fifth accused, Harmit’s father Gurkirpal Singh Chawla, died recently, so his name was not included in the charge sheet. According to the CBI, in 2015, a case of forgery and cheating was registered by the UT police on the complaint of a city resident Deepa Duggal against the five persons, alleging that they had forged her signature to take a bank loan to buy her property. As the CBI had moved a closure report in the case in December 2018, the court had observed that it had failed to bring certain crucial facts on record, and asked the agency to conduct further investigations. Finally, the agency filed the charge sheet on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/charge-sheet-filed-in-5-yr-old-forgery-case/articleshow/79415206.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Jaipur||Minor raped in Churu, accused still at large||JAIPUR: A 10-year-old girl was raped in Churu’s Bhanipura police station area on Monday and a case was lodged on Tuesday late night. The accused is yet to be traced and police have initiated an investigation into the matter. Churu SP Paris Deshmukh said, “The accused was known to the child and after the girl told her parents about the incident, they registered a complaint with us. The accused is not a relative of the survivor’s family but is from the same village and caste.” According to the complainant, on Monday, the girl’s parents asked the accused to drop their daughter back home from the field where they had been working. The accused took the girl on a cattle cart and enroute raped her. The child narrated her ordeal to her mother following which the villagers started looking for the accused at their own level but when they could not find him, they lodged a FIR at the local police station where a case under the POCSO act was registered. The girl’s medical examination was done on Tuesday night and officials claimed that she was doing fine health wise. The accused is said to be in his 30s and a team has been constituted to look for him. The police data shows that in over 90% cases, the accused are known to the rape survivors and in majority of these cases, they usually are relatives. Recently, a 12-year-old girl was found to be five months pregnant after she complained of stomachache. The case was registered in Jhotwara police station and in this case also the accused was known to the child as they stayed in the same locality in rented accommodations. According to officials, the girl did not say anything about the assault as the accused had threatened her to keep mum. Cops are yet to arrest him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/minor-raped-in-churu-accused-still-at-large/articleshow/79417359.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
November 26, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Ex-finance minister Surana passes away||JAIPUR: Former finance minister Manik Chand Surana died in Jaipur on Wednesday. The 89-year-old is survived by two sons and a daughter. Surana had contracted Covid-19 last month, but had recovered. But he developed post-Covid complications and breathed his last at his home in Jaipur. His last rites will be performed at his native place, Bikaner, on Thursday. Surana started his political career by winning the post of president of Dungar College. In 1977, he became the first Janata Party MLA from Lunkaransar seat. He was re-elected MLA in 1985. Surana formed the Janata Dal (Pragatisheel) after leaving the Janata Dal. Surana served as finance minister from 1977 to 1980 under chief minister Bhairon Singh Shekhawat. In 2013, the BJP did not give Surana a ticket for the assembly elections and he quit the party. He contested the elections from Lunkaransar as an independent and won. Governor Kalraj Mishra, chief minister Ashok Gehlot, assembly speaker C P Joshi and former chief minister Vasundhara Raje condoled his death. Governor Kalraj Mishra expressing condolence said, “Surana was a popular minister and had deep knowledge on economic matters. I pray to God to comfort the departed soul and give his family the power to bear this sorrow.” Chief minister Ashok Gehlot in a tweet said, “My deepest condolences on the death of former Rajasthan Finance Minister Manik Chand Surana ji. May God give the bereaved family the power to bear this sorrow and give peace to the departed soul.” “Mind is distressed on hearing the news of the demise of Shri Manik Chand Surana Ji, former Finance Minister and senior leader. Through politics, he always worked for the benefit of the poor and farmers. I pray to God to provide peace to the departed soul and support to the bereaved family members,” tweeted former chief minister Vasundhara Raje.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ex-finance-minister-surana-passes-away/articleshow/79417371.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Nashik||Youths stranded on Pandavleni hill rescued after fours hours||NASHIK: Over 20 officials from the Indiranagar police station, Quick Response Team and Fire Brigade spent around four hours to rescue three youngsters who got stuck on the Pandavleni hill while trekking. The trio was spotted by another trekker who then informed the police about the youths. The rescued youths have been identifed as Ayush Kalaskar (20), Sumit Kalaskar (17) and Samarth Shillak (18) — all residents of Damodar Nagar in Pathardi Phata. Since the hill is at a walking distance from Pathardi Phata, the trio decided to go on a trek on Wednesday. “We started climbing the hill at around 10 am. After completing one round around the hill, we spotted a small pathway and decided to climb up. The path, however, started getting narrower and narrower and we met a dead end. Since there was no way to go up, we decided to climb down but there was grass all around and it was extremely slippery,” Kalaskar said. “At around 11.30 am, we realized that we cannot climb down the hill. We had a cellphone with us but could not understand whom to call for help. A person spotted us on the hill after which he called the police,” he added. Three personnel from the Indiranagar police station, 15 from the Quick Response team and a rescue team of the Fire Brigade reached Pandavleni hill at around 1.15 pm after which the rescue operation started. “A renowned trekking group was also called for assisting the rescue teams. The boys were finally rescued and brought down at around 4 pm,” a police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/youths-stranded-on-pandavleni-hill-rescued-after-4-hours/articleshow/79415219.cms||Santosh Sonawane
November 26, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot petrol pumps to close before 9pm||RAJKOT: The Rajkot petrol pump owners have decided not close down during night curfew hours. However, petrol pumps which remain open will provide patrol only to emergency vehicles. The decision was taken during a meeting between 47 petrol pump owners and police officials on Wednesday. As the police refused relaxation to the petrol pump employees during night curfew that is 9pm to 6am, petrol pumps owners have decided to close the outlet early so that their employees could reach home before curfew starts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajkot-petrol-pumps-to-close-before-9pm/articleshow/79415220.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Dehradun||NTCA sends notice to Uttarakhand forest department, seeking ‘factual status’ of missing Rajaji tigress at earliest||DEHRADUN: Taking cognisance of the tigress who went missing from Rajaji Tiger Reserve, the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) has sought response from the chief wildlife warden of Uttarakhand in the matter “at the earliest.” This comes after an activist Bhanu Bansal, director of the Centre for Wildlife and Environment Litigation Foundation, approached NTCA with concern regarding the missing tigress. The matter assumes significance as Uttarakhand is to conduct the translocation of tigers from Corbett to the western zone of Rajaji this week. The missing tigress is one of the two tigresses in the western zone. It is worth mentioning that the missing tigress has not been captured in any camera trap image for five months and its pug marks have also not been seen in the last two months. Writing to the NTCA on Tuesday, Bansal had sought ‘urgent intervention’ and wrote, “Incidents like this clearly shows that the administration of Rajaji National Park has failed to take proper and effective protection and conservation measures for the safety and security of our national animal.” Meanwhile, DK Singh, director of Rajaji Tiger Reserve, told TOI that the pug marks of the tigress T1 has been sighted in Kansarao forest area. “Our patrolling teams have confirmed that the paws of T1 have been sighted in the Kansarao area. The measurement of the paws resembles that of T1. Though the tigress has not yet been camera trapped, we will now be installing cameras in that zone to take its pictures too.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ntca-sends-notice-to-ukhand-forest-department-seeking-factual-status-of-missing-rajaji-tigress-at-earliest/articleshow/79415218.cms||Shivani Azad
November 26, 2020||Aurangabad||Kolkata teen travels 1,600km to meet TikTok friend in Maha||Aurangabad: The city police, along with the head of a workshop, rescued a 16-year-old Kolkata girl, who had travelled 1,600 km to reach Aurangabad to meet his social media friend. Assistant inspector Ghanshyam Sonawne said the girl is an SSC student in Kolkata. She left home on November 20, following which, a missing complaint was registered by her parents. Police said the teenager and a city-based youth, Anand Datta Mahure (23), had first come in virtual contact on TikTok. They later were also in touch via Facebook and Instagram. Mahure works at a city-based workshop. A few days ago, the girl’s mother scolded her. Upset, the girl left home and boarded a train from Howrah. After changing a couple of trains, she reached Nagpur and took a bus to Aurangabad on Tuesday. However, when she told Mahure that she was in Aurangabad, he panicked and returned to his hometown. Later, he told workshop owner Ravindra Sarode about the girl. Sarode informed the police. The cops contacted the girl’s family, and on Wednesday, she was handed over to her cousin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/kolkata-teen-travels-1600km-to-meet-tiktok-friend-in-maha/articleshow/79414081.cms||Mohammed Akhef
November 26, 2020||Kolkata||Medical colleges await West Bengal nod to open campuses by December 1||KOLKATA: Medical colleges in Bengal are awaiting a go-ahead from the state health department after the National Medical Commission (NMC) recommended the reopening of all institutes in the country on or before December 1. The Union health secretary on Wednesday wrote to health secretaries of all states and Union Territories to take necessary steps. “Since the NMC recommends reopening of medical colleges across the country around the same time, we expect a directive from the health department soon,” said a source at Calcutta National Medical College. “We expect the NMC to also issue an SOP on re-opening soon and share it with all concerned,” said Rajendra Pandey, vice-chancellor West Bengal University of Health Sciences who is also the head pf nephrology at IPGMER. All MBBS classes have been gone online for the past eight months to minimize the spread of the novel coronavirus. Though clinical training is not only important but also essential for MBBS part I and II, students have mised out on clinical posting for those eight months. “After the second semester, undergraduate students need to enter clinical domain from classrooms. They need to be in wards, OPDs and OTs for clinical training. While reopening classes are important so that they are not deprived of their training, we must also have strategies in place for their safety,” said Manas Gumta, head of general surgery at College of Medicine and Sagore Dutta Hospital. The NMC has also advised medical colleges to ensure they have enough number of non-Covid beds to facilitate training of undergraduate students. In Kolkata, apart from Medical College and Hospital and NRS Medical College, which have 660 and 110 Covid beds respectively, the rest of the institutes do not have facilities for Covid treatment. IPGMER (Institute of Post Graduate Medical Education and Research) has been holding regular parent-teacher online meetings to discuss the re-opening of on-campus classes. While parents are eager that their wards go back to classes, they are equally apprehensive about infection. “Entering hospital wards during the pandemic will be like going to a war zone for these students. Adequate protection and assurance that the students will not be left to fend for themselves in case they get infected, along with a robust SOP and dos and don’ts should come from authorities concerned before classes re-open,” said Diptendra Sarkar, professor of surgery and part of student affairs team at IPGMER. Currently, most MBBS students have vacated their hostels. College administrators said sooner the health department issued a directive and SOP the quicker they would be able to act on them as only a few days are left for the December 1 deadline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/med-colleges-await-state-nod-to-open-campuses-by-dec-1/articleshow/79417383.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
November 26, 2020||Jaipur||Delhi woman, who was pressured for marriage, records her statement||JAIPUR: The Delhi woman, who was brought to Dholpur after her parents filed a missing person report, recorded her statement in front of a judicial magistrate on Wednesday. The 26-year-old woman, who worked in Dholpur, had written to the Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) claiming that her parents were pressurising her to get married. The woman, identified as Sheena Choudhary, hails from Delhi and her parents reside in the national capital. She was reported missing from Rajasthan’s Dholpur where she works on November 20 and three days later her parents lodged an FIR with the Dholpur police alleging that she had been abducted. Dholpur SP Kesar Singh Shekhawat said, “The woman’s statement under CrPC section 164 was recorded and she stated that she went on her own and nothing untoward happened with her. The court stated that she should be dropped back to Delhi and the police station of the area where she would reside should be informed so they can provide her adequate security.” According to officials, Choudhary had not informed the control officer at her workplace before leaving Dholpur and had switched off her phone. She had purchased a new sim card which she was using since November 20. For Dholpur police, the case is closed as the due course of law was followed. On November 23, DCW received the complaint and a day later it was registered. The woman had said she did not want to stay with her family and they were a threat to her safety. DCW also wrote to SP Dholpur as well as to Rajasthan DGP asserting their stand that since the woman is an adult, she has the right to make her decisions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/delhi-woman-who-was-pressured-for-marriage-records-her-statement/articleshow/79417373.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan rural polls: Campaign for second phase ends||JAIPUR: The campaigning for the second phase of elections to the posts of Zila Parishad members and panchayat samiti members ends on Wednesday. The elections will be held to the posts of 1,137 members in 59 panchayat samitis in 21 districts across the state on Friday. Meanwhile, the state election commission has announced the names of 21 observers for the elections in the third and fourth phase. In the first phase, elections were held to the posts of 1,310 members in 65 panchayat samitis. In all, 61.80 per cent voters exercised their franchise in the first phase of elections to the posts of panchayat samiti and zila parishad members.  On the third day of filing nominations for elections to 50 urban local bodies in 12 districts, 1668 candidates filed 2149 nominations for the posts of ward members. In all, 1946 candidates have filed 2503 nomination papers so far. The elections will be held on December 11. The 12 districts that are going to polls are Alwar, Baran, Bharatpur, Dholpur, Dausa, Ganganagar, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Sawai Madhopur, Karauli and Sirohi. There are 1,775 wards in these districts. Chitra Gupta new election commission secy: The department of personnel on Wednesday transferred IAS officer Chitra Gupta to the state election commission (SEC) as secretary. She was earlier director, public services and ex-officio joint secretary to government, removal of public grievances department. The post was left vacant after former secretary Shyam Singh Rajpurohit retired on October 31. Returning officer raises religious slogan: A video of Chittorgarh’s Rawatbhata SDM and returning officer Ram Sukh Gurjar raising ‘Jay Siyaram’ slogan before a poll party has gone viral. In the video, he could be heard raising the slogan and when the response was poor from attendees, he repeated it. He did the same before concluding the session with the 96 poll officials at Major Natwar Singh Shaktawat school. The poll party is heading to the poll-bound gram panchayats under Bhasarogarh Panchayat Samiti. Chittorgarh district collector KK Sharma said the slogan was just a greeting by the officer. “In a normal discourse too, the officer greets all of us raising the slogan ‘Jay Siyaram.’ It is not violating any poll code,” said Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rural-polls-campaign-for-second-phase-ends/articleshow/79417381.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Nagpur||Oil spillage into Irai river threatens Chanda residents||Chandrapur: Continuous discharge of oil into Irai river, the lifeline of Chandrapur, has alarmed environmentalists. A large oil slick is seen in Irai river for the last many days. Environmentalist Suresh Chopne has filed a complaint with Chandrapur regional office of Maharashtra State Pollution Control board (MPCB) and officials have started probe. The matter came to light a few days ago when Chopne found large layer of oil floating on the Irai water at Datala Point. He clicked photos and lodged a complaint with the MPCB. The discharge of oil into the river has continued since then, claimed Chopne on Wednesday. Chopne claimed that the oil spillage is flowing through Irai into Wardha river ahead. “It will take toll on flora and fauna in the river. Leaked oil also poses threat to residents of Chandrapur, as drinking water jack-wells are situated at Datala point,” he warned. The oil leakage also threatens larger population as the spillage is further flowing into Wardha river which is the source of drinking water to Ballarpur and Rajura towns apart from several other villages along its course. Greens claimed that this is not the first time when oil or toxic waste has been discharged into the river. On earlier instances, Chandrapur Super Thermal Power Station (CSTPS) was blamed for discharge of furnace oil, used to light up the overhauled or closed power generation units. However, this time, the source of oil spillage is yet to be ascertained. While CSTPS authorities have denied discharging oil into the river, MPCB officials inspected CSTPS and nullahs connected to the river on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/oil-spillage-into-irai-river-threatens-chanda-residents/articleshow/79416371.cms||Mazhar Ali
November 26, 2020||Udaipur||Hindustan Zinc pays Rs 7.5 crore fine||UDAIPUR: The department of mines and geology has slapped a Rs 7.5-crore fine on two units of Hindustan Zinc Limited situated at Dariba and Sindesar Khurd. The penalty was imposed by assistant engineer (2) Rajsamand for alleged illegal mining activities and over production in the units located under Railmagra tehsil of the district. Mines and geology director KB Pandya said Hindustan Zinc had deposited the penalty amount. The assistant engineer had issued two separate demand notices to the company. According to notice, the company exceeded the approved limit of mining sanctioned by the Indian Mines Bureau, Ajmer, in 2015-16 and over production was detected in the audit report which led to a fine of Rs 4,98,14,973. In the second case, the company extracted masonry stone without permission which was used in construction approach road in the lease area. For this, he fined Rs 2,49,90,000. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/hindustan-zinc-pays-rs-7-5cr-fine/articleshow/79417386.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Staff of HNBGU colleges stage protest against Umbrella Act||DEHRADUN: The teachers and other staff members of 18 colleges (govt-aided) affiliated with the Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna Garhwal Central University held protests against the state government across Uttarakhand on Wednesday. The teachers are protesting against the removal of some of the points in the newly introduced Umbrella Act. The protestors claim that these points were part of the State Universities Act of 1973 and gave a sense of security in regards to the salaries of the staff members. But the removal of these clauses has made teachers and other staff members insecure over the possible reduction of their salaries in future. One of the protestors told TOI that they demand the government to reinstate the rights as stated in the previous act and added that if no assurance comes from the government, they will intensify their protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/staff-of-hnbgu-colleges-stage-protest-against-umbrella-act/articleshow/79415232.cms||Mohammad Anab
November 26, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Over 30,000 bank employees to join protest today||AURANGABAD: In protest against the privatization of public sector banks as well as the dismantling of 27 enactments, employees under the banner of All India Bank Employees Association have decided to observe a day-long strike on Thursday. Maharashtra State Bank Employees Federation’s general secretary Devidas Tuljapurkar said, “About 30,000 employees serving at public sector bank’s branches in the state are joining the strike against the government’s policies.” Tuljapurkar said that the protest will be held at the Cidco-based regional branch with agitators holding placards displaying their demands. Issuing a press note, the federation stated that Loksabha, in its recently held session, has passed three new labour enactments by dismantling existing 27 ones in the name of ‘ease of business’ which are purely in the interest of the corporate world. In the process, 75% workers are being pushed out of the orbits of labour laws since they will have no legal protection under the new enactments. ‘The protesters will focus on their demands such as opposition to bank privatization, opposition to outsourcing and contract system, adequate recruitment, stern action against big corporate defaulters, increase in rate of interest on bank deposits and reduction in service charges’ stated the press release. The federation’s office-bearers unanimously alleged that the present central government is pushing its agenda of privatization in the name of ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ and is resorting to large scale privatization in the core sector of economy, including the banking sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/over-30000-bank-employees-to-join-protest-today/articleshow/79415228.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Teen dies as ‘boar bomb’ goes off in accident||BELAGAVI: A 17-year-old boy died and another person suffered injuries when their animal-hunting mission went awry after their explosives-filled backpack exploded in a road accident in Belagavi district’s Khanapur taluk on Wednesday morning. Police said deceased Girish Rajput and injured Shivakumar Rajput, 31, from seminomadic Hakki-Pikki tribe of Shivamogga district, had been camping in the deep forests of Khanapur for three months to hunt wild boar for meat trading. Man, teen were riding into forest with 30 explosive balls in bagThe duo carrying 30 explosive balls in a backpack was riding into a forest on a bike when they crashed into a tractor around 9.30am, police said. The tractor ran over the pillion rider, Girish, triggering off quick explosions blowing up his body into pieces. Police have booked Shivakumar under the Arms Act, but haven’t taken him into custody since he is undergoing treatment in hospital. Trading in wild meat is illegal and rampant, police said, adding many poachers have been clandestinely visiting Ramadurga, Khanapur, Bhimgad and other forest ranges in this region to hunt boars by luring them with meat bombs. Superintendent of Police Laxman Nimbaragi told TOI that hunters sneak into forested regions of Uttara Kannada and Belagavi districts in September when the paddy crop is up for harvesting. In the night, they make meat bombs using gunpowder and gelatin sticks and keep them in the path of wild boars. When the animals fall for the bait, the bombs explode. In the morning, the hunters collect the meat. Police sources said areas where meat hunters are active include Chamarajnagar and Kolar districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/man-teen-were-riding-into-forest-with-30-explosive-balls-in-bag/articleshow/79418715.cms||Shreyas HS
November 26, 2020||Jaipur||Kota: Man & 2 kids die in bike mishap||KOTA: A 30-year-old man, his 7-year-old son and one-year-old daughter were killed on the spot while his wife and another 12-year-old girl of the family sustained critical injuries after the motorbike in which they were riding collided with a car on Jaitakhedi road under Gangdhar police station area of Jhalawar district on Wednesday. Another motorbike with three people also rammed against the same car simultaneously, however, the three escaped unhurt. Dinesh Meghwal, a resident of Deveria Vijay village in Suwansra in MP, his wife Sangeeta (26), son Anshul, daughter Ansh and his 12-year-old relative Sanjana were on their way to attend a wedding function when around 1.30pm their motorbike collided with a car from the opposite direction on Jaitakhedi road under Gangdhar police station, Gangdhar SHO Sanjay Prasad Meena said. Dinesh, Anshul and Ansh were killed on the spot while Sangeeta and Sanjana sustained critical injuries and were rushed to SRG Hospital in Jhalawar where they are undergoing treatment, he added. The other motorbike carrying three of their relatives identified as Ishwar Meghwal (27), a resident of Jaswantpura village under Mishroli police station of Jhalawar district, his wife Krishna (27) and daughter Muskan (2) also collided against the same car but escaped unhurt, the SHO said. The three bodies were handed over to the family members after postmortem on Wednesday afternoon and further investigation into the matter is underway, he added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-2-kids-die-in-bike-mishap/articleshow/79417387.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Constable injured in knife attack||KOTA: A 28-year-old Rajasthan police constable posted in Jhalawar SP office sustained critical injuries after he was attacked with a knife during a scuffle with 4 to 5 persons over an old rivalry at a wedding party in Jhalawar city on Tuesday night. The injured constable was rushed to SRG Hospital, where he underwent a successful surgery on Wednesday and is stated to be out of danger. Constable Pawan Singh (28), who was posted in Jhalawar SP office, was at a marriage function of his relative in Haldighati marriage garden in Jhalawar city on Tuesday night when around 4 to 5 persons, also his relatives, reportedly got into a scuffle with him over some past rivalry and he was allegedly attacked with a knife, wherein he sustained injuries in the stomach and chest, said circle inspector at Jhalawar city police station Balveer Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/constable-injured-in-knife-attack/articleshow/79417389.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Aurangabad||Sena, BJP friends turn foes, clash for 1st time in decades||Aurangabad: The poll for Aurangabad graduates’ constituency has pitted former friends from Shiv Sena and BJP against each other for the first time in nearly three decades. The Shiv Sena and BJP have shared power for over 15 years in the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation and the estrangement of the two saffron allies at the state level has changed the equations at local level too. Besides Aurangabad, the bitterness among the local cadre of the two parties can be seen in other districts too. Interestingly, the rivalry between Sena and NCP-Congress at local level has also disappeared and has been replaced with camaraderie at political events. In a recent election rally, former city MP and Sena leader Chandrakant Khaire stressed on ensuring the defeat of BJP candidate Shirish Boralkar, who was considered one of the key leaders who enabled Khaire win the Lok Sabha election for four terms till 2019. “It is the order from our party chief Uddhav ji (Thackeray) to put all might behind the MVA candidate during the upcoming poll. We will follow his order by offering all possible support to Chavan,” Khaire said.Similarly, Sena district unit chief Ambadas Danve, who won MLC election for Aurangabad-cum-Jalna Local Authorities’s constituency with the support from BJP in August last year, has been fiercely campaigning against the national party for the election to be held on December 1. Former Sena mayor Nandkumar Ghodele said there are no permanent friends or foes in the politics at any level. “The political equations associated with MVA formation at the state-level are bound to have repercussions at the local level also. Needless to say, such rivalry must be seen as political differences and not personal enmity,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/sena-bjp-friends-turn-foes-clash-for-1st-time-in-decades/articleshow/79414091.cms||Prasad Joshi
November 26, 2020||Coimbatore||50-yr-old farmhand murdered in tussle||Coimbatore: The Negamam police have arrested a 34-year-old Kinathukadavu resident for killing a 50-year-old farm worker.Police identified the deceased as P Muthu of Kullandi Thottam at Valasupalayam near Kinathukadavu. “He was a farm worker. An alcohol addict, Muthu used to have alcohol with Valasupalayam-based K Ramkumar, 24, a tractor driver. Ramkumar used to spent time with Muthu and stopped going for work, much to the chagrin of his elder brother K Kunjan of JJ Nagar of Valasupalayam near Kinathukadavu,” a police officer said.When Ramkumar and Muthu were having liquor at Kullandi Thottam at Valasupalayam on Tuesday around 7.30pm, Kunjan reached there and admonished Ramkumar. “When he started to beat Ramkumar, Muthu stopped him. An angry Kunjan attacked Muthu using a wooden log. Muthu suffered severe head injuries. Their neighbours rushed Muthu to the government hospital in Pollachi, where first aid was given. He was referred to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH). However, Muthu died on the way to CMCH,” the officer added.Inspector Vetrivelrajan registered a case against Kunjan under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code and arrested him on Wednesday. He was remanded in judicial custody. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/50-yr-old-farmhand-murdered-in-tussle/articleshow/79416396.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Jaipur||3 of marriage party killed, 5 hurt in Barmer accident||JAISALMER: Three persons of a marriage party were killed and five injured when the tyre of the car in which they were travelling burst at Gida police station area in Barmer district on Wednesday. Gida SHO Hukmaram reached the spot and sent two injured persons to Baytoo, from where they were referred to Barmer headquarters and Jodhpur. Whike two persons died on the spot, one succumbed to injuries while being taken to Jodhpur. Hukmaram said the marriage party started from Rawatsar village in Barmer district and were on their way to Phalsoond when the tyre of the car burst and the car overturned. SP Anand Sharma said that seven people were in the car. The bodies were handed over to family members after post-mortem. The deceased were idfentified as Jiyaram (80), Gangdas (39) and Jodhdas (20), all residents of Rawatsar. The injured are Baludas (21), Rajudas (35) and Ashok (20), all residents of Chawa, and Hitesh (8), a resident of Sevda Jalore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/3-of-marriage-party-killed-5-hurt-in-barmer-accident/articleshow/79417390.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Kolkata||Bidhannagar cops begin ATM security audit, night patrol||KOLKATA: Bidhannagar cops have reintroduced the good old motorbike patrolling and daily security audit of unguarded ATMs — especially those within 2kms from VIP Road, Jessore Road, New Town Main Arterial Road and EM Bypass — within their jurisdiction to check the rising incidents of ATM robbery in the city. “We have time and again asked banks to deploy security guards at the unguarded ATMs. But considering the current situation, we have heightened night patrolling at unguarded ATMs. Police stations have also been asked to prepare a list of vulnerable and unguarded ATMs within their jurisdiction and accordingly ensure strict monitoring of the same,” said Surya Prasad Yadav, the deputy commissioner (headquarter) of Bidhannagar Commissionerate. On the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday, three ATMs — one at Michaelnagar in Bidhannagar and two in Howrah’s Dhulagarh and Bagnan — were cut open with gas cutters. While Rs 10 lakhs and Rs 18 lakhs were looted from Michaelnagar and Bagnan respectively, the robbers failed to pull out the cash from the Dhulagarh ATM. A somewhat similar heist was carried out at a Tiljala ATM on Friday night from where Rs 13 lakhs were looted. Probing into the case, respective police commissionerates have called for review meetings with bank officials and asked banks to conduct periodic security audits and not rely only on contracted agencies. Cops have also asked for suggestions on how the improve coordination between banking officials and police during a break-in attempt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bidhannagar-cops-begin-atm-security-audit-night-patrol/articleshow/79417388.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
November 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Call to expedite work on bridge over Noyyal||Coimbatore: Work on the bridge across river Noyyal at Ravathur near Irugur has gained pace.State local administration minister S P Velumani had announced that the new bridge would be constructed at Ravathur after the causeway across Noyyal was damaged last year. The damaged causeway had become unfit for vehicles and commuters were forced to take a circuitous route to reach their destinations.Planned at a cost of Rs 3.8 crore, the bridge will facilitate easy mobility for people from Irugur, Sulur, Pallapalayam, Kannampalayam as well as those who want to reach Avinashi Road from Trichy road. Several residents have urged authorities to complete work on the bridge as early as possible.“Since school children need not visit the campus to attend classes, they are being spared of the trouble. Others face a lot of trouble because of absence of the bridge,” said K Sounderarajan, an AIADMK functionary from Irugur.Collector K Rajamani had recently inspected the bridge work and instructed officials to expedite construction work.Officials said that they trying to complete the work in six months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/call-to-expedite-work-on-bridge-over-noyyal/articleshow/79416394.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Vellakoil farmers not receiving enough water||Tirupur: Farmers in Vellakoil region are fuming over a cut in their share of water for irrigation under the Parambikulam Aliyar Scheme.According to these farmers, water has to be released through the Vellakoil branch canal for 14 days every month in two cycles comprising seven days each. However, several farmers told TOI that this rule was not being followed in letter and spirit. Instead, water was being released only for three or four days. While officials maintain that due share of water is being released through the branch canal, farmers sought a detailed report of water that was released on a daily basis so far. “If water was released as per rules, why does it never reach the tail end areas of Vellakoil?’’ asked a farmer.The famers also alleged that there is indiscriminate siphoning of water from the canal upstream, resulting in water shortage by the time it reaches the tail end areas of Vellakoil. The farmers, who had met Tirupur collector K Vijayakarthikeyan recently, had said that they plan the cultivation based on a scheduled quantum of water release. If the expected quantum is not realised, the cultivation goes haywire, they said. “Besides crops, our livestock needs water too. We want the authorities to ensure adequate water for us,” said a farmer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/vellakoil-farmers-not-receiving-enough-water/articleshow/79416384.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 26, 2020||Nagpur||‘Bogus’ cop arrested, granted bail||Nagpur: The Sitabuldi police on Tuesday evening arrested Ajay Shivdas Jadhav (62), who hails from Badnapur, Jalna district, for allegedly duping people by posing as a cop. On Wednesday, the district court granted him bail while refusing the police’s request for custody remand. Sitabuldi police said Jadhav on Tuesday evening had gone to a ready-made garments shop in Sitabuldi which exclusively sells uniforms and other articles required by cops. He introduced himself as an assistant police inspector and started selecting uniform and other articles, said police. However, the shopkeeper smelled something fishy when Jadhav allegedly sought undue favours. The shopkeeper then alerted the police control room, which informed Sitabuldi police. A team of Sitabuldi police reached there within minutes and nabbed Jadhav. Police said the cashier Ramchandra Dongre and the owner recollected that some four years ago a police team from Marathwada had visited the shop along with a person who was Jadhav’s lookalike. Police suspect that Jadhav might have cheated many people not only in Nagpur but also in other cities. During interrogation, he refused to cooperate and failed to produce his ID card, said Sitabuldi police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bogus-cop-arrested-granted-bail/articleshow/79416401.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Train carrying vehicles leaves for Bangladesh||Krishnagiri: The South Western Railway operated the first goods train to Bangladesh from the Hosur railway station on Tuesday evening.Divisional railway manager of Bengaluru division Ashok Kumar Verma flagged off the first export-bound new modified goods (NMG) rake. “The rake consisting of 25 wagons carrying 100 Ashok Leyland’s light commercial vehicles DOST left for Benapole railway station in Bangladesh. It will travel 2,121km to reach there,” Verma said.Recalling two export-bound NMG rakes operated by the Bengaluru division, Verma said the rake went to Nautanwa in Nepal from the Penukonda railway station in Andhra Pradesh. “Transportation of automobiles by train is safer and faster than by road. It is easy to monitor the movement of the consignment with real-time tracking.”Senior divisional commercial manager A N Krishna Reddy, senior divisional operations manager Akhil M Shastri, vice-president and head of Ashok Leyland Rajesh Mittal, head of LCV operations K Rajendra Kumar, manager (logistics) Senthil and officers of the Bengaluru division were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/train-carrying-vehicles-leaves-for-bangladesh/articleshow/79416426.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Jaipur||Woman, son stab man to death in Kota||KOTA: A woman and her minor son allegedly stabbed a 26-year-old man over an old enmity in Udyog Nagar police station of the city late on Tuesday night. The man succumbed to injuries during treatment at a hospital an hour later. Police booked the mother-son duo, who fled after the crime, under Section 302 of IPC for murder. The mother was arrested and the minor boy detained late on Wednesday. The deceased, identified as Saddam (26), a resident of Bombay affordable housing Yojana, had in recent past rebuked the minor boy, his neighbour, over his frequent gazing at his maternal niece in the house while passing through the street on his motorbike and the boy had harboured enmity, said circle inspector at Udyog Nagar police station Parmendra Rawat. The boy got into a scuffle with Saddam on Tuesday evening and later at night, he called Saddam out of his house and as he came out, the boy launched multiple attacks with a knife on Saddam while his mother Roshan alias Fatto (33) held Saddam’s both arms, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-son-stab-man-to-death-in-kota/articleshow/79417391.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Kandhal Jadeja’s acquittal in BJP councillor’s murder upheld||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Wednesday upheld the acquittal of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) MLA from Kutiyana, Kandhal Jadeja, in the murder of Porbandar BJP councillor Keshu Nebha Odedara in 2005. The bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala dismissed the appeals against the acquittal order filed by the state government and the victim’s kin. The high court concurred with the Porbandar sessions court’s decision of acquittal in this case because none of the eyewitnesses named the accused. While the FSL report established that firing had taken place from a gun recovered from one of the accused persons, Kandhal’s brother, there was no evidence connecting the accused to the murder, even though the shooting had taken place in a marketplace in broad daylight. During the hearing, the judges commented that the investigation in this case appeared to be perfunctory. To a question by the judge on why Kandhal and his family could have been implicated, Kandhal’s advocate Nirupam Nanavaty submitted that there was a political rivalry because the accused and victim belong to two different political parties. According to the prosecution’s case, Kandhal Jadeja and his brother Kano Jadeja along with two others came in a car and opened fire on Odedara near a paan parlour at 10am on March 1, 2005. The police investigation revealed conspiracy and a total of nine persons were implicated in this case. They included ‘The Godmother’ Santokben Jadeja, Kandhal, his brothers Karan, Kano and Bhoja, Kandhal’s wife Rekha and others. While Kano has been absconding in this case for the last 15 years, Kandhal was arrested and put in jail. He escaped from custody and was arrested again after a year. In February 2011, a sessions court in Porbandar acquitted all nine accused giving them the benefit of the doubt as no eyewitness could state who the assailants were.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/kandhal-jadejas-acquittal-in-bjp-councillors-murder-upheld/articleshow/79416427.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Aurangabad||MLC polls: 1,000 voters per booth||Aurangabad: The election authorities have decided to allocate only 1,000 voters to each booth during the December 1 Marathwada graduates’ constituency election. In the past election, each booth had 1,500 registered voters. The norm has been revised in order to avoid crowding given the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. As per the official data, more than 3.7 lakh graduate voters are scheduled to exercise their voting rights for the upcoming election. Polling will be held at 813 booths in the eight districts of Marathwada. Aurangabad deputy collector (election) Anjali Dhanorkar said the basic Covid prevention norms must be followed by voters on the polling day. “Wearing of face masks, maintaining physical distance and frequent hand sanitization are prerequisites on the polling day too. Voters would be asked to lower the face mask for confirmation of identity and he/she should not speak or open the mouth during such verification. The voters must use the sanitizers placed at the entry and exist points of the polling booths,” she said. The election authorities have started creating awareness among the electors. “Voters with body temperature of above 98.6 degree fahrenheit will be asked to undergo another temperature check. Those showing two consecutive abnormal readings will be allowed to cast their vote in thr last one hour of polling (from 4 pm to 5pm) as per directives from the Election Commission,” Dhanorkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/mlc-polls-1000-voters-per-booth/articleshow/79414101.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Authorities prepared for Cyclone Nivar||Salem: District administration officials in Salem, Namakkal, Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri and Erode districts have taken precautionary measures to tackle Cyclone Nivar.The Salem district administration has identified 23 vulnerable spots that would be inundated with flood water if heavy rain hits the district. “We have opened an emergency helpline centre at the collectorate, which will function round-the-clock,” Salem collector S A Raman said. “Public can contact 0427-2452202 and toll-free 0427-1077 for assistance.”Raman also requested people staying in low-lying areas to safer places. “We have advised people not to venture into rivers or other water bodies during the cyclone. Police, fire and rescue services personnel, revenue department, disaster management and local body officials will closely monitor public movement.”The collector has directed officials of revenue and other departments to remove withered trees to avoid untoward incidents. “Tom-tom announcements were made along rivers,” he said.The Erode district administration has identified 95 vulnerable spots, school education minister K A Sengottaiyan said. “The officials are ready to reach the affected area within minutes. Shelters are also ready to accommodate 50,000 people,” he said.The minister said that online classes will be affected in the cyclone-hit districts due to power outages. “Students will not be affected as the classes will be telecast again,” he said.Dharmapuri district administration made tom-tom announcements in Harur taluk. Help desks have been set up at collectorate premises in Namakkal and Krishnagiri districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/authorities-prepared-for-cyclone-nivar/articleshow/79416424.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Coimbatore||This Tamil Nadu cop’s heart beats for the destitute||COIMBATORE: Senior police officers lauded Peelamedu inspector T Jothi for offering Rs 10,000 to a poor family that had approached him a few months ago, seeking money for their daughter's delivery. The woman delivered a baby boy a few days ago and the family met the inspector at the police station on Tuesday to express their gratitude. A woman from Athikuttai near Chinniyampalayam had visited the station two months ago with her pregnant daughter. She told the inspector that her son-in-law had abandoned her daughter, who was pregnant, and she needed financial assistance for her delivery. Jothi gave her Rs 10,000 from his pocket. The duo returned on Tuesday, with a baby boy, to thank the officer. The inspector conveyed his best wishes to the new mother and the baby. Meanwhile, senior police officers congratulated Jothi and posted his photo with the women and the baby on the city police Facebook page.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/this-cops-heart-beats-for-the-destitute/articleshow/79416398.cms||A Subburaj
November 26, 2020||Coimbatore||4 from AP involved in burglaries in city held||Coimbatore: The Karumathampatti police on Tuesday arrested four people, including a couple from Guntur in Andhra Pradesh, and recovered 16 sovereigns of gold ornaments, Rs 20,000 and a mobile phone from them.Angamma Rao, 32, his wife Angamma, and his relatives Seenu, 30 and Subbarao, 20, from Guntur in Andhra Pradesh, were involved in burglaries in Coimbatore, Erode and Chennai and are also facing murder cases in Andhra Pradesh, police sources said. “They had rented a house at Pappampatti in Coimbatore a year ago and were engaged in gold polishing work. They used to roam the streets together to identify locked houses. They executed burglaries only during the day. Two of them used to break open doors to loot valuables and the others acted as lookouts,” sub-inspector Aravindrajan said.They had decamped with 10 sovereigns of gold ornaments from the house of Yuvaraj, an IT employee, at Chinna Moppiripalayam near Karumathampatti on October 18. They also stole six sovereigns of gold ornaments, Rs 20,000 and a mobile phone from the motorcycle of Nagamani of Karumathampatti on October 30.The burglars were remanded in judicial custody on Tuesday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/4-from-ap-involved-in-burglaries-in-city-held/articleshow/79416407.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Jaipur||Woman alleges abduction, rape in Baran||KOTA: A 20-year-old woman lodged a case of abduction and rape against a 22-year-old man in Anta police station of Baran district on Tuesday. The woman alleged that she was abducted on November 9 and the accused took her into a forest near Mandana town of Kota district where he allegedly raped her repeatedly. She was eventually rescued by her father after 14 days last Sunday (November 22). The police have registered a case of abduction and rape against the accused and initiated investigation into the matter, however, the accused is yet to be nabbed. Anta police station SHO Umesh Manaria said the rape survivor in her report stated that she had gone to attend wedding of her maternal uncle at a village in Anta police station area where the accused on November 9 abducted her on his motorbike when she was out in the field for defecation in open. The accused took her to a forest near Mandana town of Kota district where he held her captive and raped her repeatedly, he said.Manaria said, eventually, she managed to make a call to her father and narrated her plight following which the father reached the spot on Sunday and rescued her. The father, however, did not lodge a missing report to the police after his daughter had allegedly gone missing (abducted), he added. Manaria said the woman was sent for medical examination and application to record her statements under Section 164 before the magistrate was also submitted to the court on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-alleges-abduction-rape-in-baran/articleshow/79417392.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Jaipur||Kerala cops nab two for online fraud in Bharatpur||ALWAR: Kerala police arrested two persons for making a fake identify card of Trivandrum police IG and using it to carry out online fraud. The accused were arrested in Bharatpur after a team of Kerala police conducted searches at various locations. The accused had used the ID on social media and duped multiple persons of lakhs of rupees. Mewat region is notorious for online frauds, especially when it comes to buying products on OLX. Many a times, cases have been reported where the accused have under the pretext of selling gold bricks have passed on simple bricks. While cops have been regularly arresting such fraudsters, officials said people need to be cautious while making purchases online. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/kerala-cops-nab-two-for-online-fraud/articleshow/79417394.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata's Majerhat bridge may be opened in December first week||KOLKATA: The Majerhat bridge will be opened in the first week of December, state public works department (PWD) minister Aroop Biswas said on Wednesday while inspecting the newly-built structure. The bridge that connects the city to New Alipore, Behala and beyond collapsed on September 4, 2018. Commissioning of the new four-lane bridge will signal the end to commuting pangs of scores of people who currently take detours and get stranded in snarls. “The bridge has been built in record time. To my knowledge, it usually takes 24 months to construct a cable-stayed bridge. Nine months were misspent due to pending railway permissions and another three months were wasted because of the pandemic. We essentially completed the bridge in about a year,” Biswas said. “Around 99.8% work of the work is complete,” he said. A 260m stretch of the 650m bridge stands over railway tracks. The lifeline is, therefore, a road overbridge (ROB) that falls within the jurisdiction of Eastern Railway (ER). Approvals from the railways were needed at various stages of construction. The commissioner of railway safety (CRS), under the aviation ministry, too, has had the final say on several issues. The CRS gives the safety approval to any new railway project in India. Last week, during the load test of the bridge, Anant M Chowdhary, CRS, eastern circle, visited the site along with ER engineers and expressed satisfaction over the work. After the load test, the 84 cables of Majerhat bridge were fine-tuned. The cables, brought from Switzerland, hold the 260m deck slab. Engineers had to ensure the load-bearing capacity of cables was perfectly tuned. The bridge will be Kolkata’s third cable-stayed bridge after Vidyasagar Setu and Nivedita Setu. The new ROB will be Kolkata’s first ‘instrumented bridge’ and the most protected. The overall maintenance of the bridge will be data-driven. “Instrumentation will be done after opening the bridge. The bridge will be equipped with sensors to provide real-time data showing how the new bridge functions against static and dynamic vehicular load,” a PWD official said. According to the general arrangement drawing (GAD) or masterplan, the onus of maintenance will be on PWD. But ER can suspend traffic on the ROB if it finds the ‘instrumentation’ failing for more than a month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/majerhat-bridge-may-be-opened-in-dec-first-week/articleshow/79416425.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
November 26, 2020||Nagpur||No reopening schools till students too are tested, say principals||Nagpur: Academics have demanded mandatory Covid-19 testing for school students, just as it has been done for teachers. School Headmasters’ Charitable Association (SHCA) has decided not to reopen their schools till these tests are completed. In a special meeting held on Wednesday at Mecosabagh Methodist High School, the executive committee of SHCA deliberated on the risks of reopening schools. Dilip Bose, secretary of SHCA, said they did not want to take a risk with students and teachers on the same campus. “If teachers have been asked to go through the mandatory RT-PCR tests, then it should be done for students as well,” said Bose. Sundip Gaikwad, vice president of SHCA, said, “What do we do if a teacher gets infected while on campus. At least with the mandatory tests, there is at least a common starting point for all of us. We are anyway struggling to get peons and such support staff to help with sanitization,” said Gaikwad. Zafar Khan, president of the association, said, “At the meeting we took an overall view of the situation. It’s important for us to look into the concerns of our members and then get it across to the authorities.” District collector Ravindra Thakre said the demand to test all students is not logistically possible to implement. Speaking exclusively to TOI, Thakre said, “There are over 2.7 lakh students in the district and our testing capacity is just a couple of thousands. So it is not something which we can really do considering the infrastructure available,” said Thakre. Madhu Joseph, joint secretary of SHCA, said the best way to go ahead is to test only those students who have given their consent. “Consenting students will be very few, in thousands only. So authorities can start with their testing for now,” said Joseph.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-reopening-schools-till-students-too-are-tested-say-principals/articleshow/79416432.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
November 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Govt yet to notify deleted syllabus||Coimbatore: The state government is yet to notify about the deleted portions of the syllabus for school students as per recommendations made by an expert committee in view of the pandemic. In September, the state government announced that about 40% of the syllabus for school students would be reduced. While most of the schools have completed teaching over 75% of the syllabus, the schools are yet to be informed about the deleted portions even after three months of the announcement.“The government should inform the schools at least about the deleted portions for classes X, XI and XII students who are going to write the board examinations. Sooner the students are informed about it, the better it will be,” state treasure of the Tamil Nadu High and Higher Secondary School Government Teachers Association T Arulanantham said The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has reduced the syllabus by 30% for classes IX to XII and the same was notified in July. “Some of the teachers had already completed the syllabus and even the department itself has telecast about 60 to 70% of the syllabus through Kalvi channel. Till now, the government has not even made clear whether they had deleted entire lessons or a few concepts in each lesson,” he added. Students are already struggling to cope up with the online classes and the delay will be an additional stress, he said. “The purpose of reducing the syllabus is to help the students learn better during the pandemic and score good marks in the examination. By delaying the information about the deleted portion, the objective itself will be defeated. Last minute information will confuse both the students and teachers,” president of Tamil Nadu Private Schools Association R Vishalakshi said. Some of the students are lethargic and waiting for the government to announce the syllabus without starting the board examination preparation, she said, adding that deleting entire lessons would be better than deleting a few concepts in each lesson. “Conducting public examination is unavoidable for Class XII. So, the government should announce the syllabus at least for them,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/govt-yet-to-notify-deleted-syllabus/articleshow/79416437.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Aurangabad||Farmer self-immolation: 3 booked for suicide abetment||Aurangabad: The 49-year-old farmer, who set himself ablaze inside the irrigation department office in Beed on Tuesday, has succumbed to the burns while undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH).Following the farmer’s death, Shivajinagar police have registered an abetment of suicide case against three government officials — irrigation department’s executive engineer, deputy collector and deputy superintendent of land records.The farmer’s family has claimed that the deceased had approached the irrigation department for appropriate compensation for their hereditary land acquired by the irrigation department, but his plea fell on deaf ears.The deceased, Arjun Salunke, who was from Pali village of Beed, had suffered 90% burns and was taken to the Beed civil hospital from where he was sent to the GMCH.Superintendent of police R Raja said, “Based on the complaint lodged by the farmer’s 19-year-old son, a case has been registered against the three government employees.”As per the complaint lodged by deceased’s son, his father was following up with the authorities from land acquisition department, irrigation department and land records office, for the past 15 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/farmer-self-immolation-3-booked-for-suicide-abetment/articleshow/79414053.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: At this school in Pollachi, teachers tweak class schedule for students||COIMBATORE: A government school in Pollachi is going the extra mile to ensure its underprivileged students do not miss out on online classes if they don’t have a smartphone. For students of Pollachi municipality girls higher secondary school who do not own their own mobile phone and are forced to borrow it from parents, the school management conducts separate classes – from 7am to 8am in the morning and from 5pm to 8 pm in the evening. For students who have taken up odd jobs to help their family in the last few months, online classes are conducted from 8pm to 9 pm after they return from work. This decision by the school management is immensely helpful for students such as F Nandhini, a Class XII student from the school, who attends her online classes between 5pm and 7pm when her father returns home from work. Nandhini said she is glad that her school management has decided to teach its students in the evening. “If not, I would not be able to attend online classes at all,” she said After the state government’s announcement on online classes, school authorities began identifying students who own a smartphone and those who don’t. “We have different timings for those students who borrow a phone from their parents,” said A Sudha, Zoology teacher from the school. The school has about 250 students in Class XII. While 150 of them attend regular classes, 50 to 60 students attend the early morning and evening classes, while about 30 students attend the night class, the teacher said. The school has made separate arrangement for its 25 students from Valparai region. “The Valparai students do not have access to phones during the day time as their parents go to work... we speak to them only when they call us or through a few students who have a phone,” she explained. Teachers have prepared study materials which are distributed to students twice a month. For students from Valparai, books are dispatched through private vehicles or teachers who travel to Valparai. The books are kept at a shop near Valparai bus stand, from where students or their parents collect them.  School headmistress Uma said, “We have been putting extra efforts. There are incidents when our teachers have travelled all the way to students’ houses to hand them study materials.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/at-this-school-teachers-tweak-class-schedule-for-students/articleshow/79416429.cms||Nivedha Selvam
November 26, 2020||Kolkata||Rising pollution at night poses risk to morning walkers: Experts||Kolkata: Pollution at night is rising sharply in the city for the last couple of days, with temperature dropping steadily. This leaves morning walkers at risk as the morning air quality remains very poor (301-400). Health experts have warned that people should shy away from strenuous physical activities in the morning, which necessitate inhaling more particulate matter-laden air. West Bengal Pollution Control Board’s scientists said the thermal inversion has led to a significant reduction of vertical wind flow inhibiting the dispersal of the particulate matter high in the atmosphere. So, the finer particulate matters hang low in the atmosphere at a breathable height, exposing people to a health hazard. Very poor AQI, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) air classification says, can have a very adverse impact on healthy people. There can be very serious respiratory distress on a prolonged exposure. “It is worse for people with a history of respiratory issues like asthma and COPD patients. The situation is bad now when Covid-19 is still playing havoc,” said Arup Haldar, a senior pulmonologist. “It is very very risky to venture out in the morning now. The pollutants can have a long term impact and can even cause heart attack. They can do that in the early afternoon, when the air quality is much better,” said Sushmita Roy Chowdhury, a senior pulmonologist. Even at 9 am on Wednesday, AQI remained 295 at Fort William, 285 at Jadavpur and 313 at B T Road (Rabindra Bharati University air quality monitoring station). The danger is that the city’s AQI is driven by PM2.5, the finest particulate matter in the air. “We have resumed certain measures that gave us good results last year.We are increasing the frequency of sprinkling water in the morning and evening to stop resuspension of road dust. Besides, we have been facilitating the food hawkers and eateries to switch over to cleaner fuel,” said a WBPCB official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rising-pollution-at-night-poses-risk-to-morning-walkers-experts/articleshow/79416444.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
November 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Central trade unions to go on strike today||Coimbatore: Central trade unions in the district will take part in the nationwide general strike on Thursday demanding withdrawal of agricultural reforms and labour reforms by the Union government.The unions also demand withdrawal of Industrial relations code bill 2020, the code on social security bill 2020 and the occupational safety, health and working conditions code bill 2020. Members of AITUC, CITU, INTUC, AICCTU and other unions will participate in the strike. Meanwhile, the auto union affiliated to Hindu Munnani has clarified that it will not participate in the strike. In a statement, union president Manoharan said it is only now that the auto drivers have started getting some business after the lockdown imposed due to Covid-19 and the strike will affect them further. He said that the strike was unnecessary at a time when a cyclone alert has been issued to seven districts in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/central-trade-unions-to-go-on-strike-today/articleshow/79416428.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan Congress announces 3-day mourning for Ahmed Patel||JAIPUR: Congress will observe a three-day mourning to pay respects to senior leader Ahmed Patel who died on Wednesday. PCC president Govind Singh Dotasra said the party flag will fly at half-mast for the next three days in all its offices. Patel (71) died at a Gurugram hospital due to multiple organ failure more than a month after he tested positive for Covid. The party also held condolence meetings in district party offices to express grief over the death of the veteran leader. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot expressed grief over the passing away of veteran Patel, saying he was his close friend and a trusted partner. In a tweet, he said, “Apart from political association, I am deeply saddened by the passing away of my close friend Ahmed bhai. His untimely demise is a personal loss to me. Today, I have lost a close friend and a trusted partner. No one will be able to fill the void left by Ahmed bhai.” “Sh. Ahmed Patel dedicated his entire life to the Congress party. In this way, he remained committed to keeping the Congress united even though staying away from power in his political life for more than four decades. His absence will be sorely missed.” “The sudden demise of Ahmed bhai is a great loss to the entire political community and the nation at this time. In today’s situation, the Congress will miss his presence even more deeply. May God give his family members, all loved ones the strength to bear this loss and may Ahmed bhai’s soul RIP,” the Rajasthan CM said. Former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot tweeted, “Extremely saddened to learn of Shri Ahmed Patel ji has passed away. Shri Patel has left a void which cannot be filled. He was a dedicated Congressman, a passionate nationalist and friend and mentor to so many... I join in grief with Faisal, Mumtaz and the rest of the family.” “Saddened by the passing away of Senior Congress Leader Shri #AhmedPatel ji. In public life, he always worked for the social interest and made his mark on the political scene. I pray to God for peace of the departed soul,” said former chief minister Vasundhara Raje.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-cong-announces-3-day-mourning-for-ahmed-patel/articleshow/79417395.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Kolkata||Airport-Garia Metro link clears Ruby flyover hurdle||KOLKATA: The last major land hurdle for Airport-New Garia Metro’s 5km truncated run till Ruby has been removed. The state government has agreed to remove the Metro project’s overlapping alignment with an arm of the Ruby flyover. The 120m viaduct gap near Avishikta crossing can now be filled up to build the five pillars. Kolkata Police will have to plan a traffic diversion so that Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL), the implementing agency of the 32km Metro corridor, can block the area to facilitate the construction. RVNL should take four months to complete this bit once the site is made available. TOI on August 3 had reported that the Rs 600-crore Ruby flyover had emerged as a major roadblock for the priority section of the city’s longest Metro corridor. State agency Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA) has been planning this north-south overpass on either side of the Metro viaduct on EM Bypass. The six-lane elevated corridor over the Ruby crossing, will start at Kalikapur (near Metro Cash and Carry) and end at VIP Bazar, running 2m higher than the Metro stations. An arm of the flyover turns right at the Avishikta crossing on Prince Anwar Shah Road connector towards Jadavpur Phanri. The draft DPR prepared by RITES showed the flyover overlapping with the existing Metro pier 112 at the Kavi Sukanta station. Therefore, KMDA asked RVNL to have the pier demolished. RVNL, in turn, said the Metro alignment was sacrosanct, especially since the viaduct has long been built on pier 112 near the Avishikta crossing. RVNL offered to raze a smaller pier below Kavi Sukanta station and reduce the station’s length by 30m. “This way the existing Metro alignment will not be disturbed and we shall not be compromising with the viaduct’s strength either. KMDA has finally approved our proposal. RITES had stamped its approval in August, but KMDA was in a dilemma,” an RVNL official told TOI. RVNL has been trying to expedite Phase 1 (the 5km stretch between the terminal Kavi Subhas station and the Hemanta Mukherjee station near Ruby crossing) with a commissioning deadline of early 2022. Track-laying for Phase 1 has already started. RVNL officials have been lobbying with KMDA, saying that the imbroglio would cast its shadow on the commissioning of this priority section of the 32km airport-New Garia project, which was launched back in 2012 and has been saddled with multiple land logjams beyond the Ruby crossing. A KMDA official said, “We can now ask RITES to prepare the final DPR of the flyover. The overpass will ease traffic load at this important crossing on EM Bypass to a great extent.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/airport-garia-metro-link-clears-ruby-flyover-hurdle/articleshow/79416438.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
November 26, 2020||Patna||Engineer kidnapped in Saharsa, Rs15 lakh ransom sought||PATNA: The abductors of a 35-year-old junior engineer, Mukesh Kumar Bharti, who was kidnapped from Sour Bazar police station area in Saharsa district late on Tuesday evening, have demanded Rs15 lakh as ransom for his safe release. Bharti, who works with the central government’s MNREGA scheme, was kidnapped while returning home on a two-wheeler. The bike was found near the canal between Samda and Bakhri villages. The victim’s father Phuleshwar Sah received two calls from the abductors demanding Rs 15 lakh as ransom for his release. Sah immediately informed the police. The SHO of Sour Bazar police station Jaishankar Prasad said the junior engineer had left his office around 5 am for his village Sakrauli under Simri Bakhtiyarpur police station on his two-wheeler. The incident came to light when the alleged abductors contacted the family for ransom around 7 pm. Earlier, the Saharsa district programme officer of MNREGA Rajni Kant Singh said the victim’s father informed him over the phone about the incident. “I shared the information with the senior officers of the department,” he told media persons in Saharsa. The victim’s wife Jyoti Kumar told the police officers that Bharti had a verbal duel with a representative of the local panchayat over some official work. The family members have sought the intervention of the senior police officers for the safe recovery of the abducted engineer. Investigating officers said the abductors used the victim’s cellular phone to contact the family for the ransom money. They also threatened the family with dire consequences if they reported the matter to the police, an investigating officer said. Saharsa SP Rakesh Kumar said that a special investigation team (SIT) headed by Sadar SDPO Santosh Kumar to trace the captive and arrest the criminals involved in the crime. The SHO Jaishankar said that some suspects are being interrogated. “Raids are on to get the captive released from the clutches of his kidnappers at the earliest,” he told this newspaper over the phone on Tuesday. He, however, said the incident was the fallout of a dispute over contracts under the MNREGA scheme. “We hope to solve the case within 24 hours as we have zeroed in on the gang involved in the incident,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/engineer-kidnapped-in-saharsa-rs15-lakh-ransom-sought/articleshow/79415983.cms||Ramashankar
November 26, 2020||Goa||Rethink move to get Old Goa into PDA: Shripad Naik||MARGAO: Union Ayush minister and North Goa MP Shripad Naik said on Wednesday that the state government should reconsider its move to include Old Goa in the Greater Panaji PDA. “ I will take up the issue with the chief minister,” said Naik. Fatorda legislator Vijai Sardesai had on Tuesday alleged that the town and country planning (TCP) department was intending to extend the boundary of Greater Panaji PDA by Old Goa village into it. Naik also said that the state government should initiate a dialogue with the anti-coal protestors, and convince them about the importance of the three contentious infrastructure projects. He reiterated his stand that the government should consider shifting the Bainguinim waste treatment plant to an alternative location as the locals are opposed to it. Naik was speaking to reporters on the sidelines of the 10th anniversary function of Goa Seamen Association of India (GSAI). Earlier, speaking as chief guest, he said that Goan seafarers have been doing a yeoman service by boosting Goa’s economy with their foreign remittances, and referred to them as ambassadors of Goa. Sardesai, speaking on the occasion, said “Goan seamen have kept Goemkarponn alive on the high seas.” Stating that the importance of the diaspora, seafarers included, has been recognized by all, Sardesai, however, lamented that the state government “betrayed” the seafarers during their difficult times when the Covid-19 pandemic struck. “They were treated with scant respect during the lockdown period when they were trying to get back to Goa. The government was scared that the seafarers would spread the infection in the state which was then labeled as the green zone,” Sardesai said. GSAI president Frank Viegas demanded that seafarers be considered among essential workers and therefore they be vaccinated against Covid-19 on a priority basis, along with doctors, armed forces personnel, etc. “With a number of vaccine trials now showing promising rates of success, the need for seafarers to be treated as essential workers and be among the first to receive vaccinations needs to be highlighted. Also, the shipping ministry can develop a way to verify that seamen have had the Covid vaccine on the lines of yellow fever vaccination card, which will enable Indian and Goan seafarers to be globally accepted,” Viegas said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rethink-move-to-get-old-goa-into-pda-shripad/articleshow/79417400.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Kolkata||Data privacy webinar addresses ‘leak’ worry||Kolkata: Over 1,000 IT professionals, senior managers, students and educationists from across the state participated in a first-of-its-kind webinar organized by the Bengal government to train BPOs and software firms on current international privacy laws and the basic dos and don’ts of telecalling and personal data handling. The cyber security centre of excellence of the department of information technology and electronics of West Bengal engaged IT and legal experts from the state government as well as multiple private institutions for conducting the session on Wednesday evening, following numerous complaints and cases of spamming that brought even genuine call centres, working out of the Kolkata-Salt Lake Sector V-New Town belt, under the scanner of local, national and international law-enforcing agencies. “It was a great session with attendees from different verticals shooting queries on updated privacy laws across the world and immediate steps companies needed to take to assess and certify the privacy law compliance in their organizations,” said Bivas Chatterjee, special public prosecutor of West Bengal for cyber law and e-evidence, who was chief speaker at the webinar. TOI on Tuesday had written how non-compliance of privacy laws often led to the closure of smaller firms, which do not have the resources to fight protracted legal cases. This can prove catastrophic in the current situation, when the pandemic has resulted in an economic trough and governments are scrambling to contain job losses. “In the last six months, at least 10 big and small companies in the state had to shell out huge penalties for breach of private data of European nationals they dealt with. The government should encourage more such sessions to make more companies aware of the privacy laws and help them upgrade their facilities accordingly,” said Susovan Mukherjee, CEO of Prime Infoserv. The primary topic of discussion was General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) — a set of data protection laws framed by the European Union that defines how personal data of EU citizens is protected across the world. “GDPR makes it mandatory for all companies to comply with the guidelines, failure of which can attract fines of up to 20 million Euros or 4% of global turnover of the preceding financial year,” said Chatterjee. “When India’s data privacy bill becomes effective, the principles of data protection regulations would be similar to those across the EU, California and Canada. A company that learns to comply with the regulations of one jurisdiction can easily comply with those of another. Uniform standards, similar to ISO 9000, would promote global commerce,” pointed out Sk. Rejaul Haque, an IT professional.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/data-privacy-webinar-addresses-leak-worry/articleshow/79416446.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
November 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Be firm against forces trying to disrupt peace, Telangana CM KCR tells cops||HYDERABAD: Claiming that government has information on disruptive forces trying to disturb communal harmony in city ahead of GHMC polls, CM K Chandrasekhar Rao told police to act tough on them. He also said the plan was to get Dec 1 polls postponed. At a meeting on law and order with police brass on Wednesday, he said: “The government will give a free hand to deal with these elements with an iron hand.” The meeting assumed significance in the wake of controversial remarks made by BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay and AIMIM leader Akbaruddin Owaisi. Without naming any party or leader, the CM said: “Their plan is to create communal disturbances so that the GHMC polls are postponed. The state government has definite information about this.” Rebutting the CM’s remarks, Sanjay said the TRS government was trying to postpone the elections in the name of law and order. KCR urged people, particularly youth, not to fall prey to the forces that were attempting to disrupt peace and law and order. “During the GHMC elections, some persons in their effort to get political mileage are resorting to false propaganda and spreading communal hatred on social media. They are even morphing photographs,” he alleged and urged the political parties to campaign and fight democratically in the elections. The meeting was attended by DGP M Mahendar Reddy, Hyderabad, Cyberabad and Rachakonda police commissioners — Anjani Kumar, VC Sajjanar and Mahesh Bhagawat — and senior officers. Chief secretary Somesh Kumar was also present. The CM said Hyderabadis are peace-loving people and will not fall for any falsehood despite the propaganda. “They (disruptive forces) have realised that their attempts to get votes by throwing money do not work in Hyderabad. Now, they are stooping to create communal clashes in Hyderabad and take political mileage out of it. These forces want to create communal clashes even in Karimnagar, Warangal, Khammam and other places. They also want to foment trouble at places of worship,” he said. He said his government was determined to maintain law and order at all costs. “We got Telangana state after working relentlessly with commitment, dedication, honesty and sincerity. The government will not compromise on law and order, ” KCR told police officers. Senior cops told the CM that high alert would be maintained and conspiracies of anti-social elements to break law and order would be busted. They also assured that the entire police machinery would ensure that no untoward incident will happen in the state. Meanwhile, Sanjay said: “The BJP will not remain quiet if the TRS tries to postpone the GHMC elections. Before Dubbak elections also, the TRS ran the same campaign against us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/be-firm-against-forces-trying-to-disrupt-peace-kcr-tells-cops/articleshow/79418214.cms||Koride Mahesh
November 26, 2020||Goa||BJP MLA slams DGP for pro-Mollem statement||VASCO: BJP Cortalim MLA Alina Saldanha on Tuesday called DGP Mukesh Kumar Meena’s recent statement supporting the three contentious infrastructure projects passing through the Mollem forests “undemocratic.” “I am surprised that DGP Meena, who claims that before joining the IPS, was in the Indian Forest Service (IFS), has taken it up as his duty to promote the three linear projects through the protected areas of Bhagwan Mahavir wildlife sanctuary and Mollem National Park,” Saldanha said. She warned Meena against interference of the police “in activities related to the welfare of the state of Goa and its people, especially when the people of Goa have been agitating peacefully against the destructive projects”. “The police should primarily focus upon law and order within the state by bringing down the escalating crime index, as well as other illegal and anti-social activities that are presently plaguing the state,” she added. Saldanha said that Meena, having served in the IFS in the past, ought to have been aware of the stringent rules and regulations that govern protected and other forest areas through the Forest Conservation Act, 1980. She demanded to know from Meena about the destruction that will be wrought by these projects within the protected areas which are part of the Western Ghats. She also demanded to know from the DGP whether any changes have recently been introduced in the Forest Conservation Act, 1980, to allow these projects. “I remember, when I held the portfolio of forest minister (2012-2015), I tried through a private forest management plan to give some concessions to the owners of private forests by appealing to MoEF. The reply from MoEF was very precise and the Goa state forest department was asked to drop all such plans as the requests could not be considered as Forest Acts under the Forest Conservation Act 1980,” Saldanha pointed out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-mla-slams-dgp-for-pro-mollem-statement/articleshow/79417412.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Mumbai||India has highest bribery rate (39%) in all of Asia||Only 47% of people surveyed in India believe that corruption has increased over the past 12 months and 63% believe that the government is doing a good job in tackling corruption. Perhaps, the ‘feel good’ factor ends here. India has emerged as having the highest bribery rate of 39% in the Asian region. It also has the highest rate of people (46%) who used personal connections to access public services, according to a recent survey-report released by Transparency International, a global civil society. Nearly 50% of those who paid bribes were asked to, while 32% of those who used personal connections said they would not receive the service otherwise. Cambodia had the second highest bribery rate of 37%, followed by Indonesia at 30%. The Maldives and Japan maintained the lowest overall bribery rate (2% each), followed by South Korea (10%) and Nepal (12%). However, even in these countries, governments could do more to stop bribes for public services, pointed out Transparency International. In Japan, only 4% of those who accessed public services had to rely on personal connections. While the percentage figure in India was significant at 46%, it was also relatively high at 36% in Indonesia. In an earlier report, issued by Transparency International, which was released in January at Davos at the World Economic Forum, India had been ranked at 80th position among 180 countries in the Corruption Perception Index. For this newly released survey-report, ‘Global Corruption Barometer–Asia’, Transparency International surveyed 20,000 people across 17 Asian countries—largely between June-September this year, seeking their perception of and experiences with corruption in the past twelve months. Six key public services are covered in the report, viz: police, courts, public hospitals, procurement of identity documents and utilities. Of the people surveyed in India, who came into contact with the police, 42% paid bribes. Use of bribes was also rampant (41%) to obtain official documents such as identity papers. Use of personal connections was also largely made in dealings with the police (39%), procurement of identity documents (42%) and in relation to courts (38%). Bribery in public services continues to plague India. Slow and complicated bureaucratic process, unnecessary red tape and unclear regulatory frameworks force citizens to seek out alternate solutions to access basic services through networks of familiarity and petty corruption, cites the report. An issue of concern, reflected in the report is that while reporting of corruption is critical to curbing the spread, as many as 63% of those in India, were particularly concerned about retaliation. “Both national and state governments need to streamline administrative processes for public services, implement preventative measures to combat bribery and nepotism, and invest in user friendly online platforms to deliver essential public services quickly and effectively,” added the survey-report. While vote-buying was the highest in Thailand and the Philippines where 28% were offered a bribe in return for a vote, followed by Indonesia at 26%, India came fourth in the line with a rate of 18%. The silver lining is that across Asia, more than three out of four people (76%) are familiar with the anti-corruption agency in their country, of which, 63% think that the agency is doing a good job. The three national anticorruption agencies with the highest approval ratings are Myanmar (94%), Bangladesh (86%) and Nepal (84%). India’s approval rating stood at 73% Citizens must have access to safe and confidential reporting mechanisms and governments must do more to ease citizens’ fear of retaliation in reporting corruption, concluded the report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/india-has-highest-bribery-rate-39-in-all-of-asia/articleshow/79418205.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand makes plans to promote tourism around ancient temple circuits||DEHRADUN: Tourism minister Satpal Maharaj on Wednesday held a meeting of the Uttrakhand Tourism Development Board (UTDB) to discuss the development and promotion of the state’s ancient temples as tourist attractions. At the meeting, the minister announced he will also get in touch with Bollywood film producers and directors to develop film projects on Uttarakhand’s famous personalities like Nain Singh Rawat, Ajit Doval, Raja Malusai, as well as on unique ethnic Tharu and Bhoksa tribes. The meeting was attended by district tourism development officers (DTDO) of 13 districts, all of whom submitted details of ancient temples in their respective areas for discussion, including ones dedicated to the gods Shankar, Vishnu and Ram, as well as circuits around Golu Devta and Navagraha. A total of 24 ancient Shiva temples, namely Shiv Kapileshwar and Jageshwar in Almora, Patal Bhumi in Pithoragarh, Baijnath and Bagnath in Bageshwar, Kanteshwar in Champawat, Bhimeshwar in Nainital, Moteshwar Mahadev in Udham Singh Nagar, Koteshwar Mahadev in Tehri, Vishwanath and Kashi Vishwanath in Uttarkashi, Daksha Prajapati in Haridwar, Rudranath Shiva and Kalpeshwar Shiva in Chamoli, Kyankaleshwar in Pauri, Nilakand, Ekeshwar and Lakhamandal Shiva in Dehradun, as well as the temple towns of Rudraprayag and Pancha Kedar, were identified for development and to be advertised for tourism. Temples like Badrinath and Chhatargula in Almora, Ram and Narayan Kali in Almora, Vishnu and Kotli in Pithoragarh, Mool Narayan in Bageshwar, Narayan Koti in Rudraprayag, Narayan Shila in Haridwar, Panch Badri in Chamoli, Satya Narayan in Dehradun, Raghunath in Devaprayag, Raghunath Galbanar, Vishnu and Samuh Devalgarh in Pauri were also identified as ancient Vishnu temples for a Vaishnav circuit. “Ancient Nag Devta temples like Nagnath and Pigali Nag in Champawat, Bedi Nag and Beri Nag in Pithoragarh, Feni Nag and Dhauli Nag in Bageshwar, Karkotak in Nainital, Sem Mukheem and Nag temples in Tehri, Nagraj temples in Mussoorie and Dehradun, and Danda Nagaraja Mandir in Pauri, were also identified for tourism development,” said tourism secretary Dilip Jawalkar. For the Navagraha circuit, temples dedicated to Manila Devi, Katar, Chittai Goljew and Gairan in Almora, Aditya (Sun) in Ramak Champawat, Guru Brihaspati in Nainital, Shani Dev Maharaj in Uttar Kashi, Kharsali and Rahu in Pauri, Golu Devta temples in Champawat and Ghorakhal of Nainital were also identified at the meeting. The tourism minister also gave directions to identify Sikh shrines, siddh peeths, Buddhist temples to broaden the prospect of tourism in the state. On promoting stories of famous Uttarakhand personalities, Maharaj said, “I’ve requested the Governor of Maharashtra, Bhagat Singh Koshyari, to arrange a meeting with famous film producers and directors in the near future.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-makes-plans-to-promote-tourism-around-ancient-temple-circuits/articleshow/79415312.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 26, 2020||Nagpur||Forgotten therapy benefiting Covid patients, say city docs||Nagpur: Two internal medicine specialists, Dr Nitin Shinde and Dr Nirmal Jaiswal, have found that a forgotten supportive therapy has been reintroduced and “shown impressive results” among several Covid-19 patients during treatment at different private hospitals in the city and across the country. The doctors claimed that ‘Thymosin Alpha 1’ helps in controlling the cytokine storm in which the body’s immune system releases too many cytokines too quickly making them harmful. Thymosin Alpha 1 is a drug molecule or a type of hormone named as Immunocin Alpha 1. Dr Shinde said the supportive therapy doesn’t have any side-effects and also checks Covid mortality rate. Addressing a press conference on Wednesday, they said the drug if given from the sixth day of infection has to be continued twice a day for 14 days to boost the immunity against Covid-19 infection. The doctors presented a slide show which stated that the Thymosin Alpha 1 was developed in 1979 and used during several outbreaks. “Critical care specialists across India are recommending the use of this molecule in moderate to severe Covid-19 patients. The treating physician decides the dose of Immunocin Alpha 1 depending on the severity of Covid-19 symptoms. The drug has been well tolerated without any adverse effects,” said Dr Shinde. Immunocin Alpha 1 has shown benefit in treatment of Covid-19 patients with comorbidities like diabetes, hypertension, chronic kidney disease and in elderly patients, they claimed. “Thymosin Alpha 1 has a history of treatment of diseases in which the immunity is dysregulated, like hepatitis, AIDS and SARS,” said Dr Shinde. According to Dr Shinde, Immunocin Alpha 1 is a wonderful molecule. “We are using it since the beginning of the pandemic. I started using it when I developed moderate to severe Covid pneumonia,” he said. Most of the therapies in Covid-19 treatment are still experimental and there is mixed data about the efficacy. “However, it is important that whatever therapy we choose, it should be first safe and then effective on ground level. We have used this molecule in around 200 cases mostly in moderate variety. All these patients have shown a good improvement in resolution of fever, and inflammatory markers by restoration of lymphopenia,” he said. Dr Jaiswal said, “I had even prescribed this molecule to patients taking treatment at home for Covid-19. The measure changes that I had seen is that the lymphocyte count started coming up within a week as soon as patients were given this therapy. Besides, the ICU stay of patients also came down.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/forgotten-therapy-benefiting-covid-patients-say-city-docs/articleshow/79416452.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
November 26, 2020||Goa||GMC resumes regular OPD services with prior appointments||PANAJI: Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital has resumed its services of regular out-patient departments (OPD) which were discontinued due to the Covid-19 outbreak over two months ago. To avoid crowding in the hospital premises, patients are given appointments over the phone and a protocol has also been put in place to conduct consultations. “About 50 % of the OPD crowd has reduced as consultations happen with prior appointments,” said dean Dr S M Bandekar. “Those who are unable to take prior appointments can come physically and book an appointment. It has helped to reduce gathering of patients in big numbers in the morning,” he said. However, Bandekar said those turning up without an appointment are not sent back but they are taken in after consultation of patients who have prior appointments is completed. “We try to ensure that all patients are taken in, even those who come without an appointment and register on the spot as most of them come from far-off places,” he said. GMC had stopped OPDs services of most departments, except for emergency cases as it saw a steady rise in Covid admissions, which rose to 50 to 60 cases a day in the tertiary care hospital. Several wards had to be converted into Covid wards to cater to the surge in cases. Covid patients, mostly critical requiring admissions in GMC, have reduced, he said. The hospital now sees around ten cases every day. Bandekar said that the OPDs are conducted following all protocols. The pandals that were erected when the pandemic began have served the purpose of helping patients maintain social distancing while they wait for their turn to meet the doctors. “We required the pandals when the Covid cases were high. Subsequently, we wanted to remove them as cases declined, but these have become convenient for patients and serve as a waiting area,” he said. GMC’s plan which was announced more than a year ago to introduce a queue system to conduct all OPDS by giving prior appointments through online is underway, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gmc-resumes-regular-opd-services-with-prior-appointments/articleshow/79417423.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Nagpur||Jeweller foils robbery bid, injured||Nagpur: A courageous jeweller foiled an attempt to loot his shop by two armed robbers who barged into the shop and threatened him. The courageous jeweller, Parul Rammanohar Tharsekar, 32, a resident of Bhavani Nagar, however, sustained knife wounds in the hand and stomach in the process. Police said Tharsekar runs Tharsekar Jewellery shop from the ground floor of a multi-storey building owned by one Rajesh Umre in Saibaba Nagar, Kharbi area. Two robbers aged between 20 and 25 years stormed into the shop around 4.30pm when he was alone. They threatened him with dire consequences and asked him to hand over all valuables. “One robber took out a knife and told him to cooperate,” police said. Instead, Tharsekar started shouting for help. Then one of the robbers stabbed him in his hand and stomach while the other one tried to hold his mouth. Tharsekar managed to free himself, stood on a chair and started shouting for help. Seeing this, the duo fled with their third accomplice was waiting outside in a vehicle. On being informed, Wathoda police reached the spot and rushed a profusely bleeding Tharsekar to the hospital. His condition is stable, said the police. Police said the shop had no CCTV camera and now they are screening CCTV cameras installed in the vicinity. Wathoda police have registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/jeweller-foils-robbery-bid-injured/articleshow/79416448.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Goa||Engineering grads, undergrads can take up PWD works||PANAJI: Degree and diploma holders in engineering will now be able to get Public Work Department (PWD) contracts of up to Rs 10 lakh as the cabinet on Wednesday approved the chief minister’s rojgar yojana 2020 for the engineering professionals. Chief minister Pramod Sawant said the Economic Development Corporation (EDC) will finance the engineers to execute the allotted work. The objective is to give hands on experience to civil, electrical and mechanical engineering graduates and undergraduates in tender preparations, submission, etendering and execution of small works. The professionals would be awarded contracts after competing through the e-tendering process. The award of the work will be on a limited tender basis. Engineer eligible for max four works under schemeFresh diploma holders in the relevant field of engineering are eligible to quote for works up to Rs 5 lakh under Class V category of contractor, while engineering graduates with 5 years of experience will be eligible to quote for works of up to Rs 10 lakh in Class IV category. The Cabinet note said that upon registration in the appropriate categories, the applicant will be awarded only one work at a time, and only after satisfactory completion of the said work, will become entitled to quote for other works. The applicant is eligible for a maximum of four works and thereafter, can exit from the scheme. However, during a financial year, the applicant cannot be awarded more than two works under the scheme. The scheme is applicable to engineering professionals in Goa seeking self-employment opportunities and assistance for execution of PWD projects. The age limit of applicants is restricted to 35 years. Age relaxation of five years will be given to physically challenged and members of SC, ST and OBC categories. Also, the person should be a permanent resident of Goa for at least 15 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/engg-grads-undergradscan-take-up-pwd-works/articleshow/79417418.cms||Murari Shetye
November 26, 2020||Goa||Maharashtra rules will affect Goa tourism: TTAG||PANAJI: Tourism stakeholders in Goa say that the Maharashtra government decision to mandate Covid-negative certificates from those entering from Goa could have an impact on the state’s tourist industry, especially as it’s just about gaining a foothold after a six-month sabbatical. The Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG) has said that the Maharashtra government rule is a ploy to discourage tourists from visiting Goa, and to make them limit their travel plans. The trade body said Maharashtra should have exempted Goa, since the state has few cases. “It is not easy to digest that the Maharashtra government thinks travellers from Goa will carry infection from here, when ours is the safest destination,” said TTAG president Nilesh Shah. “It looks like a political move rather than a decision made keeping in mind the safety aspect.” By restricting tourists from visiting Goa, Shah said, the Maharashtra government probably thinks that they (tourists) can be diverted to the Konkan region and other parts of their state. Recently, Maharashtra has permitted the setting up of shacks. It will, however, not work, Shah said, since the Konkan is no match for Goa. General manager of Zuri White Sands Resort and Casino, Rajendran Menon said that more than impacting tourist flow, the move makes sentiments towards a destination negative. “A large number of people are driving into Goa from Mumbai or other parts of the country, but senior citizens prefer to travel by air out of convenience,” he said. “Those preferring air travel will be affected.” No sooner had Maharashtra issued the revised guidelines, Menon said his resort received calls from tourists from Maharashtra deferring their Goa plans by a few weeks. Many within the industry felt the measure is uncalled for, since Covid-19 infections in Goa have drastically dropped since last month. From a high of 600 to 700 cases a day in September, the tourist state has reported a steady drop in cases since October. This month, Goa’s case positivity rate has fallen below 10%, and mortalities, too, have reduced. Hotelier Ralph de Souza said that since Goa has the “lowest” number of cases, pairing it with other states with high infection rates is “unjust”. “It is not just tourists who are affected, but also other travellers who visit the state for business will have to incur added expenses,” he said. “A lot of businesses have their headquarters in Mumbai, and their executives often fly to Goa, and people from Goa, too, visit Mumbai. Every visit means they will now have to go with a Covid-negative certificate or get the test done upon landing at the airport by spending a few hours in a queue.” In Goa, most private Covid-19 RT-PCR tests cost around Rs 4,500 each, and results are delivered in around 48 hours. Considering the high cost of the RT-PCR test, D’Souza said tourists will change their holiday plans for Goa. “I hope better sense prevails and the Maharashtra government drops Goa from its list,” he said. Meanwhile, director of First Class Holidays Atish Fernandes said that the impact will be seen more among the lower (spending) tourists. “It will not have any impact on elite tourists driving down along with their cooks and other staff, and who rent villas and bungalows for their stay,” he said. “But a family of four or more will likely alter or postpone its travel plan to Goa, as they would have to shell out quite a large amount on RT-PCR tests.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/maha-rules-will-affect-goa-tourism-ttag/articleshow/79417429.cms||Bindiya Chari
November 26, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur municipal corporation doesn’t hike fine, adopts ‘Gandhigiri’ for those without masks||NAGPUR: The district administration on Wednesday implemented hiked fine of Rs1,000 for not wearing mask and maintaining Covid distancing in rural areas of the district while the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has decided to continue with existing amount of Rs500 in city limits. Thus, there will be differing penalty for the same violation in the district. In spirit of ‘Gandhigiri’ the civic body will instead gift a mask to violators after recovering the fine from them. Resident deputy collector Ravindra Khajanchi ordered implementation of hiked fine of Rs1,000 in rural areas. He also wrote to all sub-divisional officers and tehsildars for effective implementation of the decision. Khajanchi told TOI, “Circular to hike fine was issued on November 1 but we are implementing it now. A majority of the people were not wearing mask and maintaining Covid distancing in rural areas so we had to hike the fine.” Different municipal councils and gram panchayats recovered a fine of Rs4,33,500 from 806 persons in rural areas as on Tuesday. Also, an offence has been registered against 17 persons. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B said, “We will hike fine if needed. Our aim is to bring behavioural change. We are trying to spread awareness and educate people about importance of wearing masks when out of home.” Additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi said NMC’s Nuisance Detection Squad (NDS) which is monitoring and recovering fines will give masks to violators after recovering fine from them. “We will do it to educate people and ensure that they wear mask after paying the fine. It is ‘Gandhigiri’ initiative as some people are not wearing mask despite having awareness and being penalized. Extra charges will not be taken from violators for mask,” he said. In city as well as rural areas, no monitoring and action is being taken for violating the Covid distancing norm inside shops, markets, restaurants, roadside kiosks, functions etc Earlier, the fine for not wearing mask was Rs200. Home minister Anil Deshmukh asked NMC and district administration to hike it to Rs500 in mid-September. In city, NMC’s NDS squad has recovered a fine of Rs90.19 lakh from 21,320 people so far. Action has also been taken against visitors at NMC head office for not wearing mask.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-doesnt-hike-fine-adopts-gandhigiri-for-those-without-masks/articleshow/79416507.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
November 26, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC elections news: MIM, BJP spar over PV, NTR memorials built on lake land||HYDERABAD: Civic election campaign in Hyderabad took an ugly turn on Wednesday after the All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) dared the government to demolish two landmark monuments of past national leaders, while the BJP in return threatened to demolish Darussalam, the MIM headquarters in two hours. AIMIM Chandrayangutta legislator Akbaruddin Owaisi, known for his explosive speeches, blamed the TRS for allowing encroachment of the Hussainsagar. “Hussainsagar was 4,700 acres when it was built and today it’s not even 700 acres. So where did the 4,000 acres go? It went in Necklace Road shops, it went in PV Narasimha Rao’s memorial and NT Rama Rao’s memorial in Lumbini Park,” Akbar said. “If there are houses of the poor in talabs (water bodies) they come to demolish them. I am challenging you, go and throw away (demolish) these memorials. I want to see whether you have guts or not,” he questioned. The MIM has always been critical of PV Narasimha Rao, accusing the former PM of not do anything to stop the demolition of Babri Masjid in 1992. It has also opposed TRS’ demand to confer Bharat Ratna on PV. BJP state president Bandi Sanjay Kumar immediately reacted to Akbaruddin’s remarks, saying the party would demolish Darussalam in return, within two hours. Addressing a road show at Balkampet, Sanjay said even suggesting demolishing of ghats built in memory of the late PM late and the late CM of united Andhra Pradesh was a serious offence. “How dare you talk like this about our great leaders. You dare to do that and our activists have the capacity to demolish Darussalam in two hours,” he said. Sanjay again repeated his surgical strike comment and said it must be done against those who are anti-India. “When India- Pakistan play, they host black flags if India wins, they want Pakistan to win, why cannot surgical strike be done on them,” Sanjay said about a controversy of illegal Rohingya in Hyderabad being aided by MIM. “With just 12% votes in Bihar, five seats were taken by AIMIM in Bihar assembly. If we vote in unity, we can win, with our percentage” he said. “Congress and TDP should also respond to the comments on PV and NTR,” he said. Sanjay said he will pay floral tributes at the PV Narasimha Rao ghat on Thursday. Later, TTDP president L Ramana in a statement condemned the comments of junior Owaisi. “It is not fair to drag great leaders such as NTR and PV into electoral politics. Neither AIMIM nor BJP have any moral right to talk about such stalwarts,” he said. Akbaruddin Owaisi was earlier even jailed during the reign of the erstwhile Congress government of undivided Andhra Pradesh following a hate speech in Nirmal. While alleging that Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation head office was built on a nala, Akbaruddin said that KT Rama Rao was right in saying they don’t have an alliance with Majlis. “What wrong did he say? Were we on his mercy in the assembly. We stepped on your (TRS) foot and you were restless,” he added. Without naming a political party or a politician, Akbar said they can crown or topple a political party from a throne. “Jab kahe uthate, jab kaho bithatey,” said the MLA, addressing a public rally in Erragadda ward on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mim-bjp-spar-over-pv-ntr-memorials-built-on-lake-land/articleshow/79418224.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 26, 2020||Nagpur||Senior Amtes deny allegations by Baba’s granddaughter||Nagpur: Dr Vikas and Dr Prakash Amte; sons of internationally acclaimed social worker late Baba Amte, issued a joint statement on Tuesday denying allegations levelled by Dr Vikas’s daughter Dr Sheetal Amte-Karajgi about irregularities in Maharogi Seva Samiti (MSS) that runs all their charitable institutions and activities. MSS is the parent trust under which iconic projects like Anandwan, Lok Biradari Project, Somnath etc are run. Dr Vikas and Dr Prakash work in capacity of secretary and joint secretary of this trust while Dr Sheetal is chief executive officer. Most trustees of MSS are from Amte family. A few weeks ago, Dr Sheetal had issued a video message on social media platforms through her official accounts in which she had levelled some serious allegations on the trust management and Amte family. The video, however, was deleted within 2 hours. Since then, rift in Amte family was being discussed in local media and social work circles in Maharashtra as no one from the Amte family had reacted to the allegations. On November 24, a statement issued on the letterhead of MSS Warora came into media. The statement is dated November 22 but was released on November 24. It has signatures by Dr Vikas, his wife Dr Bharati, Dr Prakash and his wife Dr Mandakini Amte. “MSS was established in 1949 by Baba Amte and at present is the leading social organization in India. From last three generations, the entire Amte family is working together for this cause. Dr Sheetal Gautam Karajgi (nee Dr Sheetal Vikas Amte) has her contribution in the trust work. However, at present, Dr Sheetal is going through mental stress and is in a state of depression. She has accepted it during the social media message posted by her in which she has made some wrong statements about the trust, trustees, and workers of the trust. All these statements are baseless,” reads a statement. It further adds that the family, after serious brainstorming, has decided to issue the said statement so that no one should be confused by the video released by Dr Sheetal. “The Amte family wants to assure all our beneficiaries, workers, and associates we will continue the work following the trust’s tradition of last seven decades. We will continue to adhere to the principles, aims and objectives of the trust and maintain transparency in our work always,” it concludes. Dr Sheetal is still a trustee and CEO of MSS and her husband Gautam Karajgi is operational head. It is learnt that she had some issues with her brother Kaustubh, who was reinstated in the trust recently. Dr Sheetal is said to be unhappy due to Kaustubh’s return in MSS and hence issued the said video. TOI tried to get in touch with members of Amte family but they refused to comment. According to them, the issue ended with the official statement and they have nothing more to add.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/senior-amtes-deny-allegations-by-babas-granddaughter/articleshow/79416463.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 26, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Rayagada calls off public hearing amid villagers’ protest||Koraput: The Rayagada district administration called off the public hearing planned at Podapodi under Kashipur block on Wednesday bowing to stiff opposition from villagers to the proposed second phase expansion of bauxite mining at Kodingamali hill on the border of Koraput and Rayagada districts. “A fresh date for the public hearing will be finalised in consultation with the villagers,” district collector (Rayagada) Pramod Kumar Behera said Resentment has been brewing among the villagers since the Odisha Mining Corporation (OMC) circulated notices to hold the public hearing at Podapadi in Rayagada district on November 25 and in Laxmipur block of Koraput district on December 2 for the expansion of bauxite mining at Kodingamali from its existing three million tonne to six million tonne per annum. Villagers, protesting under the aegis of the Kodingamali Surakhya Manch (KSM), have been demanding the establishment of an aluminium factory in the region as a pre-condition for mining of bauxite from Kodingamali hill. On Tuesday, they locked the high school at Podapadi, the venue for the public hearing. Though police and local administration tried to pacify the agitators, the villagers remained adamant. Recently, Koraput MP Saptagiri Ulaka extended his support to the villagers’ demand for the establishment of an aluminium factory that would generate employment for local youths. “The mining of bauxite at Kodingamali hill will ruin the local economy unless an aluminium company is established. It will deprive the villagers of a living derived from collecting minor forest produce as well as hamper agricultural activities as several perennial sources of water will dry up,” Ulaka said. “We urge the state government to take necessary steps to ensure that a factory is established here which will subsequently enhance the local economy,” he added. The MP further said the state government had signed a MoU with Hindalco for the establishment of a factory at Konsariguda in Rayagada district with an investment of Rs 8,000 crore in 2007. At least 1,400 acres of land was acquired for the purpose and it was proposed to mine bauxite from Kodingamali hill for the company. “But even after 13 years of the MoU, no step has been taken for the establishment of the company and now the state government is planning to mine bauxite from Kodingamali hill to sell it to some other company. We strongly condemn their decision,” the MP said. “If grievances of local villagers are not addressed, the state government will be responsible for any untoward incident. At no cost, mining at Kodingamali will be allowed,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/rayagada-calls-off-public-hearing-amid-villagers-protest/articleshow/79415391.cms||Satyanarayan Pattnaik
November 26, 2020||Goa||Cabinet empowers CM Pramod Sawant to decide on contentious Mollem projects||PANAJI: The state cabinet on Wednesday empowered chief minister Pramod Sawant to take a decision on coal handling, double tracking and national highway widening projects in consultation with Union ministers. Sawant said that coal handling would reduce if mining resumes. “I am of the opinion that coal handling should decrease in the state. For that we have to get other commodities,” he said. He, however, said that coal handling cannot be stopped at one go because there are 1,500 families dependent on it, plus 4,500 pensioners of MPT. “I have spoken to the MPT chairman and Union shipping minister to get an alternative for coal. We have decided to bring down coal handling by 50% and work has started in that direction,” Sawant said. Water resources minister Filipe Neri Rodrigues raised the issue of double tracking and other projects in Mollem. Sawant said that at present there no land acquisition is being carried out for the double tracking project in the state and that the ongoing work is not only for double tracking, but also maintenance related. “People should not block the work on the track,” he said. The chief minister told reporters that not only coal, but other issues were also discussed during the cabinet. Sawant said that he told his cabinet colleagues about his discussions with the Union minister. “Looking at the power needs of the state we need the Tamnar power project, which will bring in 400KV line. Only six poles will come up in Mollem. The rest of the project will come up on private land,” Sawant said. Sawant said that he is in touch with the Union ministers and a decision would be taken soon on coal handling, highway widening and double tracking. “The cabinet has entrusted me with the decision making power,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cabinet-empowers-cm-to-decide-on-contentious-mollem-projects/articleshow/79417439.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Kolkata||Overbilling: West Bengal medical panel asks two hospitals to return Rs 4.7 lakh||KOLKATA: In a continuous crack down on private hospitals, the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission (WBCERC) has asked two hospitals to refund a part of treatment fees charged from three patients. Two cases pertain to the complaints of overbilling of Covid-19 positive patients. Barun Bhadra, a resident of Rabindra Pally in Keshtopur, complained to the health commission that he was charged Rs 3.2 lakh for treatment in general isolation ward for 10 days. Bhadra was admitted in R Fleming Hospital on July 31 with Covid symptoms. He tested positive later and was discharged on August 9. During the hearing the hospital told the health panel that the patient had been admitted under a package of Rs 35,000 per day with the assumption that he might need critical care and that the patient paid the amount after being offered a discount. “We did not agree with the explanation from the hospital. The patient was admitted in general isolation ward. He did not need any critical care support. We said the charges per day in an ordinary ward cannot be as high as Rs 35,000 as it should remain in the limit of Rs 15,000- Rs 20,000 at the most. Therefore, the hospital has been asked to refund 1.2 lakh to the patient,” said WBCERC chairman justice (retired), Ashim Kumar Banerjee. Gouranga Sarkar, another patient, who was admitted in the same Topsia hospital, also knocked on the commission’s door with allegations of overbilling. The patient was admitted in the hospital on July 22. Even as the 63-year-old did not require any critical care support and recovered from the symptoms, he refused to leave the hospital till he tested negative. He was discharged after 20 days when he tested negative and the family was asked to pay Rs 7 lakh. In this case too, the hospital authorities said the patient was admitted under the Covid package of Rs 35,000 per day. The commission rejected this argument and directed them to refund Rs 3 lakh. Desun Hospital has been asked to return Rs 50,000 to the family of a patient who died during treatment on August 14 after about 35 hours of admission. The hospital charged Rs 1.8 lakh. “The patient was admitted in a very critical condition and there is no question of doubt as far as care of the patient is concerned. But we found the charges for treatment spanning only about 35 hours too high. The hospital has been directed to refund Rs 50,000,” said Banerjee. WBCERC has also asked two private hospitals to submit treatment records of two 10-year-old boys who died during treatment. The complainants have been asked to file affidavit so that the commission can start hearing the cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/overbilling-med-panel-asks-two-hosps-to-return-rs-4-7l/articleshow/79416489.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
November 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man knifed to death, another wounded in Gandhinagar||AHMEDABAD: A youth was stabbed to death and his friend seriously injured after they were attacked by six assailants at a restaurant in Kudasan of Gandhinagar district during the wee hours of early Wednesday morning. The attack was the result of stalking female friends of the accused allegedly by one of the victims. The deceased was identified as Ketansinh Gohil (24), a resident of Randesan village in Gandhinagar, while the injured person was identified as Rishi Rathod (23) of the same village. According to an FIR filed with the Infocity police station, Rathod had allegedly stalked three women who were travelling with six men from Randesan to Vaishnodevi crossroads after which the six men attacked Rathod and Gohil. In the attack, Rathod suffered severe injuries and Gohil, who tried to rescue Rathod, was stabbed to death. The incident took place when Ketansinh Gohil and Dipaksinh Gohil went to the restaurant in Kudasan village late on Tuesday night where their friend Rathod had come with two other friends. They were sitting around a bonfire outside the restaurant where six men and three women had also come and sat. As the men and the women left the place in different vehicles, Rathod told Dipaksinh Gohil that the women wanted to befriend him, and he went after them. Ketansinh Gohil and Dipaksinh Gohil stayed put at the restaurant. After a while, Rathod called up Dipaksinh Gohil that the men had found him stalking the women and that they were chasing him. Rathod rushed back to the same restaurant in Kudasan where Ketansinh Gohil and Dipaksinh Gohil were already there. After a few minutes, the six men came there and began attacking Rathod with sticks, rods and knives. When the assailants were stabbing Rathod, Ketansinh Gohil tried to rescue him in which he suffered severe wounds. Both of them were taken to Gandhinagar civil hospital where Ketansinh Gohil was declared brought dead, while Rathod was admitted in a critical condition. He was later shifted to the civil hospital in Ahmedabad. Police are yet to disclose the names of the accused in the case who are still at large.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-stabbed-to-death-another-hurt-slug-alleged-stalking/articleshow/79416514.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Seven accused in IIFL gold loot case produced in court||Cuttack: Police on Wednesday produced the seven accused of the daylight robbery from India Infoline Finance Limited (IIFL), Nayasarak, Cuttack, in the JMFC court. After their arrest, police recovered 3 kg of gold, two motorcycles, one luxury car, one toy gun, artificial jewellery and Rs 5 lakh from them. Deputy commissioner of police (Cuttack) Prateek Singh said the accused, Lala Amrut Ray, working in the company for the past five years is the mastermind. Amrut along with a senior woman officer of IIFL, Nilima Lenka of Purighat, had planned the loot. He said Amrut and Nilima gave the keys of the strong room and locker to the robbers on the day of robbery. He said Amrut and Nilima had siphoned off several gold ornaments during his five-year job at the company. Fearing that their misdeeds would be exposed following the appointment of a new auditor recently, Amrut chalked out a plan to loot cash and gold ornaments from the company. Amrut took the help of his childhood friend, Bapu alias Ranjan Behera, from Biswanathpur in Cuttack district to commit the crime. Lala Amrut Ray and his brother Lala Ranjan Ray have criminal records. Ranjan was working in another gold loan leasing company and was arrested for embezzlement of 1 kg of gold by Mangalabag police. Amrut and Nilima have siphoned off loan amount by providing fake documents, fake photographs and artificial jewellery. The four persons roped in for the robbery are Rajakishore Sahu, Prakash Sahu, Pradipta Behera from Biswanathpur and Santosh Bhoi. The DCP said police are probing the total amount of gold embezzled by the employees. On November 19, four armed miscreants allegedly looted gold ornaments worth around Rs 10 crore and Rs 4.30 lakh cash at gun-point from the finance company’s office at the busy Nayasarak. The well-planned loot was executed in 10 minutes. On November 20, IIFL lodged an FIR. In the complaint, the company stated that gold weighing 39.5 kg worth Rs 20 crore was looted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/seven-accused-in-iifl-gold-loot-case-produced-in-court/articleshow/79415431.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Nagpur||Mistakes galore as NU declares results multiple times, withholds some||Nagpur: Even after multiple updates, Nagpur University (NU) has been unable to remove all anomalies from results for each course. Final-year students from all streams are facing a problem because of erroneous results, after suffering through mental trauma over the flawed online exams last month.NU exam director Prafulla Sabale had come up with a couple of measures, like releasing video clips to explain doubts during exams. However, this time, NU top brass hasn’t done much to assure anxious students.Vice chancellor SR Chaudhari has not responded to TOI’s calls and messages regarding exams and results since October. Sabale too has not responded to TOI’s calls or messages on students’ grievances.Pro-VC Sanjay Dudhe said no student has come forward with any complaints to them.On Thursday, this correspondent invited colleges and students to report problems in results. All students and teachers complained that NU exam section didn’t respond to their concerns. Their colleges too are clueless, as no advisory has been issued by the exam section.Some students are awaiting the marklist to get a job or admission confirmation, some are about to miss enrolment at another university or premier institute like IIM, some students are planning to apply abroad but unable to do so, some have missed application deadlines while some just need the results to decide their future plans.Bachelor of Architecture (BArch) students complained the NU exam section has revised their results four times between November 13 and 23, and still mistakes are apparent. In the construction subject, all students were award 50/100 in first result. Then, all students got 100 in the subject beside thesis marks, which are awarded by the college, were changed. In the third revision, the thesis marks were restored but construction subject went unchanged. In the fourth change, percentage was changed.BArch students said many of them were also asked to take re-exam despite successfully submitting first paper. “Everything was online yet we are facing this harassment,” they said.Hotel management students are worried as many plan to study or work abroad, but have missed one deadline because of NU delays, while another intake cut off is fast approaching. “I would have joined a Dubai hotel if I had the marklist,” a student working as chef said.Another student called from North India needs the marklist to apply for a higher programme. “I have no one in Nagpur to go and check. No one answers the helpline numbers,” he said.BSc (Forensic science) students are clueless why their results are withheld, despite them and their college fulfilling all formalities, appearing in online exam and forwarding internal marks multiple times.BSc (Biotechnology) students complained the marking has been unfair to them. “Many non-performing students with backlogs have suddenly become toppers. They have outclassed brighter students,” they said.BCom students are feeling cheated as some have got cent per cent marks. This blunders appears to be the result of students attempting all questions despite being asked to answer only 25 out of 50.“My daughter attempted all questions as she knew the answers. The university may have calculated and awarded marks as per this,” said a parent.Similarly, bright students from streams like Bachelor of Engineering, BPharma and streams of BSc are seeing low marks, while their non-performing classmates have suddenly overtaken them in online exam.In another example, a student has received three marklists, and it is not clear which one is correct.InfoBArch Problems10th sem BArch result declared four timesNov 13 | In Construction subject, all students got 50 out of 100, though students didn’t report this to NUNov 18 | NU revised result on its own and all students got 100 in same subject. Many students had appeared for subject twice. Thesis marks too changed, though jury awards marks through collegeNov 21 | Jury marks restored as per Nov 13, but construction marks remain 100Nov 23 | Percentage of all students changedNov 26 | No communication with students. Faculty members too not awareOTHER COURSES· BSc Forensic Science | Result withheld· BE | Result withheld· BSc Biotech | Marks not matching students’ previous performance· Bachelor of Hotel Management | Students visiting university but told marklist will come one or two months later· BCom | Students surprised as some got cent per cent marks· BE, BPharma, BSc | Branches reporting cent per cent or abnormally high percentage in results||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mistakes-galore-as-nu-declares-results-multiple-times-withholds-some/articleshow/79448370.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
November 26, 2020||Kolkata||Two fire-tenders start dousing Dhapa flames||Kolkata: Two fire-tenders started dousing flames at Dhapa landfill site on Wednesday. The self-sustained fire at the landfill site, fuelled by a reserve methane produced from the municipal waste, is one of the major sources of air pollution on the eastern fringes of the city. West Bengal Pollution Control Board (WBPCB) pressed into service the fire-tenders and firefighters in PPE kits were found dousing multiple sources of fire at the site. They will work for 24X7 there. “We have been very concerned about controlling the fire at Dhapa. We have requisitioned four fire-tenders — two for Dhapa and the rest for Pramod Nagar landfill sites. The fire tenders will carry out the job till March. After that, meteorological conditions will facilitate dispersal of the smoke in the upper atmosphere,” said WBPCB chairman, Kalyan Rudra. Besides, WBPCB officials have been keeping a surveillance on the Dhapa site so that no fire incident happens there. However, dousing the flames with fire-tenders is a short-term measure. “Eventually, we will have to cut the supply of methane to the flames. We have some options like extracting methane, bio-mining the waste. The cost efficient and environment-friendly measure will be adopted,” said an official of WBPCB. Unlike the burning of stubble across Punjab and Haryana, which spikes Delhi’s pollution, noxious fume of Dhapa — one of the major sources of pollution in the eastern part of the city — is the dirtiest, thanks to constant burning of assorted garbage, including a large quantity of plastics, thermocol, rubber, polythene, heavy metals, paints, adhesives and kitchen wastes. Inhaling the air containing such harmful chemicals can trigger chain reactions in the body. The outcomes of such chain reactions are dangerous. A long list of diseases, including sexual disorientation, psychological ailments or cancer can be attributed to exposure of such pollution, said Amitabha Bandyopadhyay, an expert on the chemical reactions in the body due to waste burning and a professor of chemical engineering at CU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/two-fire-tenders-start-dousing-dhapa-flames/articleshow/79416534.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Audio clip puts spotlight on minister Sahoo||Bhubaneswar: Cabinet minister Arun Kumar Sahoo, who is in the eye of storm for allegedly sheltering some of the accused involved in the abduction and murder of a 5-year-old girl in Nayagarh district, has now been accused of intimidating a sarpanch for dragging him into the controversy. An audio clip, featuring a purported conversation between the higher education minister and the sarpanch of Nayagarh district, went viral on social media on Wednesday. In the clip, Sahoo is purportedly heard accusing the sarpanch of instigating the girl’s parents to speak against the minister. Ashok Sahoo and Soudamini, parents of the deceased girl, have been alleging that the Nayagarh police hushed up investigation into their daughter’s murder at the behest of the minister. They alleged that the accused were close aides of Sahoo. On Wednesday, BJP Mahila Morcha took out a rally in Bhubaneswar and demanded Sahoo’s resignation. The opposition BJP and Congress have been pressing for Sahoo’s ouster from the cabinet and accused him of trying to influence the investigation into the alleged abduction and murder of the child. Despite repeated attempts, the minister could not be reached for his comment. The BJD has so far not issued any statement on the controversy surrounding the minister. It must be remembered that BJD heavyweight Pradeep Maharathy, who died last month, had to quit as agriculture minister in January 2012 following state-wide outrage for allegedly shielding some rape accused. He had to quit again in 2019 following his comment in support of the two brothers, the principal accused in the rape of the 19-year-old, who were acquitted by a trial court in Bhubaneswar. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/audio-clip-puts-spotlight-on-minister-sahoo/articleshow/79415452.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
November 26, 2020||Nagpur||Patients stuck for want of Ct value in NMC’s RT-PCR test||Nagpur: The RT-PCR results provided by the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) centres for tests done at government-run laboratories doesn’t mention the cycle threshold (CT) value. As a result, Covid-19 positive patients, especially asymptomatic ones, are reportedly facing problems in further diagnosis and treatment. Some of these patients are even going for retest in private laboratories that are mentioning the CT value in the report. The NMC is collecting swab samples at 53 testing centres across the city for testing at six government-run laboratories — IGGMCH, GMCH, AIIMS, Neeri, Mafsu and RTMNU — for RT-PCR test. These laboratories give only negative or positive results to the NMC. According to activist Narayan Ahuja, all private hospitals are asking Covid positive patients for CT value to decide on home isolation or hospitalization. “So, some people have done retest in private laboratories. Government-run laboratories too should give CT value,” he said. Consultant physician and intensivist Dr Nikhil Balankhe said, “CT value below 24 indicates high viral load and the patient will have to approach hospital for further diagnosis and treatment. If CT value is above 24, the patient can be little bit relaxed and opt for home isolation,” he said. “CT value also helps the doctor to decide treatment approach and define aggression towards treatment. The line of further diagnosis and treatment can be decided on the basis of CT value. We suggest CT scan of chest and D-dimer test considering CT value followed by hospitalization,” he said. Dr Balankhe also made it clear that this doesn’t mean health of patient with CT value above 24 will not deteriorate. “There have been patients who have had severe symptoms later. Also, many patients with CT value below 24 or even less have recovered,” he said. Chairman of NMC health consultative committee Virendra Kukreja said NMC should ensure RT-PCR results mention CT value. “The report just requires another column and some more process for government-run laboratories to give CT value. But the laboratories seem to be avoiding it,” he said. AIIMS and Mafsu had given CT value for some days before reportedly stopped it later. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B has given instructions for mentioning CT value in RT-PCR results. “It doesn’t serve any purpose as per a communication of Indian Council of Medical Research. But we will give it if patients are facing problems and going for retest,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/patients-stuck-for-want-of-ct-value-in-nmcs-rt-pcr-test/articleshow/79416541.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
November 26, 2020||Nagpur||Unable to clear IIT entrance, BE student ends life||Nagpur: A second year engineering student allegedly ended his life by hanging himself on Tuesday at his home in Baba Farid Nagar. Though no suicide note was found, Mankapur police said the deceased might have committed suicide after he failed to crack IIT entrance exam. Police have identified the deceased as Ayush Ajaykumar Yadav, 19, who was a student of a reputed engineering college in Gittikhadan area. On Tuesday morning, Ayush killed himself when his mother, a lecturer in the same college, had gone to Sitabuldi for some shopping, while his father, a Class I officer in railways, was away at work. Ayush’s mother returned home at 3.30pm. She found the home locked from inside and repeated knocks on the door failed to elicit any response. She then got the door broken with the help of some labourers only to find her son hanging from the ceiling fan. He was rushed to Alexis Hospital on Koradi road where doctors pronounced him brought dead. PSI Pramod Dighore from Mankapur police said preliminary inquiry with his parents revealed that their only son may have taken the extreme step after he failed to crack the entrance exam of IIT. “We will check his call details and also inquire with friends and relatives,” said Dighore. Police have registered a case of accidental death, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/unable-to-clear-iit-entrance-be-student-ends-life/articleshow/79416522.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Goa||Cabral: Will complete power projects in next one year||Panaji: Power minister Nilesh Cabral said that the Goa electricity department will complete all pending power infrastructure projects before the coming elections, including the rollout of smart meters for low-tension power consumers. The assurances, provided during a debate on the efficiency of the Delhi and Goa government’s power model, failed to convince the Aam Aadmi Party’s Valmiki Naik. Naik said that while the Delhi government has succeeded in providing reliable power supply and free power within four years of being elected, the BJP government in Goa has failed to provide cheap and reliable power for the last nine years. “We intend to put all 7 lakh or 6.5 lakh consumers on smart meters,” Cabral said. “I want to convert everybody else to smart meters. I have one year and two months left for my term and I will try to push it.” Cabral said that around 1,200 high tension power consumers in the state have already been shifted to smart meters and they get their bills on the first of every month. The power minister admitted that Goa’s power infrastructure is poor and needs to be upgraded. Cabral said that he has asked the government to deposit the electricity duty charged on every power bill in a separate account so that the funds can be utilised for infrastructure improvement. The state collects Rs 200-300 crore every year as electricity duty, but the funds are deposited in the consolidated fund of the state. “For the last six months I have been following up and I had a meeting with the chief minister today and in a month this problem will be solved. I have already moved a file to make sure that the money goes to a separate account and not the consolidated fund,” said Cabral. The minister said that the Rural Electrification Corporation (REC) is offering a loan to the state to improve power infrastructure and the funds from the electricity duty will be used to repay the loan. However, Naik said that similar assurances were made in 2018 when Cabral was sworn in as the power minister. “What this government hasn’t been able to do in nine years, he says he can complete in nine months,” said Naik. “How much more time do you want? You have not been able to make electricity cheap, but are increasing the electricity rate.” Naik said that inefficiency and corruption were behind Goa electricity department’s losses and rising power costs. “Nobody is keeping a watch on power theft or whether it is being ignored. Distribution and transmission losses are high,” said Naik. While the debate began on cordial terms, tempers started to run high towards the end.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cabral-will-complete-power-projects-in-next-one-year/articleshow/79417450.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 26, 2020||Kolkata||Case filed in HC on TET recruitment||Kolkata: A case has been filed in the Calcutta High Court challenging the Bengal government’s notification that was issued on Monday, asking all candidates, who had qualified in the TET 2014, to appear with their original testimonials for possible recruitment of schoolteacherss. The Bengal government indicated it will start recruiting schoolteachers for the 16,500 vacant posts in the state. Over 20,000 people had qualified in TET examinations. The petition seeks dismissal of the state recruitment notification arguing that some candidates were wrongly awarded less numbers for attempting wrong questions. The TET 2014 was held in 2015. A few students said they had sought for the questions papers, answer keys and optical mark recognition (OMR) sheets and learnt that they had answered six questions that had been framed wrongly. These students argued that if they hadn’t attempted those questions, they would have scored more than the last qualifying candidate. In this case before, the HC had asked the state to evaluate these claims once more. The matter was also filed in the Apex court. The HC is likely to hear the fresh appeal on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/case-filed-in-hc-on-tet-recruitment/articleshow/79416543.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Nagpur||People still have to make many rounds of NMC test centres for results||Nagpur: Despite being eight months into the pandemic, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is yet to set up a system to deliver results through mail or message to persons undergoing Covid-19 test at its centres. Lack of this system is forcing people to make rounds of the testing centres for getting results and taking chance of contracting the disease or transmitting it to others. A person from Sonegaon gave his samples at one of the NMC’s 53 testing centres on November 21. Though the results are expected in 24 hours, he had to make rounds of the centre for three consecutive days. He finally managed to get the result on November 24. The person told TOI, “An official at the centre said results got delayed due to rush of teachers. I was worried for three days. Also, I was afraid each time I visited the centre as many people coming there could be positive and can transmit the virus. NMC should give results through text or e-mail so that there is no need to visit the centre again,” the person said. Same is the case with hundreds of people who are giving swab samples at NMC’s 53 testing centres. When any person goes to NMC’s testing centre, employees register detailed information on the website of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Then the person gets a message on mobile phone that sample has been collected. They also get a link of ICMR portal which gives a SRF ID and detailed information of sample. The message also contains awareness information that the person should isolate him/herself till sample is tested and report is available. The person is then asked to come to the centre after a day or two for results. Apart from causing tension, the system delays results. NMC’s testing centres are open between 9am and 4pm. If laboratories give results after 5pm, the centre will pass on results after one more day. Many districts in Vidarbha and adjoining states are giving results through message and e-mail. President of NGO Together We Can Joseph George said, “It is a matter of one day to set up the system. NMC can even enable people to track their sample just as courier or e-commerce companies do. There are many new technologies to give service in hassle free manner. NMC officials are not taking the initiative for reasons best known to them,” he said. Private laboratories are not only are collecting samples from home but also giving results mostly the same day through message and WhatsApp. No wonder many people prefer it over NMC’s testing centres. NMC additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi said, “Efforts are on to provide results electronically. There are a few problems. It will create panic or unrest among people if wrong results are conveyed automatically. Also, some people do not give correct mobile number,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/people-still-have-to-make-many-rounds-of-nmc-test-centres-for-results/articleshow/79416573.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
November 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Hosiery unit owner booked for assault||Ludhiana: Jodhewal police on Tuesday booked a hosiery unit owner for allegedly assaulting two brothers by confining them in their factory on Fambran road. He did so with the help of his brothers, father and workers. The victims have been identified as Anuj Mahendru and his brother Saurav Mahendru of Noorwala road. The victims are also hosiery traders. In his complaint to police, Anuj, who suffered severe head injury, said that on November 23, he was going to the factory on Fambran road, on his scooter. The accused had got the road outside the factory relaid. Without realising it, he drove over and this offended the accused. The accused dragged him into the factory and thrashed him. Someone told his brother Saurav about the incident, who also reached there for his rescue. However, the accused thrashed him also.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/hosiery-unit-owner-booked-for-assault/articleshow/79415477.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19 death toll crosses 2,000 in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: With the deaths of 10 Covid-19 positive patients – nine from the city and one from the district – Ahmedabad on Wednesday became the ninth district in India to have crossed 2,000 deaths of Covid-19 patients. The district accounts for 51.3% or half of the state’s total mortality in the pandemic. In the second wave of the pandemic after Diwali, Ahmedabad city has recorded the deaths of 47 patients in the past five days (Nov 21 to 25), accounting to average 9.4 deaths daily. Gujarat in the past five days has recorded 69 deaths. Thus, the city alone accounted for 68% of the deaths in the state. For the past five days, the city’s mortality rate (deaths per 100 positive cases) is 2.8. It was also the day of the highest ever daily tally for Gujarat with 1,540 new positive cases added in 24 hours ending 5 pm on Wednesday. It was the second peak for the state in the past five days. The new positive cases included 349 from Ahmedabad, 277 from Surat, 169 from Vadodara, and 127 from Rajkot districts. The deaths included 10 from Ahmedabad, two from Surat, and one each from Vadodara and Botad. At 91,459 tests in 24 hours, it was the highest ever daily Covid-19 tests for the state, taking the total to 74.8 lakh tests. Bed availability continued to haunt Amdavadis as the private hospitals remained almost full to their capacity. According to the Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA) website, 90.8% of the 2,972 non-requisite beds were occupied at 5 pm on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-19-death-toll-crosses-2k-in-ahmedabad/articleshow/79416598.cms||---
November 26, 2020||India||Staggered office timings, night curfews in new MHA guidelines||NEW DELHI: Seeking to consolidate the gains achieved against the spread of Covid-19 and tackle the recent spike in cases in a few states and UTs, the home ministry on Wednesday updated guidelines that called for staggered timings in offices in cities clocking a positivity rate of more than 10%. The Centre also gave states leeway to impose local restrictions like night curfews, depending on their assessment of the situation. Importantly, with crowded markets and weekly bazaars emerging as a top concern, the guidelines for December have asked the health ministry to issue standard operating procedures (SOP) to regulate visitors thronging marketplaces. The SOPs are to be “strictly enforced by states and UTs”. States and UTs have been advised to enforce social distancing in offices, both private and government. “In cities where the weekly case positivity rate is more than 10%, states and UTs concerned shall consider implementing staggered office timings, with a view to reduce employees attending office at the same time,” the guidelines said. While the new norms retained the cap on attendees at social, religious, entertainment, sports and cultural gatherings in closed spaces at 50% of hall capacity with a ceiling of 200, they also allowed states and UTs to reduce this ceiling further to 100 people or less, based on their assessment. The MHA guidelines did not indicate the maximum number of guests or attendees allowed at gatherings in open spaces, only saying this may be fixed keeping in view the size of the ground. The order allowed states and UTs to consider administrative actions, including imposition of appropriate fines, on those not wearing face masks in public places and work. The guidelines not only put the onus on local district, police and municipal authorities to ensure adherence to prescribed containment measures, but also required state and UT governments to ensure accountability of officers. While local restrictions can be imposed, local lockdowns need the Centre’s permission. The new norms allow all activities permitted earlier outside containment zones, with restrictions. These include international air travel as permitted by the MHA, cinema halls and theatres with up to 50% capacity, swimming pools only for training of sportspersons and business-to-business exhibitions. Noting that the number of active cases in the country had fallen steadily from over 10 lakh cases on September 18 to less than 4.5 lakh, the ministry said cases were rising in some states and UTs in the last few weeks. It said the need of the hour was to maintain caution and strictly follow the prescribed containment strategy focused on surveillance, containment and strict observation of guidelines. For containment zones, the MHA norms prescribed intensive house-to-house surveillance by special teams, aggressive testing, listing of contacts, along with tracking, identification, quarantine and follow-up of contacts for 14 days, with 80% contacts to be traced in 72 hours followed by quick isolation of Covid-19 patients. The guidelines seek to encourage organisations and business entities with 50 or more employees to avail of the Aarogya Setu OpenAPI service, saying this will facilitate them to return to work in a Covid-19 free environment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/staggered-office-timings-night-curfews-in-new-mha-guidelines/articleshow/79418815.cms||Bharti Jain
November 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Minister to hold weekly meetings with industrialists to solve problems||Ludhiana: Terming industry as the backbone of the state, Punjab industries and commerce minister Sunder Sham Arora on Wednesday vowed to end all problems being faced by the industries by holding weekly meetings. Arora, along with Fatehgarh Sahib MP Amar Singh, was in Ludhiana to attend the meeting with industrialists organised by the Chamber of Industrial & Commercial Undertakings (CICU) at CICU Complex here. Punjab medium industry development board chairman Amarjit Singh Tikka, chairman of Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation Gurpreet Singh Gogi, CICU president Upkar Singh Ahuja, vice-chairman of Punjab Large Industrial Development Board Ramesh Joshi, president of Hand Tools Association SC Ralhan were present in the meeting. Arora while acknowledging that industries had been facing some issues said Amarinder Singh-led government was committed to solving the problems of the industrialists. He said that some major decisions to facilitate the industrialists had also been taken recently by the Punjab government, which would be announced by the chief minister soon. Besides expressing gratitude to the Punjab chief minister for his concerted efforts, the cabinet minister also thanked the railways and central government for resuming train movement in the state. He said that if the train service would have remained suspended for some more time then it could have led to huge losses to the state. He also thanked farmers for their cooperation in lifting the protests on request of the chief minister and appealed to the single association of farmers in Jandiala Guru to lift the protest as well so that trains could move smoothly. Meanwhile, MP Amar Singh announced a grant of Rs 25 lakh from MPLAD funds to establish a centre of excellence for engineering in Ludhiana. He also assured industrialists every kind of support from his side. He also assured industrialists that the concrete lining of roads had been started for improvement in industrial facilities and he would work to ensure that dues and other grants available with the government of India were made available to Ludhiana Focal Point and its industries. He stressed that he was available round the clock to help resolve any issue being faced by the industry at the level of the state government or central government. On the occasion, Congress leader Kamil Singh Boparai, general manager of district industrial centre Mahesh Khanna was present among other prominent industrialists and officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/minister-to-hold-weekly-meetings-with-industrialists-to-solve-problems/articleshow/79415504.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Govt school clerk tests Covid-positive; family quarantined||LUDHIANA: As a clerk of a government school in Khanna has tested positive for Covid, the health department has isolated him and his family and is tracing his contacts in the school. Health department officials at Khanna said that as per the 35-year-old patient, who lives in old market area, he works as a clerk in a government senior secondary school in Khanna. They added that the education department clerk shared with health department that on November 18, he had fever so he got himself tested for Covid-19. Health department officials further said that on November 23, the report of the education department employee came as positive. They added that following this the immediate contacts of the employee, his wife and daughter, were immediately home quarantined and their samples would be sent for Covid-19 testing as well. Senior medical officer (SMO), Khanna, Dr Rajinder Gulati said that according to the employee, he usually sits in a separate room in his office and doesn’t have close contacts there. He added that they had asked the principal of the school to provide the details about the possible contacts of the positive case and they were waiting for the details. The health department officials said that after giving the sample, the employee had once gone to the school, but it was not clear whether he met any staff members and students there or not.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/govt-school-clerk-tests-positive-family-quarantined/articleshow/79415498.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Kevadia: M Venkaiah Naidu hints at judicial overreach||KEVADIA: Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Wednesday said the Supreme Court and high courts had delivered several far-reaching verdicts in furtherance of socio-economic objectives besides making correctional interventions but concerns were raised whether orders on Diwali fireworks, monitoring of investigations and making judicial appointments their preserve meant an intrusion into the domains of the legislature and the executive. Speaking at the 80th All India Presiding Officers’ Conference in Kevadia, he said there had been debates whether some issues should have been more legitimately left to the other organs of governance. “For example, Deepavali fireworks, cess on registration and movement of vehicles from the National Capital Region through Delhi, banning use of vehicles of certain make after 10 or 15 years, monitoring police investigations, denying the executive any role in the appointment of judges by instituting collegium which is said to be an extra-constitutional body, invalidating the National Judicial Accountability Commission Act seeking to ensure transparency and accountability are being cited as instances of judicial overreach,” Naidu said as he underlined that none of the three organs of the state could claim to be supreme as only the Constitution was paramount. He said the legislature, the executive and the judiciary were bound to work within their respective domains as defined in the Constitution. “This warrants a spirit of mutual respect, responsibility and restraint. Unfortunately, there have been several instances of crossing the boundaries,” he added. The Vice President said at times, the legislature too had tended to cross the line. “The 39th Constitution amendment placing the election of President, Vice President and prime minister beyond the scope of judicial scrutiny in the circumstances in 1975 is one such instance," he said. Presiding over the inaugural session, President Ram Nath Kovind urged lawmakers to ensure civility while participating in legislative proceedings. In the presence of Naidu, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and over 30 presiding officers from state assemblies and councils, Kovind said people expected compliance of parliamentary ethics by their elected representatives and they were pained to see use of unparliamentary language in House proceedings. The President said in the larger interest of public welfare, a debate should not turn into chaos but culminate in a healthy discourse. “I was a Rajya Sabha member for 12 years and was privileged to see parliamentary proceedings closely,” Kovind said and added, “In parliamentary democracy, opposition and ruling parties play an important role, therefore, mutual coordination, cooperation and exchange of views are important. Presiding officers should ensure a healthy atmosphere for amiable house proceedings and encourage a disciplined debate.” He said at a time when media’s reach had expanded and House proceedings were broadcast live, it was imperative on the part of legislators to be careful about their duties and responsibilities. The valedictory session of the event on Thursday, to be addressed by PM Narendra Modi, coincides with ‘National Constitution Day’, to celebrate the day when the country adopted the Constitution in 1950.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/naidu-hints-at-judicial-overreach/articleshow/79416580.cms||Akhilesh Kumar Singh
November 26, 2020||Goa||Power debate proves AAP is B team of BJP: Congress||Panaji: The debate between power minister Nilesh Cabral and AAP’s Valmiki Naik, over the electricity supply model in Delhi and Goa, confirms Congress’ belief that AAP is BJP’s B team, said Congress media convenor Trajano D’Mello. The objective of the debate, he said, is to present AAP as the main opposition in the state and to subsequently split non-BJP votes in the 2022 state assembly elections. “When one sees the debate, it becomes clear that the purpose was for BJP to prop up AAP, a party that has no representative in the assembly, as the main opposition in the state. BJP doesn’t have guts to face its prime opposition, Congress, in the assembly and does this ‘natak’ and ‘tiatr’ to divert attention,” D’Mello said. Congress said that AAP had used a similar political model for the 2017 elections, showing that AAP would lead in the elections. This, D’Mello said, mislead many voters and “deprived Congress of four seats” which could have otherwise helped Congress gain a majority and form the government. Congress said that since BJP is in power, it should first resolve the issue of high electricity bills and then talk about power infrastructure and future plans. D’Mello also said that AAP should not talk about the Delhi power model since the average billing rate for electricity in Delhi is higher than many other states. “Dreams of free electricity supply should be sold to the people later. They should set their house in order before fooling others in a different state,” the Congress office bearer said. Congress further said that after purchasing MLAs for the government, BJP is now “buying an opposition” for themselves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/power-debate-proves-aap-is-b-team-of-bjp-congress/articleshow/79417487.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Addl commissioner writes against sr to MC head||Ludhiana: The additional commissioner of MC Rishipal Singh has written a letter to MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal while complaining against joint commissioner Kulpreet Singh. Rishipal has said the latter was not sincere towards his duties. He claimed that he had sent reminders to building branch and Kulpreet for matching the data of power connections and approved building plans but no data was provided. A few months back a complaint was filed with local bodies department that without permission so many commercial buildings had been constructed without MC approval. But electricity connections were issued to these buildings. The department had asked MC to compare the connections and building plan approvals from 2016 to 2019 and send report to the department. The commissioner had also issued instructions to the officials to prepare the report and Rishipal was handling the inquiry. Meanwhile, Kulpreet said he had collected the data from the building branch and it was forwarded to additional commissioner. He said they have found some illegal buildings which were issued challans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/addl-commissioner-writes-against-sr-to-mc-head/articleshow/79415511.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Bitter PIL for health infrastructure claims||AHMEDABAD: A petitioner-advocate in the PIL related to Covid/lockdown, K R Koshti, filed an affidavit in the Gujarat high court on Wednesday and contended that the state government suppressed uncomfortable figures on medical infrastructure. In response to a report published in TOI about vacancies in the health department, the high court had sought details. Koshti claimed that the government had not presented the true picture to the high court, and health infrastructure and medical education have been plagued by vacancies and ad hoc appointments at health centres, hospitals and medical colleges across the state. Placing data obtained from the state government portals and through the Right to Information Act (RTI), Koshti contended that Gujarat’s health infrastructure is suffering mainly because of vacancies. Gujarat has 68% of its population in rural areas and 32% in urban areas whereas 80% of its doctors are appointed in urban areas and only 20% are in rural areas. The petitioner’s affidavit contended that nearly 90% of posts of specialist doctors are vacant at community health centres (CHCs) in rural areas. There is a shortfall of 88% in superintendents; 80% in Class-I specialists; 19% in Class-II medical officers; and 24% in Class-II dentists at CHCs. At AMC hospitals, the number of sanctioned posts is 3,382. Of these, 985 (29%) are vacant. LG Hospital has the highest proportion of vacancies, 39%, Koshti contended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bitter-pil-for-health-infra-claims/articleshow/79416639.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Angadia staff flee with Rs 50 lakh||AHMEDABAD: A resident of Chandkheda who runs an angadia firm on CG Road, Navrangpura, filed a complaint with police on Wednesday alleging that four of his employees had fled with Rs 50 lakh cash he had kept in his firm. In his FIR with Navrangpura police, Chirag Thakkar, 27, resident of Diamond Greens on New CG Road in Chandkheda, states that the four employees, Hasmukh Dabhi of Thakkarbapanagar; Jitendra Gohil of New Ranip; Hitendra Thakar of Vejalpur; and Krunal Turakhia of Chandkheda — who were working with Thakkar’s J&K Angadia firm in Samudra complex for around six months to one year, had fled with the cash. Thakkar said that he had kept the money in his locker on November 12 and all the four employees were aware of the same. On Monday evening, Thakkar needed some money for business purpose, and he sent his driver to take the money from the locker. But when Thakkar’s driver reached there, he found the locker empty. Thakkar rushed to his firm and tried to inquire with the four suspected employees who were absent since November 21, but their phones were switched off. Thakkar tried to find CCTV footage of the theft, but they had even taken away the DVR of the CCTV so not a single evidence was found in the case. Thakkar approached Navrangpura police and filed a complaint of breach of trust by employees along with charges of criminal conspiracy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/angadia-staff-flee-with-rs-50l/articleshow/79416600.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Trichy||Many take tiles off roof to minimize damage||Trichy: For residents of Pudukottai and Nagapattinam, lessons learnt from Cyclone Gaja, which wreaked havoc in the region two years ago, have come in handy now. Many people have removed tiles from their roofs over the last two days to prevent damage to their houses. Thatched and tile-roofed houses had suffered significant damage because of heavy winds that shook the region during Gaja. S Kumar from Nagaram village of Keeramangalam was one among the many whose tile-roofed house was badly damaged at that time. “Over 500 tiles on my roof were damaged then and it took a lot of effort to rebuild. I am still repaying the debts, so I chose to remove the tiles now which will help minimize the damage,” said Kumar. Many others in the villages across Nagapattinam and Pudukottai have removed the tiles while those living under thatched roof have covered it with tarpaulin sheets. Officials say that Gaja had claimed nine lives in the district besides damaging over 2 lakh houses and thousands of trees across the delta region. Many people have now chopped off tree branches as houses were damaged after trees fell on the houses. Trees may withstand the wind if their weight is reduced by chopping the branches. This would work well for the palm trees, said locals. In Vedaranyam in Nagapattinnam district, people who used asbestos sheets for roofing the first or second floor of their house, have removed them anticipating possible damage. While the course of Nivar is towards north-western region, it is likely to cause less damage to the central coastal regions of the state besides Nagapattinnam and Pudukottai district. But there is a possibility of heavy rain throughout the day on Thursday starting from Wednesday night and locals want to ensure safety of their dwellings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/many-take-tiles-off-roof-to-minimize-damage/articleshow/79418252.cms||Sampath Kumar
November 26, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Row over reclamation for road to build Rs 7,000 crore sea link||MUMBAI: Bandra (W) residents complained of illegal land reclamation from the sea to build a “temporary” road for carrying material to build the Rs 7,000-crore Versova-Bandra sea link. Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation chief R Moppalwar said no reclamation had been done for the road. “The reclamation has been going on for weeks. Initially, we did not understand what it was for, but huge boulders have been put into the sea, and a permanent road has been constructed behind Bandra fort and adjacent to Otters Club,” said Alan Abraham, a resident. Thelma Poojari, from Chimbai fishing village, said the reclamation near Otters Club had affected fishing in inter-tidal areas. “Our nets have been torn and we are unable to fish anymore. We have to take our boats further out to sea,” she said. Congress corporator Asif Zakaria wrote to environment minister Aaditya Thackeray following complaints from residents that while the road may be required for temporary use, the nature of work being done seemed permanent. “The fishing community is complaining that it will adversely affect the ecosystem and tidal movement, which will be detrimental for houses on the shoreline. It is strictly not permitted in CRZ-I areas and prohibited under CRZ regulations,” Zakaria wrote. Moppalwar said 50-60 tonne vehicles carrying material like cement and steel cannot go on a dirt track or sand, and require a proper road. “There has been no reclamation and once work is completed the land will be restored,” he said. The sea link is slated to be completed by August 2025. Preparatory work is being carried out and constitutes only 5% of the work, said Moppalwar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/row-over-reclamation-for-road-to-build-rs7000cr-sea-link/articleshow/79416640.cms||Clara Lewis
November 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Thieves break into fifteen shops in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Even while night curfew is in place in the city, ten to twelve thieves broke into an industrial complex in Narol on Tuesday night. While traders claimed that theft was committed at some 15 shops and goods worth Rs 4 lakh was stolen, Narol police have yet not registered a complaint and are still going through the CCTV footage gathered from the complex. According to sources, some twelve thieves entered the Shree Ram Industrial Complex in Narol and broke into some 15 shops in two hours and made off from there. The traders learned about the theft at 8am the next day and called police. Narol police gathered CCTV footage in which the thieves are clearly seen, but till late on Wednesday evening no complaint was filed. Sources said the watchman of the complex is also seen in the footage when the thieves are committing the crime so his involvement cannot be ruled out. “Police have contacted the builder of the complex to identify the watchman,” said a source. The Narol police inspector was not available for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/thieves-break-into-fifteen-shops/articleshow/79416603.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Goa||Karnataka envoy meets CM, discusses Mhadei, calls for cordial ties||Panaji: In a bid to stem the growing discord between Goa and Karnataka, Karnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa sent a special envoy, Shankar Gouda Patil, to meet with chief minister Pramod Sawant to discuss matters of mutual interest, including the Mhadei water dispute. A statement issued by the chief minister’s office said the duo discussed issues pertaining to “economic and social growth of both the states” but did not elaborate on what these issues are. Patil, who is Karnataka’s representative in Delhi, has been tasked by the Yediyurappa government to pursue and obtain necessary clearances from the Centre for the Mhadei drinking water scheme and Hubbali-Ankola railway line. Patil said that he will inform the Karnataka government about the points raised by Sawant regarding the Mhadei water dispute, particularly Goa’s concerns. The sharing of the waters of this river is a cause of dispute between the two states. Goa has also filed a contempt plea against Karnataka before the Supreme Court. Sawant and Patil also discussed ways to build and strengthen cordial relations between the two states. The two said that an amicable solution is possible for every issue that prevails between both the states concerning economic and social development. The appointment of BJP MLA CT Ravi as the party’s desk-in-charge for Goa has also raised eyebrows as Ravi is a strong proponent for a ban on cow slaughter in Karnataka. With most of Goa’s beef being sourced from Karnataka, any ban in the neighbouring state will impact on beef availability in Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/karnataka-envoy-meets-cm-discusses-mhadei-calls-for-cordial-ties/articleshow/79417561.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Notice to XEN for not attending meet||Ludhiana: Ahead of the planned visit of a committee framed by the National Green Tribunal (NGT), MC officials are on their toes for checking the arrangements in the city. The committee members are going to visit the city on November 27 and they will review the solid waste management implementation and other things. Keeping this in mind, MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal had called a meeting. But executive engineer Harkiran Singh did not attend the same. So, he was issued a show-cause notice. Pardeep has given one week to the XEN to explain reasons for carelessness in performing his duty. The commissioner had called a meeting on late on Wednesday, where all officials were present. The MC is under scanner for poor implementation of solid waste management rules in city and in case NGT committee showed dissatisfaction then MC bank guarantee could be forfeited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/notice-to-xen-for-not-attending-meet/articleshow/79415521.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Nagpur||Over 100 flyers from Delhi, Gujarat tested, railway passengers screened||NAGPUR: Over hundred flyers were asked to take the RT-PCR test at the Nagpur airport while none of the 1,056 railway passengers was either asked for a Covid report or tested by the local authorities on Day 1 of implementing the state government’s SOP on screening and testing travellers from Delhi, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Goa that are witnessing a fresh spike in cases. Health teams deployed at railway stations appeared confused regarding the SOP and performed thermal screening for all passengers. The district officials were yet to start checking road travellers at the state border though cops had set up a camp. Only four flights coming from Ahmedabad and Delhi were scheduled at Nagpur airport on Wednesday. By afternoon when the second flight landed, RT-PCR tests were carried out on 63 passengers. These included 24 coming down from the Ahmedabad flight and 39 from Delhi. Another 40 flyers who arrived by the late evening flight from Delhi were also tested. Even as the airlines had earlier insisted that passengers will not be allowed to board without a Covid negative certificate, it wasn’t so tough on the first day. The airlines allowed relaxation as the order on travel restriction was issued only a day ago. The guidelines call for sample collection done within 72 hours of scheduled time of landing. It is expected that in a couple of days the airlines may get stricter, a source said. Meanwhile, the passenger load dropped in the first two flights. The Ahmedabad flight on normal days has 100 to 110 passengers, but on Tuesday there were 90 on board. Over 120 passengers came down from the Delhi flight as against an average of 150 to 160, said a source. The last flight landed late in the night and the data wasn’t immediately available. Central Railway assistant commercial manager (ACM) and spokesperson SG Rao said 1,056 passengers arrived in Nagpur on Day 1 through eight trains from Gujarat and Delhi. There were no trains on Wednesday from Rajasthan. As per the state SOP, railway passengers have to submit RT-PCR negative report for samples collected 96 hours before scheduled arrival. “But most of the passengers were unable to show it. We did thermal screening but none of the passengers was found symptomatic, hence no antigen test was conducted. The screening drive will continue,” said Rao. The civic and railway health teams didn’t ask for a Covid report from any passenger. Additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi is monitoring civic team at the railway station while additional municipal commissioner Sanjay Nipane has been assigned the airport task. Both of them said people cooperated with the health workers. Though cops from Nagpur rural district were deployed across nine entry points across Maharashtra-Madhya Pradesh border to check road travellers, the medical team did not turn up for clinical examinations of people coming into the district from the affected states. TOI was present at Kelvad’s Satnoor border where cops were erecting a tent. “We are waiting for the medical team to arrive to kick-start the screening as per the Covid guidelines,” a constable said. SP Rakesh Ola said he was coordinating with the collector to ensure sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) and sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) jointly implement the guidelines. “Police have been deployed but we are waiting for the revenue department,” he said. Tehsildar of Narkhed DG Jadhav said the entire team of police, primary health car centre and municipal council staffers would start checking travellers from Thursday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/over-100-flyers-from-delhi-guj-tested-rly-passengers-screened/articleshow/79417035.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
November 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Seat allotment starts for medical courses||AHMEDABAD: The admission committee will allot seats for the first round of admission for medical, dental, ayurvedic and homoeopathy courses on Thursday. The Admission Committee for Professional Undergraduate & Postgraduate Medical Educational Courses (ACPUGMEC & ACPPGMEC) today said that 21,027 students have participated in the choice filling process till 5pm on Wednesday. The colleges, which are awaiting recognition, will be included in the next round of admissions, it said. Of the 24,538 candidates who purchased online PINs, 24,143 could successfully register. The committee verified 22,978 candidates of which 21,621 made it to the merit list. As many as 1,357 candidates were not included in the list due to non-fulfilment of different eligibility criteria, it said. Candidates who are shortlisted will have to pay the fees online between November 26 and December 4. Document verification will be done at the help centres between November 27 and December 5. Keeping in view the ongoing Covid-19 situation, the committee has recommended candidates to avoid visiting the help centres in person unless essential. The National Testing Agency (NTA) announced the results of National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) on October 16 in which 36,398 or 56.16% candidates qualified from Gujarat. In all, 64,719 candidates took the medical entrance exam. Candidates from Gujarat fared better than last year when 46.35% qualified of the total 75,889 students who took the exam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/seat-allotment-starts-for-medical-courses/articleshow/79416608.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Madurai||TV channels promoting nudity in the name of ads, says HC||Madurai: Expressing shock at the availability of nudity in the name of doctor’s advice as well as advertisements in TV channels, which would affect the minds of youngsters and children, the Madras high court has said that some advertisements though look like promotion of ‘aphrodisiac’ popularly known as ‘love drugs’, they look like pornographic films. The court also granted interim injunction restraining the channels from telecasting such advertisements and programmes. A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi observed that it is shocking to note that in the television, after 10pm almost all the channels are telecasting some advertisements which exhibit obscenity to promote the sale of condoms, which in fact, are being viewed irrespective of the age. Anybody who sees these programmes will be shocked by the pornographic content. The judges noted that nudity is exhibited in those advertisements, which is punishable under Section 16 of the Cable Television Network (Regulation) Act, 1995. The judges observed that similarly as per the Cable Television Network Rules, 1994, the programmes telecast should not offend morality, decency and religious susceptibilities of the subscribers. The cable operators shall ensure that the portrayal of women in the programmes is tasteful and aesthetic and are within the well-established norms of good taste and decency, as per the said rules. However, in the programmes/advertisements, which are telecast in the television in the name of selling condoms and aphrodisiacs, inner wears, they are violating the said rules. The judges observed that from the RTI reply given by the Union ministry of information and broadcasting, it is clear that there is no censorship for the advertisements and programmes which are being telecast on satellite TV channels. In the interest of justice and to safeguard the women and children, the judges granted interim injunction restraining the TV channels from telecasting such advertisements and programmes. The judges also sought response on the censorship of the programmes as contemplated under Section 5(A) of the Cinematograph Act 1952. The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by K S Sagadevaraja, a resident of Virudhunagar district who sought for a direction to the central and state governments to monitor and take action against television channels and cable operators for telecast of vulgar and obscene programmes and advertisements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tv-channels-promoting-nudity-in-the-name-of-ads-says-hc/articleshow/79417520.cms||Kaushik Kannan
November 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Feroze Gandhi Market shopkeepers threaten to approach HC against MC||Ludhiana: Members of Feroze Gandhi Market Association have threatened to approach the Punjab and Haryana high court with contempt of court orders against the municipal corporation. The members claimed that despite two orders from the HC to bring certain changes in the market the civic body officials did nothing on ground. The association members have written a letter to CM Amarinder Singh and cabinet minister Brahm Mohindra over this issue while citing that civic body officials were again going to hire a private contractor for the parking lots in the market without any changes. The chairman of association, Col(retd) Harjap Singh, said, “The MC is rushing to auction the parking lots without doing anything on ground to implement basic fire-fighting measures. The decongestion of parking lots is possible only by hourly parking and creating additional parking area.” He said in case of emergency the fire tenders and ambulance would not be able to enter the parking lots as these remain jam-packed/choked all the time. Display of maximum capacity of five parking lots and signboards like no parking, tow away zone and fire lanes, etc. were supposed to be installed. He said these signboard had been displayed but not prominently . Meanwhile, the president of association, PS Gill, said provision of fire hydrants in each parking lot and marking of the lots to facilitate orderly parking were basic requirements, but the authorities did not pay attention towards the same. He said there were two HC orders over these issues and despite several meetings with the local authorities as well as the local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra, they did not get any relief. He said now they were left with no other option but to approach the court once again. However, secretary of the MC Neeraj Jain said “We have already written to the traffic police for one way traffic in market. The fire lane and other arrangements have also been made in the market.” He said the MC had to auction the parking lots for operation and maintenance as it could not handle it at its level. He said they had offered the association members to handle parking lots, but they denied. As far as hourly parking is concerned, they cannot implement it in the market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/feroze-gandhi-market-shopkeepers-threaten-to-approach-hc-against-mc/articleshow/79415529.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: 980 cusecs of water released for rabi crop||GANDHINAGAR: The state government on Wednesday decided to release 980 cusecs of water for farmers of the Kharicut and Fatehwadi canal command areas. Farmers in the command areas of these two canals will be able to receive water for irrigation until March 15. An official statement said that the water will be supplied through the Narmada main canal. About 25,000 hectares of land in Daskroi, Bavla, Sanand, Dholka and Viramgam will receive water from the Fatehwadi canal. The statement informed that another 2,800 hectares of land of Bareja, Daskroi and Matar talukas will be irrigated from the Kharicut canal. The statement added that if there is a demand from farmers of north Gujarat, all lakes directly connected to the Sujalam Sufalam project will also be filled with water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/980-cusecs-of-water-released-for-rabi-crop/articleshow/79416613.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Trichy||More than 2,200 people shifted to relief camps in Ariylaur||TRICHY: More than 2,200 people including 350 children in Ariyalur district were shifted to cyclone relief centres by Wednesday evening. Trichy range DIG Z Annie Vijaya inspected Sripuranthan and Karaikurichi areas in the district. She asked medical staffs to take necessary steps to prevent the spread of Covid-19 in the centres. Ariyalur collector D Rathna said that five teams from the revenue department and four teams from police department have been kept standby to carry out rescue and relief work in the district. As many as 62 earth movers, 39 advanced tree cutting equipment have been kept ready. More than 10,000 sand bags have been kept standby for arresting breach in waterbodies and more than 3,000 electric posts are kept as reserve. A total of 28 snake catchers are kept standby in the district to rescue snakes which are expected to take refuge in houses because of inundation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/more-than-2200-people-shifted-to-relief-camps-in-ariylaur/articleshow/79418254.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Trichy||Cyclone Nivar: People from vulnerable zones being shifted to relief centres||TRICHY: Pudukottai district administration began shifting people from coastal villages which are vulnerable to relief centres established in the district on Wednesday. Pudukottai district monitoring officer, Shambhu Kallolikar, said that over 100 people have been shifted to a relief centre at Kattumavadi and more people will be shifted from coastal regions of Kotaipattinnam and Jegathapattinnam areas. Visiting coastal villages on Wednesday, Kallolikar took stock of the arrangements made in the relief centres. Kallolikar asked the locals to follow the instructions given by the state government. Since the extent of damage that will be caused by the cyclone cannot be assessed now, he said all the necessary arrangements are at place to prevent damage to people and material. There are roughly 7,000 people living in the vulnerable zones who may be shifted to relief centres. A total of 371 schools and 116 government buildings have been identified in the district to be used as cyclone relief centres, he said. Saying that experience gained from Gaja cyclone will be helpful while planning the relief work this time, he said that 77 low lying areas have been earmarked for close monitoring across the district. A team has been formed with 114 members headed by 14 high level officials from the revenue, health, rural development, police, PWD and fire and rescue service departments. Adequate measures have been taken to create awareness among people on informing the officials concerned in case of an emergency, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/people-from-vulnerable-zones-being-shifted-to-relief-centres/articleshow/79418256.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Only 38 per cent have antibodies in Ahmedabad district||AHMEDABAD: A detailed seroprevalence for Covid-19 outside the municipal limits of Ahmedabad has shown that just 38% had antibodies in them of the 2,000 people who were surveyed. A detailed report for each taluka is being prepared, claim the district health officials. Meanwhile, in the city 12 people succumbed to Covid-19 till Tuesday, 323 new active cases were registered in the city, while 336 patients were discharged till Wednesday evening. Till this day 1,941 people have died of Covid-19. The AMC also released a new containment area list on Wednesday for 31 residential societies. Ten societies have been removed from the micro-containment zone list. Among the 31 societies in the micro-containment zone include one floor in Aryan Gloria, Gala Swing and one block in Isckon park in Jodhpur. On Science City Road, a few blocks in 42-Park View Society were put under micro-containment. Similar was the case with Suryavanshi Tower in Vastrapuir, Indraprasth Tower near Himalaya mall, Surel Apartment in Bodakdev, Seventh Parisar in Gota and Unique Ashiyana near Shapath Hexa in Gota.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/only-38-have-antibodies-in-abad-dist/articleshow/79416637.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Nagpur||Manish Nagar ROB becomes 2-way||Nagpur: MahaMetro will allow left turn on Manish Nagar railway overbridge (ROB) from Wardha Road flyover from Thursday morning. The ROB would thus become a two-way. Earlier, motorists could only travel from Manish Nagar towards the flyover and not the other way round. However, the railway underbridge (RUB) will continue to remain one-way. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/manish-nagar-rob-becomes-2-way/articleshow/79416604.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Kochi||Forest department to mark trees afresh in Anakkayam||KOCHI: The forest department has started a fresh process of marking the trees, which include several threatened, vulnerable and critically-endangered species, at the site of the proposed Anakkayam small hydro electric project (SHEP), as the identification numbers painted seven years ago are no more recognizable. The forest department had marked 1,897 trees in eight hectares identified for the 7.5MW Sholayar tail-race project in 2013 and the Kerala State Electricity Board Ltd (KSEBL) which was the project proponent had paid net present value and seigniorage based on the volume of trees. “The markings are all covered by fresh bark. We have started the process of re-marking the trees and since there are many varieties of trees, giving them a new number is not practical. They need to find the same tree with the old number. This is a time consuming process,” said a senior forest official. The department also needs to reassess the value of the trees based on the girth and the species. The trees are spread across Vazhachal and Sholayar and had a total seigniorage value of Rs 91.7 lakh as per 2013 estimates. While there were 1,438 trees in the Sholayar division totalling 331.6m3, Vazhachal had 459 trees with a quantum of 140.4m3. The price of the trees with girth ranging from 70cm to 740cm were fixed based on their quality. According to environmental activists, the felling of trees from the forest stretch would lead to fragmentation and severely impact wildlife, as steep scarps of rocks on the southern ridge, plantations in the east and submergence of forest land caused by Sholayar reservoir have already impacted their movement. There are several trees on the site which are in the IUCN Red List, but not enough thought has been spared about the felling of trees by the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) which gave the final approval in 2018. The area had become part of Parambikulam Tiger Reserve in 2009, before KSEBL approached for fresh clearances for the project and activists suspect there was suppression of facts. The Wildlife Protection Act clearly states that NTCA should ensure that tiger reserves and areas linking one protected area or tiger reserve with another protected area or tiger reserve are not diverted for ecologically unsustainable uses, except in public interest and with the approval of the National Board for Wildlife and the advice of NTCA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/forest-dept-to-mark-trees-afresh-in-anakkayam/articleshow/79410746.cms||Binu Karunakaran
November 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Vaccine trials to start with young volunteers: Gujarat deputy CM Nitin Patel||AHMEDABAD: Deputy chief minister Nitin Patel said on Wednesday that healthy youths who volunteer to undergo trials of the Covid-19 vaccine will be administered doses of the vaccine, and results of the trials will be sent to the central government. Patel said that 20 healthy youth will be called to the Sola civil hospital on a daily basis and doses will be administered to them. “We will give them the vaccine twice a month. All their body parameters will be monitored and data will then be sent to Bharat Biotech,” Patel said. He added, “People should know that this is a trial mechanism. This is an experiment. The real vaccine is still not in the market. This will happen in a phased manner,” Patel said, adding that experts have completed training of doctors at Sola civil hospital, where the trials will take place. “As of now, we have received vaccines to conduct trials on 500 persons. Volunteers will be given two doses of the vaccine every month and each will be monitored closely. Such trials are to be conducted across the country for one year,” an official release quoting Nitin Patel said. The minister meanwhile, said that more than 400 beds will be made available from November 30 at the newly constructed kidney hospital at Manjushri Mill compound for treatment of Covid-19 patients. Patel paid a visit to the hospital on Wednesday to review progress of work and also held a meeting with officials treating Covid-19 patients at the Medicity campus. “There has been a spurt in Covid-19 cases because of the festive season, but the government has been successful in bringing it under control. The core committee headed by the CM has decided to convert the new hospital at Manjushri Mill compound into a Covid hospital,” Patel said. The third and fourth floor of the new kidney hospital will be equipped with 336 beds with oxygen facilities, while 56 beds with ICU and ventilators will be set up on other floors. BOX: ‘Don’t believe lockdown rumours’The deputy chief minister yet again made an appeal to people, not to be influenced by rumours of a lockdown because of a spurt in Covid-19 cases across the state. “Only, information provided by the state government should be taken into account by people. There is lots of misinformation being spread on social media. The government has been regularly providing information regarding the pandemic and attempts to control the spread of Covid-19,” Patel said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vaccine-trials-to-start-with-young-volunteers-nitin-patel/articleshow/79416627.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Nagpur||New cases twice the number of recovered patients but deaths low||Nagpur: Vidarbha’s fresh caseload almost doubled the number of recoveries while no fatality was reported in four districts and just one each in another four districts on Wednesday. The 1197 new cases took the regions count to 2,21,407, and 2,04,060 recoveries after 697 patients were discharged. This left 11,409 under treatment now.The 15 deaths were reported from Nagpur (5), Bhandara (4), Wardha (2), Chandrapur (0), Gadchiroli (1), Akola (1), Amravati (1) and Yavatmal (1) taking the toll to 5,938.The new 1197 cases were found in Nagpur (319), Bhandara (71), Wardha (85), Gondia (133), Chandrapur (226), Gadchiroli (40), Akola (88), Amravati (57), Yavatmal (120), Buldhana (18) and Washim (40) for a collective total of 2,21,407 cases.On the recovery front, 697 discharged patients included Nagpur (138), Bhandara (3), Wardha (76), Gondia (18), Chandrapur (211), Gadchiroli (33), Akola (13), Amravati (56), Yavatmal (40), Buldhana (53) and Washim (6).Gadchiroli: One Covid death was reported on Wednesday. New cases count increased by 40 while 33 recoveries were reported. The district now has 767 active cases, while total cases are 7680. So far, 78 have succumbed to the disease while 6835 defeated Covid and declared recovered in the district. Washim: The district reported no Covid death on Wednesday. The district reported the second lowest number of day’s cases in Vidarbha at 40 along with Gadchiroli while 6 patients recovered and got discharged. Death toll is 146. The new cases took the tally to 6028, discharged rose total count to 5674 while 208 are active.Buldhana: No death took place while 18 new cases and 53 recoveries were reported on Wednesday. According to the official data, the district now has 10931 cases, 10463 recoveries, 134 deaths and 304 active cases.Bhandara: The district reported four deaths, 71 new cases, and 53 recoveries on Wednesday. The district has 852 active cases. Total caseload is 10,251 cases, and 9,151 discharged patients. Death toll rose to 244.Gondia: For the 7th successive day, 100-plus new fresh cases surfaced in the district while 18 patients recovered on Wednesday. Number of patients under treatment crossed 1000-mark again after a month. Reports of record 2164 RT-PCR tests are awaited. But no death was reported. The new positive patients took the tally to 11,909 and Covid death toll so far to 154, recoveries 10,736 and 1019 active cases.Akola: The district reported 88 new cases, 13 recoveries and one Covid death on Wednesday. The cases tally climbed to 9,208. So far, 289 people have died here of Covid. With new recoveries, the tally touched 8342. Still 577 are active patients.Amravati: A 73-year-old man from Warud breathed his last while fighting coronavirus at the PDMC hospital. His death took the Covid toll to 374 on Wednesday.The district reported 57 new cases to take the caseload to 17,490 while 56 recoveries took the total count to 16,647 for a rate of 95.18%. This left 469 active cases under treatment.Yavatmal: The district recorded one death, a 65-year-old man from Ghatanji. The death toll is now 371. 1905 test reports were received of which 120 are found positive. 425 are the active positive patients currently undergoing treatment in Covid care centres. 11,235 were recorded as positive of which 10,442, including 40 of Wednesday, recovered and got discharged.Wardha: Two men died due to coronavirus while undergoing treatment while new 85 patients tested positive and 76 were discharged on Wednesday.A 40-year-old man from Wardha and a 69-year-old man from Deoli died, taking the toll in the district to 237. The caseload of the district reached 7,592 and recoveries 6,880. The active positive patients under treatment are 475.Out of 889 test reports, 85, including 51 men and 34 women, tested positive. Patients were detected from Wardha (52), Hinganghat (17), Deoli (9), Selu, Karanja and Samudrapur (2 each) and Arvi (1).Chandrapur: There was a spurt of 226 new Covid positive cases on Wednesday taking the total beyond 19,000, the second highest in Vidarbha after Nagpur. The Covid total now stands at 19,203. However, discharge of 211 patients from hospitals and isolation proved to be a breather. Recoveries are now 17,121 and active cases 1,795. No deaths were reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/new-cases-twice-the-number-of-recovered-patients-but-deaths-low/articleshow/79416622.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
November 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Amdavadis cough up Rs 20 lakh in mask fines in just seven days||AHMEDABAD/SURAT/RAJKOT: As the second wave of Covid cases has stormed to state after Diwali, Gujaratis paid through their noses for throw caution to the wind. Between November 15 and Nov 22, Gujaratis paid as much as Rs 3.9 crore in fines for not wearing masks. In total, 39,000 people across 33 districts of the the state were fined Rs 1,000 each. Rajkot city topped the list with an estimated 7,000 people caught not wearing masks in public. The city police and civic administration had launched an enforcement drive penalizing offenders following the spurt in cases after the Diwali festivities. Saurashtra’s financial capital was followed by Surat, where 2,573 offences were registered and Rs 25 lakh collected in fines. Vadodara recorded 2,341 offences with fines totalling over Rs 23 lakh. Ahmedabad city, which was one of the worst places in terms of Covid-19 earlier this year, saw 2,089 people caught and fined for not wearing masks in public. DGP Ashish Bhatia told TOI that as the night curfew continues in the four major cities of Gujarat, strict instructions have been passed to not spare those venturing out without masks. Police have also been directed not to be lenient to people whose masks hang below their noses or mouths or have them hanging round the neck. “People have to understand that wearing a mask and maintaining social distancing is the only way to check the spread of Covid. Checking has been ordered at many points in all cities and districts to curb violation of the rules,” Bhatia added. Rajkot police commissioner Manoj Agarwal said the high number of offences registered indicates that cops have been doing their job well. Agarwal said a vigil is being maintained on paan shops, tea stalls and snack shops, where people tend to take off their masks. “We have strictly directed people to take eatables home and not to eat in public,” said Agarwal. Certain districts have registered very few cases under the Epidemic Diseases Act. Botad has just 39 cases, the least, followed by Tapi (45) and Dang (54). (With inputs from Surat & Rajkot)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amdavadis-cough-up-rs-20l-in-mask-fines-in-just-7-days/articleshow/79416643.cms||Sarfaraz Shaikh
November 26, 2020||Delhi||Covid altars plans: ‘I do’ has an empty feel||NEW DELHI: The official wedding season has begun. According to the Hindu calendar, Wednesday was the auspicious Dev Uthani Ekadashi and thousands of weddings were scheduled to take place. Only, with a recent government order permitting just 50 people at the nuptial functions, families weren’t too enthusiastic about the big fat Indian wedding. Owners of wedding venues told TOI of several celebrations being cancelled and of having to minimise their staff and stop the bands accompanying the baraat from entering the wedding venue due to the new restrictions. Groom Vicky Singh, who got married at a community centre in south Delhi on Wednesday, said he and his friends had elaborate plans about his wedding a week ago. “While happy to be married now, I am really upset about how things turned out. We had paid for all the events, but couldn’t cancel them all at the last moment and suffered losses,” said Singh. TimesViewWeddings are important social events. But in times of pandemic, basic health safety measures must be adopted. Some people are trying to bypass the guest restrictions by booking multiple halls for one wedding. Such irresponsible citizens must recognise that they are endangering the safety of their own guests. Authorities must keep a watchful eye but on days when thousands of weddings are to take place, the onus for compliance would be on those directly involved.Kapil Nagpal, president, West Zone Community Welfare and Banquet Association, said, “Two events in my banquet halls were cancelled. How will families ‘disinvite’ guests to bring the number down from 200 to 50? That is why they are deciding to cancel the event altogether.” Nagpal felt that the limit on the guest number should have been based on the capacity of the wedding venue. “No banquet hall is smaller than 10,000 sq ft. If this can properly facilitate social distancing, then why not allow weddings with guidelines?” he asked. Roop Caterers, which was expecting a 200-guests function in Naraina, is counting its losses. “We were hoping that this marriage season would at least give us some earnings, but the last moment restriction on guests has destroyed all opportunities for us,” said Roop, the owner. The wedding cards and invitation industry too has been hit. Bimal Jain, who heads Delhi Wedding and Greeting Cards Manufacturers’ Association, said the printers had already delivered the invitation cards for November weddings, but further orders are suddenly declining. “The manufacturers are bearing the loss,” he said. “We take a small advance, but that does not cover the cost we have incurred in printing the cancelled cards. As it is, we had fewer orders this year due to the pandemic”. The association, Jain said, has written to the lieutenant governor and Delhi government to intervene. Equally hit are the caterers and dairy product manufacturers. Praveen Dhingra, who is engaged in the wholesale of dairy products in the Walled City said that nobody places a significantly big order when just 50 people are expected to come for the feast. Products for smaller events can be easily sourced from the local dairies, Dhingra said, adding, “We have been suffering for the last seven months and there was some hope of revival during the current wedding season. With little prospects now of making money, our dreams have crumbled.” For those who are gamely carrying on, catering and organising the wedding comes with added responsibilities. Kiran, a wedding planner who also owns a banquet hall in east Delhi, revealed, “We ensure that every cook at functions organised by us undergo proper sanitisation and has his body temperature checked before he starts to cook. We demarcate different areas for the assembly of the guests, ensuring there is no congestion. We are also ensuring that all the guests are checked for symptoms before they enter the venue. If we discover anyone even slightly unwell, we request that guest to leave and get himself or herself medically checked.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-altars-plans-i-do-has-an-empty-feel/articleshow/79417552.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
November 26, 2020||Kozhikode||Interview violation of poll code: IUML||KOZHIKODE: IUML has alleged that the move by the Calicut University to conduct interviews for appointment to varsity teaching posts amounted to poll code violation as the model code of conduct for local body elections is in place. In a letter to the vice-chancellor, Kondotty MLA T V Ibrahim demanded immediate halt of all the proceedings on the notification to fill the teaching vacancies in the university departments. The MLA also said that the varsity had submitted an affirmation before the high court, in connection with the case challenging the move to appoint faculty without filling the reservation backlog, that the university has not conducted interview of the applicants. “So the decision to conduct interview for appointment based on the notification is sub judice,” he said. Meanwhile, varsity authorities said that they have received approval from the state election commission to conduct the interviews. “We had written to the state election commission that the process of recruitment of teaching faculty was on and the commission has said that we can proceed with the interview but have directed that the results should not be declared while the model code of conduct is in force,” varsity registrar C L Joshy said. He also added that the court has not stayed the proceedings on the notification.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/interview-violation-of-poll-code-iuml/articleshow/79410729.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Madurai||Plea seeks to appoint chairperson to TNCPCR||Madurai: The Madras high court on Tuesday sought a response from the state government on a plea which sought to appoint chairperson and members to the Tamil Nadu Commission for Protection of Child Rights (TNCPCR) which are lying vacant since January. A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi sought the response on a public interest litigation filed by S Ramesh Kumar, an advocate and resident of Sivaganga district. He stated that he came across a news report published in TOI dated October 20, which stated that TNCPCR is functioning without a chairperson and members. The report also stated that there are 87,000 children residing in 1,647 shelters in the state and during the lockdown period, offences against children are increasing. Hence, he stated that it is of utmost importance to appoint chairperson and members to TNCPCR. The petitioner stated that the central government had enacted Commissions for Protection of Child Rights Act, 2005, thereby providing the constitution of National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) and the State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (SCPCR) to be established in all the states in the country. He stated that the TNCPCR was constituted in 2012 and was functioning effectively since 2013. The main role of TNCPCR was to inspect any juvenile/ children home/ child care institution run by the governments or any other organisation. The commission could also inquire and take up complaints suo motu in matters relating to deprivation and violation of child rights and non-implementation of laws providing protection and development of children, non-compliance of policy decisions, guidelines or instructions aimed at mitigating hardships faced by children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-seeks-to-appoint-chairperson-to-tncpcr/articleshow/79417523.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Madurai||HC sympathises with girl, but strikes plea for med seat||Madurai: The Madras high court has dismissed a plea moved by a student who sought admission in a medical course under the 7.5% quota for government school students. The court was hearing the petition filed by R Arivazhagan, representing his minor daughter, A Arivika. Observing that the court sympathizes with the petitioner’s daughter, a division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi, however, said that if any relaxation is given in this petition, it will open up a pandora’s box. The petitioner contended that her daughter had studied in government schools except for Class VI, which she studied in an aided school in Thanjavur district. Since the petitioner had to relocate and since there was no government school at the locality, she studied in an aided school. The petitioner stated that his daughter had secured 270 marks in NEET and had secured 25th place in communal ranking. The judges observed that taking into account that the only less number of students who have studied in government schools are securing admission for medical courses, the state government had enacted an Act providing 7.5% horizontal reservation for such students based on the recommendations of Justice P Kalaiyarasan commission. The judges observed since the child studied in an aided school in Class VI, it would definitely be a bar for her to claim admission under the preferential quota as she cannot be termed as a government school student. Hence, the judges dismissed the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-sympathises-with-girl-but-strikes-plea-for-med-seat/articleshow/79417524.cms||Kaushik Kannan
November 26, 2020||Madurai||Man held for possessing fake notes||Madurai: The Madurai city police arrested Kadher Batcha, 50, from Anaiyur for possessing counterfeit Rs 500 notes. Police sources said that Batcha purchased some grocery items from a shop in Panangadi area. After the purchase, he handed over a Rs 500 note. As the shopkeeper developed suspicion, he raised a few questions, following which, Batcha tried to escape from the place. However, the shopkeeper managed to catch him with the help of passersby and alerted the city police. A police team from the Koodalpudur police station reached the spot and picked up Batcha for an inquiry. They seized three more fake Rs 500 notes from him. According to the police, Batcha received them from another person. Police suspected that it could be part of a bigger network and intensified their inquiry to find out people behind the racket.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-held-for-possessing-fake-notes/articleshow/79417531.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Nagpur||Jhansi Rani Square-Munje Chowk rd closed for a mth||Nagpur: DCP (traffic) Sarang Awad has allowed the MahaMetro to close the Rani Jhansi Square-Munje Square road from November 26 to December 25 to facilitate installation of the base of crown of Nagpur atop Sitabuldi interchange metro station. Movement of all types of vehicles will be prohibited from Rani Jhansi Square to Munje Square. Motorists wishing to go towards Anand Talkies will be diverted from Panchsheel Square, Mehadiya Square, Dhantoli Police station to Anand Talkies road. A similar traffic plan will be in place for motorists coming from the opposite direction, stated a press note.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/jhansi-rani-square-munje-chowk-rd-closed-for-a-mth/articleshow/79416611.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Madurai||Three arrested after girl alerts Childline about her wedding||Madurai: Three people, including the parents of a 16-year-old girl were arrested by the Samayanallur all women police for solemnising the minor girl’s wedding. The arrest was made following an alert from the girl.The man has been identified as N Sadayaraj, 30, from Pothumbu in Madurai district. Police sources said the girl has studied up to Class 11. Her parents had agreed to the marriage since the boy’s family did not demand dowry. But, the girl had objected to the marriage right from the proposal talks began.However, the wedding happened on Friday and Sadayaraj raped her soon after coming home. The girl, who was looking for an opportunity to raise the issue, got hold of a mobile phone from the house on Tuesday and called up the childline number 1098. A team from childline and social welfare department assisted by police entered into an inquiry and the girl was rescued. Based on a complaint from the girl, a case was registered under the sections of the Prohibition of Child Marriage act and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. Soon, her parents and Sadayaraj were arrested. His parents N Indira and K Nagaraj were also booked.A police officer said that mostly they used to receive tip-off from the boy, who was in love with the girl or relatives who were harbouring a grudge against the family. When the alert came from the victim herself, utmost immediacy was shown in the case, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/three-arrested-after-girl-alerts-childline-about-her-wedding/articleshow/79417548.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Woman poisons daughter, tries to kill self, booked||MADURAI: The Madurai district police have booked a 27-year-old woman for poisoning her eight-year-old daughter to death. The woman also consumed the poison, and is undergoing treatment in a government hospital. The woman was identified as M Usha, a native of Karuvakudi near Usilampatti. She got married to Mohanraj nine years ago and settled in Maruthi Nagar. The couple had a daughter M Mahima. Police sources said that Mohanraj started having mental health issues a few years ago and stopped going to work for the past four years. Following this, Usha became the sole breadwinner of the family. Meanwhile, Mohanraj and Usha fought frequently. She consumed lice chemical on Saturday after feeding the same to her daughter. Relatives found them in an unconscious state and rushed them to the Usilampatti government hospital, where first aid was given to them and referred to the Government Rajaji Hospital immediately, police sources said. Mahima died without responding to treatment on Tuesday. The Usilampatti Town police registered a case under the IPC section 302 (punishment for murder) based on a complaint from Usha’s father C Selvam. Police sources said that Usha’s condition is critical.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/woman-poisons-daughter-tries-to-kill-self-booked/articleshow/79417553.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Graveyard shift is never-ending at crematoriums||AHMEDABAD: The second surge of Covid-19 infection is putting the crematoriums in the city under a trial by fire. In fact, as the state and the city record high numbers of corona infections, the dead have to wait to be cremated at many places. At the Vadaj crematorium run by the AMC, 25 bodies were queued up three days ago after the facility was hit by a technical glitch. On Wednesday morning, 12 bodies were waiting for the final rites. The number fell to nine in the afternoon and six by evening. Officials said that there were no physical queues and people booked time slots for cremations. The officials also said that the Vadaj crematorium is preferred by the bereaved kin as it lies on the banks of the Sabarmati. While municipal officers remain tight-lipped about the increasing deaths due to a spike in corona infections for the second time in the city, the deathly bustle at the crematoriums is hard to miss. Jayanti Panchal, 65, succumbed to Covid within hours of getting hospitalized on Tuesday evening. Panchal’s relative, standing outside the civic body’s crematorium in Chamunda, said: “There is a body waiting ahead of ours and there is one after us.” As the pandemic becomes entrenched and a fatigue over Covid sets in, it has been observed that at many places, dead patients' relatives are not mandated to wear PPE kits for the final farewell.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/graveyard-shift-is-never-ending-at-crematoriums/articleshow/79416663.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Bareilly||10-year-old girl abducted & raped by history-sheeter out on bail in Bareilly||BAREILLY: A 10-year-old girl, a Class V student, was allegedly abducted and raped by a history-sheeter out on bail in a village under Bhuta area of Bareilly district on Tuesday night. The girl had gone missing while playing outside her house on Tuesday evening and was found in semiconscious condition in a sugarcane field late in the night, said police, adding that there were injuries on her private parts. She told her parents that after the kidnapping, the accused — identified as Pramod Kumar — took her to a cane field and sexually assaulted her, said police. The accused was booked under sections 363 (abduction) and 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act at Bhuta police station based on a complaint lodged by the girl’s father, a farmer, said SHO Vedpal Singh. “When the accused was being shifted to the Bhuta police station in a vehicle, he snatched the service revolver of constable Jitin Kumar and opened fire at the police team in a bid to escape. However, in the retaliatory firing, a bullet struck Pramod on his right leg, following which he surrendered,” added the SHO. Bareilly SSP Rohit Singh Sajwan told TOI that he immediately put three teams to the task of arresting the accused who was hiding in the standing sugarcane crop outside the village. Pramod was arrested on Wednesday afternoon during the combing operation, he said. “The accused is a professional criminal, who has many cases of dacoity and two sexual assault cases lodged against him. In 2019, Himachal Police had booked him for a rape bid on a minor girl. He was admitted to a hospital with a bullet injury and would be sent to jail after treatment. The girl is stable and undergoing treatment at a hospital,” added the SSP. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/10-year-old-girl-abducted-raped-by-history-sheeter-out-on-bail-in-bareilly/articleshow/79413387.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 26, 2020||Pune||Pune: Pensioners get digital life certificate with postal department help||PUNE: For senior citizen Krishna Pawar, a retired private employee in Pune Camp area, the ordeal of submitting a life certificate at the bank meant hours of standing in a queue, every November. This year, the postal department’s doorstep delivery service for a digital life certificate has ensured that he get the document done at home. A postman from the nearest post office visited him with an Aadhaar-based biometric fingerprint scanner to complete the process of generating the certificate. Every pensioner, be a government employee, ex-serviceman or a beneficiary of Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation, a subscriber of pension schemes of Life Insurance Corporation or other organisations, needs to submit this certificate in November every year to continue getting pension. It has now been extended till February 28, 2021. The postal department now has its hands full with over 1,000 applications from senior citizens in Pune to be processed. Postal officials said they receive over 100 calls every day and the 24 post offices in Pune city deploy postmen and women with a cellphone application and a fingerprint device to issue the certificate. Assistant post-master general Anil Gaikwad said Pune region has receiving a good response from senior citizens. They do not have to queue up at the banks or post office to submit the life certificates, especially during a pandemic. “It is highly unsafe for the elderly to step out, especially during the pandemic. Pensioners have to reach out to us through our website or give a call for the home delivery services,” he added. Like Pawar, another 69-year-old retired government employee, Lekha Kurup, who is in Delhi at present, could submit the DLC to the bank using the same services. “I almost booked a flight back to Pune from Delhi to submit the DLC, but the latest facility is a blessing,” she told TOI. She and her husband could both avail this facility through the postal department in the capital, they said. Thousands of senior citizens face immense issues while submitting their life certificates. They are not familiar using the internet for mailing it with all the documents. The postal department’s initiative is most comfortable, they said. Retired employees of central government, state governments and public sector undertakings are applying for the service. Shekar Gaikwad, a retired government employee, said the services at home helped him and his bedridden wife to ensure their pension continues. “ Every year, we have to call an ambulance to go to the bank. The postman from the nearest post office helped generate the DLC or Jeevan Pramaan right in our home,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pensioners-get-digital-life-certs-with-postal-dept-help/articleshow/79416647.cms||Nisha Nambiar
November 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Wish Union ministers visited Hyd during floods, says KTR||Hyderabad: TRS working president KT Rama Rao took potshots at Union ministers and senior BJP leaders for descending on Hyderabad in big numbers to campaign in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections while ignoring to pay a visit when Hyderabad was ravaged by floods and heavy rains. He tweeted on BJP top leaders like home minister Amit Shah, party president JP Nadda, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath and Maharashtra former CM Devendra Fadnavis coming to Hyderabad for campaigning in GHMC elections. “We welcome the leaders who are coming to Hyderabad. But, they should have visited to console the rain-affected people when the city witnessed heavy floods,” KTR said. “It would have been much better if the same leaders had come to Hyderabad when the city was hit by heavy rains and floods,” KTR said during a rally in Uppal on Wednesday. Saying that they welcome the top BJP leadership to the state, he said: “Instead of coming here with empty hands, I urge them to get Rs 1,350 crore financial relief for flood-affected colonies which CM KCR had requested in his letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi.” He also asked the central ministers to pay a visit to Durgam Cheruvu bridge, Annapurna centres and Basti Dawakhanas in the city. He said Hyderabad has remained peaceful for the last six years. “There has not been a single incident of communal tension. Today, they only want to divide people in the name of religion. I urge you all to not support such parties,” he said. KTR also criticised the BJP leaders for making false promises to voters. “The BJP leaders are promising to give a financial assistance of Rs 25,000 to flood-affected families. These are the same leaders who were responsible for stopping distribution of financial assistance of Rs 10,000 to the flood-affected people. Now, they are coming up with such promises to fool people,” he said. Reacting sharply to remarks made by AIMIM leader Akbaruddin Owaisi and BJP state president Bandi Sanjay, KTR said: “One insane leader says memorials of NTR and PV Narasimha Rao should be bulldozed and another insane leader advises youth for triple-riding and promises GHMC would pay the traffic violation challans.” He asked, “Should you vote for such parties?”  In his tweets, KTR said both leaders were the pride of Telugu people. “Making remarks on such leaders is not acceptable and there is no place for such comments in a democracy,” the minister said. The state government kicked off the centenary celebrations of Narasimha Rao in June this year and the state assembly passed a resolution urging the Centre to confer Bharata Ratna on the former PM. He also said Uppal faced a major water crisis till five years ago and people used to get water once in two weeks. “But today, every house is getting drinking water every alternate day. The TRS government has resolved the water crisis very efficiently,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/wish-union-ministers-visited-hyd-during-floods-says-ktr/articleshow/79416618.cms||Koride Mahesh
November 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: MIM helping Rohingya get voter ID cards, says Smriti Irani||HYDERABAD: Union minister of textiles Smriti Irani on Wednesday found fault with TRS for not taking action against MIM for allegedly helping Rohingya refugees obtain voter cards with recommendation printed on their party’s letterhead. She said the issue of safety was a state subject. Addressing a press conference, she said, “There are reports showing Rohinya thanking AIMIM for helping them get voter cards. If the TRS regime is not taking action against them, it would mean that it does not care about Telangana and accords more importance to illegal migrants. Is it not the duty of the government to take action against illegal migrants who are getting help from AIMIM?” Accusing TRS and AIMIM of having an “unholy alliance”, she said both parties support illegal immigrants. Replying to the question of why BJP was taking up the Rohinya issue only before elections, she said “Our party has taken a consistent stand against illegal immigration in Parliament. We have taken a stand that we need to protect the rights of Indians who are tax payers,” she said. The coming GHMC elections will set the tone for general assembly elections in Telangana. All 150 wards of Hyderabad will go to polls on December 1. She also alleged that the ruling TRS has not sent Detailed Project Report (DPR) for employment generation programme. Meanwhile AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi challeneged BJP to find one pereson from Rohingya community who had been given a voter card.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mim-helping-rohingya-get-voter-id-cards-smriti/articleshow/79416645.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 26, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: SupplyCo returns 20 loads of low quality rice||PALAKKAD: The Kerala State Civil Supplies Corporation (Supplyco) sent back 20 loads of Palakkadan matta rice supplied by private rice mills for distributing it through the ration shops under the paddy procurement scheme of the state government as it failed in the quality test. As per the scheme, private rice mills procured paddy from farmers at support price fixed by the state government and converted it to rice and returned it to Supplyco. When the rice was tested by Kerala State Food Commission, constituted under the National Food Security Act, it was found to be of lower quality when brought to the godowns for storing. But this quality was passed earlier by the civil supplies department. A vigilance inquiry on the matter is likely to ordered on the certification, said officials of SupplyCo. There are allegations that the high-value matta and ponni rice varities procured from the paddy farmers of the district are diverted for higher price and low-quality rice brought from neighbouring Tamil Nadu are supplied for public distribution in the state by some private rice mills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/supplyco-returns-20-loads-of-low-quality-rice/articleshow/79410740.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Pandemic push to services’ e-delivery, but long way for system to mature||PUNE: For 32-year-old Prakash Natarajan, single-bedroom flat became insufficient after work-from-home extended for him as well as his wife. This is when he decided to co-borrow with his wife and parents to buy a 2BHK home. This, however, meant taking his parents to the potentially crowded registration office and bank to sign the documents. But he was pleasantly surprised when he was given the option to register everything from the developer’s office. “The e-registration to buy house is a very progressive move,” Natarajan said. Revenue officials said the e-registration option was slow to take off, with just about one in 10 homebuyers opting for it. “E-registration of properties is an innovation in the right direction. While the cost might be the same, the ease is a bonus,” a sub-registrar said. Not just registrations, e-delivery of services has begun across sectors, though the system needs fine-tuning in many cases. Ashutosh Marathe, dean of academics at Vishwakarma Institute of Technology, said the lockdown prompted them to explore simulation-based packages to hold laboratory practicals. “We realized that there were open-source and licensed software that could help students conduct practicals from home. While computer/IT students have always used computers, we now have mechanical, chemical, electronics and telecommunications engineering students doing the same. Once colleges reopen, hands-on experiments would be done as manually operating these machines is necessary, but simulation software is a great way to practice,” Marathe said. Similarly, a host of tuition centres for higher grades have switched to online mediums or the “app mode” to conduct classes. The Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Corporation Limited (MSEDCL) too has started the option of people self-submitting readings. “The MSEDCL app is quite exhaustive. I have not visited the MSEDCL office since I started using the app in February,” said Santosh Waghmare. The transport department too has offered different services online for a while. However, it is not yet mature, with people still required to visit the transport office after filling up a form online. However, the transport department’s fine collection has improved after it started issuing e-challans, officials said. “Under this system, a memo is sent to the offender via the e-challan machine. A lot of time is saved under this system, and the fine too can be paid online via the parivahan website. An e-court system is also under development, under which the offender will not have to physically present themselves in court,” a Pune RTO official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pandemic-push-to-services-e-delivery-but-long-way-for-system-to-mature/articleshow/79416651.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Madurai||Dindigul fish farmer bags national award||Madurai: A farmer from Dindigul, M Chinnasamy, 65, has bagged the ‘best fish farmer’ award at the national level after as he was able to earn a profit of over two lakh per annum through fish farming. He had reared freshwater fish in his farm ponds with the help of the fisheries department. Chinnasamy received the felicitation as part of awards presented for World Fisheries Day. Chinnasamy has been rearing fish in his agricultural land for the past three years. He said that he received training from the fisheries department following which he dug five farm ponds in his one acre land in Pudupatti village in Natham in Dindigul district. The ponds were treated with caustic soda and filled with water for five feet. Fish that are about one inch in size are introduced into the ponds and are fed fish feed on a regular basis. He grows three varieties of freshwater fish-catla, rohu and mrigali-which would grow to weigh 500 grams to 750 grams in seven months, when begins he catching and selling them. Chinnasamy, said that he earns about Rs 3.75 lakh during each harvest with an expenditure of Rs 1.75 lakh. Additional director for fisheries, Dindigul, Pancha Raja said that Chinnasamy had been following the right procedure and also availing the subsidy. Each year farmers into fish culture are selected for awards on World Fisheries Day falling on Nov 21. This year they Chinnasamy’s name was recommended to the state government and he was validated by a central government team and selected for the prize. The prize was handed over to the farmer by Dindigul district collector, M Vijayalakshmi, on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dindigul-fish-farmer-bags-national-award/articleshow/79417599.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Madurai||Covid-19: 148 fresh cases in south TN, 120 in central dists||Madurai/Trichy: The 10 southern districts of the state reported 148 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday. Meanwhile, the central region recorded 120 new cases taking the tally to 70,067, which include 1,078 active cases. One death each was recorded in both the regions. The deaths were recorded in Virudhunagar and Thanjavur. In the south, only one district recorded less than 10 fresh cases in the region. Earlier, on November 20, up to six districts recorded less than 10 fresh cases each. Madurai and Kanyakumari with 24 cases each recorded the highest number of fresh cases on Wednesday, followed by Tirunelveli (22). The seven other districts recoded less than 20 cases each. Ramanathapuram (2) recorded the least number of cases in the region and was followed by Sivagangai (10), Dindigul and Tenkasi (11 cases each), Theni (12), Tuticorin (14) and Virudhunagar (18). Madurai has 217 active cases followed by Tirunelveli (129), Kanyakumari (123) and Tuticorin (111) while the other districts have less than 100 active cases. In the central region, Trichy district is on top with 31 new positive cases on Wednesday. With this, the tally has climbed to 13,301 on Wednesday. Nagapattinam recorded 25 fresh cases pushing the tally to 7,534. Tiruvarur reported 24 new cases, while the total tally is 10,379. Thanjavur reported 15 new cases taking the tally to 16,272. Karur and Pudukottai districts recorded 10 new cases each, while the total counts are 4,743 and 11,063. Ariyalur reported 4 cases while Perambalur recorded one case taking the tally to 4,541 and 2,234.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/covid-19-148-fresh-cases-in-south-tn-120-in-central-dists/articleshow/79417571.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Bareilly||Rampur court grants bail to Azam & Abdullah in ‘criminal trespass’ case||RAMPUR: The Rampur court of additional district and sessions judge (MP/MLA court) Premender Kumar has granted bail to Samajwadi Party leader and Lok Sabha MP Azam Khan and his son Abdullah Azam who had been charged with "criminal trespass" and under the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, 1984. An FIR was registered against Azam, his wife Tazeen Fatma and Abdullah Azam at Azeemnagar police station in 2019 for allegedly encroaching a part of their private varsity into the government's land. Azam is the chancellor and Abdullah, the chief executive officer of the Muhammad Ali Jauhar University while Fatma is a member of the Maulana Muhammad Ali Jauhar Trust which runs the varsity. The court has already granted bail to Fatma in the case. Azam also got bail in a case involving the violation of the model code of conduct. He was booked by the police during a Lok Sabha poll campaign at Milak Tehsil in 2019. However, Azam and his son will continue to remain in jail for now as the police in Rampur have registered around 90 criminal cases against the duo in various other "offences". "In most of the cases, the court has granted bail to Azam, Fatma and Abdullah, but in the case of forgery - related to the two birth certificates of Abdullah, PAN card and passport - their bail was rejected by the lower court. It now lies pending before the Allahabad high court," Ramautar Saini, ADG counsel, said on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/rampur-court-grants-bail-to-azam-abdullah-in-criminal-trespass-case/articleshow/79413395.cms||Nazar Abbas
November 26, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Open school intake starts from December 1, but Std X launch stalled||PUNE: Students can apply for admission to standard V and VIII under the Maharashtra State Board of Open Schooling from December 1 to December 31. They can go to the official website http://msbos.mh-ssc.ac.in and fill up the form, get a print of the online application and submit it along with the documents and fee at the contact centre from December 2 to January 2. These contact centres will collect the forms and fee, scrutinise them and send the list to the divisional board office on January 8. The previous state government called the open schooling a bridge to fill the gap between out-of-school children and mainstream schools. But parents said the promises made by the previous BJP-Sena government to scale up the open schooling board to standards X and XII have not been kept. The board was launched in January 2019 with standards V and VIII with assurances to scale up to standards in the next term and standard XII, this year. But parents and students said there is no communication about the term-end examination of the last batch, nor have the standard X or XII registrations started. Amit Mukherji took out both his children from regular school after he heard about the open schooling board. “They are into sports and I wanted them to concentrate on it. Hence, I got my daughter who was in standard IX and son in standard V out of their schools so that they can join the open schooling board. But the standard X registration never happened. We feel cheated by the state government,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/open-school-intake-starts-from-dec-1-but-std-x-launch-stalled/articleshow/79416650.cms||Ardhra Nair
November 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Give boats to each house in city, Kishan mocks TRS||Hyderabad: Taking pot-shots at the TRS manifesto, Union minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy said the ruling party should first distribute boats for each house in the city. Addressing a press conference, he said the TRS had failed the people in flood management and no measures were taken to prevent the flood situation. “It is better the TRS hands over boats to families. After we win the GHMC polls, we will take all steps needed to prevent floods hitting the city,” he said. Responding TRS working president KT Rama Rao’s comment that BJP has taken away seven mandals from Telangana to merge them with AP, he asked: “Was it not the Congress which had included these mandals in the bill to be part of AP.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/give-boats-to-each-house-in-city-kishan-mocks-trs/articleshow/79416653.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Kochi||Muthalamada mango export begins early||PALAKKAD: The export of mangoes from the ‘Mango City’ a month earlier than the usual season has given high hopes to thousands of mango farmers who were in dire straits during the last two years due to the delay in production because of climate change. Last year, heavy rain had delayed the flowering by more than one month, bringing down production by more than half. But this time, the absence of heavy rain and availability of sunlight have become most favourable for flowering of mango a month early. Now the ripe mango is exported from five export houses at Pallam and Adampumaram. Plucking of mango has started in the high range areas of Muthalamada like Chemanampathy, Vellarakadavu, etc. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/muthalamada-mango-export-begins-early/articleshow/79410751.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Goa||Police take action as brawl breaks out outside casino office||Panaji: On behalf of the state, Panaji police have booked unknown persons after a video of a person being beaten up outside a casino entry point in the middle of the busy D B Road in Panaji went viral on social media on Wednesday. Speaking to TOI, Panaji PI Sudesh Naik said that case has been registered under Section 160 (affray) of IPC. “We have taken suo motu cognisance and registered the case,” Naik said. Naik said that preliminary inquiry revealed that the person who was beaten up was under the influence of alcohol. “The victim is from a neighbouring state and was part of a group. When he started blocking the road, he and his friends got into a scuffle with some taxi drivers,” Naik said. He further said that they have not received any complaint from the victim and they are trying to locate the people involved in the incident. “We have identified the persons and soon they will be traced,” Naik added. In the one-minute video that went viral on social media, some persons are heard using abusive language against the victim and asking others to beat him up. It is also seen in the video that the victim was lying in the middle of the road for at least 30 seconds and no person came forward to help him. “I am sure this video by a bystander of #lawlessness situation on our #Panaji’s main Dayanand Bandodkar Marg during peak hours will not be tolerated & all culprits will be booked and punished,” former Panaji MLA Sidharth Kuncalienkar tweeted. Panaji PI said that they have not received any complaint from the victim and they are trying to locate the people involved in the incident. “We have identified the persons and soon they will be traced,” he said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/police-take-action-as-brawl-breaks-out-outside-casino-office/articleshow/79417784.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Madurai||Minister praises CM for initiating desilting works||Madurai: Lauding chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami for being instrumental in launching the kudimaramathu scheme for desilting and renovation of tanks and ponds in the state, minister for cooperatives Sellur K Raju said that he can well be defined as the second ‘Karikala Cholan’, for having done an equally commendable job to that of the Chola king, who constructed the Kallanai dam in Trichy. Raju said this after inspecting the Paravai tank at Paravai town panchayat in Madurai west constituency on Wednesday. He said that the full capacity of the tank was 175.57 mcft and 366 acres were irrigated through it. Now that the tank had been cleared and banks strengthened at a cost of Rs 90 lakhs and only 15% of the shrub clearing work was pending now, the tank had filled up. The tank had filled up after many years and people are already witnessing the benefit as they had experienced and increase in the groundwater level in their borewells. The minister said that kudimaramathu works had been carried out to the tune of Rs 105 crore in Madurai district. Kudimaramathu works have been carried out excellently like it was done during the British rule in this period, he said. Check dams are being constructed in Tamil Nadu at a cost of Rs 1,400 crore. Tanks in Madurai Corporation limits had also been renovated and desilted, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/minister-praises-cm-for-initiating-desilting-works/articleshow/79417681.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Pune||Pune civic body razes structures in BDP areas||PUNE: The civic body has carried out an action against illegal structures in the biodiversity park (BDP) areas and demolished illegal properties spread over 16,000sqft in Vadgaon Budruk. “Survey number 45 in Vadgaon Budruk is designated as BDP. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) does not sanction construction in these areas. We had given notices to the owners of such illegal properties, but they did not follow the directives and so we demolished the buildings,” said a senior official of PMC. According to a PMC official, action was taken by the building permission department in association with local wards offices. “The action will be continue,” said the official. The PMC had reserved biodiversity areas after considering rapid urbanization in Pune, to protest the flora and fauna of the city. The land reserved for BDP was 978 hectares — spreading over seven hills in 12 villages. This includes 124 hectares of government land and 854 hectares of privately-owned land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-razes-structures-in-bdp-areas/articleshow/79416654.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Mumbai||MSEDCL sets up 10 e-vehicle charging stns||Mumbai:MSEDCL said on Wednesday it had installed 10 electric vehicle charging stations in Mumbai region, with tests being completed this week and they will soon be thrown open to the public. Fifty stations are being set up across the state in the first phase, followed by a total 500 across Maharashtra by next year, officials said. “We will have four electric vehicle charging stations in Greater Mumbai, six in Thane, four in Navi Mumbai and four in Panvel. Of these 18, 10 are almost ready and will be launched soon,” said an official. MSEDCL has also prepared a new mobile app for these e-charging points which can be easily downloaded by consumers. The app will be launched when the e-stations are thrown open to the public, a MSEDCL spokesperson said. People can locate the nearest e-charging station using the app and GPS-based map. “The consumer will have to scan the QR code on the charging point, and an OTP will be generated. Using it, one can make an online payment and get the vehicle charged,” the official stated. The cost to set up an e-vehicle charging station is around Rs 2.5 lakh, an official said. MSEDCL supplies power to over 2.6 crore consumers in parts of Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai and rest of the state. “It will set up the e-charging stations close to a MSEDCL substation so that there is uninterrupted supply. Also there is free/empty space close to many substations, which will be used to set up charging points,” said an official. These will be fast DC charging stations. In this set-up, it will require 45 minutes to an hour to charge a vehicle completely. The tariff fixed by MERC which is less than the normal one for commercial users. Sources said there are plans to give a discount on tariff for charging vehicles between 10pm and 6am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/msedcl-sets-up-10-e-vehicle-charging-stns/articleshow/79416693.cms||Somit Sen
November 26, 2020||Madurai||15th century hero stone found near Madurai||Madurai: A 15th century AD hero stone, which was erected in memory of a soldier, was discovered near Madurai. It may be from the period of the Vijayanagaram dynasty, experts said. V Rajaguru, president of the Ramanathapuram archaeological research foundation, said that he along with professor D Muneeswaran and professor M Lakshmanamoorthy, history department Saraswathy Narayanan College Madurai, and few others had found the hero stone in Utchapatti in Madurai district. They noticed that the symbols on it were similar to those from the time of Vijayanagaram dynasty. The image of a horseman is etched on the hero stone measuring two feet in height and 1.5 feet in width. In the figure, the horseman is seated on the horse and is holding a spear in his right hand and the harness of the horse in his left. There is also a bangle on his wrist and a garland on his neck. He is seen wearing a gear up to his knees. As this image has been etched facing northwards, it may have been erected in the memory of a soldier who martyred on the battlegrounds, said Rajaguru. People in the village, where the memory stone was found, worship this stone as their local deity, Ayyanar. About 200m from the spot where hero stone was erected, there is a pedestal with a lamp made of stone that is 10 feet in height. At the base of this post, there are images of the sun and moon and the upper portion is rounded. A damaged stone inscription belonging to the 18th century AD was found nearby which stated that this pedestal was erected to redeem a vow to the temple. An image of a boar (varaga), which was the symbol of the Vijayanagaram dynasty and that of two people worshipping it, is also etched on the stone. These further strengthen the theory that the hero stone belonged to the 15th century AD, Rajaguru said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/15th-century-hero-stone-found-near-madurai/articleshow/79417631.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Madurai||Only 9 UPHCs in Madurai corpn have phone connectivity, finds RTI||Madurai: As many as 21 out of the 32 urban primary health centres(UPHCs) in the Madurai Corporation do not have telephone connectivity, an RTI has found. Nine centres were also found to have no permanent doctors. A Pandi, a member of the CPI(M) in Melaponnagaram in Madurai, had filed an RTI to find out the status of the urban PHCs. To a question on how many PHCs were present in the 100 wards in the city, he got a reply that there were 32 in all, including the maternity centre at Palanganatham. To a query on the strength of the doctors in the UPHCs, he was told that there were 23 doctors - three in zone I of the corporation, five in zone II, six in zone III and nine in zone IV. The reply also stated that there were four UPHCs with operation theatres, of which two were not functional. While the theatre at Rayalu Iyer UPHC was not functioning due to Covid-19, the one at EOC was not operational due to ongoing construction activities. The theatres in the Sellur and Pudur PHCs were functional. Pandi said that the corporation had also given the list of the 32 UPHCs but telephone numbers for contacting them had been provided only for nine of them including Palanganatham, South Gate, Anna Thoppu, Puttu Thoppu, Aruldosspuram and Sellur. “It is unacceptable that most of the centres do not have phone connection, which is a must and the corporation should make arrangements for the same immediately,” he said, adding that they had decided to file the RTI after people who went to the UPHCs encountered several problems. As per the World Health Organisation there should be one doctor for a population of 1,000 people. According to the 2011 census, the population of Madurai Corporation was 14 lakh and there should ideally be 1,400 doctors. “We know that this is impossible, but the corporation should appoint at least one doctor for each of the 100 wards. Also, the dispensaries which open once in two days should be kept open on a daily basis,” Pandi said. Pandi also said that the CPI(M) would hold protests raising these demands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/only-9-uphcs-in-madurai-corpn-have-phone-connectivity-finds-rti/articleshow/79417661.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Trichy||Two dead, four injured in accident near Pudukottai||Trichy: Two people died and four were injured in a road accident involving a car and a stationary truck near Viralimalai in Pudukottai district on Wednesday. The deceased were identified as N Manikandan, 45, from Sivagangai and P Prabu, 35, from Madurai. The accident took place in the early hours when the speeding car in which five people were returning to Madurai from Chennai rammed the tanker from behind. Manikandan and Prabu died on the spot while S Prabu, the car driver, S Siva Kumar, Mohan and tanker driver C Lakshmanan suffered injuries. Police camet to the spot and rushed the injured to the nearby hospitals for treatment. The bodies were sent to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital in Trichy for postmortem. Police said that the accident could have been averted if the truck was not parked along the highway, which the car failed to notice. Further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/two-dead-four-injured-in-accident-near-pudukottai/articleshow/79418306.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Bed pressure: Recovering patients to get hotel transit in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: At 7pm on Wednesday, the civic body said that its quota of hospital beds for Covid treatment is 869 while the private quota is 575. Anticipating that the bed numbers may reduce with time, the AMC and private hospitals in the city have agreed to tie up with hotels. Patients who are on the road to recovery shall be shifted to hotels. “A policy to this effect will be declared on Thursday afternoon. We are yet to get a report on which hotels are on board,” said a senior AMC official. Five days ago, 3,900 calls were made for ambulances and fever inquiries. The figure has come down to about 2,800 calls a day over the past two days. “Cherry-picking of hospitals will not be allowed as that causes a scarcity of beds,” said a senior official of the South West Zone. When asked whether the new arrangement involve costs reconsiderations for hospital beds, the official said that the meeting on Thursday will clarify matters.  The official added, “The next four days are crucial in our zone. There are chances of a surge if people do not follow the basic corona norms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bed-pressure-recovering-patients-to-get-hotel-transit/articleshow/79416671.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Trichy||SR cancels 6 more special trains||Trichy: In view of cyclone Nivar, three trains have been cancelled on Thursday and one on Friday. Karaikkudi-Chennai Egmore-Karaikkudi special, Madurai-Chennai Egmore-Madurai special, and Chennai Egmore-Trichy-Chennai Egmore special trains and Madurai-Bikaner special train have been cancelled on November 26. While, Nizamuddin-Kanniyakumari special will be cancelled on November 28. The Bikaner-Madurai special train has been cancelled on November 29. Mayiladuthurai-Mysuru special of November 26 has been partially cancelled between Mayiladuthurai and Trichy and will run between Trichy and Mysuru. Karaikkal-Ernakulam special of November 26 is also partially cancelled between Karaikkal and Trichy and will run from Trichy to Ernakulam. Coimbatore-Mayiladuthurai-Coimbatore Jan Shatabdi is partially cancelled on November 26 between Trichy and Mayiladuthurai and will run between Coimbatore and Trichy, said in a statement from Trichy railway division.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/sr-cancels-6-more-special-trains/articleshow/79418308.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Bareilly||Bareilly cops keeping tabs on robbery accused from past 10 years to curb winter crime spike||BAREILLY: Every winter, as shorter, darker and colder days descend upon Bareilly, the number of robberies and burglaries see a spike — most of them planned by repeat offenders out on bail. So this year, police have drawn up a list of every person booked for robbery in the last 10 years, as well as their bail guarantors. So far, they have verified 311 accused and 414 guarantors. The force believes keeping tabs on them might help bring down crime figures this winter. Bareilly SSP Rohit Singh Sajwan told TOI, “There are over 800 people who were booked in robbery and dacoity cases in the district in the past 10 years. We’re verifying their whereabouts every weekend. This campaign will continue for a while. Special attention is being given to the elderly accused with long criminal histories. Such elderly robbers are quite cunning and on many occasions have been found running multiple gangs. They prepare unemployed youth and guide them about safe techniques to commit robberies.” Sajwan further said, “During verification, the officer in-charge of the concerned police outpost has to verify the employment status of the accused. The place of employment is also verified without affecting his professional life. We also try to find out their financial status and tally it with his earnings. We call them to the police station along with their bail guarantors to let them know we’re keeping an eye on them and any wrong step would land them in jail.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bareilly-cops-keeping-tabs-on-robbery-accused-from-past-10-years-to-curb-winter-crime-spike/articleshow/79413414.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 26, 2020||Madurai||CBSE students, schools want ample time before exams begin||Madurai: With the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) set to announce the schedule for Class X and XII board exams for 2021, schools and students in Madurai are hoping that there will be ample preparation time before the exams begin. Though online classes are under way and a majority of portions completed, students and teachers asserted that there needs to be at least few months of physical classes before the exams. “Students are having an easy going mindset this year because of Covid-19 and are yet to take the exams seriously. Schools are still not reopened in Tamil Nadu though the CBSE has released SOPs for reopening. There should be at least five months of physical classes before exams are conducted for the welfare of students,” said Barath Silvester Raj, dean, Sri Aurobindo Mira group of educational institutions. “Students have definitely adapted to online learning now. However, their productivity is considerably low and we cannot effectively asses how well they have learnt their lessons. Though students are having mock tests from home, they are yet to practice full-fledged exams for three hours. Practical work in labs is also left out,” said a Class XII physics teacher of a CBSE school. Students are also equally anxious about reopening of schools and schedule of board exams. T Krithika, a Class XII student said that she and her classmates are hoping for board exams to be delayed. “If there is clarity on the schedule, we will feel better. We have no choice but to continue with the online classes now. But, we are stressed out due to lot of screen time. We hope the government considers our plight and takes an appropriate decision,” she said. Meanwhile, schools and students reiterated that exams must not be cancelled altogether in the wake of the CBSE cancelling some board exam papers early this year due to the Covid-19. “Exams must be conducted and so far CBSE is also keen on it. If schools can have physical classes between January and April, then exams could be conducted by around May or June and then the next academic year could begin by July,” said Jayendran Mani, correspondent, Sri Jayendra group of educational institutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cbse-students-schools-want-ample-time-before-exams-begin/articleshow/79417734.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
November 26, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: BJP is using Hinduism to divide people, says MK Stalin||MADURAI: Taking on the BJP and its religious Vetrivel yatra, DMK president M K Stalin said those who were using Hinduism as a tool against his party were unaware of what the DMK had done for Hinduism. “They are trying to play on the sentiments of people using religion as a tool to divide them,” said Stalin on Wednesday, addressing the party’s virtual ‘Thamilagam Meetpom’ (Retrieve Tamil Nadu) campaign for the districts of Tirunelveli and Tenkasi. “Today, there are many who claim to have taken an incarnation to protect religion and spirituality,” said Stalin. “In reality it is the DMK which protected temples and the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments department (HR&CE),” he said. There had not been a separate ministry for the HR and CE before 1970 as it was clubbed with another department, said the DMK leader. The renovation of more than 5000 temples was carried out between 1967 and 1975 during the DMK rule. During 1996-2001, as many as 2,459 temples were renovated and it was during the rule of ‘Kalaignar’ (former DMK president M Karunanidhi) that the properties and wealth of temples increased, he said. “They are trying to use Hinduism as a tool to develop their party, which is stunted, and trying to divide the Tamil people, who belong to the oldest civilization,” said Stalin. “Only love is eternal, not hate, only a gentle attitude would reap benefits not unruliness,” he said. The divisive forces think that they can bring down the Tamil community by opposing the DMK, said Stalin slamming Union home minister Amit Shah for his speech during his recent visit to Chennai, when he had questioned what the opposition party had done for the state. “It only shows his ignorance about what is happening in Tamil Nadu,” said Stalin. On Shah’s remarks about putting an end to “dynasty politics”, Stalin said, “Perhaps, he is referring to deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam, who is trying to make his son a Union minister.” He listed out names of father-son duo in the BJP. It was the DMK that ensured that people who were oppressed in society had access to education and jobs. “Anna (DMK founder C N Annadurai) and Periyar (DK founder E V Ramasamy) wanted the DMK to govern the state perpetually, not to develop the party but to uplift the people,” he said. Recalling the historical importance of Tirunelveli, he said the consecration for the famous Nellaiappar temple had been performed after 700 years during the DMK regime. The first conference of DMK’s youth wing was held in Tirunelveli in the year 2007.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/stalin-hits-out-at-bjp-amit-shah-for-slander-campaign-against-dmk/articleshow/79417716.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Nagpur||Marathas will teach MVA a lesson in MLC polls: Darekar||Nagpur: Pravin Darekar, leader of opposition in the legislative council, slammed the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government for denying reservation to Marathas and added that the community would teach it a lesson in the polls for the five legislative council seats.Darekar was in the city to campaign for Sandip Joshi, the BJP candidate for the Nagpur graduate constituency’s polls. He later visited Reshimbagh to meet RSS leaders.“The government has decided not to provide reservation to Marathas in education. BJP had granted reservation but this government messed up the whole thing. Many times lawyers representing the government were not present in the court during hearing on the Maratha reservation issue. Now, it is trying to create a rift between Marathas and the OBCs,” said the BJP MLC.The BJP leader said that welfare schemes initiated by the previous governments had been stalled by the present one. “People are extremely upset with this government and the MLC polls’ result will reflect that. It would be the trailer for things to come,” he further said.Darekar claimed that NCP is the biggest beneficiary of the MVA government while Congress is being given second grade treatment. “Congress is part of this unequal government just to remain in power. Its leaders are given no importance but they remain mute because they want to remain in the government,” he added.On Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut claiming to have a list of 100 corrupt BJP leaders, Darekar said that he should submit it immediately to the Enforcement Directorate (ED). “ED is an independent agency and it does not work at the behest of the BJP. Raut should provide them the information soon. We are not afraid of any inquiry,” said Darekar. He claimed that ED must be having concrete evidence and that is why it raided Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik’s properties.Darekar said that Joshi would win by a record margin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/marathas-will-teach-mva-a-lesson-in-mlc-polls-darekar/articleshow/79416664.cms||Ashish Roy
November 26, 2020||India||Medical colleges to resume physical classes before Dec 1||NEW DELHI: Medical colleges may reopen and resume physical classes for MBBS students on or before December 1, whereas the new academic session 2020-21 is likely to have a delayed start from February 1, and the new PG session will begin from July 1, 2021, as per recommendations of new medical education regulator National Medical Commission. Delaying a further re-opening of medical colleges could result in 80,000 fewer doctors after five years, official estimates show and based on the NMC’s suggestions, the health ministry has written to states and UTs stressing the need to resume classes at the same time across India in the interest of “standardisation” and in the best interest of medical education. The PG-NEET exam would need to be scheduled around March-April 2021, NMC has suggested underlining that unless the current batch of interns complete their required clinical training, they would not be eligible to appear for the test. “Further, the NMC has advised that sufficient number of non-Covid beds may be made available in medical college hospitals to facilitate undergraduate medical training. The ministry has also obtained concurrence from the ministry of home affairs for reopening medical colleges in states and UTs,” health secretary Rajesh Bhushan wrote in a letter to state chief secretaries. Medical colleges have been shut since the lockdown was announced in March. Though online classes for medical students started when colleges were allowed to teach virtually, the new medical education regulator has raised concerns that if classes are not resumed, it will be a missed opportunity for medical students to learn about epidemic management. Besides, delaying the classes any further could impact availability of doctors. “The students today (would-be doctors tomorrow) should also be familiar with the inherent threats and opportunities in healthcare system which they would eventually handle themselves. It should not become a missed opportunity for medical students to learn the skills of epidemic management as a public health professional,” the NMC said in a letter to the health secretary urging the Centre to issue directions to state governments to reopen medical colleges. “Accordingly, the states and UTs may take necessary steps to open the medical colleges on or before December 1, 2020,” the health secretary said in his letter. “Needless to say, all SOPs/guidelines with respect to social distancing and prevention of spread of epidemic issued by Central/states and UT governments will be followed scrupulously by all the colleges,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/medical-colleges-to-resume-physical-classes-before-dec-1/articleshow/79418824.cms||Sushmi Dey
November 26, 2020||Meerut||Meerut: Three make extortion call to firm, two arrested||MEERUT: Two youths were on Wednesday arrested in UP’s Meerut district for allegedly making extortion calls to a private construction firm involved in building Delhi-Meerut Expressway (DME). The main accused, police said, was demanding Rs 5lakh from the company to contest the upcoming district panchayat polls. The accused threatened to stall the construction work if the money was not paid. The company, which was given the work project by National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), then approached police with a complaint. Meerut Police filed an FIR on Wednesday morning and arrested two of the three accused. According to the complainant, Satya Prakash Nigam, project manager of construction firm GR Infra, “These people were threatening to stop our trucks and machinery, knowing well that we are working round the clock to complete the project by the given deadline of December 25. They demanded money in lieu of unhindered work. So we informed the senior officials in NHAI and our company who advised us to approach the police and file a complaint.” Additional superintendent of police Krishan Bishnoi said, “We got the first complaint of the threat call about 25 days ago. Then the accused again called up the company a few days ago. It was then that the company representative filed a police complaint. We have booked three persons, Ankur Vikal, Pintu Singh and Amit Kumar under IPC section 386 (extortion by putting a person in fear of death or grievous hurt) and 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions). As of now Ankur and Pintu have been arrested and raids are being conducted on the possible hideouts of the third. They were demanding Rs 5lakh as one of them wanted to fight local panchayat elections.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/3-youths-make-extortion-call-to-firm-building-delhi-meerut-expressway-2-arrested/articleshow/79413435.cms||Sandeep Rai
November 26, 2020||Meerut||Upper Ganga canal accident: No trace of two Delhi youths after two days of search||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Divers and police teams failed to trace the bodies of two Delhi youths who drowned Tuesday morning after their car fell into the Upper Ganga canal near Purkazi, Muzaffarnagar. The car with four occupants from the national capital-- all friends in their early 20s -- rolled into the canal after veering off the course due to a suspected tyre burst. The friends, two men and as many women, were returning from Rishikesh after celebrating a birthday party. Soon after the accident a woman was pulled out dead while two men were washed away. The fourth occupant of the car, a woman, was the lone survivor as she was taken out alive by divers from the freezing water of the canal, called “killer stream” in common parlance. The search for the two men was called off on Tuesday night. It resumed on Wednesday morning with the family members of both the youths standing near the spot. But there was no trace of the bodies till late in the evening, police said. “After two days of search, there was no trace of Nikhil Kumar and Praveen, residents of Fatehpur Beri and Safdarjung respectively,” said SHO of Purkazi police station, Jitendra Yadav. The family members of Nikhil and Parveen spent the entire day near the accident spot. But, by Wednesday evening, all their hopes dashed and they returned to Delhi. Nikhil’s mother, Vinni Devi, also came back, distraught and exhausted. “On November 18, my son had left home for Rishikesh to celebrate his 22nd birthday which falls on November 20. Nikhil said that he was going with his three friends. I had insisted against it but he didn’t listen,” she said. Nikhil’s father passed away a few years ago. He is survived by mother, elder brother and two sisters. Among the women, Arti, a resident of Hauz Khas, was declared dead at hospital. Priya, who lives in Malviya Nagar, survived. She was taken back to Delhi after her condition improved, police said. One of the deadliest stretches of Uttar Pradesh, the Upper Ganga canal road connecting Ghaziabad to Haridwar is often called “killer bypass”. Motorists use it to escape the rush of NH-58. But, due to its “flawed design” and low embankments, scores of people are killed after falling into the 16-metre deep canal running adjacent to the 111-km stretch. According to a rough estimate, about 40 people have died on the stretch since 2018. To give motorists a safe shortcut, the state government recently gave nod to Rs 628crore project to construct a two-lane highway which will run parallel to the canal road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/upper-ganga-canal-accident-no-trace-of-2-delhi-youths-after-two-days-of-search/articleshow/79413437.cms||Mohd Dilshad
November 26, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Global study tempers plasma hope||NEW DELHI: Plasma therapy does not offer mortality benefit in Covid-19 patients, claims a study published in New England Journal of Medicine (NEJM), one of the world’s top-rated medical journals. The study involved 333 patients, 228 of whom received the experimental therapy. The researchers from Argentina, where the study was conducted, found that after a month of treatment, there was no significant difference in clinical outcomes between the two groups. Overall mortality was 10.96% in the convalescent plasma group and 11.43% in the placebo group. Adverse events and serious adverse events were also similar, it reveals. Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) recently completed its trial to assess the benefits of the convalescent plasma therapy involving 464 Covid-19 patients admitted to 39 tertiary care hospitals across the country. The top health research body has also stated that the experimental therapy did not reduce death risk in patients. “Mortality was documented in 34 (13.6%) and 31 (14.6%) participants in intervention (those who received plasma therapy) and control arm (those who didn’t), respectively,” 28 days after enrolment, ICMR stated in a paper published in MedRXIV, a preprint service for the medicine and health sciences, in September. Referring to the ICMR study, many doctors have said the poor outcome could be due to low levels of neutralising antibodies in some donors. But in the NEJM study, authors say, they ensured that more than 95% of the transfused convalescent plasma units had a total anti-SARS-CoV-2 antibody titer of at least 1:800 and that the plasma volume infused had a correction factor according to the participant’s weight. “This finding is in contrast to the findings of a series of non-randomised studies claiming convalescent plasma to be of substantial benefit and illustrates the importance of randomised, controlled trials, especially in the context of a pandemic,” they added. “Many hospitals in Delhi are advising plasma therapy indiscriminately. This must stop. Families are unnecessarily put under pressure to arrange for donors,” said a public health activist. Delhi has two plasma banks and several big private and public hospitals offer the therapy for Covid-19 patients. Recently, ICMR issued a standard operating procedure for plasma therapy and advised states to desist from its indiscriminate use. It advised that the potential recipient should be in the early stage of Covid-19 and the therapy should be administered within three-seven days from onset of symptoms and not later than 10 days. It noted that a potential donor should be in the age group of 18-65 years who after 14 days of symptom resolution can donate plasma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/global-study-tempers-plasma-hope/articleshow/79416683.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
November 26, 2020||Bareilly||Minor boy among three killed in separate road accidents; 4 injured||PILIBHIT: Three people, including a 13-year-old boy, were killed and four others sustained injuries in separate road accidents in Pilibhit district in the past 24 hours. Police said they sent the bodies for autopsy and shifted the injured to community health centres. FIRs have been registered in two cases. In the first accident, 23-year-old Jitendra Yadav of Bakhtawar Lal locality in Bisalpur city died after an unidentified vehicle hit the motorcycle he was riding on Bhind-Lipulekh highway near Barah Patthar temple around 9.30 pm on Tuesday on his way to a wedding ceremony. Bisalpur kotwali SHO Sunil Kumar Sharma said, “Family members suspect it to be a murder, which can only be made clear by the autopsy report, based on which an FIR will be registered.” Meanwhile, 13-year-old Harshit who was on way to his native village Nizampur under Puranpur kotwali from Simaria Talluke Mahrajpur village on a bike, along with his uncle Mukesh Kumar, mother Reena, and 10-year old-sister Jyoti, was killed on the spot near Rampura village on Puranpur-Banda road after the bike was hit by an uncontrolled truck around 11.30 am on Wednesday, while others sustained serious injuries. SHO SK Singh said the injured were shifted to Puranpur CHC. The third accident took place near Piparia Sanjanpur village under Deuria police station around 9.15 am on Wednesday, killing 30-year-old Anita Devi of Nand village on the spot after a tractor-trolley hit the bike she was riding on along with her husband Swami Saran, who was injured in the accident. SHO Mani Ram said the injured was shifted to Bilsanda CHC and the tractor-trolley was impounded, while the driver fled. FIRs have been registered in two cases under sections 304 A (causing death by negligence), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 279 (rash driving on a public way) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees or over) of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/minor-boy-among-three-killed-in-separate-road-accidents-4-injured/articleshow/79413439.cms||Keshav Agarwal
November 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 45-year-old RML doctor loses fight with Covid||NEW DELHI: A senior doctor of Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) hospital in New Delhi died from Covid-19 on Wednesday. Dr Srimanta Sahu, a professor of medicine at the hospital, was diagnosed with the viral infection about two weeks ago and, sources said, he developed severe complications after which he had to be put on ventilator support. “Dr Sahu passed away at 10am on Wednesday, despite our best efforts,” a doctor at Manipal hospital, Dwarka, where he was admitted, said. RML hospital has organised a condolence meeting on Thursday to pay respects to the departed soul. “It is very unfortunate. We are shocked to hear about Dr Sahu’s sudden demise,” one of his colleagues said. Sources said the 45-year-old doctor was recovering well till about a week ago when he suffered from intracranial bleeding or bleeding in the brain. “He was put on a ventilator and then on extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO). But we still couldn’t save him,” one of his treating doctors said. In the last nine months, since the Covid-19 outbreak, nearly 650 doctors have succumbed to the disease across the country. According to Dr Vinay Aggarwal, member of the Indian Medical Association, around 30 doctors have died in Delhi due to Covid-19. This includes a 28-year-old junior resident doctor with a Delhi government hospital and Dr Aseem Gupta, an anaesthesia specialist at Lok Nayak hospital. Several other healthcare workers, including nurses, technicians and other staff members, have also succumbed to the disease. “The risk of contracting infection is not our biggest worry. We have chosen to be in this profession and endure the challenges that come with it. But you must understand that our families are at equally high risk to get infected. That worries us the most,” a senior resident doctor at Safdarjung Hospital said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/45-yr-old-rml-doctor-loses-fight-with-covid/articleshow/79416688.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||25k bank workers to join nationwide strike||Ahmedabad: Some 25,000 bank employees from across Gujarat are set to join the nationwide strike by All India Bank Employees’ Association (AIBEA) on Thursday. Most public-sector bank employees except those of State Bank of India (SBI) will be participating in the strike in addition to a few private sector bank employees. This means all the clerical level banking staffers will be off duty and therefore, transactions including cheque clearances, issuing of letters of credit as well as deposits and withdrawal are expected to take a hit. Estimates by Maha Gujarat bank Employees’ Association (MGBEA) suggest that transactions to the tune of Rs 10,000 crore are expected to get impacted, thanks to the closure of operations in public sector banks except for SBI. A few small private banks are also joining the strike. Bankers are protesting government policies that made way for merger of public sector banks and led to the closure of several branches, causing a steep reduction in job opportunities. Moreover, recruitments in the banking sector is also shrinking, allege bankers. “Attempts are nakedly afoot to outsource all our jobs. Here and there they started outsourcing security staff and housekeeping staff, slowly started employing Bank Mitras and business correspondents to undertake normal banking services, and now, they are starting doorstep banking by employing private agencies,” reads a statement issued by MGBEA. Bank employees have sought to stop privatization of public sector including the financial sector and stop corporatization of government-run manufacturing and service entities like railways, ordinance factories and ports, among others. Furthermore, they have also sought to withdraw the circular on the alleged forced premature retirement of government & PSU employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/25k-bank-workers-to-join-nationwide-strike/articleshow/79397128.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Nagpur||With Gajraj in musth, Tadoba elephants given a new abode||Nagpur: Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve’s (TATR) 24-year-old Gajraj, which is in its musth and showed aggressive behaviour, has been shifted with its family to the wilderness from the usually bustling camp at Mohurli. Musth is a period in which male elephants become aggressive due to high testosterone levels. The Gajraj family includes Laxmi (22), Sushila (18), Vishwa (2) and six-month-old Bahubali. All got a new home in Botezari, a relocated village in the Kolsa range with meadows, grasslands and water bodies. Last year when Gajraj was in its musth, it had killed its caretaker Janikram Masram on November 17. Gajraj ran through the Mohurli village, creating a scare. The elephant did not allow anyone near the body for two hours and had to be tranquillized and chained after a six-hour operation. In October 2018, Gajraj, who was deployed to capture problem tigress Avni, had trampled a woman near Pandharkawda. “Though both the cases were mere accidents, our fears were mounting as the tusker, which is in its musth again, could have posed risks in Mohurli. Hence, as a precautionary step we shifted the entire family to the wilderness,” says TATR field director Jitendra Ramgaokar. The story of Gajraj’s happiness centres around Thane’s Anand Shinde, who runs the NGO Trunk Call — The Wildlife Foundation, and is the man who calmed down the aggressive tusker simply by humane behaviour. After last year’s tragedy, Shinde had been to Mohurli in January 2020 and observes Gajraj’s behaviour for a month. “It had tried to push me and the wildlife vet too. One of the reasons why the tusker was unhappy was that it was not getting to walk the required 20km a day.” With Gajraj's musth period nearing this November, Shinde was again summoned for the family’s shifting to Botezari. He said the elephant looked aggressive but was not that harmful. “I reached Mohurli on November 16, and took female elephants and babies for a walk as a part of the strategy,” says Shinde. A day before shifting, the forest team reviewed the path between Mohurli-Botezari from where the elephant family would move, take bath and mud bath, and where babies would have milk. “On November 19, we started at 6.30am and as planned, the elephants chose Andhari river to bathe and Ambeutar water body for a mud bath. The family enjoyed the forest and ate lots of bamboo and grass during the 18km walk,” says Shinde. While Shinde led from the front, field director Ramgaonkar, deputy director (core) Nandkishore Kale and ACF Ravindra Kulkarni were also among those who walked for six hours to reach Botezari at 12.30pm. On the secret behind calming down Gajraj, Shinde says, “Elephants are extremely intelligent, and they judge you by the throw of words. You have to be humane with them. The family seems to be settled in serene Botezari as it did not return in the last six days.” Kale said, “Botezari was the ideal choice as there is no village within 8km distance from the new campsite. In Mohurli there was a lot of movement of vehicles and human presence too, causing commotion. The mahouts will have to train the tuskers to show them the boundaries and restrict them from crossing that limit.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-gajraj-in-musth-tadoba-elephants-given-a-new-abode/articleshow/79415614.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
November 26, 2020||Bareilly||81 stolen mobile phones worth Rs 8.75 lakh seized in Kheri||BAREILLY: The cyber cell of Lakhimpur Kheri police has seized 81 stolen mobile phones worth Rs 8.75 lakh and returned the phones to their respective owners. Kheri SSP Vijay Dhull said every complaint of lost or stolen mobile phone was immediately forwarded to the surveillance team for tracking. “Since mobile phones are an important part of everyone’s life, all such cases are dealt with priority.” The SSP also announced a cash reward of Rs 5,000 for cyber cell in-charge Anil Kumar and his team in commendation to their "good work". Anjali Mishra, who received her lost phone after a year, said, “I was surprised after police informed me that my mobile phone was recovered. I am really happy to get my phone back. It is still in working condition.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/81-stolen-mobile-phones-worth-rs-8-75-lakh-seized-in-kheri/articleshow/79413487.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 26, 2020||Nagpur||16 trucks stopped from using Gowari flyover||Nagpur: The DCP (traffic) Sarang Awad caught 16 trucks that were trying to use the Gowari flyover in the last two days. Awad on November 23 stopped at least 10 trucks and imposed heavy penalty on the drivers. He also formed a special squad of Sitabuldi traffic zone to stop heavy vehicles. “The squad will work from 9pm to midnight,” he said. On Tuesday night, Awad was at Morris College T-point where he stopped six trucks from using the flyover. The special squad was missing from the spot but reached there later. Vidarbha Taxpayers Association (VTA) had drawn the attention of police commissioner Amitesh Kumar to the issue. VTA secretary Tejinder Singh Renu said that such heavy truck movement must be damaging the RCC structure which is not meant to handle such heavy traffic. VTA has requested authorities to order installation of height barriers on both ends of the flyover and regulate traffic. As per rule, heavy vehicles can ply on city’s roads only from 9pm to 6am while the timing for local heavy vehicles is 12 noon to 4pm. Awad has warned of strict action against the violators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/16-trucks-stopped-from-using-gowari-flyover/articleshow/79416687.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 74 hospitals linked to 19 Covid funeral sites||NEW DELHI: With the capital recording over 100 Covid deaths in the last five days, the public health department of North Delhi Municipal Corporation — the nodal agency for Covid-protocol funerals in Delhi — has issued a fresh order for funeral management, superseding its previous directives. A total of 74 hospitals have been linked to 19 Covid-designated funeral sites as per convenience and capacity, so that the overall operation is streamlined and relatives don’t have to face inordinate delays. Civic officials overseeing the management of funeral sites have been asked to ensure that a body is routed from a hospital to the attached cremation ground. A senior public health official said hospitals would send the hearse van, with the body wrapped in protective covering, only to the cremation or the burial site that has been assigned to it. “The body cannot be taken to any other site. Medical superintendents of Covid hospitals have also been asked to release bodies at a gap to avoid rush at cremation grounds,” the official explained. According to the fresh order, the Nigambodh Ghat facility will cater to LNJP, GB Pant, Hindu Rao, St Stephen’s, Aruna Asaf Ali and Sant Parmanand hospitals and Sushruta Trauma Centre. “The allocations of these sites have been planned according to the capacity of bigger funeral sites, the quantum of patient load of the hospitals and the distance between the two,” the official said. Smaller sites like the Wazirpur cremation ground, which has eight Covid-reserved platforms, has three hospitals linked to it — Max Shalimar, Deep Chand Bandhu Hospital and MD City Hospital. The seven sites under the north civic body will cater to 25 hospitals. After a dip, designated facilities are once again witnessing a hike with 140-150 bodies being received each day, said the civic official. For instance, on Sunday, 143 bodies were cremated, with the Punjabi Bagh facility getting 36 bodies, NigabBodh 30, Lodhi Road 18, Seemapuri 12 and the nine other sites two to nine bodies. South Delhi Municipal Corporation-run funeral sites, meanwhile, continue to bear the maximum load with Punjabi Bagh being the most utilised crematorium in the city. Under the new arrangement, the Punjabi Bagh site will cater to six big hospitals, including AIIMS, RML, Safdarjung, Pt Madan Mohan and Malviya Hospital. East Delhi Municipal Corporation’s three crematoria at Karkardooma, Seemapuri and Ghazipur will process bodies from five east Delhi hospitals. The order states that the Buland Masjid and Mulla Colony burial grounds will take “all Muslim bodies under EDMC jurisdiction, and from north DMC as per availability.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/74-hospitals-linked-to-19-covid-funeral-sites/articleshow/79416732.cms||Paras Singh
November 26, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Woman molested, robbed by duo on WR local at night||MUMBAI: A 22-year-old woman was molested and robbed by two men in the general compartment of a Western Railway local between Borivli and Kandivli stations close to midnight on Monday. Neither of the accused were previously acquainted with each other. In a separate case at Bhayander on Tuesday, a 25-year-old woman was molested near the ticket counter around 3.30pm. Police nabbed offenders in both cases. Times ViewThe rate at which crimes against women are being reported on local trains is alarming, particularly when services are operational only for a select few. Earlier, two women had been assaulted and robbed in separate instances on Western Railway locals. Police presence on platforms helped nab one culprit in the latest molestation. But the real issue is porous railway premises that allow offenders to slip in and out with ease.In the first case, the woman was travelling to her brother’s home in Kandivli. Around 11.45pm, she boarded a Churchgate-bound slow local from platform two at Borivli station. A male commuter was asleep on a seat of the general compartment. “Suddenly, a stranger boarded behind her and brandished a knife. The woman screamed for help and the commuter quickly woke up. He slapped the armed man and forced him to get off. He then assured the woman that he was like her brother and that she had nothing to fear,” said senior inspector Bhaskar Pawar, Borivli GRP. The commuter who was asleep was later identified as Rahim Shaikh alias Guddu. As the train was leaving the station, the armed man, Omprakash Dikshit, got back into the coach with Shaikh’s help. The woman was horrified as the two threatened her at knifepoint. Shaikh snatched her gold chain and cell phone. The duo also touched her inappropriately. Her ordeal lasted till the train pulled into Kandivli station. Shaikh jumped off and fled with her valuables. Dikshit too tried to escape but as the woman raised an alarm policemen patrolling the platform caught him. Dikshit was taken to Borivli GRP chowky, where his knife was seized, and a case of molestation and robbery was registered against him and Shaikh. Three teams of Borivli GRP and railway crime branch were formed to solve the case. They scrutinised surveillance footage from Kandivli. With leads from the footage, the teams combed through Kandivli and tracked down Shaikh. The valuables are yet to be recovered from him. “Shaikh has a criminal history. He had boarded the train at Malad and then slept off. Dikshit entered the same compartment at Borivli. They were not acquainted with each other but we suspect they teamed up on the spot. We also believe that they were under the influence of intoxicants,” detection officer Irfan Nadaf told TOI. In the second case at Bhayander, police said that Tejas Trivedi had put his hand on the woman’s shoulder and groped her. Trivedi, who lives on a footpath at Borivli, was arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/woman-molested-robbed-by-duo-on-wr-local-at-night/articleshow/79416787.cms||Nitasha Natu
November 26, 2020||Hyderabad||T witnesses 990 new cases,four fatalities||Hyderabad: The number of active cases in Telangana have been on a decline for a while now, and reached 10,886 coming down from 20,000 a month back, even as the stare recorded 993 new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday. Four deaths were reported as well, taking the total number of cases to 2,66,042. The death toll so far is 1,441 while a total of 2,53,715 patients have so far recovered from the virus. Case fatality rate in the state is at a constant at 0.54 percent while the recovery rate is now at 95 percent. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-witnesses-990-new-casesfour-fatalities/articleshow/79416754.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Amit Shah roadshow on Nov 29||Hyderabad: Union minister Amit Shah will take part in a roadshow in Secunderabad on November 29 on the last day of the campaign for GHMC polls. Other senior leaders of BJP will also canvass for party candidates. Addressing a press conference here on Wednesday, BJP OBC national president Dr Laxman said the national leaders are coming down to tell the voters how the BJP is serious about all-round development in Hyderabad. “The TRS did not give us time to expose its failures and announced elections in a short time. Following the state unit’s appeal, the national leaders are campaigning here,” he said. On Thursday, former Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis will release the party manifesto. On November 27, UP CM Yogi Adityanath will take part in campaigning and address a public meet. BJP national president JP Nadda will participate in a meet on November 28 and take part in a roadshow. Meanwhile, TRS working president KT Rama Rao tweeted that all Union ministers are welcome. “It would be good if they bring the aid sought for flood-hit people,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/amit-shah-roadshow-on-nov-29/articleshow/79416751.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Cyclone Nivar: GHMC gears up to face flood-like situation||Hyderabad: As the IMD predicts heavy rainfall for the city on November 26 and 27 in the wake of cyclone Nivar, the GHMC is gearing up to prevent a flood-like situation. After experiencing the wrath of the rains last month, the officials are making arrangements in the community halls to shift people from the low lying areas.  GHMC had also identified 157 waterlogging points, where there are chances of inundation. 101 static labour teams, 79 mobile monsoon teams, 87 mini-mobile monsoon teams and 16 disaster response teams are placed on high alert. “All our teams are placed on high alert and we have ensured that the machinery is fully operational. There is no need to panic yet as we may receive sporadic rainfall,” said Vishwajit Kampati, director of GHMC EVDM. “A plan has been put in place to tackle any eventuality. Focus is to ensure that water drains out into Musi seamlessly. Removal of silt and garbage in nalas is underway,” said GHMC zonal commissioner of Secnderabad, S Srinivas Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cyclone-nivar-ghmc-gears-up-to-face-flood-like-situation/articleshow/79416745.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Delhi||20 ICU ventilator beds added at Burari hospital||NEW DELHI: Delhi government on Wednesday added 20 ventilators to beds at its Burari Hospital, which will allow for full-fledged ICU treatment and said that another 30 ventilators will be added by Saturday, increasing the capacity to 50. Minister of health and family welfare Satyendar Jain also inaugurated a bio-medical and surgical waste management site at the hospital, which was opened four months ago. In a bid to reduce the mortality rate of Covid-19 cases, Delhi government has added 2,000 Covid beds and 1,300 ICU beds in the last fortnight. From total 16,172 Covid beds on November 9, the number was increased to 18,196 by Wednesday, while the number of ICU beds with ventilators has gone up from 1,264 to 1,412 during this period and that of ICU beds without ventilators from 2,044 to 3,200. The highest increase in ICU beds has been in Delhi government’s GTB hospital, where 232 ICU beds were added, followed by Lok Nayak hospital, where 200 ICU beds were added. “This augmentation in bed capacity was done under the constant supervision of the chief minister and as a result, there nearly 9,000 Covid beds and more than 1,000 ICU beds available for patients in Delhi’s hospitals at the moment,” an official said. “The biggest threat in the pandemic is that of death. The youth have higher levels of immunity, but the family back home, they are exposed to a greater threat,” Jain said at Burari hospital. “The spread can be curbed if both — the ones who are Covid-positive and the ones who are not — wear a mask. I urge everyone to wear a mask,” he said. “An interesting observation is that the lowest positivity rate is of the staff at Delhi’s Covid hospitals. Hopefully all shall be fine soon.” Jain said. He also commended the doctors and other healthcare staff at the Burari Hospital for taking care of 1,000 patients within just four months since the facility opened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/20-icu-ventilator-beds-added-at-burari-hosp/articleshow/79416756.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Hyderabad||21 students to contest from various wards in elections||Hyderabad: As many as 21 students will be contesting from various wards in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections, scheduled to be held on December 1. Of them, eight will be contesting as independent candidates. Among the rest, five have been fielded by the Indian National Congress, four by the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) party, two by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and one each selected to represent the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) and All India Forward Bloc (AIFB). “Youth and the educated are still reluctant to come into politics. There is a huge gap to bridge and I want to do my bit to reduce the gap,” said Perumalla Vyshnavi, who will be contesting from Sanath Nagar, adding that she is a first-generation politico from her family. Vyshnavi, who completed her BBA and took a year’s gap from pursuing her Masters degree because of Covid-19, said that she will also be campaigning to increase the overall poll percentage. “Only 50% are casting their votes in the elections. Unless they cast their vote, there won’t be any change in the overall outcome of the elections. To achieve this, I will dedicate the last day of campaigning to create awareness on voting and request people to come forward and vote for deserving candidates,” she added and said that if elected, she will start skill development programmes for youth. Like Vyshavi, Madhav Rao Bekkam, an MBA student, who is contesting from Gudimalkapur, said that his fight is against dynasty politics. “I want to create awareness among youth on politics and inspire others to contest in elections to put an end to family-driven politics,” said Rao, adding that unlike major political parties, independent candidates are struggling to get permission to organise rallies and other programmes. He said that his main agenda is to build two-bedroom houses for residents of Bojjagutta slum. Some of the candidates said that they are contesting as Independents as their family members are ignored by major political parties time and again. “My father is a senior karyakartha in TRS and has invested everything for the welfare and development of the party. Yet, the party gave the ticket to a new candidate. So, I have decided to contest as an Independent,” said Gundu Jyothsna, a student contesting from Boudha Nagar. A B Com graduate, Abhishek Chowgle, who appeared for ICET 2020 and is contesting on INC ticket from Ziaguda, said that he is contesting to stand by future generations. “All other candidates contesting from Ziaguda are non-locals. So, I have a slight edge over others as I am local and know every nook and corner of the area and will be available for the residents 24x7,” said Abhishek.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/21-students-to-contest-from-various-wards-in-elections/articleshow/79416740.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
November 26, 2020||Nagpur||Yavatmal doc restores shoulder of poor farmer||Yavatmal: Dr Nilesh Yelnare once again proved his commitment towards the poor by performing a challenging surgery on a 25-year-old farmer Ganesh Wasake of village Gawara on Monday. Wasake was suffering from a recurrent shoulder dislocation and couldn’t afford a costly surgery in a big city. At the behest of a relative, Wasake went to Dr Yelnare, who had just returned after completing an advanced course on ‘Shoulder and Knee Arthroscopy’ conducted by the Bangalore-based Ramaiya Institute for Advanced Training Centre. After examining Wasake, Dr Yelnare and his team decided to perform the surgery — ‘Anterior Glenoidal Labrum’. Wasake’s shoulder was reconstructed by using two 2.8mm anchors imported from the US. This was a first of a kind surgery in Yavatmal district, said Dr Yeknare, adding, the patient is now hale and hearty and will be discharged from the hospital soon. “I’m feeling much better. Dr Yelnare did not charge me any money for the surgery. He just asked me to get admitted,” said Wasake. He thanked Dr Yelnare and his dedicated team of doctors and nurses who worked hard to restore his shoulder. In September this year, Dr Yelnare had performed a tough surgery on another 25-year-old tile-layer Vaibhav Deshmukh of Pandharkawda tehsil who had damaged one of his knees in a road accident. The youth was given a new lease of life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/yavatmal-doc-restores-shoulder-of-poor-farmer/articleshow/79416767.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Two brothers held for double murder over business rivalry||NEW DELHI: Two men have been arrested for allegedly killing a scrap dealer and his son in northeast Delhi’s Nand Nagri on Monday in a fallout of an old rivalry over the business. The accused, who are brothers, have been identified as 31-year-old Khalid, a driver, and 30-year-old Tarik Ali. They are residents of Sunder Nagri. While Zulfikaar Qureshi (50), also a resident of Sunder Nagri, was shot in the head, his 20-year-old son, Jaabaz, was stabbed when he tried to save his father. The Nand Nagri police station received a call around 6.30am and took Jaabaz to SDN Hospital where he died during treatment. But before his death, Jaabaz gave police the names of the killers. His statement has been recorded in a video. Deputy commissioner of police (Northeast) Ved Prakash Surya said a case of murder was registered and it was found that Qureshi had a business dispute with Naasir and his brother Rasheed, who also run a scrap shop next to the victim’s. Both Tarik and Khalid were Rasheed’s sons, he added. The accused told police that the two shops were next to each other but Qureshi used to make false complaints against their scrap shop, prompting its closure for long periods. According to the duo, they had tried to resolve the issue with Qureshi a couple of times but he always used to abuse their family, police said. “Fed up with Qureshi’s attitude, they decided to kill him,” Surya said. Police claimed that both accused had confessed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2-brothers-held-for-double-murder-over-business-rivalry/articleshow/79416774.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Revanth warns voters against brute majority||Hyderabad: In a strategic move in view of the present situation of the Congress party, Malkajgiri MP A Revanth Reddy on Wednesday appealed voters not to give ‘brute majority’ to any of the political parties in the GHMC polls. According to sources, the TPCC working president is being practical in seeking 25 to 30 seats for the Congress so that there is a fair bit of opposition numbers in GHMC council to raise the concerns and problems being faced by the people. Addressing roadshows in Vinayak Nagar, Neredmet, Venkatapuram, Alwal, Suraram and other divisions, Revanth found fault with the BJP leaders for using the name of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “Why does the BJP want the mayor’s post if it has a PM in Modi. Let the BJP give a few thousand crores of rupees grants from the central government for development of Greater Hyderabad if they want to seek votes in the name of Modi,” he said. Revanth also met balladeer Gadar and sought his support for the Congress party candidates in GHMC elections. Revanth promised big development in Greater Hyderabad if the voters ensure victory of at least 30 candidates for the Congress. He also came down heavily on the ruling TRS for seeking votes after neglecting the people during the pandemic and the recent floods that inundated a large number of colonies and thousands of houses. “It is alleged that TRS functionaries pocketed a major chunk of financial aid given towards flood relief by the government. Now it is your chance to teach TRS a lesson,” Revanth said addressing gatherings at his roadshows.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/revanth-warns-voters-against-brute-majority/articleshow/79416778.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 26, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand activist, 13, in BBC’s top 100||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand-based teen environmental activist Riddhima Pandey has been included in the recently-released BBC list of “100 most influential and inspiring women across the globe who are leading change and making a difference during these turbulent times.” At 13, she is the youngest person to feature in the coveted list this year. Among the others from India on the list are anti-CAA protester Dadi Bilkis Bano, para-badminton champion Manasi Joshi, and singer Isaivani. Hailing from Halduchaur in Haldwani, Pandey currently lives in Haridwar with her parents — father Dinesh Pandey, a wildlife activist and mother Vinita, who works in the state forest department. A student of class IX, the young activist first shot to fame at the age of nine when she filed a petition against the Union government for “failing to implement the Environment Act properly” in the country. In 2017, she filed a plea in the National Green Tribunal asking the government to prepare a ‘Carbon Budget’ to limit carbon dioxide emissions and create a ‘national climate recovery plan’. Pandey was also among the 16 child petitioners, including Swedish activist Greta Thunberg, who petitioned the United Nations against five nations in 2019 for causing maximum pollution. According to the petition, these five countries were Argentina, Brazil, France, Germany and Turkey. When asked how environment issues became her focus so early on in life, Pandey told TOI, “The Kedarnath deluge of 2013 left a strong impression on my mind and that was when I decided to work for environment-related causes.” She added, “The fear of losing loved ones just because of human activities harming the environment is an unpardonable offence. We need to correct our mistakes and avert such catastrophes. The day human beings start living in sync with nature, the occurrence of natural disasters would reduce significantly. History has shown us that wherever humans have invaded, catastrophe has followed that place.” On her future plans, the teen activist said she wants to travel across India to spread the message of environment preservation. “Year 2020 will be remembered as one of the most testing and difficult years in human history as the Covid-19 outbreak has left humanity shaken. This will also be recalled as a year which taught human beings most about nature and the importance of its conservation. Next year, we shall have to propagate these lessons. Therefore, I will be visiting schools and colleges to talk to students about the importance of conserving the environment,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/13-yr-old-ukhand-activist-riddhima-pandey-in-bbcs-list-of-100-most-influential-women/articleshow/79414597.cms||Shivani Azad
November 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Independents struggle to reach out to voters||Hyderabad: While the campaign of candidates from the major political parties is at full throttle, most of 415 independent candidates are finding it tough to reach out to voters. Many independents blame it on the allocation of unattractive symbols, delay in securing vehicle permissions and busy printing presses not accepting their orders. With just four days for the polling day, the campaign of the independent candidates is going at a snail’s pace. Mallepally candidate, Pujari Nagamani complained that she did not get permission to use the vehicle. “Very few days are left, but so far I did not get vehicle permission. I am using an auto for campaigning,” Nagamani said. Software engineer Varudhini, who jumped into the fray, was upset after she did not get the preferred symbol. “As I am from the fishermen community I wanted fish as the symbol. But the moment I was allotted cylinder symbol I was terribly upset. This symbol is irrelevant to my community which is large in number in Musheerabad. I stopped campaigning after I got that symbol,” said Varudhini, who tried in vain for a Congress party ticket. Another independent, Haritha from Somajiguda was allotted air cooler as the symbol. “ I am expecting to get vehicle permission on Thursday. Till then I am reaching out to people through padayatra,” Haritha said. Kondapur independent candidate Durga Prasad got torchlight as a free symbol. “Though I am keen on contesting, I am not campaigning much as I don’t have enough manpower,” Prasad said. G Karuna, a social worker in fray from Gudimalkapur, got torchlight as the symbol. “I am yet to receive vehicle permission. I am conducting padayatras. I am seeking votes displaying torchlight,” said Karuna. One of the 13 independent candidates from Jagammet, V Surender got postal envelop as the symbol. He printed the symbol on a flex board and is conducting a door-to-door campaign. Unable to bear the daily expenses like printing pamphlets, many Independents are not campaigning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/independents-struggle-to-reach-out-to-voters/articleshow/79416761.cms||Sunil Mungara
November 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Bandi Sanjay is an outsider, BJP trying to disturb peace: Uttam||Hyderabad: State Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy on Wednesday termed the BJP state president an ‘outsider’ with lack of knowledge about Hyderabad and its history. “The Ganga-Jamuni Tehzeeb of Hyderabad stands for cultural and religious unity among the masses in this historic city. Bandi Sanjay lacks political maturity. His comments of surgical strike on Old City is an irresponsible statement. Sanjay was just a corporator of a local body in Karimnagar. Incidentally he got elected as MP. Such a communal and irresponsible statement from him has put BJP in a poor light. Sanjay’s statement has the potential to disturb the peace in this historic city,” Uttam said. He said that some ‘outsiders’ like Bandi Sanjay are trying to vitiate the atmosphere of Hyderabad through their communal speeches and appealed the voters to reject ‘communal parties like BJP and MIM’ and ‘corrupt parties like TRS’ and vote in favour of Congress candidates. “I am a born Hyderabadi. I was born in Charminar. I love my city and am proud of its rich history, culture, heritage, people, customs, religion, its cosmopolitan nature and every other aspect. People of this city have been living peacefully for over 400 years,” he said while addressing road shows in Kukatpally, Moosapet and Old Bowenpally divisions on Wednesday. Uttam said Rs 8 lakh would be given to the families who have a plot to construct a house and if they have a single bedroom house Rs 4 lakh will be given to construct an additional room. All those who were vacated from their slums to make way for construction of 2-BHK houses would be paid Rs 60,000 per annum towards the rent they are paying, until they get 2-BHK allotment,” he said. The TPCC chief appealed to the people not to fall prey to the tactics of BJP and MIM which are trying to create a communal divide or get lured by the false promises of TRS. A vote for the Congress is a vote for development and peaceful living, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bandi-sanjay-is-an-outsider-bjp-trying-to-disturb-peace-uttam/articleshow/79416790.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Cops invoke PD Act against peddler||Hyderabad: Prohibition and Excise department on Tuesday invoked PD Act against a ganja peddler.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-invoke-pd-act-against-peddler/articleshow/79416784.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 26, 2020||Dehradun||Remote Niti Valley near India-China border gets 4G connectivity||Dehradun: The remote Niti Valley in Chamoli district along the India-China border got connected with 4G mobile services on Wednesday. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat virtually inaugurated the 4G mobile services in the valley, which is among the remotest and one of the most isolated parts of Uttarakhand. The mobile service has been launched by Reliance Jio, which installed its mobile tower at Juma and Suki areas of Niti Valley, allowing locals for the first time to access high speed internet and mobile networks. While congratulating the people of border villages of Chamoli, CM Rawat said that this 4G mobile service will benefit the people of border areas of the state to a great extent, adding that this will enable villagers to take part in trade and online activities. The mobile towers of Jio located in Niti Valley will provide mobile connectivity to the villages of Juma, Jellam, Kaja, Garpat, Laung, Tamak, Bakransu, Phagati, Tolma, Surai, Suki Mallagaon, and Lata. The company said it will also install 10 mobile towers in the border areas of the district by December 15 and 25 more towers will be installed by March, 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/remote-niti-valley-near-india-china-border-gets-4g-connectivity/articleshow/79414623.cms||Gaurav Talwar
November 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Police, SHE team rescue 14-yr-old from marriage||Hyderabad: In Medipally, local police, along with SHE team averted a child marriage on Wednesday. Police said that victim, 14, was supposed to get married to a 21-year-old man. The marriage was fixed by her parents. The girl was rescued and she was sent to Sakhi center for protection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/police-she-team-rescue-14-yr-old-from-marriage/articleshow/79416793.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 26, 2020||Bhopal||Kamal Nath recalls his friendship of 43 yrs with Ahmed Patel||BHOPAL: Bereaved by the demise of his friend and senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel, PCC chief Kamal Nath on Wednesday wrote an article recalling memories of his 43- years of friendship with the departed leader. “My friendship with Ahmed Patel started from the time we were in the Youth Congress in 1977-78,” Nath recollected. He said that Patel was a simple and humble man. “He started his political journey from the grassroots and reached the top. He held many important positions and presently was the Congress treasurer and Rajya Sabha MP. We supported each other during times of crisis and difficulty. The doors of our houses were always open for one another 24x7,” Nath wrote. Nath said that he, along with Patel, was in the delegation sent by Congress to the Kargil war zone. The visit was memorable and interesting. “Many a times when I got excited or angry, he advised me to keep calm. He was a strong pillar in the Congress party. He solved major problems without difficulty with his political acumen; even opponents praised his political competence,” Nath wrote. Nath recalled that Patel worked mostly behind the scenes and kept a low profile. “He devoted his entire life to the party and his dedication and sense of duty were simply unmatched”, he added. Nath said that Patel was the Parliamentary secretary to former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi. He also faithfully discharged his role as political adviser to AICC president Sonia Gandhi. Nath said Patel made a special contribution in his political life as well. “He played a role, sought consent and requested the national leadership to send me from the Centre to Madhya Pradesh to strengthen the party here,” he said. Nath said that Patel had been unwell for the last few days. “It is unbelievable that he lost the battle of life so soon after being infected with coronavirus,” he wrote. “His death is a personal loss for me and will leave an irreparable void in the Congress party. On receiving the sad news of his demise, I immediately rushed to Delhi to be with his family and well-wishers. I will attend his funeral at Bharuch in Gujarat, his ancestral place. I will always miss him,” he wrote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/nath-recalls-his-friendship-of-43-yrs-with-ahmed-patel/articleshow/79416792.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Bhopal||Government to help Kashmiri pandits in MP to get back land: Narottam Mishra||BHOPAL: The Madhya Pradesh government has extended help to Kashmiri pandits residing in the state, who were displaced during insurgency and lost their properties to land- grabbers under the Roshni Act also known as the J&K State Lands (Vesting of Ownership to the Occupants) Act, 2001, enacted by the government of Jammu and Kashmir in the year 2001. Home minister Narottam Mishra said that all Kashmiri pandits in-exile should apply to the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) for their justified rights and the state government will assist them. “All those who are in-exile in MP since the time of insurgency, I would pray that if someone has also grabbed their land under the Roshni Act, then they should apply to the home ministry with detailed information. We will request the Centre that they get justice,” Mishra told the media on Wednesday. He further said that some people supported terrorism and spread darkness in Kashmir in the name of roshni (light). “This is a gloom spread by Congress. Some people supported terrorism and connived to spread darkness in Kashmir in the name of roshni. It (Kashmir) was called heaven but they made a nefarious attempt to turn it into hell,” he said. The Roshni Act was enacted by the J&K government in 2001. The main aim of the act was to earn a significant amount of money, which was over Rs25,000 crore, by commissioning hydroelectric power projects in the state.  Earlier in the year 2009, the state assembly unanimously passed an unofficial resolution urging the Central government to ensure that all Kashmiri pandits who were displaced due to insurgency be given all assistance and security so that they can return to their homeland. The resolution was moved by the then state minister Umashankar Gupta of BJP, who had stated that a large number of Kashmiri pandits were forced to live in Bhopal, Indore, Gwalior and Jabalpur after they were displaced from their own land due to the growing insurgency. Congress, however, dubbed the government’s demand as a political gimmick. “The BJP government has remembered Kashmiri pandits after 30 years. The party is spreading confusion and presenting old schemes in the guise of new plans. People are well aware of BJP’s fake promises,” said Congress state spokesperson Bhupendra Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/govt-to-help-kashmiri-pandits-in-mp-to-get-back-land-mishra/articleshow/79416802.cms||Rajendra Sharma
November 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Explain steps taken to protect privacy in Dharani: HC to govt||Hyderabad: Appreciating the state government for introducing Dharani land portal, Telangana high court, however, said it still has certain doubts about data security of people and element of compulsion involved in the process. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy said this while hearing two PILs. “You (government) are compelling people to upload the details of their properties into Dharani and warning them that they cannot deal with these properties if they are not entered into Dharani. What happens to the properties that were not uploaded into Dharani? Will their owners be disabled from selling them?” the judges sought to know. Wanting to know further on its implementation, the judges said: “Will the title of such properties flow to the next of the kin if the owner dies without uploading? If the state government denies the owners the right to deal with such properties, will it not be a violation of Article 300-A of the Constitution that guarantees the right to possess property?” They also asked if the government would provide security to the massive data on Dharani. The judges, however, said they were feeling happy about the effort to digitise all the details of owners of various agricultural and non-agricultural properties in the state. Advocate general BS Prasad said the purpose was to integrate registration, mutation, etc, of the properties and digital transformation of property records lying with local bodies. In rural areas, there are 60 lakh agricultural properties and details of 97.58% of them had already been uploaded into Dharani. “People have realised the importance of the scheme and hence are welcoming Dharani,” the AG said. The CJ, however, referred to GHMC area which 16.32 lakh non-agricultural properties but only three lakh people got their details uploaded into Dharani. The AG explained that this was due to the stay imposed by the high court and urged it to vacate it. He assured the court that there were enough safeguards in the scheme. Revenue department is in-charge of data on Dharani, he said. The state’s technological services wing is assisting the revenue authorities to maintain and protect the data, the state counsel explained, adding that asking people to give their data while registering their documents is nothing new. The judges posted the case to December 3 and said the stay order issued earlier would continue till then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/explain-steps-taken-to-protect-privacy-in-dharani-hc-to-govt/articleshow/79416808.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Kochi||Johns K Mangalam, addict-turned-anti-liquor activist, passes away in Kochi||THRISSUR: Former lecturer of Sree Kerala Varma College Johns K Mangalam, who fought a spirited battle against alcoholism by setting up the Punarjani De-addiction & Rehabilitation Centre, died at a private hospital in Kochi on Wednesday. He was 58. Himself addicted to alcohol, Mangalam led an anarchist life in his early years. It is said that he started drinking alcohol when he was in Class IX. He continued his bohemian lifestyle romancing with liquor for several years, though with brief interludes of abstinence. The de-addiction centre, which was set up by Mangalam in his village Poomala after he stopped drinking, helped many to come out of the clutches of addiction. Fondly called Johnson within his friend circles, Mangalam wore many hats in his lifetime. He worked as a headload worker in the early years of his life, but later completed his education with flying colours. He secured first rank in BA and MA (philosophy) and subsequently, took LLB from Government Law College, Ernakulam and was awarded a PhD from Calicut University. Later, he was appointed as a lecturer at Sree Kerala Varma College. Gandhian and activist-writer K Aravindakshan recalled that Mangalam had a remarkable determination to ‘reinvent’ and ‘reshape’ his life. “He used to say that you can stop drinking if you make a decision. You don’t need any medicines for it. I had gone to several de-addiction centres for treatment. Finally, I was able to give up drinking after I made up my mind. Johnson used the method of self-reflection for weaning people off drinks. There were successes as well failures,’’ Aravindakshan said. Echoing similar views, activist Anto C C, recalled that after drinking continuously for months, on a fine day, when exams are near, Johnson would suddenly shut himself in the hostel room and get completely engrossed in his studies. Writer Prof P N Prakash, who assisted in the translation of Johnson’s popular book ‘Kudiyante Kumbasaram’ (Confessions of a Drunkard), said it was the love and care of his mother and wife that helped him give up alchohol. Mangalam was under treatment for liver cirrhosis for quite some and breathed his last when plans for a liver transplant were in final phase. “His spiritual resolution helped him to conquer the addiction, but his body seems to have succumbed to the scars left behind by the long association with liquor,” said Aravindakshan who is also actively involved in palliative care activites Mangalam leaves behind wife Raji George and son Suraj Johnson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/johns-addict-turned-anti-liquor-activist-passes-away/articleshow/79410975.cms||T Ramavarman
November 26, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Thiruvananthapuram: Pinarayi Vijayan’s additional private secretary hospitalised||THIRUVANATHAPURAM: C M Raveendran, additional private secretary to CM, was admitted to Government Medical College hospital, Thiruvananthapuram, on Wednesday evening. Raveendran was under treatment at the same hospital for Covid-19 and was discharged last week after testing negative. It is learnt that he complained of post-Covid-19 fatigue and was admitted for further check up. Earlier in the day, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) probing the money laundering angle in the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case summoned Raveendran for interrogation on Friday. Though he was summoned for questioning in the first week of November, he couldn’t appear before the agency as he had tested positive for Covid-19. According to sources, the ED served the notice after coming to know that Raveendran has fully recovered and that he has completed the quarantine period. Earlier, ED had received a statement from Swapna Suresh that Raveendran used to contact her occasionally for visa stamping and certificate attestation. ED has earlier sought details of major projects of the state government from the IT secretary. The move was in connection with the suspicion that some government officials received kickbacks for the projects. The ethics committee of the state legislative assembly had sought an explanation from the agency about its probe into the state government projects. ED is yet to receive the details it had sought from the government. The agency had also said in a remand report that former principal secretary M Sivasankar and his team in the chief minister’s office knew about the gold smuggling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cms-addl-private-secy-hospitalised/articleshow/79411810.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC polls: Saffron party putting up tough fight, stakes high in BJP bastions||HYDERABAD: The BJP is giving a tough fight to TRS in divisions that fall in constituencies held by BJP MLAs. LB Nagar, Musheerabad, Uppal, Goshamahal, Himayatnagar and Amberpet are the six key areas witnessing a tough contest between the BJP and TRS. Former MLA of the saffron party from Uppal NVSS Prabhakar said, “In Uppal, we have a clear swing in our favour. Development of the areas has been grossly neglected by the TRS government. There is no clean governance and corruption is a big issue. Mission Kakatiya has not been implemented in Hyderabad. Had the lakes of Hyderabad been restored, these many colonies would not have been flooded.” The BJP is trying to highlight the alleged nexus between the TRS, Congress and AIMIM. “MLAs and corporators from Congress defected to the TRS last time after elections. This would happen again and again. Any vote given to Congress is vote to TRS. TRS acts to the tunes of MIM,” said Prabhakar. BJP leaders said that apart from the six constituencies, the BJP is giving a tough fight to the TRS in areas like Malakpet and Karwan in Old City. “Besides Telugu people, north Indians and linguistic minorities are also with us,” he said. Meanwhile, deputy speaker Padma Rao faced the ire of residents of Manikeswaranagar in Tarnaka division on Wednesday over pensions, 2-BHK houses and flood relief.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/saffron-party-putting-up-tough-fight-stakes-high-in-bjp-bastions/articleshow/79416805.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Polarisation a threat to brand image of Hyd: Cong||Hyderabad: Congress has shifted its poll campaign focus to ‘Brand Hyderabad’. The party is telling voters that Greater Hyderabad is home to people of all religions, regions and cultures but the statements by the BJP leaders to polarise voters on religious lines are threatening to damage the brand image of Hyderabad. Congress party members allege that while BJP and MIM are banking on communal politics, the TRS is trying to win the elections with money. They said Congress has given to the city landmark projects like international airport, ORR, PVNR expressway, Metro rail and institutes like BHEL, BDL, MIDHANI, IICT, CCMB. “Congress has the vision to further boost the brand image of Greater Hyderabad at the global level. The party’s manifesto for GHMC elections is its original strength as it covers every section of society and promises solutions to the problems being faced by the people,” AICC incharge of Telangana, Manickam Tagore said. Even the contesting candidates have been told to strike rapport with the voters in their door-to-door campaign and highlight the fact that the image of Hyderabad, built over the years, stands the threat of taking a beating if they give their vote to TRS, MIM or BJP as these three parties have a tacit understanding according to Congress. Tagore on Wednesday dared the BJP government at the Centre to order an inquiry into the allegations of corruption in irrigation and other projects by the TRS government. “The Union ministers of the BJP government keep accusing the TRS government of being corrupt. If the top BJP leaders and Union ministers are speaking truth, inquiries by the Income Tax Department, Enforcement Directorate (ED), Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) or other central agencies should be ordered,” he said. He pointed out that the silence of the Centre is a testimony to the tacit understanding between the BJP and the TRS. It’s like the “Dosti in Delhi, Kushti in Hyderabad between these two friendly parties,” he alleged. “Why do the BJP Union ministers, including Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy, confine their allegations of corruption against the TRS government only to their speeches, when they actually have the authority to order investigation into the corruption allegations?,” he asked. He appealed to the people to vote for Congress to ensure development of Greater Hyderabad and defeat communal, divisive and corrupt forces in BJP, MIM and TRS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/polarisation-a-threat-to-brand-image-of-hyd-cong/articleshow/79416796.cms||Roushan Ali
November 26, 2020||Hyderabad||200 health officials roped in for poll duty, 50% exempted||Hyderabad: Nearly 200 staffers of the state health departments will be on election duty during the GHMC elections while another 200-odd staffers have been exempted from the duties on request of the state health authorities. After the initial deputation, the state health authorities held several rounds of discussions and later sought exemption for key administrative staff from the state election commission in view of the pandemic. None of the doctors or technical staff engaged in collecting or testing samples are in the list. “The staffers who have been posted for polling duties were not engaged in any Covid-19 work and were mostly handling administrative and clerical work in key offices of the health department. They all are from the director of health and district medical and health offices. Infact, half the offices will be empty on the polling day due to the deputation. However, even though exemption was sought for all staffers, the request was turned down for many,” said a highly-placed source. Meanwhile, the state health authorities, after getting not to exempt 50% of the staffers, say that there will be no impact on the Covid-19 services as the staffers put on election duty are not directly on Covid-19 duties. “The nature of work is not continuous and it is a matter of two days at the most. The work required by the election commission will mostly be on the polling day,” said Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director of public health, Telangana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/200-health-officials-roped-in-for-poll-duty-50-exempted/articleshow/79416813.cms||Amrita Didyala
November 26, 2020||Dehradun||Will not approach Centre for clearance of denotification of Shivalik Elephant Reserve, says forest minister||Dehradun: Notwithstanding protests by environmentalists who have spoken out against the move to denotify the Shivalik Elephant Reserve, the only elephant reserve in Uttarakhand (the decision in this regard was taken in the state wildlife board’s meeting on Tuesday), forest minister Harak Singh Rawat said on Wednesday that the state government is neither planning to reconsider the decision nor will it approach the Centre, seeking permission to go ahead with the move. “There is no need to seek permission. The reserve’s notification was just an executive order by the state government and not an ordinance passed by the state assembly which needs to undergo legal steps. The chief minister will now simply withdraw the original order, that’s all,” Rawat said. However, legal experts that TOI spoke to, said that even though the area is not a legal entity yet, it comes under the category of reserve forest and therefore clearance has to be necessarily obtained from the Union environment ministry as well as the environmental committee of the Supreme Court. They added that the state had been getting funds under Project Elephant from the Centre and is therefore obliged to take the central government in the loop when taking such a step. "The action of the state board for wildlife is completely illegal and contrary to the provisions of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. The board cannot go beyond what is prescribed in the Wildlife Act. The only duty of the wildlife board is to protect wildlife. It has no power to denotify any protected area or an elephant reserve. By no stretch can denotification of an elephant reserve be regarded as 'protection of wildlife'. The state wildlife board has clearly acted beyond its statutory mandate." said Ritwick Dutta, who specialises in environmental litigation. Meanwhile, when queried whether the state government is searching for alternate land for Doon airport expansion as had been suggested by the Union environment ministry in its communication sent to the state forest department on October 9, the forest minister denied it outright. “The expansion of airport is for national security and it is not a local agenda. We have already discussed all the possible land options and come to the conclusion that nothing is as suitable and economically-viable as the present land. Also, there is not much wildlife in the proposed area which is why, we are planning to stick to the same area and not looking for any other piece of land.” The move to denotify the reserve in the meantime has evoked sharp reactions from several citizens, many of whom were participating in protest marches and had also announced a ‘Chipko-like movement’ to save the around 10,000 trees that would be cut if the proposed expansion of Doon airport goes through. Doon-based activist Reenu Paul said the move goes against all efforts being made in the country to save elephants. “India has proposed putting mainland Asian elephant in Appendix I of the United Nations Environment Programme’s Convention on the Conservation of Migratory Species of Wild Animals (CMS) at the ongoing 13th conference of Parties (CoP). The move was aimed at promoting the conservation of Asiatic elephants but here in Uttarakhand, we have clearly violated the aim by fragmenting and squeezing their habitat for infrastructure projects like airport and highways,” she said. In a similar vein, Doon-based youth group, Making a difference by Being the Difference (MADbyBTD), issued a statement soon after the state wildlife board meet that said, “The state machinery has completely failed to realise that it is the conservation of our environment and biodiversity that had made Uttarakhand so popular in the country and around the world. We will fight this decision tooth and nail on the street, in the forests as well as through all mechanics available in law.” Himanshu Arora of Citizens for Green Doon, another city-based NGO that had petitioned the NGT against the damage to the environment caused by the Centre’s all-weather Char Dham road project, said, “We have no other choice but to take legal action yet again in this matter. Many others are mulling a similar move. Together we will decide on the next course of action and challenge this decision.” A few activists also pointed fingers at the NGOs who represent civil society in the state wildlife board, questioning why they acted as ‘moot spectators’ and ‘did not express their dissent at the disastrous proposal’ during the meeting on Tuesday. “ I firmly believe that these organisations are also answerable to civil society,” said Reenu Paul. Of the three NGOs that are represented in the state wildlife board — only one, Titli Trust was present in the board’s meeting while the other two — HESCO and HARC — when queried said that they did not attend the meeting. The founder trustee of Titli Trust, Sanjay Sondhi told TOI, “ I did say that denotifying is a bad idea, I also reminded the authorities that the state was formed with huge forest cover but here, we are walking in a completely opposite direction by denotifying an elephant reserve.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/will-not-approach-centre-for-clearance-of-denotification-of-shivalik-elephant-reserve-says-forest-minister/articleshow/79414634.cms||Shivani Azad
November 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Sanjay launches ‘Basti Nidra’ at Nagole ward, interacts with slum-dwellers||Hyderabad: After BJP president Bandi Sanjay launched the ‘Basti Nidra’ programme, the saffron party’s candidates are identifying slums with less civic amenities to replicate their leader. As part of this unique programme, Sanjay had spent Tuesday night in a slum, made use of the civic amenities available at a small house before resuming his election campaign on Wednesday. “Our president interacted with the people of Nagole ward. In the evening, civic issues were discussed during dinner. He made note of the problems after interacting with locals. He also took stock of the political situation after meeting the party workers,” said CH Yadav, husband of Nagole BJP candidate Aruna Yadav. Dressed in a white kurta pajama, Sanjay visited a BJP workers’ house in Nagole and had dinner with the family late on Tuesday. Later, he retired for the day at the same house. “Sanjay anna looked quite comfortable during his stay. However, he was surprised at the lack of civic amenities in our ward,” said a BJP worker from Nagole division. Meanwhile, BJP aspirant from Banjara Hills, Baddam Mahipal, will participate in ‘basti nidra’ in NBT Nagar on Thursday. Kotta Kapu Aruna Reddy said that a list of slums have been shortlisted. “We have shortlisted three slums. We want to get a first-hand experience of living in slums. Only then can we do something useful for them,” said Aruna. On Wednesday, several BJP leaders visited slums to identify locations for ‘basti nidra’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sanjay-launches-basti-nidra-at-nagole-ward-interacts-with-slum-dwellers/articleshow/79416820.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 26, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand wildlife board approves contentious Laldhang-Chillarkhal road passing through buffer zone of Rajaji Tiger Reserve||Dehradun: Among the contentious proposals that received approval on Tuesday’s Uttarakhand State Board for Wildlife meeting, was one of the forest department’s, with ‘amendments to the riders’ imposed by NBWL on the construction of the 11.5 km-long Laldhang-Chillarkhal road. The state has been pushing it as it would substantially reduce travel time between Kumaon and Garhwal and environmentalists opposing it as the construction would cut through the lone corridor between Corbett and Rajaji tiger reserves. Controversy over the road spans over years. In June 2019, the Supreme Court put a stay on construction work on the road, calling the area “ecologically sensitive” and asking the state to secure an environmental clearance first. This year in April, the state managed to get a go-ahead from the National Board for Wildlife (NBWL) but the approval came with three riders from the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) - state should get forest clearance from the environment ministry, the length of the underpass should be 705m and the height 8m. In turn, the Uttarakhand forest department came up with a modified proposal in July to reduce the length of underpass for wild animals to 470m, at the rate of 100m per km instead of 705m as recommended by the NTCA, and reduce the height to 5m due to “geological conditions”. As for the environmental clearance, the state said there was no need. Under the Forest Conservation Act (FCA), forest clearance is not required for roads that existed before 1980, said the forest department, contending it was only modifying a ‘kuchcha’ road into a motorable one. In October, NBWL rejected the state’s plea, citing “high density of wildlife” in the area. It also said it would seek views of the Forest Conservation Division on the applicability of the Forest Conservation Act, 1980. Speaking to TOI on the matter on Wednesday, forest minister Harak Singh Rawat cited “feasibility”. “There are financial aspects to consider, apart from the fact that the Central authorities need to review the amendments and see if they will cause any actual damage. The way we are proposing the road would use barely Rs 11 crore, while the way it is being planned by the Central government would cost us anywhere up to Rs 80 crore. We have to keep feasibility in mind too! Besides, underpasses are being constructed at a height of 5m at reserves all over the country – why these restrictions for Uttarakhand alone?” Rawat said. Now that the state board has approved the proposal once again, it will be sent to NBWL again for clearance. Experts say the stretch where the amendements on the road is proposed is among the most sensitive areas in terms of wildlife, as it includes the 4.5km-long stretch from Chamaria Bend to Siggadi Sot, which is the sole wildlife corridor that connects Corbett Tiger Reserve to Rajaji Tiger Reserve. However, Rawat believes the state’s “all-new” approach should do the trick. “We believe that once we bring these facts before the authorities in a more effective manner, they will understand the legitimacy of our argument and concerns – which are absolutely in favour of Uttarakhand and its people,” Rawat told TOI. The road proposes to minimise travel time between Garhwal and Kumaon and is therefore being pushed by the state government as “a critical road for the people of the area.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-wildlife-board-approves-contentious-laldhang-chillarkhal-road-passing-through-buffer-zone-of-rajaji-tiger-reserve/articleshow/79414648.cms||Shivani Azad
November 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Rs 34 lakh found in inspector’s locker||Hyderabad: ACB sleuths opened the bank locker of Kamareddy inspector I Jagadish and seized Rs 34 4lakh cash, along with Rs 9 lakh with gold ornaments. In continuation of the investigation into the bribery case registered against inspector I Jagadish, ACB sleuths opened a locker at a bank’s Kanteswar Branch in Nizamabad on Wednesday. The locker is in the name of I Jagadish and ACB officials mentioned in an official statement that the inspector and his wife have been operating the locker. ACB team found Rs 34.4 lakh cash, 182.5 gram gold worth Rs 9.1 lakh, Rs 1,000 worth silver and property documents. Jagadish, along with his associate, was arrested for demanding Rs 5 lakh bribe from the accused in a cricket betting case and accepting part of the bribe from him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rs-34-lakh-found-in-inspectors-locker/articleshow/79416829.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Black magic strong motive for in-laws to get rid of Hyderabad techie Racharla Pawan Kumar||HYDERABAD: More shocking details have come out in the death case of Hyderabad techie Racharla Pawan Kumar, who was burnt alive by his in-laws’ family in Jagtial district. The family was so convinced about Pawan practising black magic and causing the death of his brother-in-law Jagan that they felt if he was not killed, they would also meet the same fate. This fear got more traction when Pawan’s wife Krishnaveni reportedly told them that when they were in Bengaluru, she had noticed Pawan looking at photographs of some babas (godmen). Pawan and Krishnaveni have two daughters aged nine and four. “We are also investigating about disputes Krishnaveni reportedly had with Pawan,” Malyala police CI Kishore told TOI on Wednesday. On November 23 soon after neighbours found 40-year-old Pawan’s charred body in his in-laws’ ashram house and alerted cops, Krishnaveni accused Jagan’s wife Sumalatha of having suspected Pawan of praticising black magic and holding Pawan responsible for Jagan’s death. Friction within the family began when Krishnaveni lost six tolas of gold at a wedding they had attended in Adilabad a few months ago. Pawan suspected that Jagan would have stolen the ornaments. Both had arguments about it over phone several times and Pawan had threatened to see his end, sources said. When cops got information from the neighbourhood that a man was burnt alive at Balwantpur village in Malyala mandal, Kishore rushed to the spot. Much to their surprise, cops found the family, including Krishnaveni, sitting in a room and making no attempts to douse the fire. The body was still burning when police arrived. A photograph of 36-year-old Jagan, who had died of a heart attack 12 days ago, was deliberately kept in a room in the ashram room so that Pawan could be trapped in it. During a preliminary investigation, police found that Krishnaveni had called her husband to find out if he was coming alone or accompanied by anyone else. Before he arrived, Krishnaveni’s elder brother Vijay Swamy, who established the Manjunatha ashram where the family stays, went out along with family friend Uppu Niranjan Reddy and got petrol. “They got 15 litres of petrol and poured it in two buckets and kept it ready even before Pawan had arrived in the village,” a police officer said. The two of them were caught on CCTV camera footage getting the fuel. As expected, Pawan went into the room where the photograph of Jagan had been kept to pay the last respects. The family members immediately bolted the door, police found in the investigation. They poured petrol on him through a window and also on the floor and set him on fire. “All this happened within 10-15 minutes of Pawan arriving at the ashram house around 6.30 pm,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/black-magic-strong-motive-for-in-laws-to-get-rid-of-pawan/articleshow/79416817.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Govt gets PM’s pat on Central scheme implementation in T||Hyderabad: Prime Minister Narendra Modi appreciated Telangana government for its performance in the implementation of Prime Minister Street Vendors Atmanirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi). Modi lauded the state government when he was informed by secretary, ministry of housing and urban affairs, Durga Shankar Mishra that Telangana had stood first in identification, disbursement and providing bank loans to street vendors. The PM held a video-conference with chief secretaries of various states on Wednesday on the progress achieved in rural housing, public grievance redressal, various infrastructure projects and PM SVANidhi. Telangana chief secretary Somesh Kumar participated in the meeting. Somesh said 5,88,099 street vendors were identified and of them 4,29,250 loan applications were uploaded, which comes to 72% of the total identified vendors in the state. He said of the 3,07,279 loans sanctioned, 1,76,628 loans were disbursed in the state. Somesh said a mobile application was developed with which all street vendors could be surveyed within three months. “There was 602.91% increase in the number of street vendors in the quick survey. The government has also tied up with digital payment aggregators like Phone Pe, Bharath Pe, Paytm, Airtel Payment Bank, Pay Swiff etc for generation of UPI IDs and issue of QR code to street vendors,” the CS said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-gets-pms-pat-on-central-scheme-implementation-in-t/articleshow/79416842.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 26, 2020||Bhopal||Over 1700 Covid cases reported in MP on fifth consecutive day||BHOPAL: Covid surge doesn’t seem to ebb, at least for now, in the state. More than 8500 new cases have been reported in the past five days and Wednesday was the fifth consecutive day when more than 1700 new positive cases were reported in the state. In all, 1773 new positive cases were reported on Wednesday, taking the tally of positive cases to 198284. Apart from the fresh cases, 14 deaths were also reported as per the state health bulletin, released by directorate of health services. Indore reported 5 deaths, 2 deaths were reported from Bhopal and Raisen districts and one death each was reported from Gwalior, Jabalpur, Sagar, Ujjain and Dewas districts. A total of 33011 samples were tested on Wednesday, out of which 1773 people were found positive. Thus the positivity rate—number of people testing positive out of every 100 samples tested—on Wednesday stood at 5.3%. The cumulative positivity rate in the state on November 25 was 5.51%. It is noteworthy that positivity rate above five per cent is considered high and a lot more tests are recommended if the positivity rate is above 5%. On Wednesday fresh cases were reported in all the 52 districts of the state; new cases were reported in double digits from 33 districts. The districts where maximum cases were reported includes Indore where 582 fresh cases were reported, Bhopal where 307 fresh cases were reported, Gwalior where 108 fresh cases were reported and Jabalpur where 66 new cases were reported. On the brighter side, 996 people who were admitted at hospitals recovered and were discharged from the hospitals. With these new patients recovering from the disease, the count of people who have recovered so far from the disease reached 181345. As on November 25, there were 13742 active cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/over-1700-covid-cases-reported-in-mp-on-fifth-consecutive-day/articleshow/79416833.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Dehradun||Mandatory Covid test for those coming to Doon from Delhi||DEHRADUN: With a spurt in the number of tourists from the national capital, which is facing yet another surge in Covid-19 caseload, the health department in Dehradun has decided to conduct mandatory tests of those arriving from Delhi. The tests will take place at the railway station and airport, apart from the Asharodi check post in Dehradun. Notably, as many as 29 people tested positive in around 1,000 random sampling done in the past week at the Doon border. Of these, 25 infected individuals were from Delhi- NCR. “It has been found that there has been extensive movement of people from Delhi to Uttarakhand, especially to Dehradun, in the past fortnight. The residents of the national capital are coming here mainly for short vacations and weddings. It is important to test them before they move to the hills or to other tourist places,” Dr RK Dixit, district surveillance officer, Dehradun, said on Wednesday. According to the health department official, the testing at the border is being conducted free of charge so far, but it may be made on a payment basis in the days to come. Haridwar chief medical officer (CMO) Dr SK Jha also said that random Covid sampling is being done in the city's border for those coming from Delhi, particularly those who will halt in Haridwar. “Initially, we are testing all those who reside in Haridwar or have come here to stay for a long time and are coming from Delhi. Those going elsewhere in the state are not being tested,” he added. Nainital, too, is mulling to start Covid testing at its border. Nainital CMO Dr Bhagirathi Joshi said that a final decision will be taken by the district administration. Meanwhile, several tourists from the Delhi-NCR region have started cancelling their plans to visit the state, hoteliers claimed, after learning about the decision to test people at the border. Sandeep Sahni of the Uttarakhand Hotel Association, said, “We are aware that this is a matter of safeguarding people's health, but the livelihood of many will suffer too. Not only have hotel bookings in Dehradun and Mussoorie drastically dropped in the past three days, even future enquiries have stopped. This will severely affect the tourism industry which is already passing through a difficult phase.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/mandatory-covid-test-for-those-coming-to-doon-from-delhi/articleshow/79414660.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Officials, civic groups go all out to boost poll percentage||Hyderabad: In a bid to increase the poll percentage, the state election commission (SEC) has appealed to the managements of public undertakings, commercial and industrial establishments located outside the city to permit their employees to leave their work place and cast their vote on December 1. Though not many voters of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) are working outside the city limits, the SEC’s appeal reflects its commitment to raise the voting numbers. The polling percentage in the last three elections to GHMC had been dismal with 46 per cent being the highest so far. Already, there is a talk in political circles that many voters may not turn up due to the prevailing Covid-19 situation. Moreover, as there are four holidays before the election day, experts fear that many may prefer a vacation to vote. State election commissioner C Partha Sarathi told TOI that they are writing to the heads of central public sector undertakings and heads of central government offices to permit employees to attend office late or leave the office early. The district collectors of Hyderabad, Ranga Reddy, Medchal-Malkajgiri and Sanga Reddy will declare a holiday in the GHMC limits falling under their respective jurisdictions. The labour commissioner has already declared a paid holiday in the GHMC limits on polling day for workers and employees of factories, shops, establishments and industrial undertakings. The SEC along with the GHMC has decided to rope in celebrities to appeal to the citizens, to exercise their franchise. Confederation of Voluntary Associations executive director Mazhar Hussain said their focus is to attract to inspire youth and professionals, as there is less voting percentage from these categories. Resident welfare associations too have planned to get people to vote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/officials-civic-groups-go-all-out-to-boost-poll-percentage/articleshow/79416878.cms||Roushan Ali
November 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Transfer ED case to CBI court: Telangana high court||HYDERABAD: Telangana high court on Wednesday directed the Hyderabad metropolitan sessions judge court to transfer the 2016 Enforcement Directorate (ED) case on Hetero and Aurobindo pharma companies in the quid pro quo case to the CBI principal special judge-cum-ED court in Hyderabad. Justice Shameem Akther gave this direction after hearing a plea filed by Jagathi Publications which sought the transfer on the grounds that all related cases were heard by CBI-cum-ED court. In another case filed by Bharati Cements opposing ED’s plea to conduct its trial first, Bharati Cements counsel Gyanendra Kumar said that a simultaneous probe would meet the ends of justice. “ED’s first approach would violate section 300(1) of CrPC which clearly prohibits a second trial in the same case,” he said. “You cannot try a person twice for the same offence. There should be a harmonious construction between Prevention of Money Laundering Act and CrPC,” he said. In the cash-for-vote case, MLA Sandra Venkata Veeraiah filed a petition challenging the ACB court decision not to discharge him from the case. The case was posted to Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/transfer-ed-case-to-cbi-court-hc/articleshow/79416868.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Two men die in head-on road collision at Shamshabad||Hyderabad: Two persons died when a bike crashed into another bike coming from opposite direction at Shamshabad on Tuesday night. The rider of the bike who died in the accident was under the influence of alcohol. The accident occurred at around 7pm near on ORR service road at Shamshabad. “A bike with temporary registration number, proceeding from Himayathsagar to Shamshabad, crashed into another bike coming from the opposite direction due to negligent riding of first bike’s rider Prashanth Reddy,” RGI Airport inspector P Vijay Kumar said. Prashant Reddy, 25, and the rider of the other bike, K Narasimha, 38, suffered severe injuries and died on the spot. “Prashant Reddy along with pillion riders, Mahender and Vamshi, had consumed liquor near Himayatsagar. Mahender also suffered injuries and his BAC reading was 56 mg/100 ml. Vamshi fled from the place. The man riding pillion on Narasimha’s bike also suffered injuries and he is undergoing treatment at a local hospital. Triple riding, riding without helmets, over-speeding and drunk driving are the reasons for the fatal accident,” the inspector said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-men-die-in-head-on-road-collision-at-shamshabad/articleshow/79416894.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: 30-yr-old arrested for rape and murder of widowed colleague||HYDERABAD: A 30-year-old man was arrested by Medchal police on Wednesday for allegedly killing a widow on November 12 and stealing her valuables. DCP (Balanagar Zone) PV Padmaja said that the victim was hanged to a tree by accused, who is her colleague in her workplace. On November 12, the accused took the victim to his friend on the pretext of consuming liquor together. Later, the accused sexually abused the victim. Subsequently, the accused’s friend dropped the accused and victim at Dabilpur railway gate. Meanwhile, the accused realized that the victim was drunk and he decided to take advantage of it. He took her to an isolated location, where he used her scarf and hanged her to a tree. After committing the murder, he took away her silver anklets. Initially, it was a blind case as the victim was an unknown. Later, based on the CCTV footage, the victim and accused were identified by police using the vehicle which was used by the accused’s friend to drop them near the railway gate. Both victim and accused are labourers. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/30-yr-old-arrested-for-rape-and-murder-of-widowed-colleague/articleshow/79416929.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Vijayanagar, Erragadda low & high of 2016 voting||Hyderabad: The lowest and the highest polling percentages were recorded in the wards of Vijayanagar colony and Erragadda with 33.98 per cent and 59.19 per cent respectively in the GHMC elections held in 2016. Interestingly, both the divisions (wards) were reserved for women from the Backward Classes community then and the quota continues even in 2020 GHMC elections. Incidentally, the wards are sitting seats of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM). A look at the profile of the two divisions revealed that educated people, upper middle class and neo-rich comprise over 50 per cent of voters in Vijayanagar colony. In Erragadda, 70 per cent of the electorate are from slums and lower middle class. Resident welfare associations in Vijayanagar colony ward are trying to hold meetings in colonies and apartments to improve the poll percentage. They have taken it up as a challenge to change the ward’s image for the better on the polling front. Both the BJP and MIM have deployed teams to exclusively campaign to bring large numbers of voters to polling booths. “There are several colonies including Shantinagar, gazette officers’ colony, Vijayanagar colony, P S Nagar colony which have over 20,000 voters. I had called a meeting of residents of Shantinagar the other day to plan the campaign for increasing polling percentage, but just 10 people turned up. We are still not losing hope. We are listing out problems and trying to get an undertaking from contesting candidates that they will solve these issues,” said P Ashwin Kumar, secretary of Shantinagar Club and Vijayanagara Colony welfare Association. Mohammed Anwar, a social worker in Erragadda said the voters in the ward are active and not only keep meeting the corporator, but also local leaders from all political parties with demands such as laying roads, clearing garbage and getting better water supply through tankers during summer. “Unlike other wards, the leaders here have to work as the locals are in regular touch with them and any slip up would result in the political leader or elected representative facing the music,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vijayanagar-erragadda-low-high-of-2016-voting/articleshow/79416918.cms||Roushan Ali
November 26, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: M Sivasankar sent to customs custody||KOCHI: Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate Court (Economic Offences) on Wednesday sent former principal secretary M Sivasankar in customs custody for five days in the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case. Even as the court observed that there was a need to investigate the modus operandi and how Sivasankar used his official power to abet the crime, improper submission of the custody application that fails to mention the reason for seeking the custody invited the court’s ire. The application also did not specify the profile of the accused, and the court asked if the customs were scared to mention it. The court also observed that the application does not disclose the reason for Swapna Suresh and Sarith PS choosing Sivasankar and the nature of his alleged nexus. ‘What prompted you to record his arrest in the eleventh hour?’ the court asked after observing that the affidavit was silent on the capacity in which the he had abetted the smuggling. “As stated earlier, the offence alleged is serious, since the smuggling through a diplomatic channel is unheard of. An intrinsic probe is required to find out all stakeholders of the deal,” the court observed. While cross-checking the extracted WhatsApp chats and other details from Sivasankar’s phone that was sent to C-DAC for analysis, the court noted that the investigating officer could conclude that Swapna had given a false statement purposefully exonerating Sivasankar. Court also noted the customs claim that the WhatsApp chats were sufficient to arrive at a prima facie conclusion on his role in the abetment. The court, meanwhile, pointed out that the application sought 10 days’ custody while the accompanying affidavit had only asked for five days. Counsel for customs told the court that this was a typographical error. Sivasankar’s counsel strongly opposed the 10 days’ custody, pointing out that he has been questioned multiple times and that they were not able to elicit any incriminating evidence, four months after the occurrence of the crime. The court has granted custody till 5 pm on November 30. Sleuths have been directed to give an hour’s break if interrogation continued for two hours and to avoid questioning in untimely hours, and to provide Ayurveda treatment if required. Swapna, Sarith in customs custodySwapna Suresh and Sarith PS have also been sent to customs custody till 5 pm of November 30. The case pertains to the duo assisting Khaled Mohamed Ali Shoukry, the former finance head of the UAE consulate in taking out 1,90,000/-US Dollar (Rs. 1.30 cr approx) to Cairo via Oman from Trivandrum International Airport. The duo had also accompanied Khaled till Oman and before travelling to Dubai. The customs told the court that Sivasankar was not an accused in this case. The court has directed to give Swapna reasonable intervals during questioning and to allow her to meet close relatives, subject to the convenience of the investigation officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/sivasankar-sent-to-customs-custody/articleshow/79411040.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Hackathons, poll holiday being used to get techies to cast vote in IT corridor||Hyderabad: Hackathons, appeals through text and video messages, conferences, social media campaigns, are some of the means being used to create awareness among techies to increase the voting percentage in the IT corridor. Hyderabad Software Enterprises Association (HYSEA) also said that its member companies have also decided to declare a holiday on polling day. “Following government orders we have decided to declare a holiday on December 1 for all except those handling critical operations. Even these employees will be given a few hours off so that they can exercise the franchise,” said Bharani Kumar Aroll, president, HYSEA adding 90% of seven lakh IT employees in the state are part of HYSEA member companies. Aroll said about 30% of IT employees returned to their hometown during the pandemic. “Most of these employees are not registered as voters here. So, I don’t think there will be a drastic decrease in voting percentage,” he added. Sundeep Kumar Makthala, global president, Telangana Information Technology Association (TITA), said that they are organising a week-long hackathon to create awareness among IT employees about polls. “In the virtual hackathon, IT employees were asked to solve political problems like online voting,” he added. A majority of techies reside in areas such as Gachibowli, Kondapur, Miyapur, Manikonda, Chandanagar, Serilingampally, Hafeezpet, Jubilee Hills, and parts of Kukatpally. In 2016, around 35% to 47% of voters exercised their franchise in the IT corridor. “We are sending out text and video messages to members asking them to vote. We will also be organizing a conference or meet-and-greet,” said C Vinod Kumar, general secretary, Forum for IT employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hackathons-poll-holiday-being-used-to-get-techies-to-cast-vote-in-it-corridor/articleshow/79416944.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
November 26, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Congress in Kerala mourns loss of a seasoned interlocutor||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Congress leader Ahmed Patel, who died on Wednesday, was a seasoned interlocutor who negotiated the group war between K Karunakaran and AK Antony in 90s and early 2000s. Patel was the trouble shooter whenever group war intensified within the Congress. He was instrumental in the change of guard in state Congress when Antony was made chief minister replacing Karunakaran in 1995. He played a crucial role in the change of guard from AK Antony to Oommen Chandy in 2004. He was too close to UDF constituents such as Kerala Congress and IUML always used to have direct dialogues with him during a crisis. Patel was in charge of party affairs in Kerala when Karunakaran decided to form a party after quitting Congress. ‘Aluminium Patel’, the title given by K Muraleedharan became famous during the split in 2011. “He was well aware of the politics here and had good contacts with social organizations. He was instrumental in keeping UDF together whenever there was difference in opinion,” said Chandy. When Antony quit as chief minister in 2004, AICC sent Patel to state with Pranab Mukherjee to find a replacement. During the then crisis, it was Patel who came to settle issues, Chandy recalled. He always tried to work for the party and never bargained for power or positions. He stayed away from limelight. When party faced crises in Delhi, senior leaders depended on him to sort them out. That was his ability and he was politically shrewd, said opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala. Right from the time of Indira Gandhi, he was a key figure in the party. He enjoyed close rapport with UDF leaders and his demise is a huge loss, said KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cong-in-state-mourns-loss-of-a-seasoned-interlocutor/articleshow/79411050.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Residents in the lurch over getting voters ID cards||HYDERABAD: With elections around the corner, a large number of residents are seen turning up at Mee Seva centres across Hyderabad, to get their voter IDs printed. “There was massive crowd at the centre, when I visited one on Wednesday afternoon. I did not expect to see so many people,” said Shipra Chandra a resident of Begumpet. Another voter, Krithika Rao said that the two centres she visited in Cyberabad were also flooded with people. But apart from battling crowds, some residents complained of having to run from one centre to the other as some Mee Sevas did not have the permission to print voter IDs. “I visited three Mee Seva centres only to be told that they are not authorized to print the voter card. Eventually, one of the employees at a centre directed me to another one in Serilingampally, which was about four km away from this particular centre,” said V Prakash, a resident of Ashok Nagar, RC Puram. Others too made similar complaints to Mee Seva officials who assured to look into the problem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/residents-in-the-lurch-over-getting-voters-id-cards/articleshow/79416952.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC elections 2020: Candidates turn special events into campaign gatherings||HYDERBAD: With just a few days left for campaigning, parties are leaving no stone unturned to grab the attention of voters and distribute doles. Right from birthdays to other gatherings, everything has become an occasion to secretly give sops or to seek votes. “Recently, I had to fix muhurtham for a marriage. The groom’s brother was contesting and they arranged a big pre-wedding ceremony. It was nothing but a mass contact programme,” said Manocharachari, a Chikadapalli priest. Some candidates, who cannot afford to hire campaign activists are getting their near and dear ones from districts to go door to door. With Covid-19 fear still looming large, it has been a struggle to get activists in short time. “In some localities people are not allowing the campaign activist to come near due to Covid-19,” said a candidate of Himayatnagar. In some places candidates were campaigning without checking if a street comes into their ward or not. Himayatnagar division has some adjacent streets falling under Kavadiguda. “We are in Domalguda, but our ward is not Himayatnagar. Even then supporters of two candidates from Himayatnagar came here,” Raghunath, a resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/candidates-turn-spl-events-into-campaign-gatherings/articleshow/79416961.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 26, 2020||Kochi||118A: Governor of Kerala Arif Muhammed Khan signs repeal ordinance||T'PURAM/KOCHI: Governor Arif Muhammed Khan on Wednesday signed the repeal ordinance that has nullified the earlier ordinance amending the Kerala Police Act, 2011, that had the potential to muzzle all dissenting voices through all mediums. The governor signed the ordinance on Wednesday, in the wake of the government deciding to withdraw the amendment, and the cabinet recommended the governor to promulgate the repeal ordinance. The promulgation of the new ordinance, to nullify the earlier one is the first instance in the state. The earlier ordinance was promulgated last Saturday. In the case of the first ordinance, the governor had held on to it without signing the ordinance for 30 days, while in the case of the repeal ordinance, the ordinance was signed in a day after the cabinet recommended the matter. While the first ordinance was promulgated without any discussion in any of the public forums or in the LDF, the chief minister has clarified that any further amendment to the Act would only be undertaken after elaborate discussions in the assembly. The government claims that the ordinance amending the Act was brought in the wake of demands from various corners for a strong law against attacks, especially against women, in the cyber media. The state government had earlier on Wednesday informed the high court that it has decided to withdraw the new amendment to Kerala Police Act. Additional advocate general KK Raveendranath made the submission on behalf of the government while a division bench comprising Chief Justice S Manikumar and Justice Shaji P Chaly was hearing petitions challenging the legality of section 118A. The additional AG submitted that the Cabinet has decided to recommend to the governor to withdraw the ordinance with effect from November 21. Advocate Santhosh Mathew, who represents RSP leaders Shibu Baby John and two others in the case, submitted that the procedure laid out in the Constitution under Article 213 is to be followed for withdrawing the ordinance. As per Article 213, an ordinance can be withdrawn if the legislative assembly passes a resolution disapproving it and the legislative council agrees to it. The other option as per Article 213 is that the Governor can withdraw the ordinance at any time. The court said it presumes that the government will follow the procedure. The court postponed the case for three weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/118a-governor-khan-signs-repeal-ordinance/articleshow/79419289.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||118A: Governor of Kerala Arif Muhammed Khan signs repeal ordinance||T'PURAM/KOCHI: Governor Arif Muhammed Khan on Wednesday signed the repeal ordinance that has nullified the earlier ordinance amending the Kerala Police Act, 2011, that had the potential to muzzle all dissenting voices through all mediums. The governor signed the ordinance on Wednesday, in the wake of the government deciding to withdraw the amendment, and the cabinet recommended the governor to promulgate the repeal ordinance. The promulgation of the new ordinance, to nullify the earlier one is the first instance in the state. The earlier ordinance was promulgated last Saturday. In the case of the first ordinance, the governor had held on to it without signing the ordinance for 30 days, while in the case of the repeal ordinance, the ordinance was signed in a day after the cabinet recommended the matter. While the first ordinance was promulgated without any discussion in any of the public forums or in the LDF, the chief minister has clarified that any further amendment to the Act would only be undertaken after elaborate discussions in the assembly. The government claims that the ordinance amending the Act was brought in the wake of demands from various corners for a strong law against attacks, especially against women, in the cyber media. The state government had earlier on Wednesday informed the high court that it has decided to withdraw the new amendment to Kerala Police Act. Additional advocate general KK Raveendranath made the submission on behalf of the government while a division bench comprising Chief Justice S Manikumar and Justice Shaji P Chaly was hearing petitions challenging the legality of section 118A. The additional AG submitted that the Cabinet has decided to recommend to the governor to withdraw the ordinance with effect from November 21. Advocate Santhosh Mathew, who represents RSP leaders Shibu Baby John and two others in the case, submitted that the procedure laid out in the Constitution under Article 213 is to be followed for withdrawing the ordinance. As per Article 213, an ordinance can be withdrawn if the legislative assembly passes a resolution disapproving it and the legislative council agrees to it. The other option as per Article 213 is that the Governor can withdraw the ordinance at any time. The court said it presumes that the government will follow the procedure. The court postponed the case for three weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/118a-governor-khan-signs-repeal-ordinance/articleshow/79411064.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Meerut||Uttar Pradesh man, 45, ends life after paying lakhs in interest for Rs 40,000 loan he took 15 years ago||MUZAFFARNAGAR: In the last 15 years, Rajesh Kumar, 45, had been paying installments to repay his loan. He even sold his shop thinking that it might settle the interest part, but it didn’t. The creditor was again standing at his door, demanding more money. Another round of public humiliation and insults allegedly pushed Rajesh to take his life in Saharanpur district on Tuesday. An FIR has been filed against the accused and investigation is on. Rajesh left behind a suicide note blaming a local creditor Anuj Sharma for his extreme step. He was found hanging from the ceiling. His body has been sent for postmortem. The incident took place in Kailashpur village under Gagalheri police station. Rajkumar, the brother-in-law of the deceased, said, "He had borrowed Rs 40,000 from Anuj Sharma 15 years ago and since then Rajesh had been paying installments. He even sold his shop and gave a huge amount to Anuj. But, Anuj continued to harass him for more money." Anuj had given a loan to Rajesh at high interest rate and he had already paid Rs 8 lakh, Ravit Mogra, Rajesh's close friend, said, adding that after paying installments for 15 years, he still owed him lakhs of rupees. Anuj used to come to the house and often insult him, another family member alleged. Superintendent of police (rural) Vineet Bhatnagar said, "The man left a suicide note and a case has been registered after a complaint filed by his family. Investigation is currently on, and action will be taken accordingly." Gagalheri SHO Bhanu Partap Singh said that a case under IPC section 306 [abetment of suicide] has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-man-45-ends-life-after-paying-lakhs-ininterest-for-rs-40k-loan-he-took-15-years-ago/articleshow/79414733.cms||Mohd Dilshad
November 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Ministers face heat over stoppage of flood relief||Hyderabad: Ministers are facing the heat from voters who besieged them on stoppage of Rs 10,000 flood relief. Following a diktat from the TRS leadership, the ministers are undertaking a door-to-door campaign in divisions allotted to them in support of party nominees. With the SEC stopping aid because of the ongoing GHMC election process, ministers have a lot to explain to residents. While some residents understand the situation, many are getting restive, while others are showing their indifference to the ministers. Standing under a tree with his partymen at Meerpet Housing Board Colony during campaigning, panchayat raj minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao looked hassled but didn’t lose his cool. “Voters have a right to express their anger and the best way to handle the situation is to win them over. Talk to them as we need to get their votes,” he was seen telling party activists. Tourism minister V Srinivas Goud, who is campaigning in Adikmet, faced hostile residents. But, he merely walked away with a namaste. Women and child welfare minister Satyavathi Rathod had to deal with residents’ anger and dissidence in the party in Chilkanagar. She was eventually successful in prevailing over a rebel candidate to support the official nominee. Endowments minister A Indrakaran Reddy too faced rough weather. Hitting the campaign trail in Banjara Hills for party nominee Vijaya Laxmi Gadwal, the minister was besieged with questions from voters about the relief. Voters were being asked to go to the Mee Seva centre to register for flood relief after the elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ministers-face-heat-over-stoppage-of-flood-relief/articleshow/79416966.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Doordarshan logo animator dies aged 77 in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Professor RL Mistry, a former faculty at National Institute of Design (NID) Ahmedabad, passed away on Tuesday evening in the city, he was 77. Considered to be pioneer of animation education in India, his best-known work is the signature Doordarshan logo animation – known to millions across the country.  Praveen Nahar, director of NID, paid homage to Mistry on Wednesday along with the NID fraternity. “He was a man of few words and a pioneer of animation education. He was one of the first teachers of animation at NID, who has inspired and shaped so many animators in India,” he said. An alumnus of Faculty of Fine Arts of MS University of Baroda, he completed his PG diploma from NID and joined NID as junior designer in 1969. He retired as associate senior designer in 2003. Even afterwards, he was associated with the institute and many other institutions as visiting faculty. His colleagues also remembered his well-acclaimed film on road safety in 1992.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/doordarshan-logo-animator-dead/articleshow/79416987.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Meerut||Hours before his wedding, man, 25, found dead on railway tracks under mysterious circumstances||Bijnor: Hours before his wedding, a 25-year-old man was found dead on railway tracks under mysterious circumstances on Wednesday morning. The body of the man who was supposed to get married on Wednesday was spotted by passers-by in the morning in Bijnor’s Seohara area. According to police, the victim, Shiv Kumar, alias, Pradeep, of Hazipura village under Seohara police station area had gone missing late Tuesday night, following which his family searched for him, but he was not found. On Wednesday morning, passers-by spotted the body lying on the railway tracks at a short distance from the village. After getting information, police rushed to the scene and sent the body to the district hospital for autopsy. The victim’s family told police that Shiv’s wedding was to be solemnised on Wednesday. The family suspected that Shiv was murdered and sought a fair probe, while police considered it to be a case of suicide. Seohara station house officer Narendra Kumar Gaur said, “A probe is underway. The body was sent to the district hospital for autopsy. It seems to be a suicide case. We have not received a complaint in this connection, so far.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/hours-before-his-wedding-man-25-found-dead-on-railway-tracks-under-mysterious-circumstances/articleshow/79414746.cms||Harveer Dabas
November 26, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC elections: Lone Muslim face of BJP out to prove a point in Dabirpura||HYDERABAD: Even as the BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay speaks about a ‘surgical strike’ in the Old City, the party has named only one Muslim candidate for the GHMC polls. Mirza Akhil Afandi is the only Muslim candidate from BJP contesting from the Dabirpura ward. Afandi, 35-year-old entrepreneur and part of Muslim Rashtriya Manch (MRM), has contested the by-election from this ward which happened quietly this year and stood second leaving the TRS candidate third. He secured 2,000 votes where the polling percentage was not even 25. He says he is in a good position to challenge the AIMIM candidate. Interestingly, of 10 Muslim candidates who applied to contest from this ward, he was given the opportunity. He said Muslims in Dabirpura ward were not averse to his candidature as a BJP nominee, but he was getting threatening calls with some of relatives refusing to accept him as a BJP candidate. He joined the BJP in 2013 and has been an activist of MRM, Muslim wing of RSS. His family has a long association with Shiv Sena and BJP. His mother Tayyaba Afandi is a BJP activist. “My father was with Shiv Sena in Maharashtra.” “We have been campaigning in the Old City and telling people that the BJP is not against ordinary Muslims. In fact, we are explaining that the NRC is also not against Muslims,” he said. Afandi is undertaking a door-to-door campaign. Former BJP state president Dr Laxman campaigned for him in the ward a few days ago. “We have requested Union MoS for home G Kishan Reddy also to campaign in the ward,” he said. While he lays focus on TRS and AIMIM promises during last election, he said Dabirpura many families are yet to get flood relief. BJP state minority morcha president Afsar Pasha, who is backing Afandi, said: “We are asking Muslim leaders to join the BJP and encouraging them to contest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lone-muslim-face-of-bjp-out-to-prove-a-point-in-dabirpura/articleshow/79416978.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 26, 2020||Patna||CBI raids on rly official yields Rs 75 lakh, assets worth Rs 3.4 crore||PATNA: The CBI recovered Rs 76 lakh cash, gold jewellery and documents related to plots of land and residential buildings in simultaneous searches on the residential premises of a senior official of the railway engineering department in Patna and Nalanda districts on Wednesday. The official, Ravish Kumar, is stated to be associated with the electrification work of the railways under East Central Railway (ECR). The investigating agency searched Kumar’s residences at Kumhrar in Patna and Biharsharif in Nalanda as well as the residential premises of some of his close relatives till late night. Authoritative sources said an FIR was lodged against Kumar for accumulating property worth Rs3.40 crore, which was around 183% more than his known sources of income. According to the FIR, the official acquired huge movable and immovable assets in the names of his family members and some relatives between 2009 and 2020. A senior official said so far 15 properties, huge investments in jewellery and banks have come to light. Sources said Kumar had earlier served as ADRM of Danapur division. Preliminary investigation revealed that the accused received a total income of 1.04 crore (approx) from his salary and other sources. His wife’s income was Rs40 lakh. During the check period, the accused’s total expenses stood at Rs67.41 lakh (approx). His likely savings during the check period was around Rs76.59 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cbi-raids-on-rly-official-yields-rs75l-assets-worth-rs3-4cr/articleshow/79415930.cms||Ramashankar
November 26, 2020||Kochi||140kg of ganja seized in Ernakulam||KOCHI: In a major drug bust, Ernakulam rural police seized 140kg of ganja in two separate operations on Wednesday morning. The seizures were made in a joint operation by local police and the district anti-narcotic special action force (Dansaf). Police said they chased down three accused in two cars in Angamaly and confiscated 105kg of ganja, found hidden in 50 tightly sealed packs, in the first operation. Ansal, 34, of Thodupuzha; Nizar, 37, of Perumpadachira; and, Chanthu, 22, of Vellathooval were arrested. The accused had been under the lens following a tip-off received by district police chief (Ernakulam rural) SP K Karthik. The three were interrogated and this led to the seizure of another 35kg of ganja stashed in 17 sealed packets in a rented house at Avoli. SP Karthik said a follow-up probe has been launched and more people, suspected to be involved in the case, would soon be nabbed. “The accused seem to be wholesale dealers with a history of drug running,” he said. A case has been registered invoking relevant sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. Police said the ganja seized from the cars was smuggled from Andhra Pradesh and bound for Thodupuzha. Police said the accused procured it from the tribal belt of Annavaram near Visakhapatnam and the rented house was being used to stock the contraband.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/140kg-of-ganja-seized-in-ekm/articleshow/79411077.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Pune||Pune: Testing in post-Diwali week touched 52,000, up from 36,000 during festival||PUNE: Testing for Covid-19 in the district increased significantly during the week after Diwali. According to data released by the health department, the weekly testing number hit 52,600, much higher than the nearly 36,000 tests that were conducted during the week of the festival. Pradeep Awate, the state surveillance officer with the Integrated Disease Surveillance Program (IDSP), Maharashtra, said, “Testing has risen because the government is now focusing on super-spreaders. There has also been an increase in those with Covid and influenza-like symptoms due to the weather. And with more cases, come more close contacts. Given these factors, testing will automatically increase.” Awate said the number of tests has gone up across the state. He said that before the Diwali period, the state was carrying out an average of 55,000 daily tests, which has now improved to around 80,000. Importantly, data also showed an uptick in RT-PCR testing, compared to antigen tests, which are low on sensitivity. The share of RT-PCR tests rose to 74% (from 69%) during the week after Diwali. Awate said, “It was recommended that states should keep a 60-40 ratio of RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests. The latter should not be allowed to replace the former. The RT-PCR tests also had to be increased because of the focus on super-spreaders.” Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state’s Covid task force, said, “Health authorities should carry out as many RT-PCR tests as possible. A higher percentage, say over 70%, of RT-PCR tests, compared to antigen tests, is always welcome.” Dr Joshi added that RT-PCR tests indicate the actual positivity rate in a community. A higher number of tests via this method, he said, can also lower the Covid-19 test positivity rate. “For the pandemic to be considered ‘controlled’, the test positivity rate in difficult geographies such as Pune should be below 5%. But it’s ideal if this value dips below 2%. More RT-PCR testing can help us get to this stage faster,” he said. The Diwali period saw a substantial drop in Covid testing across the state. In Pune, daily testing fell by 43%. The sharpest drops were recorded on November 14, 15 and 16||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/testing-in-post-diwali-week-touched-52000-up-from-36000-during-festival/articleshow/79416984.cms||Neha Madaan
November 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Maharashtra RT-PCR rule grounds Gujarat travellers||AHMEDABAD: Anant Mehta, an Ahmedabad businessman, was to travel to Mumbai for a work-related engagement early on Thursday. However, since the Maharashtra government made it mandatory to produce a negative RT-PCR report upon arrival in the state, he was forced to cancel his visit. “I cannot get the report overnight for an RT-PCR test,” said Mehta. “I haven’t received the refund for the cancelled ticket.”  The Maharashtra government has made the RT-PCR tests mandatory 72 hours before departure for fliers and 96 hours before the journey for train passengers. The norms apply to travellers from Gujarat, Delhi, Rajasthan, and Goa. Gujarat travellers have been hit hard. Many who were to travel for weddings, official meetings, or personal commitments are now uncertain about their Mumbai trips. Travel agents say a massive number of tickets from Ahmedabad to Mumbai were cancelled in a single day on Wednesday in the wake of the new Maharashtra rules. Several passengers are willing to get the rapid antigen test done because it is convenient and yields instant results. However, most are reluctant to undergo the RT-PCR test as it is expensive and reports take time. Manish Sharma, secretary, Travel Agents’ Federation of India (TAFI), Gujarat, said: “Travel plans for weddings, meetings, and personal commitments have gone haywire. The rules imposed by the Maharashtra government have in fact added to the cost of travelling.” Sharma added: “Moreover, the rules have also impacted inbound tourism into Gujarat with heavy cancellations recorded for Rannotsav and stay at the Statue of Unity’s tent city.” That’s because people coming from Maharashtra to Gujarat will also have to get tested when they return home, he said. Many from Maharashtra who were to travel to Gujarat have deferred or called off their plans. “A month-and-a-half ago I had made my booking for Rannotsav after much deliberation. I was scheduled to travel on December 17,” said Shraddha Aggarwal, a professional based in Mumbai. “However, looking at the guidelines of the Maharashtra government and the increase in Covid-19 cases, I have deferred my plans.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/maharashtra-rt-pcr-rule-grounds-gujarat-travellers/articleshow/79416994.cms||Niyati Parikh
November 26, 2020||Pune||Pune: Doctors report jaundice-like issues in Covid-19 patients||PUNE: For two whole days, Navin (name changed) reported a stomach discomfort accompanied by an urge to vomit. By the third day, he started experiencing loose motion. His liver function test showed jaundice-like liver inflammation. All tests for water-borne or food-borne illnesses were negative. His Covid test, however, wasn’t. Gastroenterologists said they have seen quite a few Covid-induced jaundice-like (hepatitis) cases, where earliest symptoms are nausea and loose motion — not fever. However, of some relief is the fact that the virus has been causing only mild liver dysfunctions. Patients presenting these symptoms, doctors said, are recovering within 10 to 20 days. “I have seen nearly 12 patients with Covid-induced jaundice-like presentation over the last few days,” said city-based gastroenterologist Vinay Thorat. “Fever is conspicuously absent in them. Their main complaints are nausea, abdominal pain and loose motion.” He added, “There is no permanent injury to the liver in Covid-linked hepatitis. So, there is no need to panic. Patients recover fast.” In cases of regular jaundice, patients report high-grade fever, vomiting and appetite loss. Their liver function tests show liver enzymes (ALT and AST) counts of over 1,000. “But in Covid-linked jaundice, patients don’t have fever, yellowish eyes or very yellow urine — commonly seen in regular jaundice. Their liver function tests show liver enzymes (AST and ALT) count not more than three to five times the normal of 40,” said paediatric gastroenterologist, Vishnu Biradar. Biradar said he has also seen children developing liver inflammation even after full Covid recovery. “I have seen three kids with post-Covid jaundice or liver inflammation. Usually, they have right-upper abdominal pain and vomiting. These symptoms last for about two to three weeks,” he said. In fact, several Covid patients in Pune — instead of fever or flu-like symptoms — have shown only gastrointestinal (GI) symptoms such as diarrhoea, vomiting and belly pain. “Absence of fever has been a hallmark of atypical Covid presentations with patients showing only GI symptoms. Lately, I have been seeing quite a few of these baffling cases,” Ruby Hall Clinic’s physician Abhijit Lodha said. Doctors said patients with irregular symptoms can be a challenge. “GPs mainly, who are first point of care for many, will have to determine if these symptoms are flare-ups of underlying disease or in fact, Covid-19,” Lodha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/docs-report-jaundice-like-issues-in-ncov-patients/articleshow/79416990.cms||Umesh Isalkar
November 26, 2020||India||Cyclone Nivar: Flash flood alerts in coastal TN, Puducherry||NEW DELHI: In view of persisting high rainfall due to the influence of Cyclone ‘Nivar’, the Central Water Commission (CWC) on Wednesday issued flash flood alerts for several watershed areas of coastal districts in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry for the next 24 hours. These districts include Chennai, Kanchipuram, Chengalpattu, Thiruvallur, Nagapattinam, Cuddalore and Karaikal. Besides, extreme south coastal Andhra Pradesh subdivisions may also witness flash floods. Water levels of several reservoirs and rivers are being monitored. “River Palar at Chengapattu in Chengalpattu district is rising due to continuous rain,” said the CWC. The India Meteorological Department (IMD), meanwhile, revised the landfall hours while monitoring the movement, saying Cyclone ‘Nivar’ is very likely to cross Tamil Nadu and Puducherry coasts between Karaikal and Mamallapuram during Wednesday midnight and early hours of Thursday. The cyclone will cross the area as a ‘very severe cyclonic storm’ with a wind speed of 120-130 kmph gusting to 145 kmph. Besides 30 teams of the NDRF, personnel of Coast Guard, Navy and the multi-disciplinary team of armed forces have also been deployed in both Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cyclone-nivar-flash-flood-alerts-in-coastal-tn-puducherry/articleshow/79418854.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: App biker harasses woman during ride, stalks her after end of journey||KOLKATA: A 25-year-old woman who had hailed an app-based bike taxi from Alipore to a restaurant located close to her Garfa residence on Sunday night was allegedly harassed during the journey by the biker who kept asking her obscene questions. He forced her to take a much longer ride through the alleys instead of taking main roads. The harassment, which lasted the entire 26-minute journey, did not end with the ride. The victim, who has completed her higher studies this year, was even stalked by the biker even after she got off the bike. The accused allegedly insisted she went out on a late-night date with him. The next morning, the accused kept calling her from four different numbers. The woman complained on the Kolkata Police Facebook page and the customer care of the app-based company on Sunday night. By Monday, Garfa police contacted her and sent a team to her residence to register the complaint. The accused — Aslam Hossain alias Sonu (39), a resident of Dhalipara — was finally nabbed from Haridevpur on Tuesday night. Hossain has been in the profession for four months. “His address registered with the company complies with his address proof. But he is not staying there anymore and the company had no clue about it. We had to use a technical interception tool and our sources to arrest him,” said a police officer. “The moment we were near Hazra, he revealed his true colours. Instead of taking the usual Rashbehari Crossing route, he used several alleys to reach Lake Gardens. This was here he kept asking very uncomfortable and personal questions. He refused to take Dhakuria Bridge and chose to use the deserted Lake Gardens flyover. When we reached near my drop-off point, he overshot it and dropped me a stop ahead, near a secluded shop. It was here that he told me that he wanted to be my friend and kept blocking my path on top of a bridge. He offered me to have a cup of coffee at Jadavpur 8B. Even when I managed to reach a more crowded area, I saw he was still keeping an eye on me,” the complainant told TOI. “After the complaint, someone called up from the customer care and even he agreed there was a major diversion. Police were quick to take action and arrest the accused,” said the woman who has identified the accused at the police station. Cops said they had filed a case under IPC sections pertaining to molestation, stalking and insulting the modesty of a woman. “A team of officers conducted raids at Haridevpur as reliable input was received that Hossain had taken shelter there. It was from here that he was nabbed,” said DC (SSD) Rashid Munir Khan. “Based on our investigation, we have deactivated the driver and he has been blocked from our platform. The driver will never be able to work with Rapido again. The security and safety of our customers is of utmost importance to us. We condemn such behaviour and are extending complete cooperation with the authorities to ensure proper legal action,” said a statement from the app-taxi aggregator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/app-biker-harasses-woman-during-ride-stalks-her-after-end-of-journey/articleshow/79415949.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 26, 2020||Patna||Sushil Modi releases audio of Lalu Prasad ‘luring’ BJP MLA||PATNA/RANCHI: Former deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi (SuMo) on Wednesday released an alleged audio clip of jailed RJD chief Lalu Prasad asking BJP’s MLA from Pirpainti, Lallan Paswan, not to vote in the election for Bihar legislative assembly Speaker’s post. Lalu, in the alleged telephonic conversation, promised Paswan a ministerial berth after the fall of NDA government in Bihar. “Paswan Ji, congratulations ... We will take you ahead, you support us in the election of speaker tomorrow (Wednesday). We will make you minister as we will bring down the government as the Speaker will be ours,” Lalu is heard saying in the audio of Tuesday. However, TOI does not authenticate the audio. लालू यादव ने दिखाई अपनी असलियतलालू प्रसाद यादव द्वारा NDA के विधायक को बिहार विधान सभा अध्यक्ष के लिए होने वाले… https://t.co/TkEj2nFmr2— Sushil Kumar Modi (@SushilModi) 1606281676000When Paswan said he is in the party (BJP), Lalu is heard asking him to absent himself from voting in the assembly on the plea of having been infected with Corona. Paswan told ANI on Wednesday that he received the call from Lalu, who offered him a ministerial berth, which he refused. “My PA (personal assistant) picked up the call and the person on the other side said Lalu Prasad wanted to speak to me. My PA asked him where he was calling from, to which the person said from Ranchi. I thought Lalu Ji wanted to congratulate me for my victory in the election. He congratulated me and I also sought his blessings as he is an elderly person. Later, he asked me to be absent during the Speaker’s election,” Paswan said. Paswan said he was sitting with SuMo when the call came. “I immediately told Modi Ji and the entire conversation happened in front of him,” Paswan said. SuMo then tweeted: “Lalu Yadav making telephone call (XXXXXXXXXX) from Ranchi to NDA MLAs & promising ministerial berths. When I telephoned, Lalu directly picked up. I said don’t do these dirty tricks from jail, you will not succeed (sic).” TOI is not revealing the number, which is allegedly used by Lalu’s aide Irfan. Jharkhand RJD state president Abhay Singh and RJD MLA from Maner in Bihar, Bhai Virendra, said the audio was doctored. “Sushil Modi does this everyday to say such things, which can keep him in the limelight. People don’t believe him. The audio is doctored,” said Virendra. “We have not seen Lalu using phone so the audio is nothing but a doctored clip which is common in this age of technology,” Abhay said. The RJD leaders said BJP has carefully chosen a number that was known to belong to Lalu’s aide so that the allegation looks more convincing. However, Jharkhand BJP’s legislative party leader Babulal Marandi asked the state government to lodge a criminal case against Lalu and conduct a detailed probe. Marandi appealed to the Jharkhand high court and the Supreme Court to take cognizance in the matter and step in to restore the rule of law. Deputy CM Renu Devi, however, condemned the incident. “It is highly condemnable that if someone resorts to break the ruling alliance, which has got the people’s mandate in Bihar. Our alliance is strong,” she said. JD(U) members also attacked Lalu and targeted the Hemant Soren government in Jharkhand. “This large-heartedness of Jharkhand government is beyond our comprehension. The government is rampantly violating the norms to please the party having one MLA in Jharkhand. Lalu is staying in the bungalow of Rims’s director and involved in all sorts of unethical political practices, including horse trading of MLAs,” said JD(U) spokesperson Rajeev Ranjan Prasad, demanding CBI inquiry into the incident. Lalu was shifted to Kelly’s Bungalow from Rims on August 5 in the name of precautionary measure against Covid-19 infection. Earlier, he was in shifted from Hotwar jail in Ranchi to the prison ward at Rims for treatment of multiple health disorders. Jharkhand IG (Prison) Birendra Bbhushan said no convict can use mobile phone. “Lalu is not in jail but in hospital for treatment and the responsibility lies with the local administration,” he said. Bhushan categorically said no special facility has been provided to Lalu by the jail administration. Ranchi SSP SK Jha said the role of district administration was to maintain law and order and provide security. Senior police officers said it was the responsibility of jail representatives in the hospital ward to ensure that jail manual is followed. “Whether the people who meet Lalu carry mobile phones or not is a matter to be verified by the jail administration,” a police officer preferring anonymity said. ‘Absent Ho Jao’ Transcript of purported telephonic conversation between Lalu and BJP MLA Lallan Paswan: Lalu: Haan, Paswan Ji, badhai Paswan: Pranam, Charan Sparsh, sir Lalu: Khush rahiye ... Achcha suno, hum log tumko age bhi badhayenge. Wahan kal jo speaker ka chunao hai usme tum humlogo ka sath do to hum tumko mantri banayenge, samjhe na hum log kal usko gira denge. Samjhe na Paswan: Sir, hum log party (BJP) mein na hain Lalu: Party me ho to absent ho jao, corona ho gaya tha (be absent during election, say you got infected with Covid)..Thik hai. Speaker hamara ho jayega to hum log dekh lenge na... Paswan: Achcha, party mein hain so thoda thik nahi lag raha hai Lalu: Are bekar ka, absent ho jao na...Paswanji Paswan: Sab apke sangyan mein hoga hi, hum baat karenge sir, thik hai Lalu: Thik hai, absent ho jao, thik hai||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sumo-releases-audio-of-lalu-luring-bjp-mla/articleshow/79415956.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
November 26, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Justice BK Patel to head OHRC||Bhubaneswar: Justice Bijaya Krushna Patel, former judge of Orissa high court, is likely to be appointed as chairman of the Odisha Human Rights Commission. A committee headed by chief minister Naveen Patnaik recommended the name of Justice Patel for approval of Governor Ganeshi Lal after a virtual meeting on Wednesday. Official notification will be issued after the Governor’s approval. A native of Sundargarh district, Justice Patel had served as judge of the Orissa high court from January 17, 2008 till January 23, 2015. Prior to that, Justice Patel had also served as principal secretary, law department of the state government. The OHRC chairman post is vacant since November 14 after the retirement of Justice B P Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/justice-bk-patel-to-head-ohrc/articleshow/79414782.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Russian masseuse moves Gujarat HC over FIR by boss’s wife||AHMEDABAD: A Russian massage therapist has moved the Gujarat high court after her employer’s wife accused her and her employer of domestic violence, adultery, criminal intimidation and criminal breach of trust. The masseuse was brought to India in 2014 as a therapist at a spa in Vadodara. A year passed and she got romantically involved with her married employer. She delivered a child and the legal trouble started after she approached the court in 2018 to ensure that her employer’s name is entered into the child’s birth record as the middle name. The Russian woman’s declaration that the child was fathered by the spa employer and the child would bear his name enraged the employer’s wife. She approached the family court in Vadodara challenging the court’s earlier order that the child should bear the father’s name. As her relationship with her husband turned acrimonious, the woman also approached a magisterial court and instituted a case under the Domestic Violence Act against her husband and his Russian girlfriend. After filing a DV case in February this year, the woman approached JP Nagar police station and lodged an FIR against husband and the Russian woman. In her FIR, she narrated how the Russian woman had been inciting her husband to divorce her so that she and her child can live permanently in India. Besides, the woman complained that there was an assault on her by her husband and her sedan car was fraudulently taken away by him. After a preliminary hearing, the high court stayed police from taking action against the Russian woman and sought a reply from the police by December 15. Meanwhile, the spa owner also approached the court seeking legal protection from possible arrest. The court issued notice to the government on his anticipatory bail plea and the hearing was posted for the same day. The high court stayed his arrest till then as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/russian-masseuse-moves-hc-over-fir-by-bosss-wife/articleshow/79417001.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Pune||Pune: Daily Covid-19 cases climb above 1,000 for first time this month||PUNE: The daily Covid-19 tally jumped past 1,000 to 1,025 in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Wednesday, its highest since October 16 when 1,072 people had tested positive for coronavirus. Between October 16 and November 25, the daily tally has breached the 1,000-mark only on October 21 when 1,020 new cases were recorded in PMR. Otherwise, the daily caseload has remained in three digits in between. Among the new cases on Wednesday, the PMC limits added 426 patients, followed by the rural areas (353) and the PCMC limits (246). With this, the PMR caseload has reached above 3.38 lakh. Health officials said the daily cases have been on the rise in the region since last week. Both the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporation limits and the rural areas have recorded rise in patients as against daily recoveries, which have stayed in the range of 500 to 700. As for testing, the region conducted 11,572 tests on Wednesday. A report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that as many as 652 patients were discharged on Wednesday in the region, which pushed its total recoveries above 3.19 lakh. Sixteen patients died of the infection on Wednesday, including six from the PMC limits and five each from the rural areas as well as the PCMC areas. The region’s death tally has reached 8,328. These included 4,610 from the PMC limits, 2,117 from the rural areas and 1,601 from the PCMC areas. The tally of active patients rose to 10,739 on Wednesday, including 6,357 patients in home quarantine and 4,382 admitted in various hospitals in PMR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/daily-cases-climb-above-1k-for-first-time-this-month/articleshow/79416992.cms||Sarang Dastane
November 26, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Covid vaccine supply plan to be ready in two weeks||PUNE: Members of the state vaccine task force said they were set to ready a distribution plan for frontline workers and other at-risk groups. The plan would be ready within the next two to three weeks, the members said. One of the vaccine task force members, Dr Shashank Joshi, said the distribution blueprint will largely cover plans for vaccine storage, administration, training of personnel and monitoring area-wise recipients. He said at least one shot could be ready by early next year. “We are hoping the Serum Institute and the Russian vaccines get emergency approvals. We are looking at administering the approved vaccine in the early part of next year,” he said. Unlike polio drops, the Covid vaccines will be injectables. Dr Joshi said scores of healthcare workers will have to be trained in how to administer the jabs. The task force members said they are aware of the ‘grey areas’ as far as the vaccines themselves are concerned. It’s still unclear which vaccine will be approved first and for long protection stays. However, they said local authorities have been asked to ensure all Covid-appropriate measures are strictly followed in their jurisdictions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/maharashtra-vaccine-supply-plan-to-be-ready-in-two-weeks/articleshow/79417003.cms||Nisha Nambiar
November 26, 2020||Goa||4 Covid deaths reported, active cases up at 1,280||Panaji: Goa reported four Covid-19 related deaths on Wednesday with two men dying within 24 hours of hospitalisation. With four casualties, the toll has risen to 684. Active cases rose to 1,280 with 125 new cases and as many as 61 patients were cured. Dr S M Bandekar, in-charge of Covid-19 hospitals and dean of Goa Medical College (GMC), said the two deaths that occurred in GMC were that of a 68-year-old man from Nausi, Sattari and a 34-year-old man from Ucassaim. Both had comorbidities. Bandekar said their case history revealed that both had developed symptoms of Covid such as fever, cough, and breathlessness prior to their hospitalisation, but they had neglected their conditions. Both the patients also did not consult a doctor. The Nausi man died at the Valpoi community health centre within half an hour after he was rushed to the centre. The 34-year-old man who died in GMC was suffering from alcoholic liver disease. A 54-year-old man from Vasco with comorbidities also died in GMC and a 60-year-old man from Raia, Salcete who had developed acute respiratory distress syndrome and septic shock when admitted to ESI-Covid hospital, died after a treatment of more than two weeks. As many as 40 patients were hospitalised during the day, and 102 went into home isolation. The state’s case positivity rate dropped to 6% as against 8% reported on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/4-covid-deaths-reported-active-cases-up-at-1280/articleshow/79417007.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 26, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra exploring non-invasive saliva analysis to catch virus||PUNE: The Maharashtra government is considering the addition of rapid saliva-based Covid tests to its inventory of RT-PCR, antigen and Feluda devices. Sources said state officials will now ask the ICMR to speed up approvals for the saliva tests, which, besides being fast (results within an hour), are also non-invasive. All one needs to do is spit into a container and submit the sample to the nearest lab. State task force member Dr Shashank Joshi said the saliva kit will also let people collect their own samples. Dr Nivedita Gupta, head of virology at ICMR, said they are in the process of validating antigen kits that use saliva as a sample. “But there are no good kits currently available that can be recommended. The validation process is still on,” she said. Currently, tests for Covid in the country rely on samples taken using invasive throat or nasal swabs. The method is extremely uncomfortable and prone to collection errors. It can also leave healthcare workers at risk of Covid infection. Apart from a saliva-based test, a study in the Indian Journal of Medical Research gargled water sample could also be a viable alternative to swabs. “This method is also being explored,” an ICMR scientist said. State health minister Rajesh Tope said all options are being assessed. “Our focus, over the next two months is on testing and faster tracing. For this, saliva tests should be explored,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-exploring-non-invasive-saliva-analysis-to-catch-virus/articleshow/79416999.cms||Nisha Nambiar
November 26, 2020||Kolkata||Police summon another IRS officer||Kolkata: The anti-fraud section of the detective department has issued summons to a city-based senior Indian Revenue Service (IRS) officer in connection with the 2017 case of cheating and corruption in which another senior IRS officer Neeraj Singh and financial consultant Govind Agarwal have been implicated in an FIR. Police sources said that the senior officer, posted in Kolkata (Kolkata and Sikkim zone) and due to retire later this month, has been asked to be present before the investigators on Friday. His summons, claimed sources, had reached him a week earlier. So far, the officer has neither accepted nor denied receiving the summons. “When we had raided the office of Agarwal at Mangoe Lane, we had retrieved some documents that carried the signature of this second IRS officer and which looked as original IT department files. Hence, he was summoned. A few other people — employees at the firms of Agarwal — will also be asked to record their statements,” a Kolkata Police official said. Singh claimed Agarwal was never “his frontman”. Singh, who is undergoing chemotherapy and is unable to speak, also claimed that he had never handled any investigation on the Rose Valley group as is being portrayed in a section of the media. Responding to TOI over texts, Singh said: “As far as Agarwal is concerned, my stand has been clear that he used to file I-T returns of my family and was hired by my father. I have already written letters since 2015 to him to return my papers which he has not done till now. Agarwal or his associates have never appeared before me and that is verifiable,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/police-summon-another-irs-officer/articleshow/79415962.cms||Rohit Khanna
November 26, 2020||Nashik||88 flyers undergo RT-PCR test in Nashik, Jalgaon||done Nashik: A total of 88 air passengers out of 123 who reached Nashik and Jalgaon airports from Ahmedabad and Delhi on Wednesday had to undergo the RT-PCR test, the respective district authorities said. The state government has made it mandatory for air travellers from the national capital region (NCR) and Delhi, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Goa to undergo the test within a stipulated period before travelling to Maharashtra or face the the test wherever they land in the state. Similarly, those travelling by road or rail from these states will be screened for Covid-19 symptoms at railway stations and checkposts that have been raised by the local administration and taken to Covid care centres if they show symptoms of the disease. The Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for air, road and rail travellers are different, the authorities said. “A total of 91 passengers came by air from Delhi to Nashik and 69 of them had to go undergo the RT-PCR test at the airport as they did not have the test reports while seven of the 13 who came from Ahmedabad also face tests for the same reason,” senior officials from the district collectorate said. According to Nashik district officials, testing flyers is compulsory if they don’t carry the RT-PCR report. After the test, air passengers would be quarantined at private facilities with all the expenses being borne by them. Nineteen passengers reached Jalgaon from Ahmedabad and 12 of them did not have the RT-PCR test reports, said the authorities. Meanwhile, the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has deployed teams to screen and test passengers coming to the Nashik Road railway station from the four states. According to the officials, 26 who alighted from the train coming from Goa were screened and released after no Covid-like symptoms were found. According to Nashik district collector Suraj Mandhare, the health teams at other railway stations, including Manmad, Nandgaon and Igatpuri, were in the process of being deployed. With all arrangements being made, the testing of passengers coming by trains would start on Thursday. Jalgaon district collector Abhijit Raut said the Bhusawal Railway authorities would be deploying teams along with the civic body and also rural health department to conduct screening of passengers arriving by trains at Bhusawal and Jalgaon. The officer also pointed out that the work on finalising the teams for all the railway stations across Jalgaon district was being carried out and they would be deployed by tomorrow (Thursday). The Inspector General (Special) Pratap Dighavkar said, “The Nashik rural police deployed seven police personnel, who were also assisted by the health teams of the Nashik ZP. Each team comprised a police officer of the rank of PSI and four constables to screen the persons coming into the district from neighbouring states by road.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/88-flyers-undergo-rt-pcr-test-in-nashik-jalgaon/articleshow/79414806.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 26, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Cong calls state farm bill ‘anti-farmer’||Bhubaneswar: The Odisha Agricultural Produce and Livestock Marketing (promotion and facilitation) Bill-2020 was introduced in the assembly on Wednesday. The Congress called the bill “anti-farmer”. The bill, which will replace an ordinance already promulgated by the state government, aims to facilitate geographically-restricted free trade of agricultural produce, including livestock across Odisha. The government intends to abolish the fragmentation of market within the state by removing the concept of notified market area. The business advisory committee of the assembly will decide a date to hold discussions and pass the bill. Opposing the bill at the introduction stage, Congress legislature party leader Narasingha Mishra has termed the bill as ‘pro-corporate’. “If you allow free market, it will be disastrous for the farmers. They will be ruined. The bill is in sync with the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, enacted in Parliament. Though the BJD opposed the bill in Parliament, it is now going to have a similar legislation in the state,” Mishra said. Senior Congress leader Santosh Singh Saluja also opposed the bill saying free market would lead to distress sale of agricultural produces. “The farmers will be at the receiving end,” he added. Co-operation minister Ranendra Pratap Swain, who introduced the bill, said the legislation was in no way similar to the bill passed in Parliament. The proposed legislation has been introduced to repeal the Odisha Agricultural Produce Market (OAPM) Act enacted in 1956. “The intended purpose of the OAPM Act has not been fully achieved. A number of developments over the past six decades have changed the agricultural produce marketing scenario, which has necsessitated an urgent revamp of the existing law,” Swain said. As agricultural marketing in the state suffers from various issues, the proposed legislation aims to address issues like poor infrastructure, fragmented marketing channel, operational inefficiency and the wide gap between the price received by the producer and paid by the consumer. Official sources said the bill has provisions for setting up private market yards and consumer market yard (Krushak Bazar) to enhance competition among different markets and market players for the produce. It will also help in the creation of modern infrastructure with the help of private investment for value addition and primary processing. The bill will also promote e-trading to enhance transparency in trade operations. Once the new law comes into force, there will be a single point for levying of market fee across the state and issuance of state-wide single trading license to ensure cost-effective transactions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/cong-calls-state-farm-bill-anti-farmer/articleshow/79414793.cms||Sujit kumar bisoyi
November 26, 2020||Nagpur||Collector defers school reopening till Dec 13||Nagpur: District collector Ravindra Thakre has deferred the reopening of schools in rural areas till at least December 13 citing risk of rise in Covid-19 cases. Over 30,000 students were expected to resume classes from Thursday, the earlier scheduled reopening date. This decision now brings parity for both rural and urban area schools as the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), too, has decided to defer the reopening till December 13. Talking exclusively to TOI, Thakre said, “There is fear that cases might rise with the movement of people from city to rural, after schools restart. Similar feedback was received from chairperson of zilla parishad’s education committee and other office bearers, that school reopening must be deferred. So looking into all these issues, we decided to push the dates forward,” said Thakre. He added that they were never forcing the decision on anyone to reopen. “The purpose was to help those students who have no access to online teaching due to lack of required infrastructure. School reopening was anyway optional, it’s something to be decided by parents and the school management committee,” said Thakre. While the closure will now continue till December 13, it’s not clear as to what happens after that. Thakre clarified that this decision is in no way to be construed as a ‘December 14 reopening’ date. “Not at all, this is not what our decision means. What we are saying is that till December 13 we will definitely be keeping physical schools closed for students. Whether or not it reopens later is something which will be decided later on. We will take a detailed review of the situation and then take a call,” said Thakre. The late evening decision took many schools by surprise as they had all started preparations for the reopening. A school principal, whose institution was planning to reopen, said, “It’s a let down when authorities take such a decision at the last moment. On Monday they told us that schools will reopen on Thursday. And just 15 hours before the start, news comes that reopening has been deferred. The planning, the tempo and the energy level of staff had picked up. Now it’s back to the normal grind.” Education officials, too, were busy on Wednesday inspecting schools in rural areas. Education officer Chintaman Vanjari visited zilla parishad schools and surveyed their preparations. At the ZP High School (Nildoh) in Hingna taluka, Vanjari oversaw the sanitization of premises and also checked the seating arrangements for students. “Whenever schools reopen, the safety guidelines have to be practised to the last given detail. We cannot take any chances at any stage,” said Vanjari. Covid-19 tests for teachers are almost complete. As per information provided by the education department, around 600 teachers are yet to be tested. As of Wednesday afternoon, 116 teachers had tested positive since the testing began on November 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/collector-defers-school-reopening-till-dec-13/articleshow/79417002.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
November 26, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Seven ROBs to come up on Bhadrak-Berhampur railway route||Bhubaneswar: The East Coast Railway (ECoR) has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Engineering Projects (India) Limited (EPIL) for construction of seven road overbridges (ROBs) between Dhanmandal station in Jajpur district and Berhampur station in Ganjam district under the Khurda Road division. The EPIL, a public-sector enterprise under the Union ministry of heavy industries and public enterprises, will execute the project at an estimated cost of Rs 303.36 crore. The work on the ROBs has been assigned to the firm by the Railway Board. The EPIL will be paid management fee at 3.64 per cent over the project cost. The ECoR is abolishing level-crossing gates by constructing ROBs, road underbridges (RUBs) and limited height subways (LHS). This is aimed at enhancing the safety of train operations and facilitating hassle-free movement of both rail and road traffic. The MoU was signed on Tuesday between EPIL executive director Biswajit Biswas and ECoR chief engineer (road safety works) Brijesh Kumar Mishra in the presence of ECoR principal chief engineer Narottam Singh Uikey. The first ROB will be constructed between Gopalpur Balikuda and Barang stations, the second between Dhanmandal and Byree stations, the third between Khurda Road and Kaipadar Road, the fourth between Ganjam and Chatrapur stations, the fifth between Chatrapur and Jagannathapur and the last two between Jagannathpur and Berhampur stations. With the signing of the agreement, 13 ROBs in ECoR will be executed on a model formulated by the Railway Board. On November 17, the ECoR had inked MoU with government PSU Telecommunications Consultants India Limited (TCIL) for construction of six ROBs between Ranital and Jenapur stations under Khurda Road division at a cost of Rs 436.87 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/seven-robs-to-come-up-on-bhadrak-berhampur-railway-route/articleshow/79414815.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
November 26, 2020||Nashik||295 new cases, four deaths in Nashik district||Nashik: As many as 295 Covid-19 positive cases, including 170 from the city, have been reported in Nashik district in the last 24 hours, taking the tally of positive cases to 99,381. Four people succumbed to the infection in the district on Wednesday, including one from the city. The death toll stands at 899 in the city and 1,773 in the district. As many as 189 patients were discharged from various facilities across the district on Wednesday, of which, 135 were from the city. At present, the district has 2,772 active cases, including 1,601 from the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/295-new-cases-four-deaths-in-nashik-district/articleshow/79414813.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 26, 2020||Pune||Masks a must in Pune Cantonment Board limits from November 28||PUNE: The Pune Cantonment Board has decided to stop people without face masks from entering its limits from Saturday (Nov 28). “We will deploy volunteers, besides, health department staffers and the police at 13 vehicle entry points to ensure that people, irrespective of the vehicle they are driving, are not allowed in our jurisdiction without face masks,” Amit Kumar, the PCB’s chief executive officer, told TOI on Wednesday. He said the PCB officials recently held a meeting with the elected members from the eight wards to discuss this measure. Within the cantonment limits, the authorities are already implementing a drive against violation of face mask rule. Dr V D Gaikwad, PCB’s resident medical officer, said, “The Covid-19 positivity rate in Pune cantonment is 2%. If we want to maintain or further reduce this rate, we have to pay extra attention to social distancing norms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/masks-a-must-in-pcb-limits-from-nov-28/articleshow/79417009.cms||Sandip Dighe
November 26, 2020||Goa||Goa: Markets, Hindu households abuzz as Tulsi Vivah to be celebrated today||KERI: Across the state, Hindu households were buzzing with activity on Wednesday in preparation for the Tulsi Vivah celebrations that commence from Thursday. Tulsi vrundavans were given a new coat of paint and the markets were filled with sugarcane, tamarind and flowers. Tulsi Vivah or the ritualistic marriage of the basil plant is not only considered auspicious, but marks the beginning of the wedding season among Goan Hindus. The basil plant is holy for the Hindus and erecting a pedestal in front of the house to hold it is a must. From the twelfth day of the first fortnight of the eight Hindu month of Karthik, Goans celebrate Tulsi Vivah. Tree worship is inherent among Indians since the Indus valley civilization and the tulsi vivah is a way to acknowledge the holy status of the plant. There are a number of mythological stories associated with the basil plant, which is considered to be the consort of demon Jalandhar. However, the leaves of the plant are also considered a favourite of Lord Krishna, who is often offered a garland made from its leaves. “In Goa, the tulsi plant has been immortalised in folksongs. This plant possesses medicinal properties and has religious as well as cultural significance. Most folk performances are held in front of the tulsi in a sacred space called the maand, a practice still prevalent in many villages in Goa,” folk artist from Veling-Priol, Kanta Gaude said. “In Ramchandra temple, Gimone, we celebrate Tulsi Vivah in the cool and soothing moonlight of the full moon day,” resident Ratnakar Garde said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mkts-hindu-households-abuzz-as-tulsi-vivah-to-be-celebrated-today/articleshow/79417014.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
November 26, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: Pune Municipal Corporation vows regular health check of super-spreaders||PUNE: The civic administration will conduct regular health screening of the super-spreaders, including staffers of its various departments, PMPML employees, frontline workers and small-time vendors at market places, fearing a second wave of Covid-19 cases after the recent festive period. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials are in talks with the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) counterparts to draw up a plan for the screening of the bus drivers and conductors. The city has been witnessing a rise in the Covid-19 cases after Diwali— to around 800 a day now from below 500 daily till last week. The civic administration is utilizing the data of citizens collected during the “My Family My Responsibility” initiative for screening citizens exposed to more people and those with co-morbid conditions and the elderly. An official said, “We are people who can be possible super-spreaders. Our teams at the ward levels will keep a track of such people and ensure they undergo regular checks and, if necessary, Covid-19 tests.”  A PMC official said steps have been taken to ready the infrastructure to handle over 19,000 cases. The beds are ready at the Covid care Centres, the private and civic-run hospitals and in the jumbo facilities on the CoEP ground and in Baner. Action against people flouting face cover rule Officials of various wards of the civic body started taking action against people not wearing masks from Wednesday. Fifteen squads — one each of 15 civic wards — have been formed to monitor the use of face masks and social distancing norms and conduct checks at restaurants and malls, an official said. Eleven people were booked in the Dhankwadi area and five in Yerawada for not using masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-vows-regular-health-check-of-super-spreaders/articleshow/79417005.cms||Sarang Dastane
November 26, 2020||Nashik||Game: Create Covid ward for children||Nashik: Divisional commissioner of Nashik Radhakrishna Game on Wednesday asked the Jalgaon district administration to create a separate facility for children testing positive for Covid-19 after reopening of schools. “Once the schools reopen, the administration has to take more care and ensure that the contagion does not spread. The health department has to be more vigilant and a separate ward for children must be created to treat them in a dedicated manner if they contact the contagion,” Game said during a review meeting at Jalgaon. He has also warned against the complacency by citizens in following protective measures against Covid-19. “If any region is found having high number of coronavirus patients, the administration should put that particular region under containment zone imeediately so that the spread of the contagion is contained,” Game said. Besides, the divisional commissioner has further directed the district administration to the immediately install an oxygen tank at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Jalgaon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/game-create-covid-ward-for-children/articleshow/79414827.cms||Abhilash Botekar
November 26, 2020||Goa||Teachers upset as Constitution Day disrupts Tulsi Vivah||Panaji: Teachers were upset after schools have been asked to observe Constitution Day on Thursday. Hindus in the state celebrate Tulsi Vivah on November 26 this year. Usually, the holiday is included in the Diwali vacation for schools. But this year the state government has curtailed the Diwali break and allowed institutions to declare Tulsi Vivah as a holiday. Teachers said now instructions have come from the directorate of education to observe Constitution Day and send photographic proof of the same, when schools have already declared a discretionary holiday on November 26. A circular from the directorate to schools issued on November 23 states, “Conduct reading of Preamble at 11am along with honorable Prime Minister on November 26, 2020. You are hereby instructed to ensure maximum participating of the students and other stakeholders from your schools with strictly following Covid-19 protocols.” The details of students’ participation and three best photographs from each school should be set to the SCERT on or before 12 noon on November 27, director of education Santosh Amonkar told schools. This has left institutes and teachers annoyed. “The directorate had earlier issued a circular telling schools that they can declared November 26 as a holiday. The department is taking schools for granted,” said a teacher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/teachers-upset-as-constitution-day-disrupts-tulsi-vivah/articleshow/79417010.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Kolkata||Rush at Kolkata airport on no-flight-curb days||KOLKATA: The continued embargo on flights from six high-traffic cities four days-a-week has left passengers battling longer queues on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. With 40% more people travelling through the airport on these three days when there are no curbs on travel, security personnel, airlines officials and airport staff are struggling to cope with the additional pressure. On Wednesday, the long queue outside the terminal and at security check area left passengers harried and anxious with many managing to complete formalities in the nick time to catch flights. “I got through barely 10 minutes before boarding was closed despite arriving at the airport two-and-a-half hours before the flight’s scheduled departure. It took inordinately long to gain access to the terminal. In the queue, there was no concept of social distancing norms. Inside, there was another long queue for security check,” recounted corporate executive R Pandey. CISF officers said the problem was owing to the sudden surge in passenger count on days when flights are allowed to operate between Kolkata and six cities — Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Pune and Nagpur. On Monday, nearly 40,000 passengers travelled through the airport. The next day, it was down to around 25,000. On Wednesday, it was back to 40,000-plus. “We are deploying more manpower at gates to ensure faster checks. But there are procedures that need to be carried out by various agencies. The average time per passenger has gone up from 15 seconds to nearly a minute. Similarly, time has increased at security check due to social distancing and other Covid norms,” an officer said. An airline official said the problem would persist till the embargo is lifted and flyers are equally distributed over seven days. “Right now, we have an unusual situation in which many passengers who would have travelled on days when there is an embargo are forced to travel on the three days when the curbs aren’t there. This is creating a lop-sided pressure on manpwer and infrastructure,” the official said. The problem is accentuated by movement of labour traffic. “When a group of 30-40 passengers arrive, we usually ask them to split and queue up in different gates. But labourers, most of them first-time flyers, don’t agree, perhaps due to lack of familiarity with the surroundings and procedures. All of them queue up in one gate, making it inordinately long,” said airport director Kaushik Bhattacharjee. Labour traffic comprise 60% of departing passengers at the airport now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rush-at-airport-on-no-flight-curb-days/articleshow/79415968.cms||Subhro Niyogi
November 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Cut fee or will be forced to quit: Paid parking contractors to MC||Chandigarh: The two paid parking contractors have expressed inability to pay full licence fee amount from September, asking the municipal corporation (MC) to review its decision or they will be forced to quit owing to the financial crunch. The civic body had waived-off the fee during the curfew and subsequent lockdown period and provided a waiver in the monthly fee. In the last general house meeting, the members decided not to give any further waiver from September The matter will come up before the general house meeting on Friday. The contractors in separate requests to the MC said as the situation owing to the coronavirus pandemic was not improving, all paid parking lots were not fully occupied. Sources said representative of contractors had met senior MC officers recently. “Cinema halls and malls are witnessing very low footfall. Coaching centres and other educational institutes are closed. Fewer people are stepping out of their homes. As a result, parking lots are not getting filled to their capacities,” a representation of the contractors said. ‘Pandemic has hit earnings, not many stepping out’ Paid parking contractors have said the coronavirus pandemic has impacted their earnings, as not many people were visiting markets and malls. “Apart from that, around 4,000 paid parking passes have been issued under various categories. All these vehicles are exempted from any kind of paid parking fee. This too is affecting us. We are unable to pay the full licence fee. Please provide a waiver in the fee,” a letter of the paid parking contractors said. Auctioned for Rs 10cr The municipal corporation had auctioned paid parking zones to eligible contractors for over Rs 10 crore annually. It is, obviously, one of the crucial resources of the revenue for the civic body. Sources in the MC said that the plea of the contractors appears genuine, but the general house will take the final call. More time sought for smart features Contractors have asked for more time to install smart features in the paid parking lots according to the agreement. The general house had asked the officers to direct the contractor to place the smart features during the last house meeting in October 89 parking lots There are two paid parking contractors and 89 parking lots are divided between them. The parking lots of southern and eastern sectors of the city comprising sectors 34, 26 and 20 are under parking zone-1, while Zone-II has the areas of northern sectors comprising sectors 7, 8, 9, 17 and 22, which draws most of the rush||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cut-fee-or-will-be-forced-to-quit-paid-parking-contractors-to-mc/articleshow/79415975.cms||Deepak Yadav
November 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Gaganjeet, Lahiri to star in Jeev’s championship||CHANDIGARH: The highest quality of field ever to assemble at Chandigarh will be seen in action at the third edition of the Rs 1.5 crore Jeev Milkha Singh Invitational by Take Solutions that kicks off next week at the Chandigarh Golf Club (CGC) from December 3-7. The distinguished line-up will be led by India’s most successful golfer on the Asian Tour, Gaganjeet Bhullar, with nine victories and the player enjoying the best finish ever in a major championship, Anirban Lahiri. Lahiri bested Jeev’s record (tied-9th) for an Indian male player’s best finish in a major championship by recording a tied-5th at the 2015 PGA Championship. Notably, both Lahiri and Bhullar won their maiden professional championships in the Tricity (at the Panchkula Golf Club) and that served as launch pads to successful careers on the international tours. Bhullar and Lahiri have between them 17 victories on the international stage. They will be joined by a four-time winner on the European PGA Tour, SSP Chawrasia, Asian Tour winner, Shiv Kapur, and former Asia no. 1 player, Jyoti Randhawa. A unique aspect of the invitational will be the participation of the ‘chacha-bhatija’ duo of SSP and Sunit Chowrasia, the latter having set a new course record at the CGC earlier this month with a stunning 62. Barring city’s Shubhankar Sharma, US-based Arjun Atwal and Rahil Gangjee, all the established Indian players will be ensuring their participation in a unique championship named after Indian golf’s living legend, Jeev. With his eyes set on playing the international seniors tours from 2022, Jeev is back from Japan after having successfully cleared the playing test to become a member of the PGA of Japan having finished tied-39th with a cumulative score of 10-over-par. The invitational also will herald the return of the foreign players to Tata Steel-PGTI as Covid travel restrictions had kept them at bay. The official entry list for the invitational has the names of previous winners on the PGTI such as Lankans Mithun Perera and N Thangaraja and Bangladeshi, Md Zaman Hossain Mollah. In a departure from the format adopted for the recent championships at the CGC and Panchkula Golf Club that saw the field being split into two over two courses for the first two rounds due to Covid protocols, the invitational will revert back to the standard play of all four rounds at the host club, the CGC. Neither will the 2020 invitational follow up on the “'plastics-free” initiative put in place for last year’s edition as players are not using water from the club’s dispensers due to Covid restrictions or the popular long driving contest that built up the atmosphere for the 2019 invitational. The players who will lead the challenge for the prestigious invitational trophy --- whose prize fund equals the money on offer for the annual Tour Championship --- will be the Chandigarh lads. Hot favourite Ajeetesh Sandhu is the defending champion while in-form Karandeep S Kochhar is an astonishing 37-under-par for his last eight rounds at CGC and PGC while Akshay Sharma is one stroke better at 38-under-par! With the course set up likely to favour low scoring, the record of 20-under-par set last year for the CGC will come under challenge from the distinguished assembly of professionals next week. For Jeev, the championship host, the onus will be to make the cut having missed it in the first two editions of the Invitational. Memories of his childhood playing days will be revived with his old fourball also participating in the invitational in the guise of Amandeep Johl, Amritinder Singh and Harmeet Kahlon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/gaganjeet-lahiri-to-star-in-jeevs-championship/articleshow/79415982.cms||VIKRAM JIT SINGH
November 26, 2020||Nashik||107 more containment zones added in 3 days||Nashik: The number of containment zones, which had reduced from 1,900 in the first week of October to 432 till November 22, has started increasing again in the last three days. As many as 107 containment zones were added in the past three days. According to the sources at the Nashik Municipal Corporation, the number of containment zones rose to 539 on Wednesday (November 25). The NMC officials said though the situation is under control, there has been a marginal rise in the number of Covid cases in the last two days as the number of tests conducted has also increased. A health official from NMC said the number of new cases per day was more than the number of patients recovering per day “Moreover, there have been fluctuations in the number of containment zones released and new ones added. The number of containment zones is fewer as compared to the containment zones reported in October,” said an official. All the containment zones are residential buildings, apartments and houses. All the 150 slums in the city are now Covid free. Of the total 15,863 containment zones so far, as many as 15,334 are no more considered containment zones after patients recovered and no new cases were reported from these zones. NMC official said initially the slums were the major hotspots for Covid-19, but due to various measures taken by the civic administration like increasing the health check-up, tracing of high and low-risk contacts of the patients and early detection of the patients, the slums did not report any Covid cases. “The cases are now being reported from the residential buildings as a section of people do wear masks and do not maintain social distancing,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/107-more-containment-zones-added-in-3-days/articleshow/79414837.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 26, 2020||Vijayawada||Campaign for gender equality begins||Vijayawada: The Dalit Sthree Shakti (DSS) has raised the call for gender equality and participation in the campaign opposing violence against women. Functionaries of the DSS started a 16-day-long campaign in keeping with the call by the United Nations Women, here on Wednesday. Jhansi Geddam, national convener for DSS, addressed the gathering at the round table conference at the Press Club and said caste, religion and cinema, among other factors, are provoking gender-based discrimination in society. Inequalities should be addressed from the village-level and the DSS is committed to it, Jhansi said. “We have especially focused on the violence against Dalit, Adivasi women and girl children. In this campaign, Dalit Sthree Sakthi is enlightening the public in general about patriarchal ideology and how it is rooted in the minds of all. Unfortunately, even women unconsciously adhere to patriarchal ideology.,” she added. Public meetings, gatherings and awareness programmes will be conducted in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/campaign-for-gender-equality-begins/articleshow/79414844.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 26, 2020||Goa||Temperature screenings at Vasco rly stn||Vasco: Thermal screening of passengers is set to resume at the Vasco railway station as a safety measure against the spread of Covid-19 in the state. Train and passenger movement has been steadily increasing since the pandemic hit the country, with around 500 persons arriving at the station every day. A counter will be set up for scanning at the South Western Railway’s (SWR) Vasco railway station as part of the new standard operating procedures (SOP) for train passengers. An inspection was carried out by mamlatdar Dhiren Banaulikar, staff from the deputy collector’s office and SWR manager Ramdas Guddemane, who discussed the process to be adopted for thermal screening. “Every day, there are two passenger trains coming to Vasco railway station. The Yashvantpur Express from Bangalore arrives at 6am and the Goa Express comes at 3pm from Delhi. About 300 passengers from Yashvantpur Express and 200 from Goa Express land at Vasco daily,” Guddemane said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/temperature-screenings-at-vasco-rly-stn/articleshow/79417022.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: RT-PCR rule on arrival at airport leaves flyers tensed||PUNE: Delhi resident R S Khanna, who reached the city on Wednesday on a business trip for two days, hopes to get the RT-PCR test report at the earliest and go ahead with his work. Worried by the possibility of a post-Diwali surge in Covid-19 cases, the Maharashtra government on Monday stated that passengers flying in from Delhi, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Goa needed to carry a negative RT-PCR test report get tested at the airports on arrival. “The RT-PCR test took 10 minutes. But the problem is that the decision to get tested on arrival in Pune came so suddenly that I did not get the time to carry the report from Delhi. I am staying at a hotel and have requested the airport authorities to send me my report fast, so that I can complete the work I am here for,” Khanna said. Another flyer, who reached Pune from New Delhi in an IndiGo flight, looked flustered as he came out of the RT-PCR testing centre at the airport. “ I am in Pune for only three days. The authorities told me to quarantine myself till I get my test report. That means I will have to cancel at least two of my business meetings. I shouldn’t have even travelled,” he said. Officials said if the inbound flyers tested Covid-19 positive, the Pune Municipal Corporation authorities would contact them. A team of 25 people from a city diagnostic centre, Airports Authority of India staffers and other officials ensured that passengers arriving from the four states went through the RT-PCR test if they did not carry the Covid-19 test report. Pune airport director Kuldeep Singh told TOI that all aspects of social distancing were maintained. “Segregation is important for maintaining social distancing. We provided markings on the floor. Passengers’ cooperation and compliance with social distancing norms are very important. The samples are being tested at a laboratory in Vimannagar,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rt-pcr-rule-on-arrival-at-airport-leaves-flyers-tensed/articleshow/79417011.cms||Joy Sengupta
November 26, 2020||Goa||Thermal scans for travellers, Rs 2k for Covid test to Maharashtra : SOP||PANAJI: The state government on Wednesday issued new standard operating procedure (SOP) making thermal screening compulsory for all incoming passengers at airport and railways stations within the state. The SOP also stated that those who want to travel to Maharashtra and who want to obtain Covid negative certificate should pay Rs 2,000 for Covid test. Only those who pass through such screening may go home/to their destination. Passengers with body temperature beyond acceptable range will be sent for Covid test on payment basis Rs 2,000, per individual. Further course of action will be as per the prescribed protocol of health department. Persons travelling from Goa to Maharashtra by road, railway and air and who are desirous of obtaining RT-PCR negative test report from the health authorities may do so after paying Rs 2,000 with reference to the order and SOP issued by Maharashtra government on November 23. Further, passengers who willingly opt for Covid test on the arrival at the airport and railway station in Goa shall pay Rs 2,000 The procedure of issuing receipts and conducting tests shall be followed as per the SOP issued earlier in this regard. Earlier in the day, chief minister Pramod Sawant said that the state would not provide free Covid-19 certificates to those wishing to travel to Maharashtra. He said that anyone who wants to travel there can approach a private hospital for a test, or approach a government hospital, where the test will be done on payment. “If someone wishes to travel to Maharashtra, why should the state bear the cost of the test?” Sawant said. “Our SOP is clear — we conduct free Covid tests in Goa to prevent its spread in the state and so that patients get treatment on time.” The health minister Vishwjait Rane on Tuesday said that people wishing to avail a Covid test for travel should visit either the North Goa or South Goa district hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/thermal-scans-for-travellers-rs-2k-for-covid-test-to-maha-sop/articleshow/79417028.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Surat||First victims of 2008 Mumbai terror attack await compensation||Vansi, Machhiwad (Navsari): Nitin Rathod, (now 18), had just started going to school when his father Natwar alias Natu Nanu got killed in the November 2008 Mumbai attack. This closed many a chapter in Nitin’s life including his education, which he couldn’t pursue beyond Class X owing to financial constraints.To make ends meet, Nitin started doing odd jobs and support his mother, Dharmishtha, 36, who works as a daily wager and earns Rs 120 per day. The family of three including Nitin’s 13-year-old sister Asmita in coastal Vansi village has no other employment avenues for survival and fights to eke a living. Lakshmiben Rathod, around 90 years of age, too has bruised herself both metally and physically while visiting several government offices and courts in Navsari and Ahmedabad in the past 12 years trying in vain to get compensation against the death of her grandson Mukesh. Among the victims of the deadliest terror attacks by Pakistan terrorists Natwar, Mukesh of Vansi and Balwant Tandel of Machhiwad villages were the first casualties who were on board Kuber, the fishing trawler along with two other fishermen Valsad resident Amarsinh Solanki, the captain of Kuber and Ramesh Bambhania of Junagadh. Kuber was hijacked by 10 Pakistani terrorists off Jakhau coast near Gujarat to reach Mumbai. Nine terrorists were killed during the three-day siege while the only captured terrorist Mohammad Ajmal Aamir Kasab was executed in 2012 after a court trial. While only Solanki’s kin was compensated, Gujarat High Court in October 2019 ordered the state government to pay Rs 5 lakh compensation to Jashiben, wife of Bambhania, in an interim order. Jashibenhad approached the High Court in 2016 seeking compensation. Meanwhile, families of the three Navsari fishermen who are waiting to be compensated have already spent huge sums to get the promised Rs 5 lakh amount for each family. “I wish Nitin could study further but what can I do when we don’t have enough to support our basic needs even? I doubt if we will ever get compensation,” Dharmishtha told TOI. Nitin works as a labourer, while Asmita is studying in Class VIII. Bent at 90 degrees from her waist, nonagenarian Lakshmiben has no other illnesses but has to get her injuries that she suffered while visiting government offices treated. “I have very few days left. If I get the compensation the family can lead a normal life,” said Lakshmiben, who lives in a hut with her family. Damyanti, 51, wife of Tandel, got their daughter Bhagyashree, 28, married in a court marriage recently. Her son Umesh, 31, started working as fishermen to earn money. “I spent a huge amount of money on representations for compensation but it yielded no result,” said Damyanti. Anand Yagnik, high court lawyer who is offering free services to the families told TOI, “After court order, Jashiben was paid compensation in 2019. However, the government’s announcement of compensating the other families still remains. I will follow it up till they get their dues.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/first-victims-of-2008-mumbai-terror-attack-await-compensation/articleshow/79415046.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
November 26, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand CM nod to state-rly JV for key projects||RANCHI: Chief minister Hemant Soren on Wednesday gave his approval for the formation of a joint venture between the state and the Indian Railways for taking up key infrastructure projects in Jharkhand and providing connectivity in remote parts of Jharkhand. A statement issued by Soren’s office in the evening said he also approved the recommendation of a special committee headed by development commissioner K K Khandelwal, clearing the decks for a 50:50 cost-sharing programme for key projects in public interest as they will play a key role in socio-economic development of the state. “The committee in its report has suggested key points for connecting districts like Khunti and Simdega with the railway network. The financial provisions for projects which are not financially viable, yet important for critical connectivity and capacity enhancement, will be made from government and private stakeholders and through loans,” the statement read. The statement said Jharkhand Railway Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited, a joint venture of the state and the railways, will play key role in identify, plan and monitor critical railway projects. “The state and railway share will be pegged at 51:49 and financial burden will be carried on debt equity basis,” it read. At present, work is underway for several railway projects in Jharkhand. In cumulative, the costs of these projects are pegged a little over Rs 25,000 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-cm-nod-to-state-rly-jv-for-key-projects/articleshow/79416063.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Vadodara||Petlad head constable succumbs to Covid-19 in Anand||VADODARA/ANAND: Rameshvan Madhuvan Goswami, 52, a head constable posted with Petlad town police station in Anand district, succumbed to Covid-19 on Tuesday. Goswami is the first cop to die of Covid-19 in Anand district where nearly 22 cops have so far tested positive of Covid-19 but none of them were critically ill. Goswami was on duty when his health started deteriorating on Monday following which he was rushed to Shree Krishna Hospital at Karamsad where he passed away on Tuesday. The head constable who had served at different police stations during his 25 years long career was a native of Bhadarva village of Vadodara’s Savli taluka. Sources said he had severe comorbidities including diabetes and blood pressure. “We have forwarded a request to the state government for the ex-gratia that the family of any police official, who dies while on duty due to coronavirus, is entitled to get,” said Anand district superintendent of police Ajit Rajian, who has also appealed policemen in the district to voluntary donate any amount that they can to financial help the grief-stricken family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/petlad-head-constable-succumbs-to-covid-19/articleshow/79415425.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Ranchi||18 districts in Jharkhand clock new cases in single digits||RANCHI: Eighteen of the 24 districts reported fresh cases in single digits in the last 24 hours as the number of new cases of Covid continue to fall amid an increasing recovery rate. The total number of fresh cases stands at 237 against 316 recoveries. Meanwhile, casualties too have dipped as the state clocked three deaths, one each from Deoghar, Hazaribag and West Singhbhum, taking the toll in Jharkhand to 958. The casualty in the state stands at 0.88%. While Chatra reported zero new cases, Ranchi and East Singhbhum districts reported 92 and 38 cases, respectively. As per government data, as many as 1,08,158 people have been infected by the new virus till date and 1,04,533 have recovered from the infection, taking the recovery rate up to 97.11%. The seven-day growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.16% against the national average of 0.42%. The doubling rate of the virus in the state stands at 440.05 days against the national figure of 167.00 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/18-districts-in-jharkhand-clock-new-cases-in-single-digits/articleshow/79416167.cms||Gaurav Pandey
November 26, 2020||Ranchi||SuMo releases Lalu audio ‘luring’ Bihar BJP MLA||Patna/Ranchi: Former Bihar deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi on Wednesday released an alleged audio clip of jailed RJD chief Lalu Prasad asking BJP’s MLA from Pirpainti, Lallan Paswan, not to vote in the election for the state legislative assembly Speaker’s post. Lalu, in the alleged telephonic conversation, promised Paswan a ministerial berth after the fall of NDA government in Bihar. BJP MLA Vijay Sinha has been elected the Speaker. “Paswanji, congratulations ... you support us in the election of speaker tomorrow (Wednesday) and we will take your career ahead. We will make you a minister as we will bring down the government as the Speaker will be ours,” Lalu is heard saying on Tuesday in the audio. However, TOI died not verify the authenticity of the audio clip. When Paswan said he is in the party (BJP), Lalu is heard asking him to abstain from voting in the assembly on the plea of having been infected with Corona. Paswan told ANI on Wednesday that he received the call from Lalu, who offered him a ministerial berth, which he refused. “My PA (personal assistant) received the call and the person on the other side said Lalu Prasad wanted to speak to me. My PA asked him where he was calling from, to which the person said from Ranchi. I thought Laluji wanted to congratulate me for my victory in the election. He congratulated me and I also sought his blessings as he is an elderly person. Later, he asked me to be absent during the Speaker’s election,” said Paswan. Paswan said he was with Sushil Modi when the call came. “I informed Modiji immediately and the entire conversation happened in front of him,” added Paswan. “Lalu Yadav making telephone call (XXXXXXXXXX) from Ranchi to NDA MLAs & promising ministerial berths. When I telephoned, Lalu directly picked up. I said don’t do these dirty tricks from jail, you will not succeed (sic),” tweeted Sushil Modi. TOI is not revealing the number. RJD functionaries claimed the audio was doctored. “Sushil Modi does this every day to keep himself in the limelight. This has been his nature, although people don’t believe him. Sushil Modi is making baseless claims with no truth at all,” said RJD’s Maner MLA Bhai Virendra. In Ranchi, Jharkhand IG (prison) Birendra Bhushan said that under the jail manual, no convict can use mobile phones. “Lalu Prasad is not in jail but in hospital for treatment. At present, the responsibility lies with the local administration,” he said. Bhushan said no special facility has been provided to Lalu Prasad by the jail administration. RJD’s Jharkhand president Abhay Singh said Modi was demonstrating the character of opposition. “What else they can do except leveling baseless allegations,” he said commenting on the audio tape released by Modi in which a voice, claimed to be of Lalu, is heard, convincing a BJP MLA to vote in favour of RJD candidate in speakers election. Singh said that Lalu Prasad is a law abiding person and follows the court order. “We have not seen him using a phone so the audio is nothing but a doctored clip which is common today,” he said. BJP’s legislative party leader Babulal Marandi however claimed it to be amounting to horse trading. He asked the state government to lodge a criminal case against Lalu Prasad and conduct a detailed probe. “There is no rule of law in the state, otherwise how can a convict make calls from jail,” he asked. Marandi appealed to the high court and Supreme Court of India to take cognizance in the matter and step in to restore rule of law. Ranchi SSP SK Jha on the other hand said that the role of district administration was to maintain law and order and provide security. He said that adequate security deployment has been provided at the Kelly’s Bungalow where Lalu is being treated. Senior officials in the police department said that there are jail representatives in the hospital ward and it was there responsibility to ensure that jail manual is followed. ‘Whether the people who go to meet Lalu carry mobile phones or not is a matter to be verified by the jail administration,” a police officer preferring anonymity said. Lalu was shifted to Kelly’s Bungalow from Rims on August 5 as a precautionary measure against Covid-19 infection. Earlier, he was in shifted from Hotwar jail in Ranchi to the prison ward at Rims for treatment of multiple health disorders. Watch FIR filed against Lalu Prasad over his alleged phone call to BJP MLA||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/sumo-releases-lalu-audio-luring-bihar-bjp-mla/articleshow/79416050.cms||Piyush Tripathi
November 26, 2020||Ranchi||Former Jharkhand DGP’s son and his wife reach settlement||Ranchi: The district legal service authority (DLSA), Ranchi, settled the dispute between former DGP D K Pandey’s son Subhankar Pandey and daughter-in-law Rekha Mishra through mediation. In June, Rekha had registered a case with the Mahila police station against the former DGP, his wife Poonam Pandey and son alleging torture. The case was lodged under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 498A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) and 34 of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 3 and 4 of the Dowry Act. The former DGP and other accused had approached the court for anticipatory bail which was taken up in the court of the additional judicial commissioner (AJC) Diwakar Pandey. While passing an order of non-coercive action against the accused, the AJC subsequently referred the matter for mediation with the consent of both the parties. DLSA secretary Abhishek Kumar appointed lawyer Neelam Shekhar for facilitating an agreement between the two warring parties. Shekhar said, “Initially the situation seemed tough, but after around one dozen online sittings with both the parties, an agreement was reached.” Though officials refused to divulge details of the agreement, it is learnt from sources that both Subhankar and Rekha have agreed to end their dispute amicably and live separately. DLSA secretary said, “The report related to the mediation has been submitted to the court for perusal and passing of an appropriate order.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/former-jharkhand-dgps-son-and-his-wife-reach-settlement/articleshow/79416191.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 26, 2020||Jamshedpur||Banna Gupta urges people to remain alert, wear masks and take all precautions||JAMSHEDPUR: State health minister Banna Gupta appealed to the people on Wednesday to remain alert but not panic amid reports of a rise in Covid-19 cases in many parts of the country and also outside India. The minister said that there were fears that the second wave of the pandemic may be deadlier than the first wave if Covid-19 protocols were not followed properly. Banna, who has recovered from Covid-19 himself, urged everyone to wear masks when they step out of their homes. He said wearing masks should become a habit to avoid any kind of risk. He said people should avoid crowded places and maintain social-distancing norms. The minister added that senior citizens above 60 years and kids aged below 10 should not visit public places. The minister said people should cooperate with the administration as officials have again started checking and detaining people who are not found wearing masks. He said such steps were being taken for the safety of the masses and not to harass them. Meanwhile, the administration is keeping a close vigil on the passengers alighting from trains and buses in Jamshedpur. Special checking drives have been started at the Tatanagar railway station. On Tuesday, 178 passengers were checked and among them three were found to be Covid positive. Till Tuesday evening, East Singhbhum had 16,985 Covid cases, of which 317 are active.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/banna-urges-people-to-remain-alert-wear-masks-and-take-all-precautions/articleshow/79416249.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
November 26, 2020||India||Cyclone Nivar makes landfall, impact likely till afternoon in TN||CHENNAI: Cyclonic storm Nivar commenced landfall 30km north of Puducherry and 115km south of Chennai around 11.15pm on Wednesday. The core of the storm which hit close to Marakkanam is expected to take three hours to cross over. Heavy rain and winds of 120 to 130kmph, gusting to 145kmph, lashed the coastal areas of Puducherry and Cuddalore. Chennai too saw spells of heavy rain and wind. The weathermen say the effects of the storm, with heavy rain and high winds, will be felt till at least Thursday afternoon. Spells of rain could continue till Friday. Nearly 1.38 lakh people, including 28,161 children, were evacuated to 1,694 relief centres across Tamil Nadu from low-lying areas and unsafe buildings. “Arrangements have been made to shelter 13 lakh people in 4,733 relief centres,” revenue and disaster management minister R B Udhayakumar said. There are six NDRF teams on standby. “Eight teams of the Indian Army with two rescue boats are reaching Chennai today. Six more teams with a boat will be sent to Trichy,” Udhayakumar said. The Army has sent eight 10-member teams and two boats to Chennai, and six teams and a rescue boat to Trichy. Multiple teams from the Navy and Indian coast guard too have been deployed across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cyclone-nivar-makes-landfall-impact-likely-till-afternoon-in-tn/articleshow/79418862.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Goa||Goa: March-September road tax waived for commercial vehicles||PANAJI: The cabinet on Monday granted approval to the Goa, Daman and Diu Motor Vehicle Tax (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, exempting payment of road tax during March-September, 2020, for all commercial vehicles operating in the state. Chief minister Pramod Sawant told reporters that most commercial vehicles did not ply from March 1 owing to the Covid-19 pandemic and consequent restrictions, and that their owners would not have to cough up a penalty or interest for not paying road tax. Owners who did pay road tax during the specified period would have those amounts carried forward, he said. Road tax for all commercial vehicles, as per section 4 of The Goa, Daman and Diu Motor Vehicles Tax Act, 1974, is to be paid in advance for a year by every registered owner or person having possession or control of the vehicle. Section 12 of the Act provides for a penalty at the rate of 25%, after the grace period of first two month of the commencement of financial year. However, due to lockdown owners of commercial vehicles were unable to pay the MV tax in time. An advisory issued by MoRTH had asked all states and Union Territories to consider provisions available under the M V Act, 1988, or other such provisions available under other Acts to relax the requirement of permits and fees, taxes or penalties for renewal of permits. The proposed amendment sought to grant relief by way of a grace period without penalty, to all commercial vehicles plying within the state, the cabinet note said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mar-sept-road-tax-waived-for-commercial-vehicles/articleshow/79417054.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Goa||Sardinha: Pay heed to people’s oppn||Margao: South Goa MP Francisco Sardinha on Tuesday implored chief minister Pramod Sawant to pay heed to people’s opposition to track doubling and coal transportation issues and “change your decision” in the larger interest of the state. “Congress may have erred in the past on certain issues, but as a chief minister it’s your duty to change the decision if the people so want,” Sardinha said.  He said that the 10 legislators who had switched over from Congress to BJP profess their “greater love” for Goa by supporting the people in their agitation against the three contentious infrastructure projects. “And if the chief minister doesn’t listen to you, oust him,” Sardinha said. He further defended allegations that it was Congress that was responsible for bringing casinos to Goa. Sardinha said, “Congress brought casinos not out of any bad intention but in order to salvage tourism.” Referring to DGP Mukesh Kumar Meeena’s statement supporting the double tracking project, Sardinha advised Meena to “follow your rules and conduct”. He also advised chief minister Pramod Sawant not to let the bureaucrats go beyond their powers. “Else step down and make the DGP the CM,” he said. Sardinha demanded that the state government regularise illegal sand mining, laterite stone quarrying, etc, so that consumers do not suffer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sardinha-pay-heed-to-peoples-oppn/articleshow/79417055.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 26, 2020||Goa||CM: In lieu of mid-day meal, kids to get food items||Panaji: In a decision that would benefit over 1.58 lakh students, the state government on Wednesday granted its approval to provide moong, oil and jaggery to all students from Std I to VIII in lieu of mid-day meals. Chief minister Pramod Sawant told reporters that during the last six months, mid-day meals were not provided to students as schools were shut. He said the food items will now be delivered to students at their homes. The Union government in March advised the state to provide food grains as per the entitlement of the child and cooking cost prevailing in the state. The provision has to be made with effect from the date of lockdown, that is March 16. Considering the prevailing circumstances and in the light of the Supreme Court directions, the Union education minister has advised that food items, including pulses, oil, among other items, be provided to all the eligible children in lieu of hot cooked mid-day meal. The directorate of education is implementing the mid-day meal scheme under the National Programme of Nutritional Support to Primary Education with a 60:40 pattern with the central government. The main objective of the mid-day meal scheme is to boost enrolment, curb school dropouts and to provide nutritional support to the students. These objectives have been substantially attainedAdditionally, it has provided employment to women .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-in-lieu-of-mid-day-meal-kids-to-get-food-items/articleshow/79417066.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Goa||Tuem hub mega plots to be allotted without auction||Panaji: The state cabinet on Wednesday approved a land allotment policy for the electronic manufacturing cluster (EMC) at Tuem village in Pernem taluka. The policy will empower the cabinet to decide on allotment of land for big or mega projects without auction, on a case-to-case basis upon the recommendation of a screening committee. “As per the proposed policy, allotment of plots for purposes other than for industrial use shall be done through auction, wherein plots, sheds, godowns or built-up space would be allotted on a lease basis to the highest bidder,” the cabinet note stated. “Allotment of land for big or mega projects without auction can be taken up for cabinet approval on a case-to-case basis, on recommendation of a screening committee.” The Goa government is developing the EMC at Tuem to address future demands for IT infrastructure. It is envisaged that the park will provide a steady supply of employment opportunities besides being specifically geared towards the needs of the IT & electronics system design and manufacturing (ESDM) sector. The EMC will be set up over an area measuring close to six lakh square metres in Tuem. InfoTech Corporation of Goa has been identified as the implementing agency for the project and has been planning and executing various works at the earmarked site for systematic and timely development of the EMC in accordance with MeitY’s greenfield EMC scheme. According to the cabinet note, the current proposal is to create a land allotment policy with an objective to make provisions for the planned development of the EMC and promotion of industries related to electronics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tuem-hub-mega-plots-to-be-allotted-without-auction/articleshow/79417174.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka on high alert as Cyclone Nivar nears Tamil Nadu||MYSURU/BENGALURU: With Cyclone Nivar hurtling towards neighbouring Tamil Nadu, the Karnataka government has sounded a high alert in all districts, particularly Bengaluru city. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa, who is on a tour of Mysuru since Tuesday, said the authorities concerned have been asked to be on their toes for any eventuality. He has instructed the state machinery in south and coastal Karnataka to be prepared, instructing officials to set up relief and rehabilitation camps if required. “We can’t stop the cyclone. But we can take preventive steps to avoid maximum damage. The authorities have been directed to be on alert in coastal areas and places close to Tamil Nadu,” the CM added. There are strong indications that Bengaluru, its adjoining districts and coastal Karnataka will witness heavy rainfall, the authorities said. However, officials in the revenue department who are monitoring the situation said: “Though the cyclone is not going to have a major impact in the state, it will affect areas closer to Tamil Nadu. Inclement weather is expected to prevail on Thursday and Friday and preparatory measures should be in place.” The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has already issued a yellow alert in Bengaluru Urban, Bengaluru Rural, Kolar, Chikkaballapura, Tumakuru, Mandya and Ramanagara districts for three days starting Thursday. “South-interior Karnataka is very likely to experience light to moderate scattered rainfall on Thursday and Friday and isolated rainfall on Saturday and Sunday,” said C S Patil, IMD director, Bengaluru. Fishermen have been warned not to venture into the sea for two days,and those who are out are being advised to reach a harbour at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/ktaka-on-high-alert-as-cyclone-nivar-nears-tn/articleshow/79419042.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: R Roshan Baig in CBI custody till Saturday morning||BENGALURU: A special court for CBI cases on Wednesday remanded former minister R Roshan Baig in Central Bureau of Investigation custody for three days in connection with the multi-crore I Monetary Advisory (IMA) scam. Baig is presently in Central Prison (Parappana Agrahara). CBI approached the special court on Wednesday with its plea and judge Manjula Itty ordered Baig be sent to CBI custody till 11am on Saturday. The ex-minister is accused of taking a kickback of Rs 400 crore from IMA Group’s founder-director Mohammed Mansoor Khan. The scam is worth Rs 4,000 crore and over 50,000 investors have been cheated, according to CBI. Baig’s name emerged when the scam surfaced nearly 18 months ago. Khan, who had fled the country and was arrested later on his return from Dubai in July 2019, has claimed he paid crores of rupees as bribes to state politicians and several other government officials. In mid-2019, police found documents in which a key associate of Khan had recorded payments made to politicians, policemen and government officials. It showed Baig as a key recipient of funds. Officials said Baig will be made to confront Khan and BDA official PD Kumar on Thursday. According to CBI sources, the digital hard drive seized from Khan has a list of people to whom he paid bribes and they are going through it. Khan had informed directors of IMA Group about the bribes paid through email, which has been accessed by CBI. Besides state government employee and IPS officers, some central investigating agency officials are also on CBI’s radar, an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/baig-in-cbi-custody-till-saturday-morning/articleshow/79416145.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Air India to launch first direct Bengaluru-San Francisco flight on January 11||NEW DELHI: Air India will start a direct flight between Hyderabad and Chicago from January 9, 2021, making it the first scheduled service between south India and the US. The carrier will also launch its first non-stop flight (twice-weekly) between Bengaluru and San Francisco on January 11, 2021, Bangalore International Airport Limited announced on Wednesday. United is scheduled to start a direct flight on this route from May 6, 2021. And next winter, American Airlines plans to connect Bengaluru to Seattle. An AI official said: “We are awaiting US Transportation Security Administration nod for both these routes.” “This route, at this point in time, will be third in ranking for longest routes operated by all carriers,” a United spokesperson had said. “The new non-stop service is expected to meet the demand of corporate customers for travel to SFO and adjoining areas in the US. Air India plans to operate a 238-seater Boeing 777-200 LR aircraft to serve the largest unserved international origin/destination market for Kempegowda International airport. The new route sets two records – it would be Air India’s longest route and longest flight to and from India (over 16 hours). The carrier has opened bookings from November 25,” BIAL said in a statement. “This would be the first non-stop flight between Bengaluru and the US, connecting the world’s two tech hubs — the original Silicon Valley and the Silicon Valley of India,” it added. The privatisation process for AI is on and aviation minister HS Puri has often said failure to find a buyer could mean curtains down for the Maharaja. As of now, deadline for bidding ends next month unless it’s extended again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/air-india-to-launch-first-direct-bluru-sfo-flight-on-january-11/articleshow/79416140.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: Five, including 3 brothers, drown in Chikkamagaluru||CHIKKAMAGALURU: Five youths, including three brothers, who were attending a post-marriage feast, drowned in a tank in Vastare village, 16km from Chikkamagaluru town and 250km from Bengaluru, on Wednesday. The deceased have been identified as brothers Sudeep, 25, twins Dileep and Deepak, 22, and friends Sandeep, 23, and Raghu, 22, Their bodies were recovered in the evening. The trio’s parents, Krishnamurthy and Kusuma, were shattered, having lost all their three children in the tragedy. The brothers from Hancharahalli, near Chikkamagaluru, attended the wedding of their relative, Santhosh, with Sandhya at Vastare on November 20. The villages are 8km apart. On Wednesday, there was baadoota (a non-vegetarian feast after marriage), and the brothers on that occasion befriended Sandeep and Raghu, from Vastare. All five men decided to go for a swim at the village tank. Those on the bund watched the five men swim for a distance and disappear one after another. When none of the five swam back to the surface for a long time, worried relatives and those from the village launched a search but to no avail. They informed Aldur police, who rushed in fire and emergency services personnel. After a six-hour search using a boat, the five bodies were recovered by evening. Chikkamagaluru superintendent of police Hakay Akshay Machhindra said they might have got stuck in a sludgy patch and died there. A dog named Danny was restless as his master Sandeep went missing in the waters. It, too, tried to look for him by moving around the tank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/5-including-3-brothers-drown-in-cmagaluru/articleshow/79416131.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Realtor kingpin of KSRP exam scam, 10 imposters were hired for Rs 2 lakh each||BENGALURU: Preliminary investigation into the 10 cases of impersonation during the recently held exam for the post of constables in Karnataka State Reserve Police (KSRP) has revealed that the entire operation was masterminded by a realtor and financier from Belagavi. Six men were arrested in Bengaluru, while four were nabbed in Belagavi on impersonation charges during the exam held on November 22. All 10 were to be paid Rs 2 lakh each for the job. One of the arrested was a police constable from Sringeri. Police have questioned the candidates for whom the impersonators were working, but are yet to arrest any of them. Initial investigation revealed accused Lakshman Paravannanavar, who was caught in Bengaluru, had roped in the nine other imposters to appear on behalf of the candidates. Most of the accused arrested are from Belagavi and Bagalkot in North Karnataka. DCP (south) Harish Pandey said they found Rs 2.5 lakh in Paravannanavar’s bank account. Paravannanavar, a realtor and financier from Belagavi, seems to be the kingpin, Pandey told TOI. “We are in the initial stages of investigation. According to Paravannanavar, two candidates had paid him Rs 2.5 lakh. The cash was transferred to his bank account, ” he added. Following the six arrests in Bengaluru, three special teams were deployed for probe. Accompanied by the suspects, the teams have reached different places of North Karnataka, including Belagavi and Bagalkot. “Paravannanavar was the contact person between the candidates and their imposters. Seven candidates were freshers, while three others were repeaters. We suspect a the handiwork of an established network behind Paravannanavar as these rackets don’t develop overnight,” another senior officer said. Paravannanavar told police that they decided to take the risk since there was no biometric system this time due to Covid-19. All candidates were directed to carry hall tickets and IDs such as Aadhaar card. “In September 2019, a similar exam was held for the post of civil police constable across the state and candidates were made to give biometric samples before entering the exam hall. The samples were matched with those submitted with the applications earlier. Further, entry to examination centres was closed with two hours to go for the test. This two-hour window gave authorities ample time to scan the documents of candidates. But this time, due to Covid-19, these rules were dropped. The accused took advantage of the situation,” an investigating officer said. Former DGP Raghavendra Auradkar, who as ADGP (recruitment and training), conducted such exams for four years, said adopting technology is the best way to address the problem of malpractice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/realtor-kingpin-of-ksrp-exam-scam10-imposters-were-hired-for-2l-each/articleshow/79416148.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka on high alert as Cyclone Nivar nears Tamil Nadu||MYSURU/BENGALURU: With Cyclone Nivar hurtling towards neighbouring Tamil Nadu, the Karnataka government has sounded a high alert in all districts, particularly Bengaluru city. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa, who is on a tour of Mysuru since Tuesday, said the authorities concerned have been asked to be on their toes for any eventuality. He has instructed the state machinery in south and coastal Karnataka to be prepared, instructing officials to set up relief and rehabilitation camps if required. “We can’t stop the cyclone. But we can take preventive steps to avoid maximum damage. The authorities have been directed to be on alert in coastal areas and places close to Tamil Nadu,” the CM added. There are strong indications that Bengaluru, its adjoining districts and coastal Karnataka will witness heavy rainfall, the authorities said. However, officials in the revenue department who are monitoring the situation said: “Though the cyclone is not going to have a major impact in the state, it will affect areas closer to Tamil Nadu. Inclement weather is expected to prevail on Thursday and Friday and preparatory measures should be in place.” The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has already issued a yellow alert in Bengaluru Urban, Bengaluru Rural, Kolar, Chikkaballapura, Tumakuru, Mandya and Ramanagara districts for three days starting Thursday. “South-interior Karnataka is very likely to experience light to moderate scattered rainfall on Thursday and Friday and isolated rainfall on Saturday and Sunday,” said C S Patil, IMD director, Bengaluru. Fishermen have been warned not to venture into the sea for two days,and those who are out are being advised to reach a harbour at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ktaka-on-high-alert-as-cyclone-nivar-nears-tn/articleshow/79416130.cms||---
November 26, 2020||India||Naidu: Several verdicts raise concerns of judicial overreach||KEVADIA: Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Wednesday said the Supreme Court and high courts had delivered several far-reaching verdicts in furtherance of socio-economic objectives besides making correctional interventions but concerns were raised whether orders on Diwali fireworks, monitoring of investigations and making judicial appointments their preserve meant an intrusion into the domains of the legislature and the executive. Speaking at the 80th All India Presiding Officers’ Conference in Kevadia, he said there had been debates whether some issues should have been more legitimately left to the other organs of governance. “For example, Deepavali fireworks, cess on registration and movement of vehicles from NCR through Delhi, banning use of vehicles of certain make after 10 or 15 years, monitoring police investigations, denying the executive any role in the appointment of judges by instituting collegium, invalidating the National Judicial Accountability Commission Act seeking to ensure transparency and accountability are being cited as instances of judicial overreach,” Naidu said. He said the legislature, the executive and the judiciary were bound to work within their respective domains as defined in the Constitution. “This warrants a spirit of mutual respect, responsibility and restraint. Unfortunately, there have been several instances of crossing the boundaries,” he added. Presiding over the inaugural session, President Ram Nath Kovind urged lawmakers to ensure civility while participating in legislative proceedings. He said people expected compliance of parliamentary ethics by their elected representatives and they were pained to see use of unparliamentary language in House proceedings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/naidu-several-verdicts-raise-concerns-of-judicial-overreach/articleshow/79418869.cms||Akhilesh Singh
November 26, 2020||Noida||Local factors, not fires, worsened Delhi's air quality: Experts||NEW DELHI: The air quality in the city deteriorated from very poor range on Tuesday to severe on Wednesday, with an Air Quality Index reading of 413. Experts said the impact of stubble burning was at a negligible 2% but local sources of pollution and adverse weather conditions severely affected the air quality. Track the pollution level in your cityBefore this, the AQI was in the ‘severe’ category on November 15, a day after Diwali, but it improved in a day due to favourable meteorological factors under the influence of a western disturbance. Met officials said ‘trace’ rainfall was recorded on Wednesday evening at isolated pockets of NCR and light rain is predicted for Thursday morning. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “The average wind speed recorded on Wednesday was 8 kmph and it affected the dispersion of pollutants. Both minimum and maximum temperatures remained below the normal mark.” V K Soni, head, environment monitoring centre, IMD, said, “However, strong wind is likely to blow on Thursday and air quality is expected to slip back to ‘very poor’ category.” Central Pollution Control Board’s central control room data showed that 24-hour average PM10 concentration for Delhi-NCR was at 410.6 micrograms per cubic metre at 6pm on Wednesday, as against standard 100 micrograms per cubic metre. While 24-hour average PM2.5 was 242.3 micrograms per cubic metre at 6pm. The standard for PM 2.5 is 60 micrograms per cubic metre. Forecasting body SAFAR said: “The surface-level winds are calm and boundary layer transport-level winds are southeasterly and not favorable for stubble-induced intrusion. Winds are forecast to pick up and improve the ventilation condition by Thursday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/local-factors-not-fires-worsened-delhis-air-quality-experts/articleshow/79418963.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
November 26, 2020||Delhi||Local factors, not fires, worsened Delhi's air quality: Experts||NEW DELHI: The air quality in the city deteriorated from very poor range on Tuesday to severe on Wednesday, with an Air Quality Index reading of 413. Experts said the impact of stubble burning was at a negligible 2% but local sources of pollution and adverse weather conditions severely affected the air quality. Track the pollution level in your cityBefore this, the AQI was in the ‘severe’ category on November 15, a day after Diwali, but it improved in a day due to favourable meteorological factors under the influence of a western disturbance. Met officials said ‘trace’ rainfall was recorded on Wednesday evening at isolated pockets of NCR and light rain is predicted for Thursday morning. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “The average wind speed recorded on Wednesday was 8 kmph and it affected the dispersion of pollutants. Both minimum and maximum temperatures remained below the normal mark.” V K Soni, head, environment monitoring centre, IMD, said, “However, strong wind is likely to blow on Thursday and air quality is expected to slip back to ‘very poor’ category.” Central Pollution Control Board’s central control room data showed that 24-hour average PM10 concentration for Delhi-NCR was at 410.6 micrograms per cubic metre at 6pm on Wednesday, as against standard 100 micrograms per cubic metre. While 24-hour average PM2.5 was 242.3 micrograms per cubic metre at 6pm. The standard for PM 2.5 is 60 micrograms per cubic metre. Forecasting body SAFAR said: “The surface-level winds are calm and boundary layer transport-level winds are southeasterly and not favorable for stubble-induced intrusion. Winds are forecast to pick up and improve the ventilation condition by Thursday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/local-factors-not-fires-worsened-delhis-air-quality-experts/articleshow/79418878.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
November 26, 2020||Gurgaon||Local factors, not fires, worsened Delhi's air quality: Experts||NEW DELHI: The air quality in the city deteriorated from very poor range on Tuesday to severe on Wednesday, with an Air Quality Index reading of 413. Experts said the impact of stubble burning was at a negligible 2% but local sources of pollution and adverse weather conditions severely affected the air quality. Track the pollution level in your cityBefore this, the AQI was in the ‘severe’ category on November 15, a day after Diwali, but it improved in a day due to favourable meteorological factors under the influence of a western disturbance. Met officials said ‘trace’ rainfall was recorded on Wednesday evening at isolated pockets of NCR and light rain is predicted for Thursday morning. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “The average wind speed recorded on Wednesday was 8 kmph and it affected the dispersion of pollutants. Both minimum and maximum temperatures remained below the normal mark.” V K Soni, head, environment monitoring centre, IMD, said, “However, strong wind is likely to blow on Thursday and air quality is expected to slip back to ‘very poor’ category.” Central Pollution Control Board’s central control room data showed that 24-hour average PM10 concentration for Delhi-NCR was at 410.6 micrograms per cubic metre at 6pm on Wednesday, as against standard 100 micrograms per cubic metre. While 24-hour average PM2.5 was 242.3 micrograms per cubic metre at 6pm. The standard for PM 2.5 is 60 micrograms per cubic metre. Forecasting body SAFAR said: “The surface-level winds are calm and boundary layer transport-level winds are southeasterly and not favorable for stubble-induced intrusion. Winds are forecast to pick up and improve the ventilation condition by Thursday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/local-factors-not-fires-worsened-delhis-air-quality-experts/articleshow/79418962.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
November 26, 2020||Ghaziabad||Local factors, not fires, worsened Delhi's air quality: Experts||NEW DELHI: The air quality in the city deteriorated from very poor range on Tuesday to severe on Wednesday, with an Air Quality Index reading of 413. Experts said the impact of stubble burning was at a negligible 2% but local sources of pollution and adverse weather conditions severely affected the air quality. Track the pollution level in your cityBefore this, the AQI was in the ‘severe’ category on November 15, a day after Diwali, but it improved in a day due to favourable meteorological factors under the influence of a western disturbance. Met officials said ‘trace’ rainfall was recorded on Wednesday evening at isolated pockets of NCR and light rain is predicted for Thursday morning. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “The average wind speed recorded on Wednesday was 8 kmph and it affected the dispersion of pollutants. Both minimum and maximum temperatures remained below the normal mark.” V K Soni, head, environment monitoring centre, IMD, said, “However, strong wind is likely to blow on Thursday and air quality is expected to slip back to ‘very poor’ category.” Central Pollution Control Board’s central control room data showed that 24-hour average PM10 concentration for Delhi-NCR was at 410.6 micrograms per cubic metre at 6pm on Wednesday, as against standard 100 micrograms per cubic metre. While 24-hour average PM2.5 was 242.3 micrograms per cubic metre at 6pm. The standard for PM 2.5 is 60 micrograms per cubic metre. Forecasting body SAFAR said: “The surface-level winds are calm and boundary layer transport-level winds are southeasterly and not favorable for stubble-induced intrusion. Winds are forecast to pick up and improve the ventilation condition by Thursday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/local-factors-not-fires-worsened-delhis-air-quality-experts/articleshow/79418964.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
November 26, 2020||World||Trump refuses to accept Biden's win as transition proceeds||WASHINGTON: President Donald Trump on Wednesday baselessly claimed anew that he had won the election and uttered repeated falsehoods when he called into an event held by Pennsylvania Republicans to investigate unproven allegations of voter fraud. "This was an election that we won easily. We won it by a lot,`` Trump declared to the group gathered at a hotel in Gettysburg. Trump, in fact, lost the election to President-elect Joe Biden. Biden won Pennsylvania by about 80,000 votes and the state certified him as the winner on Tuesday. The Pennsylvania event was the latest attempt by Trump and his lawyer Rudy Giuliani, a former New York City mayor, to try to cast doubt on the results of the democratic election, even as the formal transition process has begun and a growing number of Republicans are recognizing Biden as president-elect. State election officials across the county and international observers have said there is no evidence of widespread voter fraud, and Trump's legal team has lost repeatedly in court, in addition to making numerous elementary errors. Wednesday's event, hastily organized by Republican state lawmakers, including Pennsylvania state Sen. Doug Mastriano, an outspoken Trump supporter, came with trappings of an official hearing flags, a gavel, and unsworn ``witnesses'' who ``testified'' in person and by phone. Among them was a special guest the president who at one point had been expected to attend in person, but did not after another member of his legal team announced that he had tested positive for the coronavirus Wednesday morning. Trump spoke for about 11 minutes via a phone held up to a microphone by his lawyer Jenna Ellis and insisted again that the election had been ``rigged`` for Biden. ``This election has to be turned around,`` he stated. It was yet another stunning declaration from an American president advocating overturning a democratic election and the voters' will because he wants to stay in power. The hotel where the Senate Majority Policy Committee met is about a mile from the scene of Pickett's Charge, where Union troops repelled a desperate Confederate attack in July 1863. It helped turn the tide of the American Civil War against the slave-owning South. The Trump campaign on Wednesday asked the U.S. 3rd Circuit Court of Appeals for the chance for Giuliani to give oral arguments in its appeal over the vote count in Pennsylvania. The court has not yet said if it will hear arguments. Trump campaign aide Boris Epshteyn, who has been working with his legal team, is the latest person in Trump's orbit to contract the coronavirus. He had attended a press conference with Giuliani in Washington last week during which Giuliani continued to lob meritless accusations of mass voter fraud, despite no evidence to support his claims. Also in attendance was Giuliani's son, who works at the White House and announced a day later that he had tested positive. Giuliani wore a mask as he arrived at the hearing, but has not isolated, despite his exposure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-refuses-to-accept-bidens-win-as-transition-proceeds/articleshow/79418876.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: High discharge keeps hospitalisation under control||VADODARA: While the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the city and district and the night curfew may have created panic, the healthy discharge rate of recovered patients has ensured that the number of live cases remain under control. Against 110 new cases detected in the city and district during the 24 hours ending on Wednesday evening at 5pm, 116 persons were discharged from hospitals and home quarantine. The total number of discharged persons in the city and district reached 16,095 with the fresh round of discharges. The discharges since the last few days have largely been comprising persons who were in home isolation. Out of the 116 persons discharged on Wednesday, 79 were in home isolation while the remaining were from government as well as private hospitals. After the fresh round of discharges, 1,151 persons remained under treatment home or in hospitals. These included 66 in a serious condition on ventilators or BIPAP machines and 169 on oxygen support. The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) did not confirm any more deaths due to Covid-19 being the primary reason on Wednesday. The total number of deaths due to the viral infection stood at 219, but did not include those persons who were infected by the novel coronavirus, but died due co-morbidities or other ailments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/high-discharge-keeps-hospitalisation-under-control/articleshow/79415442.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Delhi||Toxic cocktail of pollutants in air near Delhi's Ghazipur||NEW DELHI: While the capital is already reeling under “severe” air, those residing in the vicinity of the Ghazipur landfill site got a double blow with the waste mound going up in flames on Tuesday night. Not only was the smoke visible several kilometres away, but those near the landfill could feel their eyes burning and also having difficulty in breathing due to the toxic cocktail of pollutants in the air. Track the pollution level in your cityThe two nearest ambient air quality monitoring stations of Central Pollution Control Board — Anand Vihar and Patparganj — showed an AQI above 400, which falls in the “severe” category. Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) data also showed the average hourly PM2.5 concentration at over 400 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m3) all through the night, when the fire raged on, which dropped below 300 µg/m3 only after noon on Wednesday. Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director, research and advocacy, at Centre for Science and Environment, said landfill fires pose a greater risk than a regular blaze owing to the huge amounts of mixed garbage. “The waste there is toxic and such fires are often continuous in nature, lasting for hours. This can cause a huge amount of toxic emissions to be released in the surrounding areas, exposing people of the low-income group living in the neighbourhood extremely vulnerable in terms of health. The smoke can also worsen underlying health conditions,” she added. DPCC data showed the average PM2.5 concentration at Anand Vihar touched 462 µg/ m3 at 4am, over seven times the safe standard, while the highest hourly PM2.5 concentration at Patparganj was 421 µg/m3. The standard for PM2.5 is 60 µg/m3. Meteorological conditions are expected to play an important role over the next 48 hours. “The possibility of very light rain on Thursday will help settle pollutants in the area. Wind speed is also expected to be good, which may help in the dispersal of pollutants. If there is enough rain, pollutants will settle down. However, inadequate rain may only add more moisture to the polluted air,” said a Met official. Delhi produces around 10,000MT of waste each day, a majority of which is dumped at the Bhalswa, Ghazipur and Okhla landfill sites. All three sites had exhausted their capacity long ago. The combustible methane gas produced at the sites often catches fire. Studies have shown that methane gas is toxic in the long run. The fumes generated add a toxic mix of carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, hydrogen sulphide, carcinogenic dioxins and furans to the particulate matter in the air. A landfill fire generally tends to raise the ambient PM 2.5 concentration in the area, owing to combustion, while secondary particulate formation and release of other gases also occur simultaneously. Watch Delhi pollution: Toxic mix of gases in air near Ghazipur landfill site||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/toxic-cocktail-of-pollutants-in-air-near-delhis-ghazipur/articleshow/79418889.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
November 26, 2020||Chennai||Cyclone Nivar: Tamil Nadu stands up to the storm||CHENNAI: Cyclonic storm Nivar commenced landfall 30km north of Puducherry and 115 km south of Chennai around 11.15 pm on Wednesday. The core of the storm which hit close to Marakkanam is expected to take three hours to cross over. Heavy rain and winds of 120 to 130 kmph, gusting to 145 kmph, lashed the coastal areas of Puducherry and Cuddalore. Chennai saw too saw spells of heavy rain and wind. The weathermen say the effects of the storm, with heavy rain and high winds, will be felt till at least Thursday afternoon. Spells of rain could continue till Friday. Nearly 1.38 lakh people, including 28,161 children, were evacuated to 1,694 relief centres across Tamil Nadu from low-lying areas and unsafe buildings. Revenue and disaster management minister R B Udhayakumar said collectors and monitoring officers in coordination with local ministers were making efforts to evacuate people from huts, tiled roof houses and unsafe and old buildings. “Arrangements have been made to shelter 13 lakh people in 4,733 relief centres,” he said. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami declared public holiday for 16 districts, including Chennai, Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur, Chengalpet, Villupuram, Cuddalore, Tiruvannamalai, Ariyalur, Perambalur, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam, Kallakurichi, Tirupattur, Vellore and Ranipet, on Thursday. There are six NDRF teams on standby in Cuddalore, three teams in Nagapattinam and one each in Thanjavur and Mayiladuthurai. Similarly, two teams are positioned in Villupuram and three in Chengalpet. “Eight teams of the Indian Army with two rescue boats are reaching Chennai today. Six more teams with a boat will be sent to Trichy,” R B Udhayakumar said. The Army has sent eight 10-member teams and two boats to Chennai, and six teams and a rescue boat to Trichy. Multiple teamns from the Navy and Indian coast guard too have been deployed across the state. Chennai may get moderate to heavy rain at times over the next 48 hours||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cyclone-nivar-tamil-nadu-stands-up-to-the-storm/articleshow/79418931.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Delhi||No police nod to farmers’ rally in Delhi, metro to be cut off from NCR towns||NEW DELHI: Delhi Metro will be cut off from the NCR towns till 2pm on Thursday as services will be stopped 2-3 stations from the borders because of the rally planned by farmers. Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) took this decision at the request of Delhi Police. “Delhi Metro services will be regulated on November 26 from morning till 2pm through loops,” DMRC said. Watch: Drone camera deployed for security surveillance at Delhi-Faridabad (Haryana) border, in view of farmers' 'De… https://t.co/G1DFXidx2w— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1606365617000Delhi Police on Wednesday turned down all requests by farmers’ organisations to stage protests in the capital against the central government’s new farm laws. Legal action will be taken against those violating Delhi Disaster Management Authority guidelines. Farmers from Punjab and Haryana had given the call for a “Chalo Dilli” march, declaring that they would reach the apital on Thursday through five highways. Eish Singhal, Delhi Police spokesperson, said the farmers’ organisations had requested permission for holding protests on November 26 and 27. “They were told they could seek permission again when the condition became good,” he added. Barricades have been put up at the borders to stop their entry. On Yellow Line, which connects Delhi to Gurugram, no services will be available between Sultanpur and Guru Dronacharya stations and trains will run on loop from Samaypur Badli to Sultanpur and Guru Dronacharya to Huda City Centre. On Blue Line, there will be no services from New Ashok Nagar to Noida City Centre and Anand Vihar to Vaishali till 2pm. On Magenta Line, no services will be available from Jasola Vihar Shaheen Bagh to Botanical Garden, though regular services from Janakpuri West to Jasola Vihar Shaheen Bagh would be available. On Red Line, services won’t be available between Dilshad Garden and Major Mohit Sharma Rajender Nagar stations. No services will be available from Tikri Kalan to Brig Hoshiar Singh section of Green Line till 2pm. On Violet Line, which connects Faridabad and Ballabgarh, no services from Badarpur Border to Mewala Maharajpur section will be available. Trains will run from Kashmere Gate to Badarpur Border and Mewala Maharajpur to Raja Nahar Singh. Regular services will remain available on Pink, Grey, Airport Express and Rapid Metro lines during this period. In Gurugram, heavy barricades and intense checking are likely to slow down traffic, including the Delhi-Gurugram Expressway, on Thursday and Friday. Gurugram police said seven entry points into the city had been sealed. Intense checking and traffic diversions will kick in from 4am on Thursday. More than 1,000 police personnel have been deployed for the purpose. Meanwhile, even as Haryana government detained over 70 farmer leaders to quell the protests, hundreds of peasants on Wednesday came out on the streets to mobilise more people for the march and help their counterparts stuck at the sealed Punjab-Haryana borders. Watch Farm laws: Police deny permission farmers' 'Delhi-Chalo' protest march||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-police-nod-to-farmers-rally-in-delhi-metro-to-be-cut-off-from-ncr-towns/articleshow/79418951.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Chennai||10,000 cusecs may be let out of Chembarambakkam||CHENNAI: After nearly five years, the quantity of water discharged from the Chembarambakkam lake was increased to 5,000 cusecs by around 6pm on Wednesday. According to S Asokan, chief engineer, PWD, depending upon the inflow from its catchment areas, the quantity may go up to 10,000 cusecs. The release of water began at noon at 1,000 cusecs after the water level reached 22ft against its capacity of 24ft. The city corporation is engaged in evacuating people, and more than 1,200 people have been shifted from Adyar basin to relief camps. The Union Jal Shakti ministry, in an advisory at 6pm, said that discharge of about 10,000 cusecs to 12,000 cusecs was likely through the river section near Chennai Airport and discharge of 16,000 cusecs to 18,000 cusecs would pass under Saidapet bridge. Public address systems were being used to make announcements and urge people to evacuate from Adyar river banks. Starting from 12 pm, the PWD has released about 18,820 cusecs of water from the Chembarambakkam lake till 8 pm. This amounts to 2,600MLD of water which is approximately four day’s of water supplied if to the city calculated at 750 MLD per day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/10000-cusecs-may-be-let-out-of-chembarambakkam/articleshow/79418958.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh govt hopes to net Rs 8,000 crore after property tax revision||AMARAVATI: Property taxes in municipal areas are likely to witness a steep increase following the state government’s decision to revise the taxes based on Capital (asset) Value System (CVS) instead of existing Annual Rental Value (ARV) mode. Although the government directed the municipal bodies to not increase the tax more than 15 per cent from the existing tax, decision to keep revising the taxes in the subsequent years until the gap between the ARV based tax is filled with the new CVS is a matter of concern for building owners. Interestingly, the government has decided not to reduce tax if the existing tax is more than the proposed CVS system. It further asked to revise the tax upward by a nominal 2 per cent on such structures. According to sources, the state government is planning to mop up nearly Rs 8,000 crore per year from the existing tax revenue of Rs 2,900 crore from all municipalities. Imposition of heavy penalties on unauthorised and untaxed buildings would also help civic bodies earn huge revenues. The municipal administration department has readied new software, which will be integrated with the database of the stamps and registrations department, to automatically capture the value revisions. “The government should immediately withdraw anti-people Ordinance and GOs issued to increase the taxes in urban areas. The revision of taxes is going to make life in cities and towns hell for the commoners as rentals are also likely to go up with the massive burden on the owners,” said CPM state secretary P Madhu. He criticised the state government for allegedly succumbing to the pressures from the Centre to issue to the Ordinance. He said that Centre and state governments were trying to escape from their responsibility in sparing funds for creation of infrastructure and forcing the people to pay higher taxes. The property taxes fixed in the present ARV are mostly people-friendly as high taxes are levied only in the commercial areas and prime business zones. Once switched to the new system, the taxes will go up based on the revision of land values by the stamps and registration department which increases the values annually. Changing to the sq.ft mode from the existing sq.yards measurement is also going to levy burden on the building owners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-hopes-to-net-rs-8000-cr-after-property-tax-revision/articleshow/79415763.cms||Samdani MN
November 26, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh govt hopes to net Rs 8,000 crore after property tax revision||AMARAVATI: Property taxes in municipal areas are likely to witness a steep increase following the state government’s decision to revise the taxes based on Capital (asset) Value System (CVS) instead of existing Annual Rental Value (ARV) mode. Although the government directed the municipal bodies to not increase the tax more than 15 per cent from the existing tax, decision to keep revising the taxes in the subsequent years until the gap between the ARV based tax is filled with the new CVS is a matter of concern for building owners. Interestingly, the government has decided not to reduce tax if the existing tax is more than the proposed CVS system. It further asked to revise the tax upward by a nominal 2 per cent on such structures. According to sources, the state government is planning to mop up nearly Rs 8,000 crore per year from the existing tax revenue of Rs 2,900 crore from all municipalities. Imposition of heavy penalties on unauthorised and untaxed buildings would also help civic bodies earn huge revenues. The municipal administration department has readied new software, which will be integrated with the database of the stamps and registrations department, to automatically capture the value revisions. “The government should immediately withdraw anti-people Ordinance and GOs issued to increase the taxes in urban areas. The revision of taxes is going to make life in cities and towns hell for the commoners as rentals are also likely to go up with the massive burden on the owners,” said CPM state secretary P Madhu. He criticised the state government for allegedly succumbing to the pressures from the Centre to issue to the Ordinance. He said that Centre and state governments were trying to escape from their responsibility in sparing funds for creation of infrastructure and forcing the people to pay higher taxes. The property taxes fixed in the present ARV are mostly people-friendly as high taxes are levied only in the commercial areas and prime business zones. Once switched to the new system, the taxes will go up based on the revision of land values by the stamps and registration department which increases the values annually. Changing to the sq.ft mode from the existing sq.yards measurement is also going to levy burden on the building owners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/govt-hopes-to-net-rs-8000-cr-after-property-tax-revision/articleshow/79425244.cms||Samdani MN
November 26, 2020||Vijayawada||Ex-AG had prior info of capital city’s location, ACB FIR alleged||VIJAYAWADA: Registration of an FIR by the Andhra Pradesh anti-corruption bureau (ACB) against former advocate-general Dammalapati Srinivas, two daughters of a senior Supreme Court judge and others in an alleged land purchase scam in Amaravati led to an unprecedented spat between the executive and the judiciary. With the Supreme Court on Wednesday staying the gag order of the AP high court, the FIR registered by the ACB has now become a public document. ACB had registered the FIR on September 15, but the court had stayed the proceedings on Srinivas’s plea and directed that the contents of the case should not be made public. The case was originally posted before the bench of Justice D Ramesh, who had recused himself. It was then posted for September 16, but the court took it up for hearing late in the night of September 15 after Srinivas moved a house motion. The government filed a petition in Supreme Court, against the AP HC order. ACB, which took up investigation into alleged land scam after an advocate from Ongole, Komatla Srinivasa Swamy Reddy, filed a complaint on September 7 and named Dammalapati Srinivas as accused No. 1. The other accused are Dammalapati Nagarani, Nannapaneni Lakshmi Narayana, Nannapaneni Sita Rama Raju, Nannapaneni Krishna Murthy, Madala Vishnuvardhan Rao, Mukkapati Pattabhi Rama Rao, Yarlagadda Ritesh, Yarlagadda Lakshmi, Nuthalapati Sritanuja, Nuthalapati Sribhuvana, Katragadda Srinivasa Rao, and Vellanki Renuka Devi. According to ACB officials, Srinivas acquired land in the core capital area or abutting the capital region between June 2014 and December 2014 for his close relatives and associates. During 2015-16, Srinivas purchased land for himself and his wife Dammalapati Nagarani. Apart from leaking the ‘official secret’ of the capital city Amaravati, the FIR also accuses him of criminal conspiracy. ACB officials claimed Srinivas, who held a constitutional post, was privy to the information of the exact location of the capital prior to this had purchased land and had benefited out of the deals by ‘abusing his official position.’ The FIR said many of these properties were purchased by the alleged beneficiaries much before the land pooling scheme began. In the preliminary inquiry it was found out that Srinivas’s father-in-law, his brother-in-law and another relative bought properties either in the core capital area or in the areas abutting the capital region. ACB had booked the case for criminal breach of trust by a public servant, cheating and dishonesty) r/w 120-B of IPC against the 13 persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ex-ag-had-prior-info-of-capital-citys-location-acb-fir-alleged/articleshow/79415791.cms||Srikanth Aluri
November 26, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra municipal administration minister Botcha Satyanarayana dismisses criticism over tax hike||AMARAVATI: Strongly denouncing criticism on revision of property taxes, water user charges and drainage cess in urban areas, municipal administration minister Botcha Satyanarayana said there was no truth that they have increased property taxes heavily. He said that they are only rationalizing the property taxes as per the advice of the Centre. He said that the new taxes will not go up by more than 10 to 15 per cent. Speaking to the media here on Wednesday, the minister said the GOs mentioned not to increase taxes by more than 15 per cent. He said the government has fixed property tax at Rs 50 for buildings with less than 375.sq.ft, which covers almost all the poor in urban areas. He said water charges have not been increased by more than 10 per cent. “We have verified all the GOs issued in the past and decided to see that water charges should not exceed Rs 350 per building,” said Botcha. He said that they have also taken measures to see that sewerage tax should not be increased more than Rs 30-35 per assessment. He said that all the states were following the same model following the Centre’s advice as part of rationalization of the taxes. “The CM had issued specific instructions that no burden should be levied on common man while revising the taxes. The opposition parties are spreading false campaign on the increase of the taxes without going into the content of the GOs,” Botcha said. He said that property tax will be fixed at 0.10 per cent of the total asset value in residential areas and it would not be more than 0.20 per cent for commercial structures. He said that it would not reflect more than 10-15 per cent increase from the existing tax rate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/minister-dismisses-criticism-over-tax-hike/articleshow/79415802.cms||Samdani MN
November 26, 2020||Mumbai||Four Borivli cops caught taking Rs 2 lakh bribe in Jaipur||JAIPUR/MUMBAI: Four personnel from Borivli police station were arrested in Jaipur on Tuesday for accepting a bribe of Rs 2 lakh in a case they were probing. In further trouble for the team, one more complainant has come forward against them in Rajasthan on Wednesday claiming they took a bribe of Rs90,000 from him. Sub-inspector Prashant Shinde and three constables--Laxman, Subhash Pandurang and Sachin Gudke-- had travelled to Rajasthan to investigate a cheating case lodged at Borivli police station against a cloth trader named Vinod. According to a statement released by the Rajasthan Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB), Vinod lives in a rented house in Jaipur. “The Borivli police team detained Vinod’s landlord’s father and were pressuring him to get Vinod to surrender. They allegedly demanded a bribe for not arresting the landlord’s father. The landlord approached the ACB with a complaint,” the statement said. A trap was laid and the four were nabbed while accepting Rs 2 lakh at a hotel near Jaipur railway station. Subsequently, an accountant also approached the ACB claiming the policemen had taken money from him too. Director General (ACB) BL Soni said, “We will get in touch with Mumbai police to get the records of the four arrested policemen.” An IPS officer from Mumbai police said the Rajasthan ACB has not got in touch with them yet and they have no confirmation about the reported arrests. Sources at Borivli police station confirmed a fourmember team had gone to Jaipur to probe a cheating case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/four-borivli-cops-caught-taking-rs-2-lakh-bribe-in-jaipur/articleshow/79418977.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Three out of every 5 patients referred by govt went to private hospitals||BENGALURU: Private hospitals, nowhere in the frame in the initial stages of the pandemic, have now treated nearly three out of every five infected patients referred to hospitals by the government and will have run up bills amounting to four times the sum raised by staterun hospitals. As on Monday (Nov 23), data shows the government had issued pre-authorisation for a total 1,28,436 Covid cases to be treated in government and private hospitals. Pre-authorisation means the government pays for treatment. Of them, 73,511 patients (57.2%) were treated in private hospitals at government cost, while 54,925 (42.8%) were treated in government institutions. This is remarkable considering most patients were being treated in government institutions till late June, when 50% of beds in private establishments were earmarked for Covid patients referred by public authorities. The cost of treatment for pre-authorised patients in private hospitals was Rs 484 crore, as against Rs 114 crore for government hospitals. In Bengaluru alone, 52,967 patients were referred to hospitals and a majority of them were sent to private hospitals. So far, private hospitals and medical colleges have been reimbursed Rs 146.6 crore for having treated 35,187 people, while government hospitals have got Rs 19.7 crore for treating 14,564 patients. The rest of the bills are in various stages of payment. While officials say pre-authorisation was issued based on availability of beds, location of hospitals and the nature of emergency, they admit that in several cases patients’ choice was accommodated. “The first preference was government beds, but government hospitals have fewer beds than private hospitals,” said BBMP commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad, who insisted that the pressure to allocate a bed in private hospitals was seen only in 4-5% of cases. Pankaj Kumar Pandey, commissioner, health and family welfare department, claimed the main reason why data is skewed in favour of private hospitals is because they have more number of beds. “We also reserved beds in government hospitals for non-Covid patients too,” Pandey said. “Bed availability in many taluk hospitals was limited and infected people were sent to private hospitals for treatment. When given a choice, patients may have preferred private hospitals based on their perception.” Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA) said it does not have precise data on the number of patients referred to the private hospitals. “Once private hospitals began admitting Covid-19 cases, patients needing ICU and critical care were sent to us,” Dr HM Prasanna, president, PHANA, said. “Data suggests nearly 70% of healthcare nationally is delivered by the private healthcare sector. This could be true of Covid too. While 1/3rd of the cases are handled by the government, close to 2/3rd are taken care of by private players.” Dr Prasanna said many patients chose private hospitals largely because they needed better infrastructure and treatment. “Once private hospitals joined the fray, the mortality rate began declining,” he said. However, Pandey said treatment in private hospitals was often not up to the mark. “We received several complaints about shoddy treatment in private hospitals and we intervened. Perception may have blotted out actual facts,” Pandey said. Now, with cases on the decline, the government has decided not to refer patients to the private sector unless 90% beds in government hospitals are filled. It only refers severe cases. “In case there is a second wave, we will resume 50% of bed sharing, as discussed with the government,” PHANA members said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/60-govt-referred-patients-opted-for-pvt-hosps/articleshow/79416323.cms||Sunitha Rao R
November 26, 2020||Visakhapatnam||7-star rating in GFC to help Vizag in SS-2021 ?||Visakhapatnam: The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) has self-declared Vizag as a 7-star rated city under the ‘garbage-free cities’ (GFC) initiative. This self-declaration will be further verified through an independent third-party agency appointed by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs. Interestingly, even after two rounds of assessments, both in 2019 and 2020, no Indian city has got a 7-star rating. Six cities were rated 5-star in 2020 by the Union government, including Mysore, Indore, Navi Mumbai, Ambikapur, Rajkot and Surat. The star rating protocol was launched in 2018 to institutionalise a mechanism for cities to achieve ‘garbage-free’ status, and to motivate them to achieve a higher degree of cleanliness. The certification part, including GFC and ODF (open defecation-free) certifications, carries 1,800 marks out of the 6,000-mark Swachh Survekshan-2021. Cities would be awarded a certain star-rating based on the evaluation of several rigorous pre-set parameters of solid waste management. Under the GFC, a 7-star rated city will get 1,100 marks while a 5-star rated city will get only 900 marks. As the star rating of a city descends, the marks will take a further beating, 600 marks for 3-star rating and 200 marks for 1-star rating. The set of conditions would be different for each star rating. For example, ‘water plus’ status — no untreated wastewater discharge into the open environment — is mandatory for a city to achieve the 7-star rating. Completion of 75 per cent work as per dumpsite remediation project plan is sufficient for getting a 5-star rating, while 100 per cent dumpsite remediation plan should be completed for the 7-star rating. Speaking to TOI, GVMC chief medical officer Dr KSLG Sastry said that the GVMC is applying for a 7-star rating. “The city has made good progress in solid waste management over the years, including the initiation of dumpsite remediation, scientific waste processing, construction and demolition waste management plant, improved segregation at source, and door-to-door collection. The waste-to-energy plant would also be operationalized soon. We are aiming for a better star-rating this time,” said Dr Sastry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/7-star-rating-in-gfc-to-help-vizag-in-ss-2021-/articleshow/79415830.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
November 26, 2020||Mumbai||Shiv Sena MLA’s close aide is first to be arrested by ED a day after raids||MUMBAI: The Enforcement Directorate late on Wednesday evening arrested Amit Chandole, a close associate of Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik, whose premises were raided by the agency in a money laundering case on Tuesday. Chandole’s arrest is the first in the ED case. Chandole is a crucial link who could throw more light on the financial transactions between Sarnaik and Tops Grup and its promoter Rahul Nanda, sources said. Chandole’s name has been mentioned in the Mumbai police FIR against Tops Grup and Rahul Nanda, which led the ED to Sarnaik. Tops Grup former CEO Ramesh Iyer had filed an FIR with Mumbai police, where he levelled several allegations against Nanda and his family members, including diversion of funds abroad illegally. Sources said the ED has, during its searches at Sarnaik’s presmises on Tuesday, found a debit card issued by a foreign bank to the Sena MLA based on a California address. The card, issued by Fremont Bank, is in Sarnaik’s name and the address provided to the bank belonged to one Farhad Dadrass in California, sources said. The card has been seized for investigation. The ED also claimed to have found book entries which indicated hawala transactions or illegal money transfers and some documents pertaining to some off-shore companies allegedly controlled by Sarnaik. Sarnaik, who is MLA from Thane’s Ovala-Majiwada constituency, was not available for comment to clarify if he had disclosed this to the income-tax authorities here. ED officials said they will question Sarnaik before proceeding further. Sarnaik has sought more time, saying he is under quarantine as he has just returned to the city. If an Indian citizen has a bank account abroad, the details of which have not been declared to tax authorities in India, the same is violative of provisions of the Black Money (Undisclosed Foreign Income and Assets) and Imposition of Tax Act, 2015 and attracts penalty. An offence of wilful attempt to evade any tax under the Black Money Act, being a scheduled offence under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), shall be liable to prosecution by the Enforcement Directorate, an official said. A person holding a debit card of a foreign bank (emanating from a foreign bank account), unless the same has been declared in I-T returns here, may attract provisions of the Act and be investigated both by the I-T authorities and the Enforcement Directorate, the official added. The ED has summoned Sarnaik’s son Vihang on Thursday again and may call Sarnaik next week for questioning. On Tuesday, ED raided Sarnaik’s and Nanda’s premises in Mumbai and Thane, along with other suspects in a Rs 175 crore money laundering case. In the police FIR, Iyer also accused Nanda of short-supplying security guards to state agency MMRDA but charging for it. The complaint said Chandole would handle MMRDA officials for payments. Sarnaik's name was not in the FIR. Nanda has denied the allegations. During its investigation, the ED learnt Sarnaik had helped Tops Grup to get the MMRDA contract in 2014-15, sources said. Initially, ED was probing the case against Nanda for forex violations under FEMA, but later it registered a money laundering case based on the FIR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/shiv-sena-mlas-close-aide-is-first-to-be-arrested-by-ed-a-day-after-raids/articleshow/79418950.cms||Vijay V Singh
November 26, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada second in Andhra Pradesh in tax collection||VIJAYAWADA: The Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) has succeeded in collecting pending property taxes from residents even amid the Covid-19 crisis. The city has come out second in the state in tax collections, following Visakhapatnam. Vijayawada has a property tax demand of Rs 296.81 crore for the 2020–21 financial year. VMC authorities have distributed property tax, water tax and sewage tax demand notices. The civic body has also offered a 5 per cent discount on taxes if paid by May 2020. The discount has shown an impact among residents. Despite the pandemic, people have lined up outside tax collection centres. Problems with the online property tax collection system has also forced residents queue up at the centres. Following the Covid-19 outbreak in June, VMC predicted that tax collection might come down drastically. It started utilising services of ward volunteers and secretaries in property tax collection. Volunteers went door-to-door and motivated the public on payment of property taxes. This has shown positive results and tax collections reached the Rs 197.88 crore-mark by Monday. VMC commissioner Prasanna Venkatesh said, “Tax receipts are very important in carrying forward development activities in the city. The expenditure of the VMC increased with Covid-19. The ward secretariat system helped boost tax collection.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/vij-second-in-state-in-tax-collection/articleshow/79415844.cms||Venu Lanka
November 26, 2020||Vijayawada||Phase three of Covaxin trials start at ID hospital||Guntur: The third phase of clinical trials of Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin was launched at Infectious Diseases (ID) hospital here on Wednesday. The vaccine dose was given to a volunteer after completing the required formalities. The district administration had been scouting for volunteers for the past fortnight since the government zeroed in on the ID hospital for taking up third phase trials of Covaxin. The vaccine is being readied indigenously by Bharat Biotech and clearances have been granted by Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) for the third phase of clinical trials. “We are trying to test at least 1,000 volunteers during the third phase of the trials,” said Guntur district collector Samuel Anand Kumar while launching the programme. The collector said it will be a two dose trial in which the second dose would be given to volunteers 28 days after the administration of the first dose and if no adverse symptoms were reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/phase-three-of-covaxin-trials-start-at-id-hospital/articleshow/79415885.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra reports six Covid-19 deaths, lowest in last 140 days||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 831 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the cumulative case load to 8,64,674. The toll increased to 6,962 as six more people succumbed to the novel coronavirus disease. This is the lowest single-day casualty total in the last 140 days after July 3 when the state recorded eight deaths. The daily fatality count, which peaked to an average 85 deaths in August, has come down to 10 range in the last three weeks. As many as 1,176 Covid-19 patients were declared cured on Wednesday. There are currently 12,673 active cases with 8,45,039 cumulative recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of 97.7%. Vizianagaram, the last district in the state to record its first Covid-19 case, became the first district to achieve a 99 percent recovery rate. Other than Krishna, all other districts have clocked at least 95% recovery rate. There are less than 500 active cases in six districts. Krishna reported 145 new infections on Wednesday, followed by West Godavari (135) and East Godavari (126). All the 10 other districts recorded less than 100 cases. Of the six deaths registered on Wednesday, two are from Krishna and one each from Chittoor, East Godavari, Guntur and West Godavari. AP has so far conducted about 98 lakh Covid-19 tests with an overall case positivity rate of about 9%. The mortality rate remained stable at 0.8%. The state tested 60,726 people on Wednesday and detected 831 new cases, translating to a case positivity rate of 1.3%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/andhra-reports-six-covid-19-deaths-lowest-in-last-140-days/articleshow/79415923.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Mumbai||Defer tests for outstation visitors till Dec 1, Centre urges Maharashtra government as queues build up||MUMBAI: Within 24 hours of the Maharashtra government introducing mandatory Covid tests for travellers from Delhi, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Goa at airports and railway stations in the state, the Centre has urged that the new rules be kept in abeyance till December 1. The request came on Wednesday even as railway and airport authorities struggled to clear long lines of impatient passengers who crowded at exit points, waiting to be screened. In all, 10 passengers tested positive out of the 9,779 who were screened at Mumbai Central, Bandra, Borivli, Dadar, Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus and Lokmanya Tilak Terminus as they alighted from trains coming from the four states under the scanner. A senior bureaucrat told TOI that the Central government has made two submissions: first, defer the implementation of the guidelines till December 1; and second, instead of RT-PCR tests, use antigen kits for airline passengers as they are faster in yielding results. He said a decision would be taken “as early as possible” after consulting the Mumbai municipal commissioner. Chief secretary Sanjay Kumar said the state has already exempted pilots and flight attendants from the RT-PCR test, and now a similar request has come from the defence ministry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/defer-tests-for-outstation-visitors-till-dec-1-centre-urges-maharashtra-government-as-queues-build-up/articleshow/79418939.cms||Prafulla Marapakwar
November 26, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag: Tribals turn scenic village into tourism destination||VISAKHAPATNAM:  If you are looking for an escape from the rush of the city and want to relax living a rooted tribal lifestyle, cook and eat local cuisine, dress up and dance to Dhimsa beats and soak in the aroma of nature, Pedalabudu village near Araku Valley is the place to be. Tribals of this village, with the help of government agencies, have set up an eco-tourism village on three acres of land. The Pedalabudu Eco Tourism Society (PETS), comprising the Konda Dora and Bagatha tribes have developed this new tourist destination in Pedalabudu village. The Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA), Paderu, has provided Rs85 lakh for the project. The tribal villagers, whose lives mostly revolve around farms, markets and cultivation, are now looking to turn their village into a tourist destination. Inaugurating the eco-tourism village earlier this week, MLA Chetti Palguna said, “The purpose of this facility is to provide accommodation for tourists in a peaceful environment close to nature. The ‘Giri Grama Darshini’ will be another attraction for tourists visiting Araku Valley.” Located six kilometres away from Araku Tribal Museum, PETS and ITDA have set up 15 cottages and a restaurant in this village located amid the hills. There’s also an open stage for tourists to watch cultural events such as Dhimsa dances and tribal weddings. “Visitors will not only be able to get a peek into the tribal lifestyle, but will also be able to partake in day-to-day activities of local villagers. The cottages are open for occupancy now. We are working on an ITDA website which will enable online booking,” said ITDA-Paderu tourism manager Murali Krishnaprasad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/tribals-turn-scenic-village-into-tourism-destination/articleshow/79415941.cms||Sulogna Mehta
November 26, 2020||Goa||Water consumers can also make one-time payment to settle dues||Panaji: Within two weeks of the power department announcing a one-time settlement scheme (OTS) for defaulters, the state cabinet on Wednesday approved a similar scheme for defaulting domestic and non-domestic water consumers in a bid to recover arrears. The Public Work Depatment’s (PWD) unpaid dues are to the tune of Rs 71.9 crore. Stating that several recovery of dues cases are pending in the mamlatdar court, chief minister Pramod Sawant said that the Dues Recovery and Settlement Scheme 2020-21 will prove beneficial to water consumers. “They can do away with the hassle of having to go to court every month by availing of this OTS scheme,” the chief minister said. Of the total dues, the PWD has forwarded Rs14.1 crore to the recovery court. On November 10, power minister Nilesh Cabral had announced that the one-time settlement scheme for power consumers would be started from December 1. “The Dues Recovery and Settlement Scheme 2020 proposed now is adopted as per the one-time settlement scheme approved by the cabinet on October 14, 2020, for electricity department consumers,” the cabinet note stated. The cabinet note also stated that the reintroduction of the one-time settlement scheme for water consumers, who have defaulted on their payments this year, was a part of the chief minister’s budget speech 2020-21. The water dues will be recovered as arrears of land revenue under the Goa, Daman and Diu Land Revenue Code, 1968, by forwarding it to the respective mamlatdars.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/water-consumers-can-also-make-one-time-payment-to-settle-dues/articleshow/79416996.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Craft centre to come up in Pedalabudu||Visakhapatnam: A tribal crafts centre — Giri Grama Darshini (GGD) — is being set up at Pedalabudu village in Araku Valley under the Centre’s Rurban Mission at a cost of Rs40 lakh in association with NGO DISA. The crafts centre will come up on two acres of land. Activities at GGD will include bullock cart riding, rooster catching, traditional Dhimsa dance, cooking tribal cuisine and tribal dresses, informed PETS Pelliti Dasubabu. Moreover, special emphasis in being given to the upcoming craft centre on local resource craft like wood turning. Around 35 villagers are working at the centre which is slated to be developed as Eastern Ghats Interpretation Resource Craft Centre. National Award winning craftsman from Etikoppaka Toy Village CV Raju is the community craft mentor and had been training the villagers for months. —Sulogna Mehta||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/craft-centre-to-come-up-in-pedalabudu/articleshow/79415948.cms||Sulogna Mehta
November 26, 2020||Chennai||Cyclone in Tamil Nadu: Drenched, not drowned||CHENNAI: This must have been one of the longest nights Chennaiites have spent in recent years. Waiting for a cyclone to strike. Wondering what the morning would bring. It rained through Wednesday and, as the wind strengthened at nightfall, Tangedco switched off power supply in many neighbourhoods, partly because of system failure and partly to prevent accidents. Greater Chennai Corporation’s new drains in the core city seemed to have done their job, as not many roads were inundated. The East Coast Road to Puducherry, which lay in the path of cyclone Nihar, was closed to all but essential traffic. Hoardings along ECR and parallel OMR were removed on a war-footing, so that they didn’t fly loose in the gale. The Marina and other beaches were off limits to the public, with police chasing away selfie-takers. The city had virtually shut down by early evening. No flights would take off between 7pm on Wednesday and 7am on Thursday. Metro rail and MTC buses stopped running by 8pm. Cabs and autorickshaws virtually disappeared as night fell. The government had declared a public holiday on Wednesday and most people stayed home, stocking up on food and water, charging their phones, laptops and power banks. One neighbourhood shop said it ran out of candles two days ago. “In our area, power supply was cut around 3am and it was restored only by 9am. A tree had fallen on an electric line,” said M Patel, a resident of Puzhuthivakkam. Parts of T Nagar, K K Nagar, Tambaram, Velachery, Madipakkam, Nanganallur, and Thiruvanmiyur in South Chennai and Washermenpet, Royapuram and Pulianthope in North Chennai went without power. In Semmenchery, there was no electricity from Wednesday noon, said a resident. News that water was being released from Chembarambakkam, the largest of the city’s drinking water reservoirs, caused a ripple of unease as citizens remembered how the delayed release of water in 2015 worsened the floods. By evening this had become a serious worry, at least for those living along the Adyar. Bridges over the river attracted the usual crowd of people watching the water rise. Police chased them away. About 600 people were housed in 16 relief centres in the city by evening and two community kitchens set up at Gopalapuram and Chintadripet fed the needy. The whistling wind in the evening brought memories of Cyclone ‘Vardah’ that in 2016 uprooted hundreds of trees across the city. The much-maligned Greater Chennai Corporation was very prompt on Wednesday, answering distress calls about trees falling. There wasn’t much, however, the civic body could do about flooding in many suburbs where incomplete and inchoate storm water drains had long given up. Enterprising residents of flood-prone Velachery parked their cars on the bridge at Vijayanagar junction to escape flood waters that had inundated the housing colonies. At the time of writing this report, the storm was projected to make landfall in the early hours of Thursday between Chennai and Puducherry. And, outside the window, the wind was howling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cyclone-in-tamil-nadu-drenched-not-drowned/articleshow/79418990.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Goa||Cabinet extends debt scheme for mining affected||Panaji: The state cabinet on Wednesday granted approval for extension of the debt relief scheme launched for the mining-hit borrowers of financial institutions. The financial implication on the exchequer will be Rs 45 crore. Speaking to reporters after the cabinet meeting, chief minister Pramod Sawant said that few mining-affected people had not availed the scheme and which is why the scheme is extended till March 31, 2021. The Supreme Court’s ban on mining since September 2012 has resulted in financial distress for stakeholders, as per the cabinet note. The borrowers who availed of credit facilities for barges, trucks, tippers, mining machinery/ equipment from various financial institutions were unable to meet their repayment commitments, the cabinet note said. The non-performing assets (NPA) of the financial institutions increased substantially due to the mining loans, especially in the co-operative sector. Cabinet note said that the then chief minister in his budget speech announced financial assistance to the mining affected people and formulated a scheme called the “Debt Relief Scheme for mining affected borrowers of Financial Institution”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cabinet-extends-debt-scheme-for-mining-affected/articleshow/79417008.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Prof Prasad Reddy is new AU V-C||Visakhapatnam: Acting vice-chancellor and senior faculty member of the computer sciences department, Prof PVGD Prasad Reddy has been appointed the vice-chancellor of Andhra University on Wednesday. Prof Reddy has been the acting vice-chancellor since July 2019. The senior faculty member has earlier served as registrar from 2008–2012. He started his career as an assistant professor at the department of computer science and systems engineering at AU in 1987.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/prof-prasad-reddy-is-new-au-v-c/articleshow/79415964.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Goa||Land to be acquired for Mopa airport link road||Panaji: The state cabinet on Wednesday gave approval for land acquisition to construct the link road from Mopa airport near Varconda to Dhargalim NH-66 junction, for smooth flow of traffic. Speaking to mediapersons, chief minister Pramod Sawant said the decision has been taken as the government intends to complete the project within a year and a half. The total cost of the project is Rs 151 crore and is to be borne by the state government. The total length of the national highway stretch is 6.59 km. A cabinet note revealed that the ultimate objective of the national highway road is to ensure smooth and better connectivity to the Mopa airport. A detailed project report needs to be prepared for the road construction work on a priority basis. The project has the approval of the expenditure finance committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/land-to-be-acquired-for-mopa-airport-link-road/articleshow/79417012.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Goa||Pvt teak, sandalwood tree plantations get state nod||Panaji: Giving impetus to commercial tree plantation on non-forest land, the state cabinet on Wednesday took a policy decision to promote the same on private land in Goa through simplified regulatory regime and ease of doing business. Stating that the government aims to promote private forest plantation, chief minister Pramod Sawant encouraged people to plant tree varieties including teak, rosewood, khair, sandalwood, kindal and madat. Further he said that once a tree is planted for commercial purpose, the one planting it will not need to approach the forest officials to cut it. This permission will be granted at the time of planting the tree itself. According to the government, this scheme will provide various benefits including generation of employment through greening on private land, promoting Swampoorna Goa and Atmanirbhar Bharat in afforestation, ease of doing business by simplification of regulatory regime, an increase in tree and minor forest produce-based economic activities, enhanced supply of raw material for industries for meeting requirement of forest/wood products, bringing in private investments, application of best practices in tree plantation and enhanced ecological services and mitigation of climate change. In 2014, the Union ministry of agriculture and farmers welfare formulated the National Agro Forestry Policy to promote tree plantation by farmers and other landowner. The policy recommends a supportive regulatory framework for felling and transit of trees grown under agro and farm forestry systems. Since Goa is located in the highly favourable agro-climatic zone, locals can take up commercial tree plantations on private land for economic benefits. This policy will also address the apprehension that trees grown on private land may be categorised as private forest at a later date, preventing land owners from felling and disposing of trees grown on their land, the cabinet said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pvt-teak-sandalwood-tree-plantations-get-state-nod/articleshow/79417030.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 26, 2020||Ranchi||Hold more services during Christmas to check Covid spread: Ranchi archdiocese||Ranchi: The archdiocese of Ranchi has appealed to all to dedicate Christmas this year to the poor, hungry and the homeless. “This year has been a difficult year, marked by challenges, difficulties and sufferings. Covid-19 and the enforced lockdowns have brought untold misery and hardships for the common man. An economy in distress, growing joblessness and increasing poverty stare us in our face. We are appealing to you to celebrate a Christmas, inspired by charity and founded on deep spirituality. We call upon you to join us for a celebration marked by charity, mercy and compassion,” a pastoral letter, signed jointly by Felix Toppo, the archbishop of Ranchi, and Theodore Mascarenhas, the auxiliary bishop of Ranchi, read. A pastoral letter is an open letter written by a bishop to the clergy or the faithful. “Do not use firecrackers during this festive season. This would protect the environment and help in reducing air and noise pollution. The money that you would burn by bursting crackers can be given in donation for the poor. Even as we celebrate the birth of our Lord, let us remember the poor for whom Jesus has a special love. “We call for sobriety and modesty in the celebrations and expenditure. We recommend that each family make sacrifices and contribute towards charity, so that we can help those who were already living in poverty and those who have now been reduced to poverty because of Covid and the lockdowns,” the pastoral letter said. We also suggest a social outreach by arranging for sweets and small presents for families and children who cannot afford them this Christmas, the letter added. To ensure that Christmas celebrations do not turn into Covid spreaders and to restrict the number of people flocking into churches at any given time, the pastoral letter pointed out that instructions have been issued to all their churches and centres to hold as many as three church services per day, if needed, during Christmas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hold-more-services-during-christmas-to-check-covid-spread-ranchi-archdiocese/articleshow/79415769.cms||Tapas Biswas
November 26, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi to get 2 urban forests soon||Ranchi: Ranchiites may soon find themselves drawn to jogging, picnicking and hanging out with friends and family in natural forests complete with modern amenities just outside the city limits. If everything goes as per plan, the state department of forests, environment and climate change will be setting up two urban forests outside the city limits by early next year. The sites will offer nearly 90 hectare of lush green and dense vegetation which will make denizens feel at one with nature. The urban forests, also known as Nagar Van, are a part of the Union government’s scheme to set up such sites in 200 cities across the country by 2025. The scheme was launched in June this year by the Union forest minister Prakash Javdekar. After the scheme’s launch, the Union ministry of forests, environment and climate change had asked respective state governments to send in their proposed cities and its sites. The primary criteria for the scheme were that a city had to have a municipal corporation and the proposed site was already a forest patch within the municipality limits. While Jharkhand government proposed Nagar Vans in Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Dhanbad, Bokaro, Dumka and Giridih, it advocated for taking up Ranchi in the first phase, which includes 40 cities nationwide. The size of the forest patch must be between 10-50 hectare. Under the scheme, the Centre will pay Rs 4 lakh per hectare for the patch’s fencing to save it from human encroachment and grazing of animals. Inside the forest, the state government will have to arrange for amenities such as benches, jogging tracks, parking, water, toilets, lighting, cafeteria and others by pooling in money from civic bodies, corporate social responsibility funds and through public donations. “Since there are no forest patches within Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) limits, we have proposed a 39-acre protected forest in Cheti-Sohdag in Sithio near the upcoming core capital area in Dhurwa. Another patch measures 50 acre and is in Badam in Mahilong on the Outer Ring Road. Both the forest patches come under Ranchi Regional Development Authority (RRDA),” D K Tewatia, additional principal chief conservator of forest (APCCF) of state’s forest development authority (FDA), said. Tewatia said the scheme envisages the protection of forest patches from human encroachment and its rejuvenation, which in turn will provide a getaway for residents. “We are expecting to hear from the Centre by next month,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ranchi-to-get-2-urban-forests-soon/articleshow/79415887.cms||Dhritiman Ray
November 26, 2020||Kolkata||Will win polls even if locked up in jail, says Mamata at Bankura rally||Bankura: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday launched a high-pitch campaign against BJP for the 2021 assembly polls from Bankura, a district where her party had trailed in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, saying she would win the election even if she was locked up in jail. She accused BJP of trying to poach her party workers with a bagful of money. The CM kicked off the electoral campaign with a public rally at Bankura’s Sumukpahari with an appeal to Adivasis, Dalits and minorities to stay by her side against the BJP-Congress-CPM trio, which she called the jagai-madhai-gadai combine. Calling BJP the “biggest curse for the country” that has been using central agencies against opposition leaders to make them “surrender” to the party’s cause, Banerjee dared the saffron party to arrest her. “There is no use browbeating me. I am not afraid of BJP or its agencies. If they have the guts, they can arrest me and put me behind bars. I will fight elections from jail and ensure Trinamool’s victory,” she said, pointing to the impressive performance of RJD in Bihar even though its leader Lalu Prasad has been languishing in jail. Banerjee complained that BJP was approaching Trinamool MLAs and offering them money to switch sides. “They are saying: we will give you Rs 2 crore, come to our fold. They are telling an MLA: we will give you Rs 15 lakh now and Rs 15 lakh after. But the game is not easy,” the CM said. She refused to recognize BJP as a political party. “BJP is not a political party; it is a garbage of lies,” Banerjee said while hitting out at Union home minister Amit Shah for eating lunch with an Adivasi family with food “cooked in a five-star hotel”. At the same time, Banerjee sent out a stern signal to “fence sitters” in Trinamool. “There are some who are lining up with BJP in case it comes to power. There is no such chance. I am keeping a tab on who is getting in touch with whom. I ask you to keep a watch on such leaders who are going out in a car late at night,” she said. Banerjee urged people of Bankura to not rely on the Dilli ka laddoo, pointing to the five BJP national leaders sent to Bengal. “These outsiders are here to fool you all. Trinamool won’t bring harm to you. They were not by your side when the super cyclone hit the state,” she said. “Do you remember the incidents at Joyrambati, Kamarpukur, Sihar during the Left rule?” Banerjee continued. “I used to frequent these places when people left their homes. Now peace has returned to these places,” she said, reading out a list of facilities, from hospital to university, set up in the area during the Trinamool regime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/will-win-polls-even-if-locked-up-in-jail-says-mamata-at-bankura-rally/articleshow/79417459.cms||Falguni Banerjee
November 26, 2020||Kolkata||In election run-up, Dilip reaches out to minorities||Suri/Kandi: Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh broke barriers to reach out to the minority communities and said they had nothing to fear if his party took office in West Bengal. Instead, Ghosh assured the minorities that they “would benefit the most”, in an attempt to increase BJP’s outreach among Muslims, who largely determine the fate of political parties in 90-odd assembly seats of the state. “No one will dare intimidate you if BJP comes to power in Bengal. You will live with dignity and respect,” Ghosh said at a rally held in Suri on Wednesday. BJP’s first political victim in Bengal was from Birbhum. A host of minority families from Murarai, Nalhati and Panrui were on the dais. Ghosh said opposition parties were deliberately spreading anti-BJP scare among minorities. “They say that minorities are being tortured in Gujarat. Please go to Gujarat. You will see they are living happily there, much better than minorities in this state. And Muslims here do not have food, shelter and jobs,” he said. But the Bengal BJP chief didn’t abandon his pet “terror” topic while criticizing law and order in Bengal, which he compared with “terror-hit” Kashmir. “Kashmir once suffered from terror attacks. The situation there has improved now, but not in Bengal. Terrorists were recently arrested from Murshidabad. They were also active in Birbhum,” Ghosh said. Later, addressing a BJP rally at Murshidabad’s Kandi, Ghosh took a jibe at Trinamool chief Mamata Banerjee for daring BJP to arrest her. “Why is she afraid of going to jail? If Didi goes to jail, her brothers will also go there. They are afraid because they have looted public money. We have nothing to fear,” he said. Yuva Trinamool supporters showed “black flag” to the BJP leader on his way out of the impressive gathering on the Congress turf. BJP supporters, on their way to the Suri rally, came under attack at Simulia More near Bolpur when goons ransacked vehicles carrying the rally crowd from Panchsoya village. They complained that Trinamool toughs fired, injuring a party supporter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/in-election-run-up-dilip-reaches-out-to-minorities/articleshow/79417935.cms||Someswar Boral
November 26, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal answers guv tweet||Kolkata: The Bengal home department on Wednesday took to Twitter to respond to governor Jagdeep Dhankhar’s posts on senior state officers. The home department posted: “Repeated attempts are being made from certain quarters to question the conduct of public officers, their roles and responsibilities through tweets. Government of West Bengal is committed to transparency and probity in governance. We wish to put on record that there is no “enquiry” pending against Shri Gyanwant Singh, IPS.” Dhankhar in a post had said: “Concerned at silence of chief secretary and DGP on enquiry against Gyanwant IPS.” The governor responded: “Seek urgent response of CS (chief secretary) on this by 5pm as the Constitutional head is not ‘certain quarters’ and for over a year there is a non-responsive stance of the CS and CM to respond to this issue.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-answers-guv-tweet/articleshow/79417486.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Kolkata||First lot of Covaxin to reach Kolkata for trials||KOLKATA: The first lot of Covid-19 vaccine candidate Covaxin was shipped from Hyderabad on Wednesday, and is expected to reach Kolkata on Thursday ahead of the phase III clinical trials that are to shortly commence at the National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases (NICED). This would be the first lot of any vaccine candidate to arrive in the city for testing. “Five hundred vials of Covaxin have been shipped, along with 500 vials of a placebo,” confirmed a source at the clinical team of Bharat Biotech. “We expect it to reach NICED by Thursday”. The first indigenous vaccine candidate, developed by the Hyderabad-based pharma major, is set to undergo a pan-India efficacy trial at multiple centres, involving 26,000 volunteers. At NICED, it will be tested on 1,000 volunteers. Half of them will receive the actual vaccine; the others will be given a placebo. Each volunteer will get a second shot after about four weeks of the first. According to experts involved in vaccine and drug trials, the ‘IPs (investigation products)’ — the vaccine vials in this case — have a temperature logger. Once it reaches the destination, this temperature logger can enable one to check whether the cold chain was maintained all through the transport. “There are specific courier services that handle the transport of such IPs from one city to the other,” said a source. Even as many, including several from the medical fraternity, have shown an interest in being volunteers, sources at NICED said they were considering an eminent person to take the first shot of the vaccine. “That would help create a positive impact among other volunteers,” said a source at the research institute. On Tuesday, state urban development minister and Kolkata mayor Firhad Hakim had said that he was ready to be a volunteer. The phase III trial of Covaxin, in partnership with ICMR, is the largest clinical trial of any vaccine candidate for Covid-19 in the country. It has already been evaluated on 1,000 volunteers in phase I and II trials, with promising results. One has to be above 18 years old, and have been free of Covid-19 infection throughout the pandemic — among other things — to qualify as a volunteer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/1st-lot-of-covaxin-to-reach-city-for-trials/articleshow/79418184.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
November 26, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Campus hiring dream sours for 2020 batch||KOLKATA: The twin blows of pandemic and economic downturn have hit the Batch of 2020 where it hurts most: campus placements have all but dried up. According to college placement coordinators, very few companies have shown interest in visiting campuses, even virtually, to hire new talent this year and those that had hired students just before the pandemic have decided to put 60% of the offers on hold. Principals of city colleges are now worried over the prospects of outgoing batches as bagging a job is tough in the current scenario because many companies are laying off staff and traditional ways of hiring have been disrupted. The trend over the past few years had been for big companies to pick up talent from outgoing undergraduate batches and train them according to industry requirements. It was a win-win formula for everybody: companies got good talent at economical prices, students got placed even before their final exams and colleges improved their standing. Last year, 100-odd students from the commerce stream in J D Birla Institute found placements in companies like Ernst & Young, HSBC, Deloitte and L&T. Around 100 more from other departments of the college got placed in Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital, Nestle India, Cee Bee Design and Jungle Crows Foundation. “But the pandemic and recession have impacted hiring this year. Several companies that had hired students before the coronavirus outbreak have kept the onboarding process on hold. Many firms have not even started the campus-hiring process yet. Campus head-hunting has been hit by almost 40%,” said Deepali Singhee, principal of the college that is affiliated to Jadavpur University. The principal of a north Kolkata college said the current scenario was very demotivating for students as 50% companies had rolled back their job offers “for the time being” and the others had proposed a salary slash of almost 45%. A student from a south Kolkata college, who got placed as a front office executive with a private airline in March, has recently received a mail saying her appointment has been put on hold for the time being till the aviation sector opens up fully. “This is a polite way of saying that they have rolled back the offer because nobody knows when things are going to improve and airlines will start operating to their full capacity,” said the student who graduated this year. Over 300 graduates from Goenka College of Commerce and Business Administration were placed with top companies in the past three years, but the numbers have nosedived this year. In February this year, D E Shaw, a New York-based research group, conducted an online test to hire for various categories with an annual package of close to Rs 8 lakh per annum. Other companies like Deloitte, HDFC also hire regularly from the campus. “This shows that hiring in UG colleges is not restricted to BPOs or sales and marketing firms. Big companies hire good talent at an early stage and invest in training them and sponsoring their professional courses,” said one of the placement co-ordinators in the college. In the last few years, undergraduate colleges in Kolkata have laid stress on setting up placement cells and convincing corporate houses to hire their students. This not only helps in shoring up their NAAC rankings but also sets them apart from other institutions. “This gives our students a launching pad and exposure in the industry,” said Christine Coutinho, principal of Loreto College. Some college principals said this year companies also expressed their apprehensions over the way the examinations were conducted and marks awarded. “Representatives of a few companies said that they were not very convinced about the evaluation of the students since they took exams sitting at home,” said the principal of a south Kolkata college.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/campus-hiring-dream-sours-for-2020-batch/articleshow/79418222.cms||Zeeshan Javed
November 26, 2020||Surat||Surat: RAT negative, but RT-PCR confirms infection||SURAT: Anticipating surge in Covid-19 cases post Diwali festivities, the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has started testing on a war footing and conducted over 18,500 tests on Wednesday. According to civic body chief, Banchhanidhi Pani, SMC is aggressively conducting 4,000 tests per million, one of the highest in the country. “We are emphasizing RT-PCR tests on symptomatic patients whose Rapid Antigen tests (RAT) had come out negative. What is worrisome here that the repeat tests of people testing negative in RAT are found positive in RT-PCR. We, therefore, want to ensure that each symptomatic patient is tested and treated,” Pani told TOI. With Covid-19 positivity rate spiking from 7 percent in October to 10 percent in November, the civic body is enforcing Covid guidelines strictly to stall further spread of the pandemic. It has also begun isolating people testing positive for the virus. According to SMC officials, on Tuesday SMC testing teams carried out 17,038 tests across the city. It has deployed over 180 teams especially for Covid-19 testing which include 95 Dhanvanti Raths sent to each corner of the city. In order to increase testing, one centre in each of the eight civic zones will operate till late at night, sources said. Meanwhile, SMC has clarified that people entering the city need not undergo tests at the various entry points if they had got themselves tested for Covid-19 in the last 72 hours. They only will have to show the test report at these entry points. On Wednesday, 221 people tested positive for Covid-19, one the highest numbers in the last few months in the city. Surat district reported 56 positive cases on Wednesday taking the cases tally to 11,213 in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/rat-ve-but-rt-pcr-confirms-infection/articleshow/79414972.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Ranchi||No call yet on restricting Delhi passengers at airport||Ranchi: Although several states have barred passengers from Delhi to arrive at their airports following a spike in the number of cases, the state government is yet to decide on entry of people from the national capital through Birsa Munda International Airport. With six daily flights operating from New Delhi to the city’s airport, carrying over 1,000 passengers, chances are that there as many as 100 infected people entering Ranchi every day as Delhi’s positivity rate stands at 10%. The city airport also lacks provisions for testing and screening suspected patients and is only screening flyers with thermal guns. Talking to TOI, state transport secretary K Ravi Kumar said, “Arranging for Covid-19 tests all passengers at the airport is technically not possible. Currently it is being done for international passengers only. However, we are continuing with the screening of passengers and are also checking for symptoms. If a passenger arriving at the airport has some symptoms of the virus and has gained temperature, we directly send the person to a Covid care centre where a thorough examination is conducted.” On being asked whether the state government is contemplating restriction on the number of flights from Delhi and is going to make a negative Covid-19 report mandatory for passengers arriving here, Kumar said, “We have no such plans yet and the state disaster management department will take a call on the matter. We have already issued a guideline asking people not travel to cities with higher caseload until it is highly necessary.” Airport director Vinod Sharma said, “It is the state government’s responsibility to regulate protocols on testing as well as screening. We are maintaining contactless travel protocols at the airport and are ensuring proper sanitization and social distancing at all times.” Sharma also said that they had expected the number of passengers from Delhi to dip, but there is no let up and all flights continue to run full capacity. Doctors too have raised concerns over the inflow of passengers from Delhi and the effect it might have on the spread of the virus in the state and said the infection graph might go up if infected persons aren’t screened properly and quarantined immediately. Public health expert and professor of community medicine at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences Dr Devesh Kumar said, “The state health department has already started its preparation by issuing fresh guidelines to all district administration over a possible increase of infection and a probable second wave owing to winters and the high contact among people during the festivals. However, the winter season cannot be the only reason for an increase in the number of cases. Any kind of transmission from any infected person can trigger an increase and with the unpredictability of the virus, we can never be sure. So people need to get themselves tested before travelling from one place to another and government should take appropriate measures to control the spread from people coming in from different parts of the country, especially from areas where the positivity rate has gone up.” Meanwhile, the administration is keeping a close vigil on the passengers alighting from trains and buses in Jamshedpur. Special checking drives have been started at the Tatanagar railway station. On Tuesday, 178 passengers were checked and among them three were found to be Covid positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/no-call-yet-on-restricting-delhi-passengers-at-airport/articleshow/79415760.cms||Gaurav Pandey
November 26, 2020||Ranchi||JSR docs advice flu shots for senior citizens as temp dips||Jamshedpur: After the lowest temperature here touched 12 degrees Celsius, doctors advised a slew of measures to the people, especially senior citizens, in order to avoid being affected even by the common flu amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. “While Covid-19 is yet to be brought under control, it would be wise on the part of senior citizens to take vaccines to avoid being affected by common flu, influenza and pneumonia during the winter,” said Jharkhand president of Association of Physicians of India Dr Umesh Khan. Khan said youngsters should also not overlook flu symptoms and conclude that it is a common infection. “If there’s no improvement in the condition in two to three days, a Covid test is a must,” Khan said. Dr Mrityunjay Singh, IMA Jamshedpur chapter’s secretary, advised covering ears and the face while going out of the house and suggested full sleeve clothing during winter. “During winters, people across all age groups have a tendency to avoid cleaning hands frequently, but with Covid still raging, hand washing is necessary and people should arrange warm water at home,” said Singh. Superintendent of MGM Medical College and Hospital Dr Sanjay Kumar said, “Cases of common flu have started arriving at the OPD with the onset of the winter and we are referring them for Covid tests. However, the rush of such patients is normal and there is no substantial rise. OPD doctors are advising patients of common flu to avoid venturing out for non-essential work and recommending flu medicines.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jsr-docs-advice-flu-shots-for-senior-citizens-as-temp-dips/articleshow/79415836.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 26, 2020||Kolkata||E Midnapore ZP official joins BJP||Mechheda: Trinamool-run East Midnapore zilla parishad’s office-bearer Siraj Khan joined BJP at the party’s rally in Mechheda on Wednesday while some others stayed away with an eye on the political posture of rebel Trinamool leader Suvendu Adhikari. Siraj had dropped hints on leaving Trinamool the day before by giving up all party posts. After taking the BJP flag, the zilla parishad karmadhyaksha said: “I worked under Suvendu Adhikari. I sent an SMS to him seeking his blessings. But I didn’t get a reply. I left Trinamool because I do not support the manner in which farmlands in this district are being used for fish farming.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/e-midnapore-zp-official-joins-bjp/articleshow/79417994.cms||Suman Mandal
November 26, 2020||Kolkata||‘Jallikattu’ pips 26 films to be India’s official Oscars entry||Kolkata: Lijo Jose Pellissery’s Malayalam film ‘Jallikattu’ has been selected as India’s official entry to the Oscars 2021, jury chairman Rahul Rawail announced on Wednesday in the presence of Kolkata-based Film Federation of India president Firdausul Hasan and a few jury members, including music director Prabuddha Banerjee. Pellissery had won the Best Director award at International Film Festival of India last year. The film elbowed out 26 other entries — including Chaitanya Tamhane’s Marathi film ‘The Disciple’, which had won the prestigious FIPRESCI award at the 2020 Venice Film Festival and has Oscar-winning director Alfonso Cuaron of ‘Roma’ and ‘Gravity’ fame as its executive producer — to make the cut. Among the others to lose out were 'Chippa' (Hindi), 'Moothon' (Malayalam), 'Yesterday’s Past' (Odia), 'The Check Post' (Hindi), 'Sir' (Hindi), 'Bittersweet' (Marathi), 'Shikara' (Hindi), 'Eeb Allay Ooo' (Hindi), 'Gunjan Saxena' (Hindi), 'Shakuntala' (Hindi), 'Bahattar Hoorian' (Hindi), 'Malang' (Hindi), 'Chhlaang' (Hindi), 'Bhavai' (Hindi), 'Gulabo Sitabo' (Hindi), 'Chhapaak' (Hindi), 'Bhonsle' (Hindi), 'AK vs AK' (Hindi), 'Kaamyaab' (Hindi), 'Serious Men' (Hindi), 'Bulbbul' (Hindi), 'I Pad' (Hindi), 'The Sky is Pink' (Hindi), 'Atkan Chatkan' (Hindi) and 'Chintu Ka Birthday' (Hindi).  Pellissery thanked everyone who worked for the film, or ran for it because it required quite of lot of running. ‘Jallikattu’ is based on the short story ‘Maoist’ by Hareesh and stars Antony Varghese, Chemban Vinod Jose, Sabumon Abdusamad and Santhy Balachandran. The plot revolves around a buffalo that escapes from a slaughterhouse in a remote, hilly village and the hunt that follows. The 14-member jury included directors Atanu Ghosh, Satarupa Sanyal, C Umamaheswara Rao, P Sheshadri and Abhishek Shah, actor Jayesh More, producer Kalaippuli S Thanu, art director Niraj Shah, cinematographer Nirav Shah, music director Prabuddha Banerjee, costume designer Sabarni Das, writer Shrinivas Bhanage and editor Vijay Khochikar. “Initially, we had 17 jury members of which six were from Bengal. While there were Hindi, Marathi, Malayalam and Odia films, it’s unfortunate that there were no Bengali or Tamil entries this year,” said Hasan. According to Banerjee, being on the jury was a mix of stress and enjoyment. “I had created my own scoring matrix of the various departments of film making to form a basis for selecting. What I enjoyed most was our interactions during the Zoom meetings and was pleasantly surprised by the level of mutual respect and space that all jury members had for each other, notwithstanding the obvious difference of opinion that is bound to be there in any creative assessment,” he said. On why internationally acclaimed ‘The Disciple’ was ignored, Rawail said: “This film had won the Best Screenplay award at Venice. Even if this or any other film had got the Best Picture award at Venice, it does not make it necessary that it will be the best film for this jury to be sending it to the Oscars. One has to take an objective and independent view.” When there are 27 films in the fray, it is quite a challenge to select one. “It was decided by a simple majority to send ‘Jallikattu’ to represent India at the Oscars. The jury was touched by the rawness the film showed, the complexity of human emotions with well fleshed-out characters,” he added. All the jury members were sent links of the 27 final entries. “Each film was given an equal hearing. We had a zoom meeting in the beginning. Eight links were sent in the first lot. We got two days to watch them. We met again on zoom to discuss them. In the next lot, we watched 11 films in four days. We then shortlisted from there. There were eight more films that were then watched. This way, we shortlisted five films. From there, we came to three and then two. Finally, it came down to one film,” Rawail said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/jallikattu-pips-26-films-to-be-indias-official-oscars-entry/articleshow/79417456.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
November 26, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Former HoD of anatomy arrested for seeking bribe||VADODARA: The anti-corruption bureau (ACB) on Wednesday arrested the former head of the anatomy department of Baroda Medical College for demanding a bribe of Rs 1.5 lakh to write a confidential report. He has also been accused of using obscene language before the medical students. Dr Shaileshkumar Nagar, who is currently a professor at MP Shah Medical College in Jamnagar, was booked on November 23 at Vadodara City ACB police station after a preliminary investigation. Additional chief secretary of the health and family welfare department had received complaints against Nagar and had asked the ACB to conduct investigation. According to ACB, medical teachers had complained that Nagar used to mentally harass people by asking personal questions, talking in an insulting manner and keep vengeance during work. For writing a confidential report for a medical teacher, Nagar allegedly demanded Rs 1.5 lakh as bribe. During the preliminary investigation, audio and video footage of the bribe demand had been verified with the FSL in Gandhinagar. Information was also received by the ACB that Nagar had molested medical teachers and students while working not only in Vadodara, Ahmedabad, Patan, Jamnagar and Surat. “We arrested him on Wednesday as his Covid-19 test report turned out to be negative,” said an ACB official. In July last year, physiotherapy students of Baroda Medical College had held a demonstration against Nagar and submitted a memorandum to the then dean. The students had alleged that Nagar used to make obscene remarks during lectures and viva and student leaders had protested at MS University’s head office to remove him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/former-hod-of-anatomy-arrested-for-seeking-bribe/articleshow/79415458.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Ranchi||Rising onion, potato prices send family budgets haywire in Steel City||Jamshedpur: With fresh stock from Nasik, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh yet to hit the markets, onion prices continue burn a hole in the pockets of buyers, sending family budgets out of control. After a brief moment of downward prices around Rs 55-60 a kg, the bulb is once again selling at Rs 70 per kilogram in the markets across Steel City. While shopkeepers were hopeful of prices coming down after Chhath, a delay in consignments arriving here has pushed up the prices. Experts say that a delayed monsoon is the main reason behind delay in fresh stocks from the farms. Meanwhile, potato prices are also rising with most retail shopkeepers selling the vegetable for Rs 45 a kilogram. Kakoli Mukherjee from Sonari said: “I require 10kg potato in a week and the rise in price has badly affected the budget we allocate for buying vegetables.” A few days ago potatoes were selling at Rs 40 a kilogram, but with fresh stocks yet to arrive, prices are moving north. Ram Hari Paswan, a shopkeeper at Sakchi market told TOI, “With the prices rising, selling onions and potatoes is becoming more and more difficult as the demand has gone down drastically. While some have reduced the quantity, others have stopped buying.” Homemaker Sanchita Roy from Sakchi area said, “Onion and potatoes are required in every household both for veg and non-veg items, but with such price rises, it is difficult to cook the dishes my family members like. I hope the government intervenes soon.” The rise in prices has also affected smaller eateries with samosas and alu chops selling at Rs 5 from the earlier Re 1 a piece. Rajesh, a golgappa seller said. “I didn’t want to increase the price of my items, but the high prices of onion and potato compelled me to do so. Some customers have stopped coming to my shop.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rising-onion-potato-prices-send-family-budgets-haywire-in-steel-city/articleshow/79415821.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
November 26, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees new Covid cases rise over 6,000 after 26 days||MUMBAI: The state reported over 6,000 Covid-19 cases in a 24-hour window after 26 days on Wednesday, with 6,159 new cases taking the tally since the outbreak to 17,95,959. The average daily cases in the past few weeks were 4,700. Covid-19 fatalities in the state more than doubled to 65 from the 30 each on Tuesday and Monday, taking the toll to 46,748. A state government release said that of the 65 deaths, 56 had occurred in the latest 48 hours and nine last week. The case fatality rate remained 2.6%. The city added 1,144 new cases, taking its tally to 2,78,597. Both state and municipal officials attributed the rise to more testing. Deaths in the city numbered under 20 for the 14th day despite an increase to 17, which took the toll to 10,725. The state conducted 90,383 tests, with nearly 17,000 of these in the city. “What is significant is that the daily positivity rate for the state has dropped to 6%,” Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer, said. Following the meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday, the state government directed districts to increase the number of tests. Guidelines by the Centre say the number of RTPCR tests should be increased in comparison with the less sensitive antigen test. “There were many districts that were doing nearly 80% antigen tests and very little RT-PCR, which is the gold standard. With the testing going up in the state, the number of cases detected everyday is bound to increase,” an official said. He said the districts have also been asked to ensure that a sizable number of tests that are being conducted are of service providers. Tests had dropped from a daily average of 88,000 in September to 70,700 in October and 65,000 in November. The fall was in the range of 25,000-30,000 during Diwali. Dr Awate said that in anticipation of a second wave, all districts had been asked to revitalise their testing efforts. “The state is closely monitoring the situation. A SOP of some restrictions that will help reduce crowding but will not hamper revenue generation is also being worked out,” the official said. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region reported 2,194 cases, breaching the 2,000-mark after several weeks. It saw 22 deaths — 17 from the city, 2 from Navi Mumbai and 3 from Panvel. Besides the 22 MMR deaths in the state release, the Thane Municipal Corporation reported another three deaths. If added to the state figures for the MMR, the final number would be 25, but the state did not confirm the three Thane deaths. Thane reported 194 new cases, taking the tally to 50,385. The death toll reached 1,159. The recovery rate was 94% with 47,638 patients recovered and 1,588 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-sees-new-covid-cases-rise-over-6000-after-26-days/articleshow/79419017.cms||Bhavika Jain
November 26, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: FYJC admissions restart today, second list on December 5||PUNE: The stalled first year junior college (FYJC) admission process for 2020-21 will restart across the state on Thursday, and the second allotment list will be displayed online on December 5, a notification on 11thadmission.org.in said. Assistant director of education of Pune division, Meena Shendkar, said changes in the FYJC admission software were sought to give SEBC students the choice to change their category. If a student has applied under the SEBC quota before September 9, but has yet to be admitted, he or she will be given a seat under the open category, the government resolution said. “The admissions that have already been done will not change. The new changes that apply now will remain in effect till the final order from the Supreme Court,” she added. The apex court on September 9 had stayed the implementation of the Maratha quota in recruitment and educational institutions for the academic year 2020-21. The postgraduate medical admissions were the exception.Admissions to all courses are expected to start now that the state government has decided to implement the apex court’s interim order staying the Maratha quota in education. Second merit list will be out on December 5Students whose FYJC admissions were rejected or cancelled and those who got the first preference, but did not take the admission during round 1, can participate in the second round. But thereafter, those given their first preference must take admission in the allotted junior college. Such students who fail to take admission, and those who cancel their admissions, will be blocked for further regular rounds, and considered only during the special round. Junior colleges will collect the admission fees only through digital payment modes, or e-wallets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-fyjc-admissions-restart-today-second-list-on-december-5/articleshow/79419045.cms||Ardhra Nair
November 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: BBMP administrator seeks report on Avenue Road upkeep||BENGALURU: Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) administrator Gaurav Gupta on Wednesday directed civic officials to come up with a time schedule pertaining to development of Avenue Road under the Smart City project. The kilometre-long road, which connects KR Market with Majestic and is the nerve centre of the city’s retail hub, is all set to get a facelift along with other important roads in the area. Gupta, who inspected Chickpet and Cottonpet areas along with Bengaluru Central MP, PC Mohan, told the officials to submit a report on Avenue Road within a week’s time after incorporating all the design-related changes. “Take steps to identify alternative routes to divert traffic and commence work at the earliest,” he told the civic officials. The administrator also took note of the complaints related to water-logging and broken pavements on SJP Road and directed his team to come up with a feasibility report on taking up works on the busy stretch that is dotted with hardware, metal and electrical stores. Earlier, traders alleged civic apathy and maintained that roads in the area were riddled with potholes and the pavements were not fit for walking. “Even a small spell of rain leaves the roads water-logged for hours, making it difficult for people to move around,” they alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bbmp-administrator-seeks-report-on-avenue-rd-upkeep/articleshow/79416160.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Bengaluru||KEA publishes list of medical, dental seats||BENGALURU: The first round of seat allotment of UGNEET-2020 for admissions to medical/dental courses was published on the Karnataka Examinations Authority website — http://kea.kar.nic.in — on Wednesday. In a release, KEA said as per the matrix provided by the government, seats have been allotted by following the roster system based on the merit/rank of the candidate and the priority of options entered. The web portal will be enabled on November 26 for candidates, who have been allotted seats in medical/dental courses to exercise their choice. KEA suggested that before making a choice, candidates must understand the eligibility criteria to participate in the subsequent round. To know the instructions in detail, aspirants can visit the KEA website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/kea-publishes-list-of-medical-dental-seats/articleshow/79416153.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Chennai||Chennai braces for flood as Adyar level rises, canals flow in full capacity||Five years after overflowing Chembarambakkam reservoir triggered an unprecedented deluge in Chennai city and surrounding areas, causing large-scale destruction to lives and properties, the sluice gates of the reservoir were opened again on Wednesday, releasing 1,000 cusecs (cubic feet per second) initially, which was increased to 5,000 cusecs at 7.00 pm as the inflow increased. As the city braces for cyclone Nivar, the state administration is doing everything possible to keep the reservoir levels under check – at 22 ft against a reservoir capacity of 24 feet – to prevent a repeat of 2015 floods, when Chennai residents were taken by surprise as about one lakh cusecs flowed into Adyar river from various sources, against its carrying capacity of 60,000 cusecs. If the outflow is maintained at 5,000 cusecs, the reservoir would be releasing more than 12,000 million litres per day – equivalent to 15 days of drinking water supply in the city - into Adyar. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami inspected the reservoir during the course of the day along with experts from PWD and Metrowater departments. The CM said the entire additional inflow into the reservoir would be released into the river to avoid the reservoir crossing the 22 feet mark. “Water was released from the reservoir when the dam level touched 22 feet and the inflow was 4,398 cusecs. Usually during a cyclone, rainfall reduces and wind speed increases. The maximum release from the reservoir may not cross 10,000 cusecs,” said S Asokan, chief engineer, public works department. Another 2,000 cusecs is being released from Adhanur tank, which also flows into Adyar. The PWD had also widened the river and removed silt to ensure free flow of water in the river. Greater Chennai Corporation, meanwhile, is engaged in evacuating people from the river banks, slums and other low-lying areas to rescue camps. More than 2,700 people have been shifted from Adyar basin to relief camps. Public address systems are being used to inform people about the impending danger if they stay put in their houses. The Union Jal Shakti ministry said Poondi in river Kosasthalaiyar basin was also likely to get an average inflow of 3,885 cusecs by Thursday morning. Activists have alleged mis-governance and red tape in clearing water body restoration projects. “The government had passed work orders to desilt all four city reservoirs in 2018. Work on Chembarambakkam reservoir to remove 1.51cr cubic feet of silt should have begun in December 2018. However, work began only in June 2019 and soon due to south west monsoon it was stalled. If that work had been completed, the reservoir’s capacity would have increased by 0.5 TMCft,” said S Thirunavukkarasu, retired PWD official. Alarm bells were raised when water level in Adyar began rising by evening. “The problem is that Adyar, Cooum, Buckhingam Canal, Mambalam canal, Virughambakkam canal, MGR canal and most feeder canals are flowing in full capacity. And due to this, even the water carried by the storm water drains was hitting a reverse flow, inundating city roads and localities. We have to wait for the tide to reduce in the sea,” said a corporation official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-braces-for-flood-as-adyar-level-rises-canals-flow-in-full-capacity/articleshow/79419073.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Chennai||Greater Chennai corporation removes banners to prevent accidents||Anticipating strong gusts of wind, corporation officials on Wednesday morning began removing banners including legal ones. Sources in Greater Chennai Corporation said the instruction, from commissioner G Prakash to regional deputy commissioners and zonal officers, was aimed at avoiding incidents of banners falling over pedestrians/motorists and causing injuries or death. Though the exact count of banners removed by noon could not be ascertained, those on East Coast Road stretch (ECR) and Old Mahabalipuram (OMR), which are closer to where Cyclone Nivar is expected to make landfall, were taken out. Corporation officials also reported 52 trees falling in areas across the city. The civic body has at its disposal a specialised three-wheeled automated treecutting machine which can reach to a height of around 15 metres. Six such machines were deployed after residents reported tree falls in areas like Teynampet, Virugambakkam and Adyar. Pruning of branches that could fall over motorists or pedestrians and chopping of dead trees has been activated since February by zonal level officials and the tree-cutting machines had been pressed into service since then. “Since the wind speed is high, even healthy trees and branches could fall off. We are up to the task,” an official said. Equipment was also put to use to remove other dangling stuff like electricity poles and high mast poles. For instance in the morning, a slanting Tangedco post on Velachery Main Road, which extends from the junction with Sardar Patel Road in Saidapet to Tambaram and comes under the Perungudi zone (14), was set right by corporation officials. On Tuesday night, a high mast behind the Gandhi statue on Marina beach, was removed. As canals were brimming, corporation officials also pressed into service robotic excavators, amphibians and mini-amphibians for clearing them of garbage and other waste that accumulated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/greater-chennai-corporation-removes-banners-to-prevent-accidents/articleshow/79419086.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Kingpin Nilesh Gupta exploited women from poor households||VADODARA: Investigation into the online sex racket busted in Akota revealed that most of the women who worked for the kingpin Nilesh Gupta, were poor in dire need for money. Some of the women whom police contacted over the course of the investigation said that although they found the job to be sleazy, they took it up as they needed money for their family. “We have found women whose fathers work as auto-rickshaw driver or labourer or there would be no one working in the family,” said a police official. A couple of women had even walked out of the interview knowing about the work, but they returned after a few days as they needed money. “We are still trying to get in touch with women who had worked for the accused in the past,” the police official added. Meanwhile, police have learnt that not just one, but two women used to do the hiring and training for Gupta. Earlier involvement of Ami Parmar, a resident of Karelibaug, had come to the fore, but Gupta revealed that another woman named Neha also used to help him. “They used to conduct the interviews and persuade the victims to take up the jobs by capitalizing on their financial conditions,” another official said. Besides hiring and training, Neha also used to purchase the skimpy dresses and make-up kits. “As of now, our focus is collecting more concrete evidence against the kingpin so our teams are working in that direction. The roles of other accused were more of supporting the crime,” a senior police official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/kingpin-exploited-women-from-poor-households/articleshow/79415531.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Surat||Surat-Sharjah flight to remain suspended till March 27||SURAT: The wait for the high-flying Surtis to fly directly to Sharjah is getting longer due to the coronavirus pandemic. The Air India Express on Wednesday announced that the international flight services between Surat and Sharjah will remain suspended till March 27, 2021. However, the operations will resume once the coronavirus situation in the country gets under control. Official sources at the Surat airport said that the authorities sent an official communication on Wednesday stating that the flight operations has been suspended till March. The announcement regarding the normal operations will be made in the fourth week of March. The flight was cancelled after the first lockdown was announced in the country to contain the spread of Covid-19 in March. According to the figures available from the Airports Authority of India (AAI), about 4,000 passengers would travel to and from Sharjah to Surat per month. The lone international flight between Surat and Sharjah commenced operations in February, 2019. In December, 2019, the number of passengers has gone up to about 5,500 per month. “It is very disheartening to know that the lone international flight to Sharjah has been cancelled till March. This means that the international flight operations will take a long time in resuming normal operations due to coronavirus pandemic,” said Sanjay Jain, member of We Work for a Working Airport at Surat (WWWAS) “The Sharjah flight is very popular among the Surti travellers, especially those from the diamond industry. Since Sharjah is closer to Dubai, the flight is a huge success. We hope that the flight operations resumes early for the benefit of the people,” said Dinesh Navadiya, president of Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-sharjah-flight-to-remain-suspended-till-march-27/articleshow/79414959.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Business||Kesoram fund-raising, debt recast plan gets nod||Kolkata: Manjushree Khaitan-led Kesoram Industries has got in-principle approval from its lenders to go ahead with its fund-raising and subsequent debt recast plan. The board of directors will meet on November 30 to consider and approve raising funds either through Issue of non- convertible debentures and/or issue of equity shares and/or issue of Zero Coupon Optionally Convertible Redeemable Preference Shares. Sources said that the fund-raising would be predominantly in cash for reducing debt to a comfortable level. The company has already pared debt by around Rs 1,000 crore following demerger of the tyre division of the company into a new entity Birla Tyres Ltd. It is learnt that the fund would be used mainly to pair long term debt which is around Rs 1,500 crore. The total debt of Kesoram is Rs 2,100-2,200 crore, rest is working capital. “Ideally total debt should come down to level of Rs 1,700-1,800 crore. The CEO of Kesoram P Radhakrishnan had earlier said that with an EBITA of Rs 350-400 crore of Kesoram, a debt of up to four times should be manageable. Incidentally, Kesoram CEO has earlier said that the new entity Birla Tyres may demerge passenger car radials into a separate company for inducting strategic partners. The strategic partner was likely to be inducted into this subsidiary with 50% stake. However, he does not disclose further about this plan, when asked this time. Incidentally, Kesoram is setting up the passenger car radial unit in Balasore near its existing unit. The estimated investment in the new plant is Rs 900 crore. It will have a capacity of 4 million tonne.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/kesoram-fund-raising-debt-recast-plan-gets-nod/articleshow/79417675.cms||---
November 26, 2020||India||Active Covid cases rise for 2nd day in a row; day’s toll 500+||India’s active Covid-19 cases rose for the second straight day on Wednesday - signalling a post-Diwali spurt in the pandemic with fresh infections outnumbering the recoveries — even as Delhi showed some improvement in the situation by slipping to the third spot in the state-wise tally after remaining on the top of the chart in daily cases for nine consecutive days. Active cases rose by nearly 5,000 to 4,52,430 at the time of going to press —with data from Chhattisgarh yet to be collated— marking the fourth rise in the last five days. Wednesday’s rise in active cases was the second highest since October 1, the highest being on Tuesday when active cases rose by nearly 5,500. If active cases continue to increase, it would signal that the pandemic is on the rise again. After staying below the 500-mark for two consecutive days, casualties on Wednesday rose to 515, taking the cumulative toll to 1,35,194. With 42,862 new cases, India’s caseload reached 92,64,699. As many as 86,77,075 patients have recovered. While Delhi slipped to the third position with 5,246 fresh cases, down by nearly 1000 infections the previous day, Kerala topped the chart once again in last 10 days with 6,491 cases and Maharashtra was second with 6,159 cases. Though Delhi’s toll at 99 on Wednesday was lower, after recording more than 100 deaths every day for five straight days, it was still the highest in the country. Gujarat, which appears to be witnessing the second wave of the pandemic, recorded its highest ever daily cases, 1,540, on Wednesday. The neighbouring Rajasthan, which has also been witnessing a surge in cases post Diwali, recorded its second highest daily cases – 3,285. On Tuesday, the state had recorded 3,314 cases, its highest ever.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/active-covid-cases-rise-for-2nd-day-in-a-row-days-toll-500/articleshow/79419164.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Business||Bisleri posts 50% monthly sales jump online||Kolkata: Bisleri, one of the leaders in packaged drinking water, has witnessed 50% month-on-month jump in e-commerce business during pandemic. From just 1%-2% of total sales, e-commerce now constitutes almost 4%-5% of the company’s revenue. “This is largely because consumption in home segment has gone up significantly,” Bisleri CEO Angelo Goeroge told TOI. Bisleri along with Bailley, Aquafina, Kinley are the national players in the Rs 15,000-16,000 crore packaged drinking water market. Rests are local and small players. Around 42% of the drinking water market in India is controlled by big players. Angelo pointed out that it has already tied up with online delivery partners like Zomato and Dunzo to scale up servicing ability across top 40 cities and ensure consumers have easy access to the full range of products from Bisleri. The collaboration with delivery service providers is an extension of Bisleri’s direct-to-home campaign. “I think the dramatic growth of e-commerce possibly has been one of the few positive stories of this pandemic period. Bisleri@Doorstep was launched in April 2020 for consumers to easily access a range of Bisleri products and subscribe to get hassle-free and uninterrupted supplies,” he added. Bisleri is servicing across all top cities — Mumbai, Pune, Gurgaon, Noida, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Chennai, Kolkata, Ludhiana, Pune, Navi Mumbai, Jaipur through e-commerce channel. “Whoever is able to win the trust of families that are possibly moving to e-commerce for the first time will capture that market and retain the consumer base. So we are investing heavily in this space,” he added. Angelo added that it had started taking preparation for the pandemic from January itself considering the fact that only 47% of urban household has individual water connection and in over 50% districts in the country ground water is contaminated. “We sustained production at all 135 units across the country from Day One and most of our 4,500 distributors were active during the entire period since lockdown in March. Our production and packaging are completely contactless and we had put in additional safety procedures at our facilities, including ozone tunnels for disinfecting employees in the light of Covid,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bisleri-posts-50-monthly-sales-jump-online/articleshow/79417769.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Mumbai||Test rule could hit essentials’ supply as truckers reluctant to ply to Maharashtra||MUMBAI: The Covid test rule, which came into effect from Wednesday in Maharashtra, could hit supply of fruits, vegetables, essential and non-essential commodities. Transporters said that with lack of clarity from the government and stringent checks at the six border checkposts, several truckers are unwilling to come to Maharashtra from other states. “The entire supply chain in the northern and western belt will get disrupted,” said the All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC), in a collective petition of transporters to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. “There are lakhs of commercial vehicles that frequently travel in and out of Maharashtra to Gujarat, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka and Goa. They carry edibles, food grains, fruits, vegetables, other essential items, medicines, project and time sensitive raw material for infrastructural projects and industries, project machinery, export-import consignments etc. These crew members make multiple trips into Maharashtra and every time they will have to get RT-PCR test done and the cost has to be borne by them. This will be a cumbersome and delaying process, thus making the vehicle operators reluctant to travel to the state,” the petition mentioned. Bal Malkit Singh of AIMTC said that eventually, the common man will be badly hit if the transportation of essentials is delayed. “Business houses and industries will also get affected if there is disruption in supply of non-essential goods and raw material,” he pointed out. On Wednesday, there was strict checking at all six border checkpoints from Gujarat, MP, Chhattisgarh, Telangana, Karnataka and Goa. At the Maharashtra-Gujarat border at Talasari, six teams were set up for Covid testing of people entering the state. On Wednesday, there was a long queue of motorists waiting to get screened by thermal scanners before entering Maharashtra on the Mumbai-Ahmedabad national highway. Those detected with high fever were made to undergo antigen tests. Motorists who entered the state with negative RTPCR and antigen test reports were not stopped. Motorists complained of chaos at the testing camps. Each person took about 20 minutes, during which details of their trip, address and duration of stay were noted. Trucks ferrying essentials, like vegetables and milk, were stranded on the highway since morning. Massive traffic jam was reported on Ghodbunder Road junction in Thane. Palghar district Guardian minister Dadaji Bhuse, who visited the Talasari checkpost, urged motorists to enter the state with their test reports to avoid delay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/test-rule-could-hit-essentials-supply-as-truckers-reluctant-to-ply-to-maharashtra/articleshow/79419185.cms||Sandhya Nair
November 26, 2020||Kochi||‘Jallikattu’ is India’s official Oscar entry||KOCHI: Jallikattu, directed by Lijo Jose Pellissery, and based on a short story by celebrated writer S Hareesh, who recently won JCB Prize for Literature for the English translation of his novel ‘Meesha’, is the third Malayalam film to be selected as India's official entry for Oscars. "I wish to thank everyone who worked for the film - or who ran for it because it required quite a lot of running. I am very happy that it has been considered as the official Indian entry to Oscars," said Lijo Jose Pellissery. In 2011, Adaminte Makan, a national award-winning film directed by Salim Ahamed was chosen as the country's official entry for Oscar awards. In 1997, Guru, directed by Rajiv Anchal became the first ever Malayalam film to be selected for the honour. The 93rd Academy Awards function is scheduled to be held in April next year and Jallikattu would vie globally for the 'Best international feature film'. "It's a director's film. After writing the story when I met Lijo, he said the story that I wrote has a place in literature and anyone would be able to read it from a book. What I am going to make is totally different, he said. I did not have a problem with that. Ultimately, the film's creator is the director and he was making it inspired by my story," says Hareesh. The film Jallikattu satirizes the chaos unleashed in a high-range village after a buffalo bought for slaughter runs amok resulting in a chase that becomes a metaphor for history of human aggression. Lijo is known for several critically acclaimed films including 'Ea M Yau, Angamaly Diaries'.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/jallikattu-is-indias-official-oscar-entry/articleshow/79419177.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru businessman tries to seal herbal oil deal, loses Rs 61 lakh||BENGALURU: A 53-year-old businessman lost Rs 61 lakh to cybercriminals while trying to procure online a herbal oil for cancer treatment. East CEN crime police said they have registered a case of cheating against unknown miscreants based on a complaint filed by Ram Reddy (name changed) of Doddanekundi. Police said the miscreants contacted Reddy through email and introduced themselves as representatives from a UK-based pharmaceutical company. They asked Reddy to supply them a herbal oil used for cancer treatment of animals. They lured him by promising to offer huge profit in the business. The miscreants convinced Reddy to procure the oil from Sai Traders Enterprises Pvt Ltd in India for a lesser price and supply the same to the UK firm to earn big profit. Reddy approached Sai Traders through their website. A few minutes later, he received calls from two unknown numbers. The callers claimed they were from Sai Traders and promised Reddy they would supply him the oil he wanted. Believing them to be genuine, Reddy transferred Rs 61,49,000 to the bank accounts provided by the miscreants. The fraudsters were in touch with Reddy between October 19 and November 17. They went incommunicado after receiving the money from him. East CEN Crime police have registered a case under IPC sections 419 (punishment for cheating by personation), 420 (cheating) and sections 66(C) and 66(D) of Information Technology Act, 2000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-businessman-tries-to-seal-herbal-oil-deal-loses-rs-61-lakh/articleshow/79419206.cms||Santosh kumar.B
November 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: 22-year-old cheated of Rs 76,000 while activating DTH account||BENGALURU: A 22-year-old man lost Rs 76,485 on November 19, while trying to activate his DTH account. Sangma from St Thomas Town told police on Monday that he searched for the customer care number of his DTH provider and found one online. He called the number and the receiver promised to fix the problem. Sangma shared his bank details, which the miscreant had sought. Within a few minutes, he found that unknown persons had siphoned off Rs 76,485 from his account. Cybercops have taken up a case and probe is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-22-year-old-cheated-of-rs-76000-while-activating-dth-account/articleshow/79419219.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Mumbai||Prosecutor resigns, cites inadequate Covid precautions in court as reason||MUMBAI: A special public prosecutor who was currently handling seven high profile cases at the city’s sessions court has resigned after informing the state’s law and judiciary department that she feared for her health as safety measures introduced in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic were not being followed during hearings. Times ViewConsiderations have rightly been made for senior citizens in several places due to their vulnerability to Covid-19, and a similar stand can be taken for legal officers across the city’s courts. Use of video conferencing facility should also be encouraged where possible. Additionally, safety measures introduced in courts in light of the pandemic should be strictly implemented and followed.A senior citizen, advocate Vidya Kasle who has been a special public prosecutor for 33 years said she had tendered her resignation on November 18. “A few days before my resignation, I was required to attend court. However, when I went to the court in-charge, I found there was no social distancing, no sanitisers and everyone was standing next to one another with less than a six-inch gap. This is not how I want to attend the hearings,” said Kasle. Among the recent cases Kasle was handling as special public prosecutor is one involving the 2017 murder of Byculla Jail inmate Manjula Shetye. Jailor Manisha Pokharkar and five guards are accused of beating Shetye on June 23, 2017. Kasle has examined four witnesses in the case. In an another case where 14 witnesses were examined, a woman has accused three police officers from Saki Naka and their accomplices of raping and robbing her in 2017. Kasle’s other cases include the 2013 Mahim building collapse and the Azad Maidan riots. Kasle said with trials resuming in almost all her matters and there being an insistence on her physical attendance, she would have been required to go to courts on all working days. She said in one case, her request for a hearing over video conferencing was turned down by the court. “I did not want to take the risk with courts being crowded. I am a senior citizen with co morbidities and no precautionary measures are in place where we (lawyers) are concerned. The safety measures are only for judges and the accused. I have mentioned these facts in my resignation letter and said under these circumstances I do not think it proper to risk my health.” The city native began her legal career in 1974, switching over to the prosecution side in the 1980s. Her first case as a “junior” public prosecutor was a criminal case involving the now absconding terror accused, Dawood Ibrahim. Over the years, Kasle has been appointed special public prosecutor in several cases under the stringent MCOCA. Among Kasle’s most noted cases was the 2006 fake encounter of alleged Chhota Rajan aide Ramnarayan Gupta alias Lakhan Bhaiya. In 2013, a sessions court handed out life sentences to all 21 convicted accused, including 13 policemen. Meanwhile, in a meeting on Wednesday, it was decided lower courts will function in accordance with the standard operating procedure for the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/prosecutor-resigns-cites-inadequate-covid-precautions-in-court-as-reason/articleshow/79419220.cms||Rebecca Samervel
November 26, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: ED serves summons to Pinarayi Vijayan’s additional private secretary||KOCHI: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) probing the money laundering angle in the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case has summoned chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s additional private secretary CM Raveendran for interrogation on Friday. Though he was summoned for questioning in the first week of November, he couldn’t appear before the agency as he had tested positive for Covid-19. According to sources, the ED served the notice after coming to know that Raveendran has fully recovered and that he has completed the quarantine period. Earlier, ED had received a statement from Swapna Suresh that Raveendran used to contact her occasionally for visa stamping and certificate attestation. ED has earlier sought details of major projects of the state government from the IT secretary. The move was in connection with the suspicion that some government officials received kickbacks for the projects. The ethics committee of the state legislative assembly had sought an explanation from the agency about its probe into the state government projects. ED is yet to receive the details it had sought from the government. The agency had also said in a remand report that former principal secretary M Sivasankar and his team in the chief minister’s office knew about the gold smuggling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-ed-serves-summons-to-pinarayi-vijayans-additional-private-secretary/articleshow/79419222.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Mumbai||Pilots, cabin crew exempted from test rule||MUMBAI: Airline pilots and cabin crew have been exempted from the RT-PCR tests made mandatory for domestic passengers arriving from certain Covid hotspots in the country into Maharashtra from Wednesday onwards. In an order issued on Wednesday, chief secretary Sanjay Kumar said that the state government received a request from Air India stating that the airline operates a large number of Vande Bharat flights and multiple cargo flights in and out of Maharashtra on a regular basis. “This involves a large number of light and cockpit crew to travel into Maharashtra from various states to either operate or to be positioned for flight duties on a daily basis,” stated the order. Under the latest guidelines issued by the state government, Covid RT-PCR test has been made compulsory for all people arriving into Maharashtra from Covid hotspots of Delhi NCR, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Goa. This would lead to delays of scheduling of flights, the airline pleaded. The state government then decided to exempt all cockpit crew and cabin crew carrying valid identity cards from RT-PCR tests at all airports in Maharashtra “subject to following all necessary Covid-related protocols” by the airlines concerned, said the order. The government has made Covid tests mandatory for those coming in by air and trains from the four states to prevent an increase in positive cases in Maharashtra||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pilots-cabin-crew-exempted-from-test-rule/articleshow/79419231.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Strike may disrupt auto, cab services today||BENGALURU: The nationwide general strike on Thursday against the Centre’s policies is unlikely to disrupt bus and Metro services in the city but autorickshaws and cabs may not ply as some unions have decided to take part. Banking services are likely to be hit as the All-India Bank Employees’ Association has decided to join the protest. Metro to run as usual Services of all state-run transport corporations — BMTC, KSRTC, NWKRTC and NEKRTC — may not be affected as the major trade union, AITUC-backed KSRTC Staff and Workers Federation, is not participating but only extending moral support. Namma Metro will operate as usual between 7am and 9pm. Tanveer Pasha, a cab union leader, said most driver associations have decided to stage a protest between 6am and 6pm. However, some unions say they are not in a position to participate as their revenue has already been affected by Covid-19. At least 10 central trade unions have called for a general strike seeking various demands. Some have decided to stage demonstrations in places like Town Hall and Freedom Park.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/strike-may-disrupt-auto-cab-services-today/articleshow/79415856.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Bineesh Kodiyeri to remain in Bengaluru jail till December 8||BENGALURU: The judicial custody of Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of Kerala CPM leader Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, arrested in a money-laundering case by the Enforcement Directorate (ED), has been extended by 14 days. The 37-year-old will be in a Bengaluru prison till December 8. His bail plea will be heard by a special court on Friday. On Wednesday, Bineesh was presented before a judge through video conferencing from the Central Prison complex as his remand period after being sent to judicial custody in the ED case was ending. He was arrested by the Bengaluru ED team on October 29 and sent to prison on November 11. The Bangalore zonal unit of Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) took him into custody on November 17 for four days. The agency probing Bineesh’s alleged links with drug dealers and his long-time associates Mohammed Anoop and Rijesh Ravindran, recorded his statement but hadn’t booked him.  Rijesh’s bail plea was rejected by the high court on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bineesh-to-remain-in-jail-till-december-8/articleshow/79415864.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Jalahalli underpass work won’t disrupt traffic, says BBMP||BENGALURU: BBMP is making arrangements to ensure traffic movement is not restricted during construction of a grade separator at Jalahalli Cross, the intersection of Subroto Mukherjee Road and Tumakuru Road. The civic agency has proposed constructing the underpass using the tunnelling and contiguous piling method for the first time to make sure vehicular movement can continue at the busy junction even as work goes on underground. According to officials, the underpass will be built by burrowing a tunnel and its retaining walls by using contiguous piles. The dry and cohesive soil at the spot is said to be apt to take up such work. The proposal involves construction of a four-lane divided bi-directional underpass along Subroto Mukherjee Road and Peenya Industrial Ring Road, across NH-4. It will include a 7.5m-wide slip road and 3m-wide footpath along with a drain and utility pipes towards the Gangamma Circle side and 11m-wide slip road and 3m- wide sidewalk along with a drain and utility pipes towards Peenya Industrial Area side at grade level. “Traffic volume at this junction is significant and there is no alternative route available to divert it,” said BS Prahallad, chief engineer, BBMP (roads). The junction is in the middle of a thickly populated area which teems with industrial and commercial establishments and residential pockets and witnesses a large footfall. Given the volume of motorised traffic at the junction, pedestrians face grave risks. “This project is the need of the hour. It will have four subways for easy movement of pedestrians,” the chief engineer added. Acquisition of 10,432sqm of area has been completed. The total cost of the project is Rs 108 crore and it’s expected to be completed within a year. Work will begin in a month. BBMP officials said the Kundalahalli underpass method can’t be used here and hence the new technique. “The open-cut method in Kundalahalli was a disaster as the work is still under way and there are only two service roads available for commuters, which are chock-a-block with vehicles. Delay in land acquisition also complicated problems,” Prahallad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/jalahalli-underpass-work-wont-disrupt-traffic-palike/articleshow/79415895.cms||Nithya Mandyam
November 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Two containment zones, 95% recovery rate in Bengaluru: BBMP||BENGALURU: After having had 40,563 Covid-19 containment zones in August, Bengaluru now has only two. This captures the pandemic trajectory in the IT capital, senior BBMP officials said at a webinar on Wednesday. The event was organised by Namma Bengaluru Foundation in association with RWAs and BBMP health officials to throw light on pandemic management. Bengaluru’s recovery rate is over 95% and this is a positive thing, said Rajendra Cholan, BBMP special commissioner health and IT. Till November 23, Bengaluru reported 3,65,317 positive cases and 3,43,169 of them have recovered. With 4,091 deaths, the mortality rate is 1.1 per cent. There have been complaints, though, about test reports not being sent in time, delaying people’s plans to travel or return to work. “We’ve resolved the issue now. Earlier data was given to the state agencies and they were to send the details, but now we have rerouted it to PHCs and the BBMP war room. We’ll give these details to the people in less than 24 hours,” Cholan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/2-containment-zones-95-recovery-rate-in-city-bbmp/articleshow/79415909.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: ‘Will protest if infra work not over before Metro line opens’||BENGALURU: While Kanakapura Road (Yelachenahalli-Anjanapura) Metro section is all set to be inaugurated, residents from the locality have threatened to stage a protest over delay in completion of infrastructure work by BMRCL. The commissioner of Metro rail safety on Monday gave the nod for extension of Green Line (Nagasandra-Yelachenahalli) operations up to Anajanapura. However, residents say only about 40% of road and footpath work has been done so far. “We will protest if the Metro line is opened without completion of the work,” said a founder-member of Changemakers of Kanakapura Road (CMKR). Abdul Aleem, convenor of CMKR, said: “We conducted a survey of Kanakapura Road from Sarakki Junction to NICE Road Junction on Wednesday. We found only 40% of the civil work has been completed and asphalting has just started.” A BMRCL official said work on developing non-motorised transport infrastructure along the section got delayed due to the pandemic. “It will be completed after commissioning of the line,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/will-protest-if-infra-work-not-over-before-metro-line-opens/articleshow/79415903.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Four years on, ORR Metro awaits Centre’s nod||BENGALURU: It’s been a month since two firms emerged the lowest bidders for the Silk Board-KR Puram section on Outer Ring Road Metro corridor. However, Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited is yet to award tenders due to delay in getting the Centre’s approval for the project. In December 2019, BMRCL floated a tender for the 19-km elevated stretch (Light Blue Line) with 13 stations along ORR, but it was later put on hold due to delay in getting nod from the Centre. Last month, BMRCL opened bids after chief minister BS Yediyurappa gave the green signal. Mumbai-based Afcons Infrastructure Limited emerged the lowest bidder with Rs 785 crore for the first package — 9.8km elevated section with six stations (Central Silk Board Junction, HSR Layout, Agara Junction, Iblur Junction, Bellandur, Kadubeesanahalli and construction of a 2.8m flyover at Central Silk Board). Bengaluru-based Shankaranarayana Constructions Pvt Ltd was the lowest bidder with Rs 623 crore for the second package — 9.7km elevated section with seven stations (Kodibisanahalli, Marathahalli, ISRO Layout, Doddanekkundi, DRDO Sports Complex, Saraswathi Nagar (Mahadevapura) and KR Puram and a 2km link line to Byappanahalli depot). BMRCL had prepared a detailed project report for the ORR Metro in 2016 at a cost Rs 4,202 crore and the section was to be operational by 2021. It had planned to commence civil works in December 2020 and they were expected to be completed in 2024-25. The line is crucial for the city as it passes through the IT corridor housing several multinational companies. However, the ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA) is turning a blind eye despite BJP being in power in both at the Centre and the state. “We have been trying to get the Centre’s approval for ORR Metro for the past three and a half years, but only now it is reaching the approval stage,” said a senior BMRCL official. Experts say BMRCL could have started construction without major traffic disruptions since most companies along ORR are working from home due to Covid-19. Vishwanath Seetharam, founder-secretary of Outer Ring Road Companies Association, said: “This is the right time to start work since 70% of employees are working remotely. They should take up this corridor on priority and complete it before techies and other office-goers return to the city after a vaccine is ready.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/4-yrs-on-orr-metro-awaits-centres-nod/articleshow/79415899.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
November 26, 2020||Mumbai||10 railway passengers test positive at Mumbai stations; stampede fears at Bandra||MUMBAI: A total of 10 passengers tested Covid positive of the 9,779 screened at the outstation railway stations within BMC limits on day one of the implementation of the state government directive imposing restrictions on travellers coming from Delhi, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Goa. Meanwhile, chaos and a stampede-like situation prevailed at Bandra Terminus as passengers had to wait in a queue for hours as BMC officials undertook antigen tests. On Wednesday, passengers who arrived from the four states without the RT-PCR negative test reports were screened using thermal scanners and those showing symptoms were tested using rapid antigen kits at Mumbai Central, Bandra Terminus, Dadar, Borivli, Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus and Lokmanya Tilak Terminus. Passengers’ details, including name, address and phone number, were recorded before they were allowed to exit the station premises. Assistant municipal commissioner of G-North ward (Dadar station comes in this ward) Kiran Dighavkar said, “There was a huge inflow of passengers which led to overcrowding on platforms. We initially deployed three teams to screen the passengers at Dadar station, but had to increase it to eight as it’s challenging to test those who are symptomatic or with comorbidities in such a short span of time. We may deploy additional teams, if needed.” Western Railway’s chief public relations officer Sumit Thakur said, “A total of 1,722 passengers underwent rapid antigen tests at the WR stations, of which eight tested positive.” The other two who tested Covid positive had alighted on Central Railway stations. About the chaos at Bandra Terminus, Thakur said, “One train each from Gujarat and Rajasthan arrived at 11.20am and 11.30am, respectively and about 780 passengers alighted from them. There were other passengers waiting on the platforms too. BMC officials were carrying out antigen tests of all passengers instead of targeting only asymptomatic people as per the directive. This led to overcrowding in the concourse, which was resolved in 30 minutes.” “Later, as the BMC officials only tested asymptomatic passengers, the situation eased. Also, initially only two testing booths were set up by BMC. On railways’ request, the number of booths was increased to six to speed up testing,” he added. But irate passengers took to social media to highlight the “mismanagement” at Bandra Terminus. A passenger posted a video of the crowd in the subway and said: “There is no social distancing. This is happening because of new guidelines issued by the state government.” Another passenger posted, “The staff was not wearing the mask nor where they were using the gloves.” Passengers alighting from long-distance trains from the four states at Vasai, Dahanu and Palghar stations were also made to undergo the tests. The first train that arrived from Gujarat and was heading to Goa reached Vasai station at 2.30pm. The alighted passengers stood in a queue on platform number 7. They were asked to wear masks, though social distancing was not maintained. Though a sizable number of passengers were armed with their test reports from the states they arrived, those who were waiting in the queue managed to leave the station premises after over two hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/10-railway-passengers-test-positive-at-mumbai-stations-stampede-fears-at-bandra/articleshow/79419249.cms||Manthan K Mehta
November 26, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Restrictions relaxed for burial in Covid-19 deaths||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Respiratory droplets are the main driver of Covid-19 transmission and the body of a person who succumbed to the infection is unlikely to pose much risk to health workers or family members following standard precautions, says the new advisory of the state health department on management of bodies. The new guidelines are a welcome relief to many as there were instances of people not even allowed to view the bodies of their loved ones. The bodies were cremated by healthcare workers or volunteers under strict Covid protocols. In suspected Covid deaths, the advisory says the body can be handed over to family members or relatives immediately after swab collection. The hospital authorities need not wait for the Covid test results in these cases but they should be handled as positive cases and all Covid protocols should be followed for the burial or funeral. The guidelines say family members should be allowed to view the body in Covid-positive deaths, either in the hospital or mortuary. Rituals like reading from religious scripts and sprinkling of holy water — including any last rites that do not require touching the body — should be allowed. The ashes do not pose any risk and can be collected to perform the last rites. However, the number of persons attending the funeral or burial should not exceed 20 and children and those aged above 60 should not be allowed there. The dignity of the dead, their cultural and religious traditions and their families should be respected and protected throughout, to the maximum possible extent, the advisory says. Embalming will not be allowedAll Covid-positive bodies will have to be placed in a leakproof plastic body bag. They can be wrapped with a mortuary sheet or sheet provided by family members while they should be handed over to relatives or taken to the mortuary. However, embalming will not be allowed. The new guidelines want autopsies to be avoided to the maximum and direct carrying out all infection control and prevention measures when autopsies are conducted for special reasons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kerala-restrictions-relaxed-for-burial-in-covid-19-deaths/articleshow/79419254.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Mumbai||Gold buyer falls for bag of bricks||MUMBAI: The police recently arrested a couple, Altaf Kagdi (36) and Zoya (27), on charges of cheating a Bhandup resident of Rs 5 lakh after promising to sell the victim gold at a throwaway price. The Kagdis allegedly gave the complainant a bag of bricks instead of gold. The Kagdis were introduced to the complainant by an acquaintance, identified as Deepak. The husband-wife duo are from Malwani. The police said they have at least three past cases of cheating against them. The police slapped a case against Deepak too, but they did not arrest him. The couple initially gave 1 tola of gold to the complainant. When he was satisfied with the quality, they called him to a restaurant in Lokhandwala Complex, Andheri. The complainant brought along a bag with Rs 5 lakh. The couple took it and handed him a heavy bag. While he was opening it, they slipped away. The bag they gave contained bricks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/gold-buyer-falls-for-bag-of-bricks/articleshow/79419272.cms||---
November 26, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Amid 3rd wave, door-to-door survey in Delhi finds just 13,500 of 57 lakh symptomatic||NEW DELHI: A massive five-day survey involving 57.3 lakh Delhiites living in Covid hotspots, aimed at identifying and isolating symptomatic or infected people, concluded on Wednesday. Interestingly, the exercise found only 13,516 symptomatic people with the positivity rate of those who were tested at 6.4%. Apart from the 13,516 people who were found to be symptomatic by the 9,000 threemember teams that fanned out across Delhi’s 11 districts, 8,413 contacts of the symptomatic people were also traced. A total of 18,336 individuals, including 11,790 symptomatic people and 6,546 contacts, underwent RT-PCR tests between November 20 and 24, of whom 1,178 returned positive results. “This shows that positivity in Delhi is declining. Today (November 25), the positivity was 8.5% whereas on November 7, it was 15.e%,” a Delhi government statement said on Wednesday. District officials said that while the door-to-door survey has concluded, surveys in containment zones would continue. Among the symptomatic people identified, the highest number of them, 3,796, was in South-West district, followed by East (2,744), North-West (1,957) and West (1,330). Of the 1,178 who tested positive, 288 were from Central district, followed 275 in New Delhi, 197 in West, 196 in South-West and 118 in South-East. “The survey was conducted very smoothly across all districts but the number of people found symptomatic during the survey is not as high as we had initially expected,” a government official said. “Though the findings are not really along expected lines, it is too early to interpret or analyse the data. The serological surveys we carried out earlier had also revealed figures that were not along expected lines at all.” The official said that the aim behind this exercise was to find the maximum symptomatic cases, get them tested and trace their contacts. “Though we may not have found a high number of symptomatic people, the exercise did serve IEC (Information, Education and Communication) purposes. Many people have come forward for testing and with our teams reaching hotspots, awareness has also increased,” the official said. “Though our teams asked detailed questions about symptoms, they initially faced resistance in many localities and it is possible that many people would have avoided answering all questions completely too,” the government official said. “Though the teams checked people with thermal guns and oximeters, these don’t always help in detecting Covid cases as many infected persons didn’t have high temperature or low oxygen saturation levels.” The survey was carried out not only in the 4,456 containment zones with active cases but also areas neighbouring these zones and other busy places. There are 23,915 active cases in the containment zones, of which 4,719 are in West district, followed by South-East (4,421), East (3,911), South-West (2,389) and North (2,347) districts. Shahdara district has just 12 active cases in containment zones. Watch Covid in Delhi: Door-to-door survey finds just 13,500 of 57 lakh symptomatic||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-19-amid-3rd-wave-door-to-door-survey-in-delhi-finds-just-13500-of-57-lakh-symptomatic/articleshow/79419264.cms||Sidharatha Roy
November 26, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Rally to raise awareness on Covid precautions||SURAT: The Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) and the Surat Diamond Association (SDA) have jointly organised a public awareness drive with the view to spread awareness among the diamond workers on strictly following the Covid-19 guidelines on Saturday. SGCCI office-bearers said that the public awareness rally will kick start from the SDA office at Mini Bazaar in Varachha where the members of the SGCCI led by its president Dinesh Navadiya, SDA president, Nanu Vekariya and the industry stakeholders will walk through the Choksi Bazaar, Varachha Road spreading awareness on the Covid-19 guidelines. The rally will culminate at Mahidhapura diamond market. “The Covid-19 cases are on the rise in the city, especially among those connected with the diamond industry. We have decided to walk from SDA office in Varachha and cover distance of more than 10 kilometres to reach Mahidhapura diamond market. The participants will maintain social distance during the rally and will carry the placards spreading awareness on wearing masks, social distancing etc,” said Navadiya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/rally-to-raise-awareness-on-ncov-precautions/articleshow/79414943.cms||---
November 26, 2020||India||Maha considering non-invasive saliva test to detect Covid||The Maharashtra government is considering the addition of rapid saliva-based Covid tests to its inventory of RT-PCR, antigen and Feluda devices. Sources said state officials will now follow up with the Indian Council of Medical Research and ask the agency to speed up approvals for the saliva kits, which, besides being fast (results within an hour), are also non-invasive. All one needs to do is spit into a special container and submit the sample to the nearest lab. State Covid task force member Dr Shashank Joshi said the saliva kit will also allow people to collect samples on their own.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/maha-considering-non-invasive-saliva-test-to-detect-covid/articleshow/79419186.cms||Nisha Nambiar
November 26, 2020||Thane||Biker dies, pillion rider hurt after truck hits them||THANE: A biker was killed and his pillion rider suffered major injuries after a container truck rammed into them near Kharegaon toll naka on Mumbai-Nashik highway on Wednesday. While B Shaikh (32) from Bhiwandi died on the spot, Mumbai resident Wakil Ansari (32) suffered injuries on his head, eyes and limbs. Ansari was taken to Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Hospital in Kalwa and later to Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/biker-dies-pillion-rider-hurt-after-truck-hits-them/articleshow/79419286.cms||---
