November 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: South Western Railway awaits green signal to resume suburban services||BENGALURU: Work on the airport halt station is over and so is electrification of Byappanahalli-Hosur line. Yet passengers are waiting to make use of these facilities. Reason: South Western Railway (SWR) is still to operate suburban services. Though cities like Chennai, Kolkata and Mumbai are operating skeletal suburban services, SWR has not yet resumed these trains despite increasing demand from people from nearby districts, who travel to and from Bengaluru mainly for work. The Rs 3-crore halt station near Kempegowda International Airport was ready in October. The station, built by Bengaluru International Airport Limited (BIAL), is just 3.5km from the terminal and is expected to benefit 28,000 airport employees as well as passengers. SWR officials said the Centre has to take a call. “The decision to resume suburban services is being taken at the railway board level. The state government has to approach the railway board to resume cancelled services. States like Maharashtra had approached the railway board for resumption of suburban services. We don’t have any issues in running trains,” said E Vijaya, SWR chief public relations officer. BIAL had suggested building a halt station in 2014, but SWR gave a green signal only in July 2019. However, with suburban passenger services still not on track, the station is yet to be inaugurated. Separately, electrification work between Byappanahalli and Hosur (48km) was completed last week. This will help railways operate Memu (mainline electric multiple unit) trains between Bengaluru and Hosur. Those working on Outer Ring Road, Sarjapur, Electronics City and Bommasandra are set to benefit from this. However, SWR is yet to operate Memu services on this route. In Chennai, Southern Railway (SR) is operating 244 suburban trains a day. To prevent crowding, SR is opening up the services gradually by adding different categories of commuters. In Mumbai, Western and Central Railway are operating suburban trains and allowing certain categories of commuters, including essential services staff and women. In Kolkata, Eastern and South Eastern Railway have resumed services. BOX: Skeletal services before Covid lockdownThough Bengaluru doesn’t have a dedicated suburban network, SWR operated skeletal services to nearby districts before the Covid-induced lockdown. It had a daily ridership of around 1.5 lakh, mainly from places like Doddaballapura, Tumakuru, Ramanagara, Bangarpet and Hosur. Now, most of these people, mainly daily-wage workers, are relying on KSRTC and private buses to reach the city. However, trains are faster and work out cheaper than buses. Rajkumar Dugar, founder and convener of Citizens for Citizens, said: “Footfall at airports and city roads is increasing. Trains to airport halt station will be of help, but the railway board is taking its own time to start a few local services.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/swr-awaits-green-signal-to-resume-suburban-services/articleshow/79434808.cms||Christian Mathew Philip
November 27, 2020||Hubballi||Irani gang attacks Bengaluru cops with bottles||DHARWAD: High drama unfolded near Hanuman temple on Line Bazaar Road here on Thursday, when members of the notorious Irani gang based in Dharwad, attacked Bengaluru police, who were in the city to nab six of the gang members wanted in theft cases. Two policemen sustained head injuries after five persons of the gang hit them with beer bottles and fled. The sixth, Bilal, tried to attack police but was overpowered and arrested. While he was being taken in a jeep, Bilal tried to injure himself by piercing a bottle into his chest, but cops managed to stop him.  A team of four policemen from Vijayanagar station in Bengaluru had arrived in Dharwad to catch the gang members in connection with several theft cases reported in Kamakshipalya and Magadi Road. Tracking their mobile numbers, the team came near Hanuman temple where all six of them were found sitting in a tea shop. When police tried to arrest them, they retaliated. It is learnt that the Bengaluru team had not sought the help of local police. The two injured policemen are undergoing treatment at a hospital in Hubballi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/irani-gang-attacks-bluru-cops-with-bottles/articleshow/79434809.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: BBMP re-survey to spot manual scavengers||BENGALURU: BBMP commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad has ordered his officials to conduct a detailed re-survey of manual scavengers in the city and neighbouring areas. At a meeting on Thursday, he asked the joint commissioners to ensure that re-survey is foolproof and extensive in 110 villages where sewerage works are yet to be completed. The Centre has banned manual scavenging and barred individuals from entering sewer lines and septic tanks. Yet there are many places where the practice exists. Therefore, the authorities have been instructed to provide such labourers with a suitable alternative to their livelihood, civic officials said. Prasad said jetting machines and other technology available should be used to clean sewers instead of getting people to manually clear them. Assistant commissioner Somappa Kadakola said on directions from the central and state governments, the first survey of manual scavengers was conducted in the city on May 8, 2013. Of 201 such workers identified, 71 were provided with central aid of Rs 40,000 each for their rehabilitation. A recent survey identified 1,139 manual scavengers in the city, excluding Yelahanka, Bommanahalli, and Dasarahalli zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bbmp-re-survey-to-spot-manual-scavengers/articleshow/79434810.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka takes charge of admission process in RR medical college||BENGALURU: The government has disallowed Raja Rajeswari Medical College and Hospital (RRMCH) from admitting MBBS students in the second round of seat allotment by the directorate general of health services, a central government agency. Following a communication from the Karnataka medical education department to the Centre on November 24, DGHS on Wednesday issued a public notice for information of all candidates that the medical counselling committee (MCC) is withdrawing the seats of RR medical college with immediate effect. It added they will be deleted from the database before the allotment process of round-2. The state’s communication cited a Karnataka high court order supporting its decision. The court had earlier this month upheld the government’s plea to quash a central government notification that had allowed RRMCH to become a part of Chennai’s Dr MGR Educational and Research Institute, a deemed-to-be university. The court had also dismissed the college’s plea challenging Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences’ decision not to disaffiliate it. The refusal of disaffiliation had come in the way of the college becoming part of the deemed-to-be varsity. “Our move is in the best interest of Karnataka students. We will address all concerns raised by students of the medical college. The next round of counselling for 98 UG medical seats of RRMCH will be conducted by the state government via KEA,” said TK Anil Kumar, principal secretary, medical education department. However, 152 MBBS seats in RRMCH have already been filled in the first round of allotment for deemed-to-be universities. “RRMCH is not yet disaffiliated from RGUHS to be associated with any deemed-to-be university. The HC directions are clear that medical seats have to be handed over to Karnataka. The remaining 98 seats will be filled up in state quota. We can’t disturb the 152 students who have already been admitted. It’s a minority college and the state government will get 20% or 50 seats from it every year,” said Dr PG Girish, director of medical education. He added the rest of the seats will be recovered from the college next year onwards. RRMCH was under RGUHS since its inception and last year got itself included in the Chennai institution. The Centre and UGC allowed it, but the shifting was subject to disaffiliation from RGUHS. The college, meanwhile, went ahead and got its seats filled under the deemed-to-be university process through DGHS. Asked why the state government could not prevent the college from successfully allotting its seats as a deemed-to-be university under DGHS last year, Dr Girish said, “The state didn’t have enough time to challenge it. This year we took up the case early.” “It is in the state’s interest that the college remains with RGUHS because there will be reservation for local students. Typically, we have been following the consensual agreement route, under which the state’s local students get a portion of the seats. Under the minority quota too, they get seats. Essentially, 65% (162/250) of the seats come to Karnataka. It would have been a huge loss to let go of the seats and hence we filed a writ petition,” explained Kumar. The matter had raised concerns among RGUHS syndicate members. “Technically, the medical college is under RGUHS and was not disaffiliated. Since our students lost seats, we wrote to the government to save them for Karnataka students,” said Dr Jai Krishna HJ, syndicate member. BOX: 152 students admitted needn’t worry: Principal Dr Naveen H, principal, RRMCH, said students who have already got admitted needn’t panic. “MCC has taken a decision not to entertain our college under DGHS counselling. I don’t understand this as 152 seats have already been allotted in the first round under DGHS. We were brought under deemed-university status in February 2019 under the ambit of Dr MGR Educational and Research Institute only after UGC inspections,” he said, adding: “I don’t understand how in one batch students will be allotted seats from both state and DGHS.” He said in May 2020, DGHS allotted 129 PG medical seats for 2020-21 and classes have begun. Sources said the college has taken the legal fight further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/state-takes-charge-of-admissionprocess-in-rr-medical-college/articleshow/79434853.cms||Sunitha Rao R
November 27, 2020||Bengaluru||62-year-old priest held for minor’s sexual assault in Chikkaballapura district||BENGALURU: A 62-year-old priest has been arrested on charges of sexually assaulting a 10-year-old girl after he lured her with chocolates. The accused is Venkataramanappa, a priest in a temple near Bagepalli, Chikkaballapura district. He had come to attend his grand-daughter’s naming ceremony in Yelahanka on Monday and later went to Devanahalli to stay in the house of his son-in-law, who is also a priest at a temple. Police said Venkataramanappa saw the girl playing near the temple and took her to a shed nearby. Meanwhile, the girl’s parents panicked on not finding her and started searching for her frantically. They were told by a flower seller that she was last spotted walking towards the shed along with the priest. On reaching the shed, the parents found her crying and the girl recounted what had happened. Police were informed and the girl was taken to hospital. Devanahalli police arrested Venkataramanappa and produced him before court, which remanded him in judicial custody. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/62-year-old-priest-held-for-minors-sexual-assault/articleshow/79434860.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Police directive on barring indoor games sends clubs into tizzy||BENGALURU: Misreading the police chief’s directive on enforcing Covid-appropriate behaviour, lower-rung police officials recently sent top clubs across the city into a tizzy by ordering them to shut down indoor games immediately. So much so that club managements dashed off messages and held meetings with police officers to gain clarity on what could be allowed and what should not be operational in the establishments. Representatives of the clubs even sent messages to their members, stating police have ordered them to close down everything except bar counters. “But this is not true, it should have not unfolded this way,” a senior IPS officer told TOI, clarifying that a few inspectors had misunderstood the order. Earlier this week, police commissioner Kamal Pant had told his force that illegal clubs and recreation centres having gambling dens should be raided and closed as they could be potential virus-spreading centres where norms like wearing of masks and maintaining social distance are thrown to the wind. Following this, some inspectors asked established clubs to stop indoor games. With the messages spreading in the city’s club circuit, intentions of police were questioned. A club from west division, which received a letter, replied to police stating they are maintaining social distance while playing rummy. It clarified there was no money involved and playing rummy doesn’t amount to gambling. Confusion clearedThe confusion was cleared on Thursday when two additional commissioners of police briefed deputy commissioners about curbing “activities of illegal clubs and gambling dens operating in the name of recreational clubs.” “I had directed to curb illegal clubs and other similar places. I shall look into the matters that were deviated,” said Pant. BOX: ‘No cards, carrom’A letter shot off by police to a private club in south division read: “It is to bring to your notice that the commissioner, in view of rising Covid-19 cases, has barred all indoor games, including table tennis, cards and carrom. Outdoor games like cricket, volleyball and tennis can continue. If we find that indoors games are continued, you will be held responsible.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/police-directive-on-barring-indoor-games-sends-clubs-into-tizzy/articleshow/79434864.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
November 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Cops lock up bikes parked negligently to prevent thefts||BENGALURU: Two-wheeler owners in south Bengaluru who park their vehicles in poorly lit and deserted stretches or on roads outside their homes are waking up to find their rides clamped with a disc lock. Also pasted on the vehicles are messages with phone numbers of jurisdictional police stations. At the station, they are greeted with a short lecture and a handbill on the dos and don’ts on protecting vehicles from thieves. Later, police themselves go and unlock the bikes. Night-patrol policemen from Madiwala, Bandepalya, Hulimavu, Begur, Bommanahalli and Suddaguntepalya stations of southeast division police are clamping two-wheelers parked in unsafe areas at night to ensure they aren’t stolen. DCP (southeast) Srinath Joshi told TOI a careful study of the previous cases of two-wheeler thefts indicated that most of them were taken from places like Outer Ring Road or when they were negligently parked outside houses at night or were stationed close to the main roads, with handles not locked. “We decided to lock up such vehicles and explain to the owner, when he or she comes to the police station, that such negligence could result in them losing their vehicle. We started locking such vehicles in mid-October and as a result, there has been a small decline in the number of two-wheeler thefts in the zone,” he added. In November 2019, 73 two-wheelers were stolen in southeast division, mainly from Madiwala, Bandepalya, Hulimavu, Begur, Bommanahalli and Suddaguntepalya. Till November 25, 54 two-wheelers have gone missing. ‘Not fining anyone’“There is a decline and we hope to bring the numbers further down. Before handing over the locked two-wheelers to owners, we give them a handbill explaining in Kannada and English the precautionary measures to be adopted with regard to vehicle safety and other aspects,” said Joshi, adding: “We are not fining anyone.” Another senior police officer said on average they lock a minimum of 50 two-wheelers every night. “During days, we lock anywhere between 10 and 15 vehicles. But at night, we lock more two-wheelers. A study of previous cases showed securing the wheel using a disc lock was the best option,” he said. BOX: 7 vehicle lifters arrestedA special police team from the southeast division recently solved 139 cases of two-wheeler thefts, recovered 174 stolen vehicles worth Rs 1.6 crore and arrested 39 suspects, including seven inter-state vehicle lifters. Of them, six are from Tamil Nadu and one from Andhra Pradesh. “The accused would come in groups of at least four, break open the handle lock and ride away with the vehicle. They would sell off these vehicles in different parts of Bengaluru Rural, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh at throwaway prices,” an investigating officer said. In 2019, 805 vehicles, including two and four-wheelers, were lifted from southeast division. This year, till November 25, 527 vehicles have been stolen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cops-lock-up-bikes-parked-negligently-to-prevent-thefts/articleshow/79434890.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
November 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Man loses Rs 4 lakh while helping UK boyfriend enter India||BENGALURU: Trusting a friend he had met on a dating app proved costly for a 33-year-old private firm employee who lost Rs 4 lakh to fraudsters recently. Manoj (name changed) was active on Grindr App and came in contact with John Martin, who claimed to be based in London. The duo began chatting from October 10. Martin told Manoj that he’s flying to Bengaluru to celebrate his birthday on November 16. Manoj received a call on November 15, from a woman who identified herself as Suchitra from the customs department in Delhi airport. She told Manoj that his friend from England had been caught by Customs officials for carrying 30,000 UK pounds. She asked Manoj pay the currency exchange fee, GST and fee for what she described as ‘foreigners and terrorists clearance certificate’, Manoj said. Keen on getting his friend released, Manoj transferred Rs 4 lakh to various bank accounts provided by Suchitra only to realise later that it was a trap. Martin remained incommunicado. On Wednesday, Manoj filed a complaint with Whitefield CEN Crime police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/man-loses-4l-while-helping-uk-boyfriend-enter-india/articleshow/79434894.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Bengaluru||18 Bengaluru students bag Cambridge International awards||BENGALURU: City students have excelled in the Outstanding Cambridge Learner Awards announced by Cambridge Assessment International Education for performance in IGCSE (class 10) and AS and A level (class 11 and 12) exams. Performance of students in November 2019 and March 2020 was assessed. The June 2020 series was not considered as students did not take the exams due to the pandemic. In all, 80 students from across India won in the ‘Top in the Country’ category, of whom seven are from Bengaluru. Fourteen students, including two from Bengaluru, bagged ‘Top in the World’ awards for securing the highest marks in the world in a particular subject, and 32 won ‘High Achievement’ awards. Of the 32, nine are from the city. This year, 127 students will receive 152 awards from Cambridge International. Siddhartha Rajeev, a student of National Academy for Learning, topped the country in four subjects — additional mathematics, physics, computer science and mathematics (without coursework). “When my results came in May, I knew my scores were good. But to know that I topped the country was overwhelming,” he said. A resident of Banshankari, Siddhartha was in the US and Singapore before he joined NAFL in class 8. “Science is where my interest lies, especially physics and chemistry. There’s so much to learn in these subjects that you get to discover new things every day. I have a hobby of doing chemistry experiments at the back of my house. I learn from YouTube and carry out the experiments taking all precautions,” he said. Akshar Dhruv Krishnan from Headstart Educational Academy, Bengaluru, has topped the country in class 10 geography and his schoolmate Vedaant Kuchhal in maths (March 2020) in Cambridge International A level. Siya Arora from Treamis International School has scored 100/100 in maths (without coursework) in IGCSE. The other subjects Bengaluru students topped the country in class 10 are Islamiyat (Oasis International School, November 2019) and first language English (Inventure Academy). A private candidate in Global City International School topped physics in November 2019 Cambridge International A Level. While Sahil Kuchlous of Inventure Academy topped the world in AS level maths, a student from Ujwal Trust (Mallya Aditi International School) topped in food and nutrition in IGCSE. “The achievements of those who won awards for March exams are especially impressive as they managed to focus on studies despite the rising Covid-19 concerns,” said a release from Cambridge International. Mahesh Srivastava, regional director, South Asia, CAIE, said: “Every year we are witnessing more entries and better results from our schools in the region...”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/18-bengaluru-students-bag-cambridge-intl-awards/articleshow/79434934.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
November 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Kerala HC refuses bail to key accused in drug case||BENGALURU: The high court has denied bail to Rijesh Raveendran, accused no. 3 in the drug case wherein Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of former Kerala home minister Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, is one of the suspects. “It’s not in dispute that 40 grams of MDMA and 180 blots of LSD (lysergic acid diethylamide) have been seized from the petitioner,” Justice BA Patil observed while pointing out that under section 37 of NDPS Act, it is a cognizable as well as a non-bailable offence. Though Rijesh contented that he had kept them for personal use, the judge noted that there’s no proper explanation from him about possession of the drugs in commercial quantities. The petitioner, however, can submit a fresh petition after a chargesheet is filed. Rijesh claimed he has been falsely implicated in the case and was illegally detained for three days till August 24 when a emand application was submitted. The chemical examination report shows very low (between 15 and 17 per cent) MDMA content in the coloured tablets seized from him, he argued. However, NCB’s counsel contended that on August 21, 40 grams of MDMA tablets and 180 blots of LSD were recovered from Rijesh’s flat at Chokkanahalli, Jakkur near Yelahanka. A couple of hours prior to that, sleuths had raided an apartment in Kalyan Nagar and recovered 60 grams of MDMA tablets, and apprehended Mohammed Anoop, accused no.2 and Bineesh’s associate. The investigation is going on and the recovered articles tantamount to commercial quantity, the NCB added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/hc-refuses-bail-to-key-accused-in-drug-case/articleshow/79434948.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Cyclists complain of being denied entry at parks, lakes||BENGALURU: Cycling might have gained traction amid the pandemic but many parks and lakes in the city are still out of bounds for cyclists. For instance, a cyclist was recently not allowed to park her cycle near Kalkere Lake. Anshul Goswami said: “Apart from lack of cycle lanes, we face another bigger challenge — parking. We need a pole to tie the cycle with or a fixed parking spot. When we go to parks and lakes, security guards don’t allow us to park cycles there. This happened with me on Wednesday morning at Kalkere Lake. I had faced the same issue at Jakkur Lake too.” At Cubbon Park, cyclists are banned between 5am and 8am on all days. There are complaints of cyclists’ entry being restricted on weekends and other holidays too. The move came after some morning walkers opposed cyclists’ movement inside the park fearing they may hit them. To resolve this, the horticulture department had earlier promised to create a dedicated lane for cyclists inside the park but it remains on paper. Sathya Sankaran, Bengaluru bicycle mayor, said: “There’s an unfounded fear of cyclists knocking down walkers. But cyclists visit lakes and parks for recreational rides and move slowly. Awareness for cycling may have increased, but unfortunately cyclists still don’t have it easy.” He said government agencies are treating cyclists on a par with motorists. “They should allow cyclists in Cubbon Park between 5am and 8am and also during weekends, when vehicles are banned.” Sankaran said he received several complaints from cyclists saying they are being stopped from entering lakes and parks. “A cycling track has been developed at Agara Lake in HSR Layout, but cyclists are often not allowed to use it. There’s also a ban on cyclists in Doddabommasandra Lake in Vidyaranyapura. A simple marking along lakes is enough for cyclists.” Rajender Kumar Kataria, secretary, horticulture department, said: “Cycling is allowed on all days, including holidays, after 8am in Cubbon Park. We are now working with Bengaluru Smart City Limited to create dedicated lanes inside the park, which should be ready within three months. We will allow cyclists throughout the day once the project is over.” BBMP is the custodian of most parks and lakes in the city. Palike commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad said he will look into the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cyclists-complain-of-being-denied-entry-at-parks-lakes/articleshow/79434950.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
November 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Five dead, two injured as truck hits cars on Bengaluru-Hyderabad highway||BENGALURU: Five persons were killed and two suffered injuries when a container truck rammed two cars before ploughing into a roadside tea stall on Bengaluru-Hyderabad highway on Thursday morning. One of the victims was a customer at the shop. The truck, heading towards Hyderabad, first hit a car that was taking a turn on the highway near Chadalapura village at 9.45pm. The impact was such that the damaged car hit a parked car and within seconds, all the three vehicles crashed into the tea stall. While two persons died on the spot, three succumbed to injuries on the way to hospital. The deceased are advocate Yamunachari, 44, TAPCMS (Taluk Agricultural Produce Co-operative Marketing Society) attender GV Venkatesh, 45, both residents of Gaviganahalli in Chikkaballapur taluk; occupants of one car, RTO agent Kalanjiyam, 47, of OMBR Layout in Bengaluru’s Banasawadi and insurance verification agent Nitesh Gowda, 25, of Lingarajapura in Doddaballapur taluk. The fifth victim, Rangappa, 55, a mason and resident of Srinivaspur, was drinking tea when the accident occurred.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/5-dead-2-injured-as-truck-hits-cars/articleshow/79434953.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Roshan Baig shifted to Jayadeva hospital||BENGALURU: Former Congress minister Roshan Baig, who was arrested by Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in connection with the multi-crore I Monetary Advisory scam, was shifted to Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research on Thursday. Baig, who was in Central Prison and remanded in CBI custody on Wednesday, had told the authorities about his heart-related ailments. He was kept under medical observation in jail. Later, doctors sought medical opinion of cardiologists at Jayadeva Institute before shifting him there, sources said. Dr CN Manjunath, director of Jayadeva Institute, said Baig had undergone an angiogram in 2016, which showed blockage in three blood vessels. “He was on medication and has been admitted for evaluation. He will undergo an angiogram again to check the status of his blood vessels,” Dr Manjunath added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/roshan-baig-shifted-to-jayadeva-hospital/articleshow/79434961.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Mugger attacks woman sub-inspector & constable at Sampigehalli, shot at||BENGALURU: Bagaluru police opened fire at a 24-year-old mugger after he attacked a woman sub-inspector and a constable with a knife at Sampigehalli in the wee hours of Thursday. The accused is Dinesh from Chennai. He along with four others had abducted and robbed photographer Abhin Mathew, 25, at Dwarakanagar near Bagaluru on Tuesday night. The gang had fled after stabbing Mathew in his wrist and taking away his two cameras, a mobile phone and Rs 4,000, all worth Rs 3 lakh. Based on Mathews’ complaint, inspector Prashanth Varni and his team zeroed in on the suspects who had taken shelter at the residence of Muniraju at Kattigenahalli. Muniraju was arrested in a murder case reported in July at Yelahanka. Bagaluru police arrested Dinesh and his associates Lallu, Aruna and Naveen on Wednesday night. “A team took Dinesh to Sampigehalli to recover a knife with which the gang had stabbed Mathew. Dinesh took the knife from the spot and assaulted constable Sumanth. Sub-inspector Vindya Rathod tried to save Sumanth, but Dinesh slashed her shoulder with knife. Sensing danger, Varni opened one round of fire in the air and later at Dinesh’s right leg,” an officer said. The injured have been shifted to nearby hospital. ‘Wanted to arrange money for bail in murder case’ Preliminary probe revealed Muniraju’s brother Papachi had brought Dinesh and his associates to Bengaluru. “Papachi had organised a gang to extort, rob and commit dacoity in the city to arrange money to get bail for his brother and others arrested in the murder case,” an officer said.  Dinesh, Papachi and the gang tried to extort a jeweller 15 days ago. Papachi and Dinesh also planned to commit offences to create fear among the public, police added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/mugger-attacks-woman-psi-constable-shot-at/articleshow/79435041.cms||---
November 27, 2020||India||Important to respect each other's sensitivities, say India and Nepal||After months of rancour over a territorial dispute, India and Nepal Thursday took a significant step towards normalisation of bilateral ties in the form of foreign secretary Harsh Shringla's visit to Kathmandu that saw the 2 sides agreeing that, as official sources said, it was important to respect each other's sensitivities. India and Nepal discussed all aspects of the relationship including trade, investment and connectivity, apart from the Kalapani border issue that was raised by Nepal. Significantly, as sources here said, both sides felt India and Nepal should focus on the positives of the wide-ranging relationship. One reason why India delayed engagement between the foreign secretaries, apart from the pandemic, was Nepal's sledgehammer approach to the sensitive Kalapani border issue that saw the K P Sharma Oli government issuing a new Nepal map and hurriedly ensuring its endorsement by Parliament. Nepal alluded to discussions on the Kalapani and Susta territorial disputes in its official statement as it said that Shringla and his counterpart Bharat Paudyal spoke about boundary matters and exchanged views on completing the "boundary work in the remaining segments". "Both sides shared their perspectives on boundary matters and discussed ways to take it forward under the appropriate bilateral mechanisms," said an Indian government source. Nepal foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali was later in the day quoted as saying issues "outstanding from history" were discussed and that Nepal wanted to resolve the border issue on the basis of "historical facts". Shringla also called on Oli, with whom he also had a one-on-one meeting, President BD Bhandari and Gyawali. He also engaged the opposition as he met delegations of Nepali Congress and Madhesh leaders. "Foreign secretary’s discussions with PM Oli included a candid review of the state of the bilateral relationship, and the potential for bringing India and Nepal ever closer. PM Oli conveyed Nepal’s desire to build on the momentum in the bilateral relationship and enhance the level of bilateral engagement," said a source. Discussions took place on specific measures required to finalize key projects at the earliest, including the Pancheshwar Multipurpose Project which Oli himself has been pushing for early implementation. The need to resume people to people contacts, including commencement of an air travel bubble between India and Nepal, was discussed. With China looking to revive its stalled BRI projects in Nepal, India is also working to enhance economic cooperation with Kathmandu with focus on expediting work on its own projects. Nepal is likely to host the Chinese defence minister, Wei Fenghe, on Sunday. The energy and commerce secretaries of India and Nepal are expected to meet soon virtually to take over from where the foreign secretaries left. Oli also thanked Shringla for India’s Covid related assistance during Covid. The discussed development of vaccine with Shringla assuring Nepal leaders that Nepal’s requirement would be considered on priority. He handed over 2000 vials of Remdesivir injections as part of India’s continued support to Nepal in its efforts to combat Covid. Shringla also conveyed an invitation from foreign minister S Jaishankar to Gyawali to visit India for the next round of the Joint Commission Meeting. "Shringla conveyed India’s interest in deepening economic linkages, promoting connectivity, expanding the development partnership and strengthening people-to-people contacts, particularly among the youth. He briefed Oli on the numerous projects being funded by India, which benefit all sections of Nepalese society," added the source. Shringla will visit Gorkha District Friday to inaugurate 3 schools rebuilt with Indian assistance. He is also expected to inaugurate an India-funded project to renovate the Tashop Gompa monastery in Manang District Watch Foreign Secretary Shringla meets Nepal PM in Kathmandu||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/important-to-respect-each-others-sensitivities-say-india-and-nepal/articleshow/79435191.cms||Sachin Parashar
November 27, 2020||India||Cracks in Gupkar alliance as PDP accuses NC of poll ‘deceit’||SRINAGAR: Cracks appeared in the seven-party People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) on Thursday, with Mehbooba Mufti's PDP accusing Farooq Abdullah's National Conference of violating their seat-sharing agreement for the District Development Council polls by "deceitfully" fielding candidates against allies. PDP general secretary Ghulam Nabi Lone Hanjura said at a presser in Srinagar that PAGD chairman Farooq should immediately review, intervene and stop his party from fielding candidates in seats already allotted to its primary ally. He said any attempt to field candidates in constituencies allotted to other constituents of the alliance would defeat the purpose of forming the PAGD, which includes Sajad Lone's Peoples Conference, CPM, J&K Peoples Movement and Awami National Conference. The alliance has already released lists of candidates for the eight-phase polls. NC and PDP have got the lion's share of the seats, with the rest being shared by the smaller parties. CPI won't be contesting any of the 280 seats – 14 each in the 20 districts of J&K – under the PAGD banner. Congress was to have contested some seats as part of the PAGD in the first phase of polling in south Kashmir on Saturday, but the party distanced itself from the alliance. Hanjura said any alliance partner that had fielded candidates for seats meant to be contested by an ally should immediately withdraw them and save the amalgam from crumbling. He accused NC of grabbing seats that were part of Congress's share without consulting its partners. "I was crestfallen the moment I saw NC has fielded its candidates in 13 out of 14 seats in Budgam. This is not good for the alliance. I appeal to the PAGD head to conduct a review. PDP has always been sincere about PAGD and is ready to make any sacrifice for the common cause." Hanjura said he walked out of a PAGD meeting after four seats in Beerwah, two each in Budgam and Chadoora and one in BK Pora were allotted to NC. The alliance comprising signatories to the 2019 Gupkar Declaration, excluding Congress, has been formed to fight for restoration of J&K's special status.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/gupkar-alliance-shaky-as-pdp-nc-spar-over-seats/articleshow/79435806.cms||M Saleem Pandit
November 27, 2020||India||JCO dies as Pak violates ceasefire along LoC in Poonch||JAMMU: A junior commissioned officer (JCO) of the Indian Army died and a civilian got injured when Pakistani troops violated ceasefire in two sectors along the Line of Control (LoC) in Poonch district of J&K on Thursday. According to Army sources, Pakistan initiated ceasefire violation by firing small arms and mortar shells along the LoC in Qasba and Kirni sectors around 1.30pm. The JCO, who received critical injuries in Pakistani firing in Kirni sector, was shifted to a nearby Army hospital where he died. Issuing a statement, Jammu-based defence spokesperson Lt Col Devender Anand said: “The martyred Army personnel has been identified as Subedar Swathantra Singh, a resident of Garhwal (Uttarakhand). Subedar Swathantra Singh was a brave, highly motivated and sincere soldier. The nation will always remain indebted to him for his supreme sacrifice and devotion to duty.” The civilian who sustained injuries has been identified as Mohammad Rashid of Kirni village. Earlier on November 21, another JCO had attained martyrdom and two women sustained injuries in shelling along the LoC in Rajouri and Poonch, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jco-dies-as-pak-violates-ceasefire-along-loc-in-poonch/articleshow/79436069.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
November 27, 2020||Lucknow||A day dedicated to dance at LU||As part of the Centenary celebrations of Lucknow University, the cultural evening on day three was adorned with chimes of the ghungroo. University alumnus and eminent Kathak dancer Dr Kumkum Dhar and her disciples Aditi Thapliyal, Roshni, Ranjana and Abhishek showed different colours of the traditional dance form. Later, students of the university took to the stage and whie some sang songs, a few danced and the play Panch Light was also staged. — Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui A still from the play Panch Light (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui)A still from the play Panch Light (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui) Rituparna (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui)Rituparna (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui) Shruti Tewari (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui)Shruti Tewari (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui) Prerna Upadhyay (L) Neha Singh (R) (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui)Prerna Upadhyay (L) Neha Singh (R) (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui) A student performing a folk dance (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui)A student performing a folk dance (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/a-day-dedicated-to-dance-at-lu/articleshow/79429346.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Kolkata||I don’t think any other player can do what Maradona has done for football, says Bhaichung||A day after the world lost one of the greatest footballers of all time, Bhaichung Bhutia told us how much Diego Maradona contributed to his life. "Maradona is one of the reasons for me to really love this sport and play it passionately. The first time I watched world football on television was all about Maradona in the 1986 World Cup. He has had a huge influence not just on my life but I think on the lives of a lot of other footballers as well. What he has done to football, I feel no other footballer in the world will be able to achieve that. Football is totally a team sport and you need 11 players to win it. But he was the one-man army who single-handedly won the World Cup for his country. I don;t think any other player can beat that," the former footballer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/i-dont-think-any-other-player-can-do-what-maradona-has-done-for-football-says-bhaichung/articleshow/79432759.cms||Ruman Ganguly
November 27, 2020||India||83-year-old priest Stan Swamy’s wait for sipper & straw gets longer||MUMBAI: In a plea seeking bail, 83-year-old Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist, father Stan Swamy, arrested in the Elgar Parishad case, has told the special NIA court that working for undertrials who could or couldn’t have been Maoists, does not make him a Maoist. The plea said that the Persecuted Political Prisoners Solidarity Committee, which the NIA had alleged was a frontal organisation of CPI (Maoist), was one of the most prominent human rights organisations in Jharkhand providing legal aid. “Nowhere has it been stated that providing legal aid to the Maoist is a crime. Nowhere does the constitution state that an alleged Maoist is not to be allowed an opportunity to defend themselves,” the plea said. The court has sought replies on the bail plea and another made by Swamy’s advocate. After the NIA informed the court during the hearing that a sipper and straw were not part of the items seized during Swamy’s arrest, the defence made a fresh application seeking winter clothes and a straw and sipper for the octogenarian who is suffering from Parkinson’s disease. He said his hands were shaking due to the disease. Swamy’s bail plea, submitted by advocate Sharif Shaikh, said that by arresting him, the prosecution was trying to criminalise organisations and rights activists. It further said that the prosecution could not establish that Swamy was involved in terror activities. It also said that he was being targeted for his writings. It denied the allegations made in the recently submitted chargesheet. Citing his age and various ailments, the plea said that he was in the prison hospital where he was taken care of by other inmates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/83-year-old-priest-stan-swamys-wait-for-sipper-straw-gets-longer/articleshow/79436428.cms||Rebecca Samervel
November 27, 2020||Kolkata||Maradona brought his magic to the pitch and found happiness in it, says Sunil||A day after the world lost one of the greatest footballers of all time, Sunil Chetri told us how much Diego Maradona contributed to his life. "I was too young when Maradona’s games were broadcast live on television. But I had heard enough from my father and others to check out his DVDs and get enchanted by his magic. He had his share of controversies, but the moment he set foot on a pitch, he was 100% magic. Maradona was a complete package. And he was who he was because of his personality. I had the good fortune of meeting him in Kolkata. I remember, everyone simply wanted to be as close to him as possible. I could sense his aura and that says everything you need to know about the man. I was in awe, for sure. At the end of it all, I will remember him as a genius who enjoyed the game he played every single time. And that’s what matters the most. He brought his magic to the pitch and found happiness in it," the captain of the Indian national football team said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/maradona-brought-his-magic-to-the-pitch-and-found-happiness-in-it-says-sunil/articleshow/79432846.cms||Ruman Ganguly
November 27, 2020||India||Amarinder, Khattar clash on Twitter over farm stir||CHANDIGARH: Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh and his Haryana counterpart, Manohar Lal Khattar, took to Twitter on Thursday to battle over the farmers’ Delhi Chalo protest against the Centre’s three contentious agri-marketing laws. It started when Amarinder on Thursday morning tagged Khattar in a tweet and asked him not to push farmers and allow them to enter Delhi peacefully through Haryana. He then tweeted that “for nearly 2 months farmers have been protesting peacefully in Punjab without any problem. Why is Haryana government provoking them by resorting to force? Don’t the farmers have the right to pass peacefully through a public highway @mlkhattar”. For nearly 2 months farmers have been protesting peacefully in Punjab without any problem. Why is Haryana govt prov… https://t.co/QDQKcxWBFL— Capt.Amarinder Singh (@capt_amarinder) 1606374110000Khattar responded that Amarinder should “stop inciting innocent farmers” and added that he would “leave politics if there’ll be any trouble on the MSP”. He tweeted that he had been trying to reach out to Amarinder for the last three days but “sadly” the Punjab CM was unreachable. The Haryana CM said, “Time for your lies, deception and propaganda is over — let the people see your real face. At least avoid cheap politics during the time of pandemic.” .@capt_amarinder ji, I've said it earlier and I'm saying it again, I'll leave politics if there'll be any trouble o… https://t.co/XAOLZuObFV— Manohar Lal (@mlkhattar) 1606383565000I've been trying to reach out to you for the last 3 days but sadly you decided to stay unreachable - is this how se… https://t.co/wi5pC3Hzmp— Manohar Lal (@mlkhattar) 1606383633000Khattar’s tweets attracted a sharp reaction from the Punjab CM who again took to Twitter to convey that it was the farmers who had to be convinced about the MSP, and not him. “And if you think I’m inciting farmers, then why are Haryana farmers also marching to Delhi?” Amarinder tweeted. Shocked at your response @mlkhattar ji. It's the farmers who've to be convinced on MSP, not me. You should've tried… https://t.co/q7sSt3ed4L— Capt.Amarinder Singh (@capt_amarinder) 1606391274000The Punjab CM said that as for endangering lives during Covid-19, Khattar should not forget that it was the BJP-led central government that pushed through the contentious farm laws amid the pandemic, uncaring about the impact the laws would have on farmers. “Why didn’t you speak out then @mlkhattar ji?” tweeted Amarinder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/amarinder-khattar-clash-on-twitter-over-farm-stir/articleshow/79436719.cms||---
November 27, 2020||India||Panel hits out at SC’s de-sealing order||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court-appointed monitoring committee for checking illegal use of residential properties for commercial use in the city on Thursday submitted a hard-hitting report, severely criticising the court’s August 14 judgment that clipped its wings. The ruling led to largescale de-sealing of buildings that had been sealed for unauthorised construction, resulting in a “free for all” in the capital, the panel stated. “All work so far undertaken by the committee… till date is being undone. Delhi is going back to the pre-2006 days wherein, adherence to rules and regulations have been given a complete go by,” said the panel comprising Bhure Lal (who till recently headed the SC mandated EPCA), K J Rao and S P Jhingon. “Delhi is witnessing frantic activity of… encroachment, misuse and such allied illegal activities (carried out) by the local bodies, the monitoring committee said. “All these actions have eroded the confidence of law-abiding citizens in complying with rules and regulations with respect to all building activities," the panel said. “The monitoring committee is a mere bystander to all these irregularities being perpetuated with impunity as the SC in its recent orders has questioned and negated almost all actions taken by the monitoring committee with respect to the sealing of offending premises/properties,” the panel added. Appearing for the urban development ministry and the Delhi Development Authority, solicitor general Tushar Mehta took strong exception to the monitoring committee criticising the SC judgment. “The SC had set up the monitoring committee for checking illegal use of residential properties for commercial use. The monitoring committee did good work for some time but later, unilaterally expanded its powers and started sealing properties on the ground that its plan was not approved. The SC's August 14 judgment was given by a three-judge bench after lengthy hearing and considering all documents. Now, a three-member body of private persons comes to the court and says the SC is wrong,” he said. For the municipal corporations, senior advocate Sanjiv Sen supported the SG and said the SC had in its August 14 judgment clearly laid down that the monitoring committee had powers only to check misuse of residential properties for commercial purposes. A bench comprising Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian sought the opinion of amicus curiae and senior advocate Ranjit Kumar, who has continuously assisted the court in the matter for over two decades. Kumar said the report needed consideration in light of the August 14 judgment. Kumar also sought to be relieved from the task of amicus curiae. On his request, the SC appointed senior advocate Guru Krishna Kumar as amicus. In its report, the monitoring committee said after the August 14 judgment, "even properties sealed as per the orders of the committee are being de-sealed at will by the local bodies south/east/north Delhi Municipal Corporations/New Delhi Municipal Council without any reference to the monitoring committee, as ordered by the SC on August 27”. On August 14, a three-judge SC bench had said, "It is apparent from the various orders passed by this court from time to time and from the various reports of the monitoring committee that it was never authorised by this court to take action against residential premises that were not being used for commercial purposes. It was appointed only to check the misuse of residential properties for commercial purposes. After that, this court directed that the monitoring committee should also look into the matter of 'encroachment on public land’ and 'unauthorised colonies' that have come up on public land and were wholly unauthorised without sanction. At no point in time this court had empowered the monitoring committee to act vis-a-vis to purely residential premises." The bench had castigated the committee for exceeding its brief and said, "It would not be appropriate for the monitoring committee to usurp statutory powers and act beyond authority conferred upon it by the court. The monitoring committee could not have sealed residential premises which were not misused for commercial purpose, as done vide Report No.149, nor could it have directed demolition of those residential properties."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/panel-hits-out-at-scs-de-sealing-order/articleshow/79436846.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
November 27, 2020||India||One nation, one election not a subject of debate but a necessity for India: Modi||KEVADIA: Renewing his pitch for ‘one nation one election’, PM Narendra Modi on Thursday said it was not a matter of debate but a necessity for the country as he sought support for the idea of clubbing Lok Sabha and assembly polls to save resources and time. “One nation, one election is not only a subject of debate but a necessity for India. There is an election in India every month, which hampers development,” the PM said while addressing the concluding session of the All India Presiding Officers' Conference. “Why should the country waste so much money?” he asked. Modi urged the presiding officers of different legislatures to take initiative in this direction as he said the idea of ‘one nation one election’ needed to be intensely engaged with. “You all should ponder over this idea that there should be one voters’ list, and find a way out,” he added. He said there was uniformity in the voting age, which is 18 years, so there was no point wasting time. “Presiding officers should take the initiative towards full digitisation and legislators, I am sure, will adapt to it,” he added. As the event coincided with Constitution Day, the PM said it was a day to remember the inspiration of Gandhiji and the commitment of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel to the Constitution. Referring to the Emergency, Modi said in the 70s, an attempt was made against the dignity of separation of power but the response to that was facilitated by provisions of the Constitution itself. After the Emergency, the system of checks and balances kept getting stronger as the legislature, the executive and the judiciary learnt from the episode. “This was possible due to the confidence that 130 crore Indians have in the three branches of the government and this confidence has been strengthened with time,” the PM said. Constitution Day celebrations started in 2015 after Modi took over as PM. On Thursday, President Ram Nath Kovind administered the oath of the Constitution, which was taken by presiding officers in Kevadia. “Strength of our Constitution helps us in times of difficulties. The resilience of Indian electoral system and reaction to the corona pandemic has proved this,” Modi said and praised lawmakers for giving more output in recent times and taking a pay cut for helping in the fight against Covid-19. The PM stressed the importance of duties and said duties should be treated as the source of rights, dignity and self-confidence. “Our Constitution has many features but one very special feature is the importance given to duties. Mahatma Gandhi was very keen about this. He saw a close link between rights and duties. He felt that once we perform our duties, rights will automatically be safeguarded,” he added. Watch Constitution Day: One nation, one election need for India, says PM Narendra Modi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/one-nation-one-election-not-a-subject-of-debate-but-a-necessity-for-india-modi/articleshow/79436955.cms||Akhilesh Kumar Singh
November 27, 2020||India||On 26/11 anniv, Modi attacks Pak, refers to surgical strikes||KEVADIA: Prime Minister Narendra Modi marked the 12th anniversary of the 26/11 terror attack by holding Pakistan responsible for the carnage in the country’s financial capital and stressing that India’s approach towards terrorism had changed. “Today’s date is related with the biggest terror attack on India. In 2008, terrorists sponsored and sent by Pakistan had launched an attack on India in which several lives were lost, people of several countries were killed. I pay my tributes to the victims of the terror attack,” Modi said. This was the second time in the past few days that the PM held Pakistan directly responsible for the terror attack. Earlier, he had attributed a plot to carry out a major terror strike in J&K, foiled by security forces who eliminated the four terrorists who had infiltrated from Pakistan, to the hostile neighbour. “Today’s India is fighting terror by new ways and means,” the PM said in what was seen as a reference to the retaliatory strikes across the border by the Army and the IAF in the wake of terror attacks at Uri and Pulwama. Paying tributes to policemen martyred in the attack, Modi said India would never forget the wounds inflicted by the terror strike. He said the armed forces had successfully foiled conspiracies like Mumbai terror attack. “I salute Indian forces who have foiled terror plans successfully and are committed to the country’s safety,” the PM said. Watch PM Modi pays homage to 26/11 victims, says 'India is fighting terrorism with new policies'||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/on-26/11-anniv-modi-attacks-pak-refers-to-surgical-strikes/articleshow/79436988.cms||Akhilesh Kumar Singh
November 27, 2020||Business||India’s IT sector pioneer FC Kohli dead||MUMBAI: The father of Indian IT industry Faqir Chand Kohli on Thursday afternoon breathed his last at his house at the age of 96. Kohli, who died of a heart attack, led the inception of the global tech behemoth TCS, thereby sowing the seed of India’s IT industry. Kohli’s pioneering journey started early on when he joined Tata Electric (now Tata Power) in 1951, immediately upon completing his post-graduation in electrical engineering from MIT, US. He was soon part of a team setting up perhaps India’s first-of-its-kind computer system to control the electric line between Mumbai and Pune, making Tata Electric the world’s third utility to adopt computers. In 1968, the technocrat was cherry-picked by JRD Tata to set up TCS—a startup founded as a management consultancy and transformed into a software development giant over the next two decades by the IT visionary. “He (Kohli) guided the company (TCS) in its early years and defined the vision for its growth. This early vision played an important role in creating the outstandingly successful global IT company that TCS has become today,” said Ratan Tata, chairman of Tata Trusts. TCS, which today is the world’s third largest IT services company, is the jewel in the Tata group’s crown, contributing more than 70% to the conglomerate’s profits. He retired from TCS in 1999 at the age of 75. He was a tough taskmaster and TCSers described him as a man of few words, who would refuse to stand fools or those who spoke without doing their homework. However, he never shied away from lending an ear to dissenting views that were backed with facts. “I have had the honor and privilege of working with and learning from Kohli from the day he hired me as a trainee in TCS,” said former TCS CEO and now Tata Sons chairman N Chandrasekaran. “Despite his momentous achievements, his simplicity and thoughtfulness is a lesson for us all. His enduring optimism and his ability to make ambitious bets leaves a legacy—one that has advanced a nation.” Known to be a master strategist, Kohli (known as FCK in the IT circuit) not only laid the bricks for TCS but also pioneered the rise of India’s $190-billion software services sector. “Kohli was the true pioneer of Indian IT. We have all followed in his footsteps. His contribution to the IT industry and thus to India is immeasurable,” said Wipro founder-chairman Azim Premji. “Sad day for Indian IT. He was not just the 1st CEO of TCS but someone who laid the foundation of India’s greatest growth story,” tweeted Tech Mahindra CEO CP Gurnani. Throughout his career, the visionary leader, who was also the chairman of NASSCOM in 1994-1995, maintained close ties with academics—from designing India’s first course on control systems to being in-charge of establishing IITs in Mumbai and Kanpur. Even after his retirement, Kohli continued to lead India’s IT story but this time he took it upon himself to use technology to tackle the problem of adult illiteracy in India. Kohli is survived by his wife Swarn, and three sons, Sanjay, Madhuri and Aniruddh. “He was gracious, unassuming, and always willing to help,” Tata summed up. ( With inputs from Shilpa Phadnis)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indias-it-sector-pioneer-fc-kohli-dead/articleshow/79437110.cms||Reeba Zachariah
November 27, 2020||India||Delhi govt tells HC it will take a call on night curfew soon||NEW DELHI: The Delhi high court on Thursday asked the AAP government to decide soon if a night curfew was needed to contain the spread of Covid-19. The HC’s order came after the Delhi government, replying to a query by the court, said it was "actively considering" some kind of curfew but no decision had been taken. The government assured a bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad that it may take a decision in three to four days. "It is now for the Delhi government to take a call as to whether a night curfew is required to be imposed in Delhi or some parts of Delhi and/or other measures need to be adopted. The Delhi government shall take a decision on this aspect and implement the same without losing further time," the bench observed, after taking note of senior advocate Sandeep Sethi’s stand on behalf of the AAP government. Imposition of a night curfew has been permitted in the latest guidelines issued by the Centre on November 25. The central government told the court that these guidelines allow states and Union territories to impose local restrictions, including night curfews, based on their assessment of the situation on the ground, especially in containment zones. While scrutinising the testing being carried out by the government, standing counsel Satyakam informed the court that for the first time 40,000 RT-PCR tests had been carried out by the administration, surpassing the number of RAT tests. Acknowledging the increase in testing for which the HC has been pushing the AAP government for months, the bench underlined that "6,562 lives in Delhi were lost to Covid-19 infection up to 01.11.2020, which, if divided over eight months, would come to an average of 800 deaths per month whereas in the month of November 2020 alone, that has still a few days left, the deaths have crossed 2,000, which itself is alarming. Even if the mortality rate in Delhi due to the infection is lower than some other cities in India, that can hardly be solace to those who have lost a near and dear one." In a status report, the AAP government also informed the high court that chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had held a meeting with the market welfare associations, along with all deputy commissioners, to invite suggestions to contain the virus. "To our mind, this meeting was only to set the ball rolling. It is for the Delhi government to take concrete and tangible steps to involve RWAs and MWAs for contributing to control the situation at the ground level," said the bench in its order. "As of now, it is not even known as to how many RWAs and MWAs exist in Delhi. Each district must be called upon to focus on the said welfare associations and involve them so that a message can be spread to all concerned about maintaining social distancing, wearing a mask and taking all measures necessary." The high court also sought details of the fines collected under various heads related to the violation of Covid-19 norms by the Delhi government and Delhi Police. It asked them to list the steps taken to utilise these funds for fighting the pandemic. "Further, arrangements shall be made for making online deposit of fines to avoid cash transactions as far as possible," said the bench.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/delhi-govt-tells-hc-it-will-take-a-call-on-night-curfew-soon/articleshow/79437123.cms||Abhinav Garg
November 27, 2020||Business||Ahead of GDP data, RBI guv says growth outlook better||MUMBAI: Reserve Bank of India governor Shaktikanta Das said on Monday that the Indian economy has exhibited stronger than expected pick-up and the growth outlook has improved but cautioned over the need to be watchful over downside risks of a fresh surge in infections, the sustainability of demand after festivals and a possible reassessment by markets around vaccine expectations. The governor's statement comes at a time when forecasters are revising the GDP decline numbers for the second quarter, given the rebound in economic activity. SBI group chief economist Soumya Kanti Ghosh said in a report that he now expects the economy to shrink by 10.7% in the September quarter, against the earlier forecast of 12.5%. RBI had estimated an 8.6% contraction in the second quarter, which will mean that India slipped into technical recession due to two consecutive quarters of a fall in economic activity. The government is due to release second quarter GDP numbers on Friday. At a Foreign Exchange Dealers Association of India event, Das said that after a sharp contraction of 23.9% during the June-quarter, there was “multi-speed normalisation of activity” in the second quarter. “The Indian economy has exhibited stronger than expected pick-up in the momentum of recovery. The global economy has also witnessed a stronger than expected rebound in activity in Q3. The IMF has accordingly revised its assessment for global growth in 2020 to a less severe contraction than what was assessed in June 2020,” said Das. Das said that a key source of resilience for the economy was the comfortable position with regard to the availability of foreign exchange. The country has had surplus current account balances over two quarters and had also seen a resumption of portfolio and foreign direct investment. As a result, India’s forex reserves have hit $572 billion with over $110 billion coming in this year itself. The governor also assuaged markets of a continued accommodative monetary policy. He reiterated the monetary policy guidance in October which emphasized the need to see through “temporary” inflation pressures and need to maintain an accommodative stance well into the next financial year. The governor also indicated that there would be more liberation on the capital front. “Capital account convertibility will continue to be approached as a process rather than an event, taking cognizance of prevalent macroeconomic conditions. A long-term vision with short- and medium-term goals is the way ahead,” he said. The governor said that the Indian Banks Association has been working with market participants to transition from Libor (London inter-bank offered rate) to alternate reference rates. “Achieving a smooth transition from a benchmark entrenched in the financial system will require significant efforts from all stakeholders,” he said. Regulators worldwide are asking banks to move away from Libor as the same was found to be an inaccurate benchmark.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ahead-of-gdp-data-rbi-guv-says-growth-outlook-better/articleshow/79437217.cms||---
November 27, 2020||India||PM to visit vaccine centres in 3 cities||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be flying into Hyderabad, Ahmedabad and Pune on Saturday to take stock of Covid-19 vaccine development work at facilities there. While in Hyderabad, the PM will visit vaccine maker Bharat Biotech’s facilities, where work on the development of India’s first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, is under way, he will drop in at the facilities of Zydus Cadila in Ahmedabad, where ZyCoV-D is under development, and the Serum Institute of India (SII) facilities in Pune, where the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine will be manufactured. After visiting Ahmedabad and Pune, Modi will be arriving in Hyderabad at Hakimpet air force station in the afternoon and will head straight to the Bharat Biotech facility at Genome Valley. Telangana government sources confirmed that Modi will spend an hour at the plant to understand the vaccine development process and preparedness for its rollout once ready. He will fly back to Delhi around 5.30pm. Watch PM Modi likely to visit Serum India Institute to review Covid vaccine preparedness||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-to-visit-vaccine-centres-in-3-cities/articleshow/79437250.cms||---
November 27, 2020||India||Court rejects ED plea against closure report in Maharashtra scam||MUMBAI: A special court in Mumbai on Thursday rejected an intervention application filed by the ED challenging the closure report filed by the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of Mumbai police in the Rs 25,000 crore Maharashtra State Cooperative Bank scam. It is alleged that bank officials granted loans to cooperative sugar factories, whose owners were connected with them, to benefit the bank’s directors. The scam was allegedly perpetrated over a period of 15 years, from 2002 to 2017. The court said the application by ED to intervene “is not tenable and is rejected. It said it was “not passing orders on the report as an opportunity is required to be given to the informant to contest”. The ED in the last hearing had cited bids placed by deputy CM Ajit Pawar’s family in acquiring the sugar mills auctioned by the bank while he was the director. Last September, the police had registered an FIR on directions of the Bombay HC in a PIL filed by businessman Surinder Arora. The PIL named Pawar and former NCP leaders Vijaysingh Mohite-Patilas bank’s former directors and alleged foul play in loan disbursals. Arora’s counsel S B Talekar said the “offences investigated by the EOW and being investigated by ED arise out of the same transactions of either sanctioning and disbursement of illegal loans or illegal sale of cooperative sugar factories."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/court-rejects-ed-plea-against-closure-report-in-maharashtra-scam/articleshow/79437312.cms||Swati Deshpande
November 27, 2020||India||Ajit Doval to attend key maritime meet in Sri Lanka||NEW DELHI: NSA Ajit Doval will visit Colombo Friday to participate in the 4th Trilateral Maritime Security Cooperation meeting being hosted by Sri Lanka. This is the first time that the trilateral mechanism at the NSA level, involving India, Sri Lanka and the Maldives, is being held in six years. Earlier meetings were held in 2011 in Maldives, in 2013 in Sri Lanka, and early 2014 in India under the UPA government. “The NSA-level Trilateral Meeting has served as an effective platform for cooperation among Indian Ocean countries. Mauritius and Seychelles attended the third meeting as guest countries,” said the government in a statement. The mechanism seeks to promote joint activities, including trilateral exercises, maintaining lines of communication on illegal maritime activities, formulation of marine oil pollution response contingency plans and cooperation in legal and policy issues related to piracy. It also focuses on training and capacity building initiatives in areas of maritime domain awareness, search and rescue, and oil pollution response. Apart from Sri Lanka defence secretary Kamal Gunaratne and NSA Ajit Doval from India, Maldives defence minister Mariya Didi will also participate in the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ajit-doval-to-attend-key-maritime-meet-in-sri-lanka/articleshow/79437321.cms||---
November 27, 2020||India||Re-employing ex-Judges in SC as Judges: SC seeks views of SC and Centre||NEW DELHI: A Supreme Court bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde on Thursday sought responses from the SC and the Union government on a PIL seeking re-employing retired Judges as Judges of the SC and HC by using existing constitutional provisions to fill large number of vacancies and speed up justice delivery. The bench comprising CJI and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian gave four weeks to the Union government and the Centre to respond to the PIL filed by NGO Lok Prahari after its general secretary S N Shukla said Articles 128 and 224A of the Constitution allowed recalling retired Judges to function as Judges of the Supreme Court and the High Court, respectively. The NGO said that given the fact that over 43 lakh cases are pending in the HCs, which are plagued with substantial vacancies which is hovering at 40% of the sanctioned strength, the SC and the Centre should resort to the two constitutional provisions to bring in retired Judges to decide pending matters, thus allowing the existing Judges to concentrate more on deciding petitions raising important constitutional matters. Before declaration of Emergency in 1975, there had been instances of retired Supreme Court Judges getting re-appointed as Judges of the SC for a specific tenure to help dispose of cases. Article 128 says, "Chief Justice of India may at any time, with the previous consent of the President, request any person who has held the office of a Judge of the Supreme Court (or who has held the office of a Judge of a HC and is duly qualified for appointment as a judge of the SC) to sit and act as a Judge of the SC...". Article 224A provides a similar mechanism for appointment of retired HC Judges to sit as Judges of the HC. Appearing for the SC, senior advocate Atmaram NS Nadkarni said that it is a complex question that needed detailed deliberation by the SC on the administrative side. The CJI-led bench said, "We would like to hear the views of the Supreme Court and the Union government." Appearing for the Centre, solicitor general Tushar Mehta too sought four weeks for filing response to the PIL. However, understanding the difficulty in resorting to the two constitutional provisions for sitting of retired Judges as Judges of constitutional courts, the CJI said, "It may appear esy from outside." Given the partisan utterances of Judges, soon after their retirement, either pro or anti-government, it would be a herculean task for the CJI-led Collegium to select neutral retired Judges for calling them back as constitutional court judges. Most retired judges too take up arbitration matters or get close to corporate houses, further complicating the process of selection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/re-employ-ex-judges-says-pil-top-court-seeks-centres-view/articleshow/79437325.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
November 27, 2020||India||OIC snubs Pak, Kashmir not on agenda||The upcoming 47th session of the OIC Council of Foreign Ministers didn’t mention the Kashmir issue in the agenda for the meeting in what was seen by some as a snub to Pakistan. Pakistan’s ‘Dawn’ newspaper quoted a diplomatic source to say that host Niger had declined Pakistan’s request for a meeting of the OIC Contact Group on Kashmir because of Covid-19. It said that in addition to the Palestinian cause, the fight against “violence, extremism and terrorism, Islamophobia and defamation of religious (sic)”, the council will discuss the situation of Muslim minorities and communities in non-member states, fundraising for the Rohingya case at the International Court of Justice. There was speculation in Pakistan media that OIC skipping Kashmir might have something to do with strained ties between Pakistan and Saudi Arabia. Indian government officials didn’t comment saying the government will wait to see the outcome of the meeting. It will also closely watch what the 57-member body has to say on alleged Islamophobia in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/oic-snubs-pak-kashmir-not-on-agenda/articleshow/79437329.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Patna||About 1.2 lakh MU students to appear for Part-III exams||GAYA: Around 1.2 lakh students of 19 constituent and other affiliated colleges functioning under the Magadh University (MU) will appear at the examinations of degree Part-III beginning from December 1. For the examinations to be held in two shifts from December 1 to 10, 62 centres have been made in Gaya, Patna, Aurangabad, Nalanda, Barh, Arwal and Jehanabad. The subjects have been divided in four groups. Physics, history, economics, electronics, statistics, labour and social welfare (LSW), rural economics, Buddhist Studies, public administration and music are in group I. In group II, political science, geography, mathematics and social science, in group III there is botany, zoology, psychology, home science, ancient history, philosophy and chemistry, while commerce, Hindi, English, Urdu, Magahi, Arabic, Maithili, Pali, Persian, Bengali, Bhojpuri, Prakrit and Sanskrit are in group IV. There will be multiple choice objective questions on the pattern of sequencing, matching, arranging, para-phrasing, fill in the blanks type. The subjects, which have no practical paper will have 100 questions, while the subjects having practical paper will have 75 questions. There will be no negative marking for giving wrong answer. According to the examination schedule, practical examinations will be held from December 11 to 14. MU examination controller Bhrigu Nath said, “The examinations will be conducted following the advisory of central government and the University Grants Commission (UGC) in view of Covid-19 pandemic. All the preparations for the examinations have been completed at university headquarters level. The admit card of students have been sent to the colleges. Now, only question papers have to be sent at the examination centres. All the questions will be of objective type,” he said. Shanya Sinha, a commerce student of Gaya college 2017-20 session here said, “In fact the examinations should have been held latest by March. But the exams were postponed due to the lockdown owing to Covid-19 pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/about-1-2-lakh-mu-students-to-appear-for-part-iii-exams/articleshow/79434227.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Patna||Book fair and Saras Mela cancelled over Covid fears||PATNA: Patna Book Fair (PBF) and Saras Mela (SM), two popular events that attract thousands of youngsters every year, have been cancelled because of concerns related to the coronavirus in the state capital. The Centre for Readership Development (CRD) and the Bihar Rural Livelihoods Promotion Society (BRLPS) organise the two fairs in November and December, respectively. According to CRD chairman Ratneshwar Singh, the 12-day PBF is a major crowd-puller because almost three lakh people visit the fair. “It is not possible for us to control such a massive crowd. Besides, most of the publishers and writers come from other states and it is unsafe to travel in this situation,” Ratneshwar told TOI on Thursday and added that the next schedule had not been decided yet. Asked if the PBF would go online, he replied in the negative. “Online platforms cannot replace book fairs. The satisfaction and happiness one gets after touching and flipping through the pages of a book are unmatched.” Civil service aspirant Namisha Singh said she would miss PBF this year. “I used to go to the fair with my friends every year and purchase lots of books,” she recalled. Just like PBF, Patnaites will miss the two-week SM, which many consider a shoppers’ paradise. BRLPS communication manager Santosh Singh said, “We were not allowed to organize the fair even in a closed auditorium because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Such is the craze of SM that traders had earned almost Rs 3 crore last year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/book-fair-and-saras-mela-cancelled-over-covid-fears/articleshow/79433573.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 27, 2020||Business||NPCI sells 4.6% to 19 fintech, payment cos||Mumbai: The National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) has further broad-based its ownership by issuing 4.63% of its equity shares to 19 new investors. These investors include — for the first time — fintech companies and payment system operators. “We have broad-based our shareholding to include new categories like payment banks, small finance banks and payment system operators in addition to existing public sector, private sector, foreign, cooperative and regional rural banks,” said NPCI chief of finance Rupesh H Acharya. The non-bank investors include Amazon Pay, PhonePe, Pine Labs and PayU, which have been issued equity of 0.44% of the company’s capital. Banks that have got a similar sized allotment include StanChart, IDFC First, AU Small Finance Bank, India Post Payments Bank, and Paytm Payments Bank. Others have picked up stakes ranging from 0.04% to 0.22% in size. The allotment is in line with the recommendations made by the R P Watal-led committee to review the framework related to digital payments, which had suggested that the NPCI ownership be broadened to include the e-wallet companies. The latest private placement has resulted in a fund-raise of Rs 82 crore and taken NPCI’s shareholders to 67. However, NPCI’s charter does not allow the shareholding of public sector banks to fall below 51%. The corporation was constituted as a not-for-profit organisation, which means that the shareholders cannot expect any dividend. But they can participate in the general body meetings and contribute to the governance of the NPCI. The NPCI said that it had made an offer to 131 RBI-regulated entities, of which 19 evinced interest and were allotted shares.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/npci-sells-4-6-to-19-fintech-payment-cos/articleshow/79436732.cms||Mayur Shetty
November 27, 2020||Allahabad||HC rejects bail plea of Azam, son in cases of cheating, fraud||Prayagraj: The Allahabad high court on Thursday rejected the bail application of senior Samajwadi Party leader and MP Azam Khan and his son Abdullah Azam Khan in two cases relating to alleged cheating and forgery. The allegations against the applicants were that they had forged PAN card to show the wrong date of birth of Abdullah to enable him to contest state elections from the Suar constituency of Rampur in 2017. Rejecting the bail application, Justice Suneet Kumar expedited the trial pending before the lower court, saying that the applicants are at liberty to approach the high court for bail after the witnesses of fact are examined in the trial. However, in view of the mandate of the apex court in Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay vs Union of India, the high court expedited the trial in the matter. The court observed, “Having regard to the allegations that the applicants did not cooperate with the investigation and court proceedings, consequently, coercive measures had to be adopted against them.” “Further, having regard to the position and status of the accused persons, the repetition of the offences, and the deep-rooted and pervasive influence, applicants exercise in the various departments of the state, there is reasonable apprehension of the witnesses being tampered with, and danger to the course of justice being thwarted. In the circumstances, grant of bail at this stage would not be in public interest,” the court added. To recall, in 2019 an FIR were lodged against the applicants alleging that on January 24, 2017, Abdullah had filed nomination papers for contesting from Suar assembly constituency, Rampur. In the nomination papers, Abdullah’s date of birth was wrongly mentioned as September 30, 1990, to make him eligible for contesting elections, and in support of it, a forged PAN card was filed which was prepared and his father, i.e., Azam Khan helped him in procuring the PAN card, alleged the FIR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-rejects-bail-plea-of-azam-son-in-cases-of-cheating-fraud/articleshow/79436373.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Patna||New goods shed made functional at Chakand||PATNA: A newly-built goods shed was made functional at the Chakand station on Patna-Gaya section of the East Central Railway (ECR) on Wednesday. The shed has facilities to load and unload goods. Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM) Sunil Kumar said the Chakand goods shed, built with an expenditure of Rs 12 crore, would benefit traders of the Magadh region. Work on platform surfacing and construction of toilet has also started at the goods shed. An additional foot over bridge (FOB) linking both the Up and Down line platforms is also being built at the Chakand station for hassle-free movement of passengers, the DRM said, adding cement, iron, fertilizers and other food materials will be loaded and unloaded at the Chakand goods shed. According to the DRM, the new goods shed at Chakand will also generate employment for locals. “A goods shed which functions round the clock requires a large number of workers to load and unload goods from the train wagons. Though Danapur division is a passenger-earning oriented division, it has an impressive earning of revenue from loading and unloading of goods,” the DRM said, adding Danapur and Fatuha are two other major goods sheds yielding good revenue for railways. Meanwhile, the DRM said the Railway Board or the Maharashtra government have not put any restriction on movement of passenger trains from Bihar to the western state despite recent spike in Covid cases. “Several pairs of special trains are being run between Bihar and Maharashtra to clear post-Chhath rush. Covid safety norms are being maintained in running all these trains,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/new-goods-shed-made-functional-at-chakand/articleshow/79434259.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Patna||4-member panel to assess performance of policemen||PATNA: In a bid to improve the quality of work and upgrade skills, the state police headquarters (HQ) has set up a four-member committee to assess the performance of policemen. The members of the panel, headed by IG (budget and provision) Paras Nath, held a meeting on Wednesday and discussed modalities for the assessment of performance of the police personnel at the police HQ and on field assignments. Subsequently, Nath issued a letter to all IGs, DIGs, SSPs and SPs, asking them to furnish a list of the cops, who would volunteer to serve as subordinates at the HQ after the assessment of their performance, within a week. The police personnel, who have been awarded serious punishment, will not be posted at the HQ. The same method will be applicable for the 242 policemen posted at the HQ. “The exercise is aimed at improving the quality of work by upgrading the skills of the cops,” said a member of the committee. Apart from Nath, DIG (human rights) Rajesh Tripathi, AIG (welfare) Raman Kumar and deputy SP Abhay Narain Singh are the members of the committee set up on the directive of officiating DGP S K Singhal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/4-member-panel-to-assess-performance-of-policemen/articleshow/79434766.cms||Ramashankar
November 27, 2020||Jodhpur||For 20 consecutive days, active cases go up in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The graph of active cases, which has been continuously going up for the past 20 days, touched a new high of 27,302 infections on Thursday. Active cases may go further up as the marriage season has started and panchayat polls is scheduled for Friday. Health minister Raghu Sharma has appealed to people to take precaution while going to cast votes on Friday. “In the second phase of zila parishad and panchayat polls, 60 lakh voters will go out to cast their votes. The Covid cases are increasing due to the winter and marriage season. In such a sitatution, people should safely vote by following precautionary measures,” Sharma said. The elections will be held in 21 districts of the state. The pandemic has become worse in the past 20 days as the state added 10,975 active cases, taking the figure from 16,327 to 27,302. Meanwhile, the count of daily new infection has taken a dip in the past few days. After reporting a record daily new infections of 3,314 cases on Tuesday, it has fell in the two following days (Wednesday and Thursday) to 3,285 and 3,180, respectively. Ninteen persons died on Thursday while 3,180 others tested positive, bringing the overall tally to 2,56,947. With 19 more deaths, the state’s toll rose to 2,237. Ajmer reported four deaths, taking its toll to 177, while three persons died in Jaipur which took its fatalities to 424. Three persons too died in Jodhpur, taking its fatalities to 228, while Udaipur saw two deaths that took its toll to 88. Kota reported its 130th casualty, Bharatpur 103rd, Sikar 76th, Alwar 74th, Jhunjhunu 37th, Rajsamand and Churu their 34th Covid death each. The districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (630), Jodhpur (517), Kota (260), Ajmer (200), Alwar (152), Udaipur (132), Bikaner (127), Bhilwara (108), Sriganaganagar (97), Nagaur (95), Jalore (89), Sikar (78), Pali (74), Churu (68), Bharatpur (60), Sirohi (49), Jhunjhunu (45), Hanumangarh (42), Tonk (40), Bundi (38), Sawai Madhopur (37), Barmer (34), Rajsamand (30), Chittorgarh (30), Jaisalmer (29), Dungarpur (24), Baran (20), Dholpur (19), Karauli (18), Dausa (14), Jhalawar (13), Banswara (10) and Pratapgarh (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/for-20-consecutive-daysactive-cases-go-up-in-raj/articleshow/79438026.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Patna||Patna: Poor air quality may hinder fight against coronavirus, says doctors||PATNA: With studies linking air pollution to more Covid-19 cases and deaths, health experts have advised Patnaites to remain cautious, wear face masks and follow social distancing norms. While the city’s air quality has slipped from the ‘poor’ to ‘very poor’ category, its night temperature hovers in the range of 10-12 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature in Patna was 11.2 degrees C on Thursday and the air quality index stood at 319, which falls in the ‘very poor’ category. Dr Maria Neira of the World Health Organisation states that exposure to air pollution increases the risk of respiratory diseases. Besides, a study titled ‘Regional and Global Contributions of Air Pollution to Risk of Death from Covid-19’, which was published in ‘Cardiovascular Research’ of the European Society of Cardiology in October, points out that about 15% of deaths worldwide from Covid-19 may be linked to long-term exposure to air pollution. City doctors claim that particulate matter can remain suspended in the atmosphere for a longer time due to low temperature and deteriorating air quality, increasing the transmissibility of coronavirus. According to Dr Mukul Kumar Singh, nodal officer for Covid-19 at the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital, pollution affects the respiratory system and lowers immunity. “If your lungs are already weak due to pollution, the chances of contracting Covid-19 are higher. Hence, the usage of face masks is compulsory,” he told this newspaper. Dr Ashish Karn of the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences also said a surge in the level of pollution would lead to a fall in the Covid recovery rate. “Polluted air can enter the lungs and cause severe damage, increasing the risk of chronic respiratory diseases. Such people are likely to develop severe illnesses if they contract Covid-19,” he added. Indian Medical Association (Bihar) senior vice-president Dr Ajay Kumar pointed out that air pollution directly affected the lungs and the respiratory system, making the immune system weak. He said, “People should follow the safety measures strictly and maintain physical distancing. They should also avoid crowded events and not step out of their houses unless it is necessary.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/poor-air-quality-may-hinder-fight-against-coronavirus-doctors/articleshow/79433500.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Kanpur||Right wing activists seek ban on web series for vulgarity||KANPUR: Several right wing organisations on Thursday staged a massive protest at Bada Chauraha demanding a ban on a web series for vulgarity and showing an “incorrect picture of Indian culture globally”. Scores of activists from International Hindu Parishad and Bajrang Dal holding placards and banners assembled at Bada Chauraha and raised slogans and demanded a ban on the web series. The activists stated that streaming platforms should be more of pro- and not anti-Indian culture. City vice-president Bajrang Dal, Ajay Mishra asked authorities to respond soon and ban airing of the web-series as it allegedly maligns the image and reputation of the country. “The worst affected in the ongoing time of pandemic are school children, who are in possession of android phones for online classes, but during their leisure hours, they easily have access to cheap web series, which are poisoning their young minds,” said Mishra. He claimed that in the web series, scripts are cheap, actors are indulging in vulgarity, besides many a time they use abusive words, which are highly disparaging and defamatory and bring disrepute to entire nation. “We have also faxed a letter to chief minister Yogi Adityanath in this regard pleading him to intervene and initiate immediate and necessary action against the producers of these vulgar web series who are hell-bent on defaming our Indian culture,” said a young activist further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/right-wing-activists-seek-ban-on-web-series-for-vulgarity/articleshow/79435340.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Kanpur||Nitin Gadkari dedicates COD ROB in virtual ceremony||KANPUR: Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari dedicated the COD rail over bridge (ROB) to people in a virtual ceremony on Thursday. The Union minister dedicated to the people the 790-metre-long COD RoB, constructed at a cost of Rs 50.74 crore. He also inaugurated and laid foundation of 15 other projects at a cost of Rs 7,500 crore across the state. In the virtual programme, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya and Union Minister for state for roads and highways V K Singh, besides local MP Satyadeo Pachauri were present. Speaking on the occasion, local MP Satyadeo Pachauri, who inaugurated the bridge by pressing the remote button said the much pending RoB at COD crossing is going to provide better connectivity, convenience to the public as well as lead to economic growth in the industrial town. “It connects Kanpur South with the city and it provides a major connectivity with Lucknow, Allahabad, Jhansi and Etawah, besides other nearby districts and towns. Earlier, people used to face hardships as over 100 trains pass through Delhi-Howrah rail route which criss-crosses COD railway crossing, everyday. For most of the day, the railway crossing remain closed. The commuters particularly daily-travellers had to face a tough time and wait for the railway crossing gates to open. The closure of the railway crossings also causes jam in the area. Now, there will be no complain from city-folks as their much pending demand has been fulfilled with the kind efforts of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Road Transport and Highways minister Nitin Gadkari and chief minister Yogi Adityanath,” said MP. The foundation of COD bridge was laid way back in 2008. The project on Delhi-Howrah rail route, aimed at curtailing travel time between Lucknow and Kanpur and other neighbouring districts and towns. The CM presided this event that was conducted in virtual mode via a video conference.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/gadkari-dedicates-cod-rob-in-virtual-ceremony/articleshow/79435303.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Kidnapped woman doctor rescued within five hours||PATNA: Police rescued a woman doctor from Benipatti in Madhubani district on Wednesday evening within five hours of her kidnapping. The abductors had demanded Rs 20 lakh as ransom for the doctor’s safe release. Police have arrested two people, including the doctor’s driver, for their alleged involvement in the kidnapping. Sitamarhi SP Anil Kumar said on Thursday that Dr Daisey Jaiswal was kidnapped by two armed criminals when she was on way to Riga from her house in Sitamarhi in a car around 1pm on Wednesday. “The criminals contacted Daisey’s husband, also a doctor, over phone and demanded Rs 20 lakh as ransom for her safe release. Since the car was driven towards Madhubani, we alerted the Darbhanga and Madhubani police,” the SP said, adding the car was intercepted by the police near Chanpura on Basaith-Madhvapur Road under the jurisdiction of Benipatti police station in Madhubani district around 5pm. On seeing the police, the abductors abandoned the car and tried to escape,” the SP said. He added the police chased the criminals and caught two of them. Dr Jaiswal later told the police that she was kidnapped at gunpoint from Righa police station area in Sitamarhi district and was being taken to an unknown destination. The abductors, who were known to the doctor’s driver Chintu, later confessed to their involvement in the crime and revealed the names of other members of the gang. The abductors had dropped the doctor’s driver near Pupri in Sitamarhi district. Madhubani SP Satya Prakash said the rescued doctor and the two abductors were handed over to the Sitamarhi police after completion of legal formalities. “We cooperated with the Sitamarhi police team, which was on the lookout for the abductors,” he added. Investigations revealed that the abductors had used the victim’s cellphone to demand the ransom money. The two arrested abductors are residents of the driver’s native village under Sahiara police station area in Sitamarhi district. Police said Chintu had hatched a conspiracy to kidnap his employer for money. “Raids are on to arrest others involved in the crime,” Sitamarhi SP Kumar said. This is the second incident of kidnapping for ransom within 24 hours. Earlier, Mukesh Kumar Bharti, a junior engineer executing MNREGA scheme of the central government, was kidnapped in Saharsa on Tuesday. The abductors have demanded Rs 15 lakh as ransom for his release. On Sunday, the 16-year-old son of a jeweller of Begusarai town was kidnapped for a ransom of Rs 1 crore. The police, however, rescued the victim, Mohit Kumar, safely and arrested two criminals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/kidnapped-woman-doctor-rescued-within-five-hours/articleshow/79434183.cms||Ramashankar
November 27, 2020||Patna||Winter session of Bihar legislative council begins||PATNA: State legislative council acting chairman Awadhesh Narain Singh on Thursday welcomed CM Nitish Kumar, the two deputy CMs, ministers and members on the first day of 196th session of the Upper House and extended his greetings to all on the occasion of the Constitution Day. While addressing the Upper House, Singh praised the effort of people of Bihar for the peaceful elections in the state. “The mandate is for the development of the state. I have faith that the state government will work as per the expectations of the people of Bihar,” Singh said. This was also the first day of the two-day winter session of the Upper House. “I expect that the state moves ahead in the direction of development under the able leadership CM Nitish Kumar,” Singh said. Singh congratulated the eight newly-elected members of the council on behalf of the entire House. He nominated four presiding officers to conduct the House in his absence and they include Kedarnath Pandey, Nawal Kishore Choudhary, Sanjay Kumar Singh and Ramchandra Purbey. The members also paid tributes to 17 leaders who left for heavenly abode this year, including former President Pranab Mukherjee, former Bihar CM Satish Prasad Singh, LJP founder Ram Vilas Paswan, former Union minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh, former state minister Vinod Kumar Singh, Kapildev Kamat and Ramji Das Rishidev.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/winter-session-of-council-begins/articleshow/79434743.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 27, 2020||Patna||No Sonepur Mela this year due to corona||CHHAPRA: The monthlong Harihar Kshetra Mela or Sonepur fair, which is organized in the months of November and December every year, has been cancelled due to the Covid-19 pandemic. According to Sonepur SDO Sunil Kumar, both the Sonepur fair and the Godna-Semaria Mela will not be organized this year. However, considering the religious sentiments of the devotees, police and security personnel will be deputed in Sonepur on the occasion of Kartik Purnima on November 30. “We have urged people to avoid rush while performing ‘Ganga snan’ on Kartik Purnima,” the SDO told this newspaper on Thursday. The administration has also decided to suspend the movement of traffic on the old bridge over the Gandak from Sunday night to Monday. Vehicular movement on the new bridge will remain unaffected. “We will not set up any temporary police station or outpost to regulate traffic. We have, however, requested the railways to run additional trains to help the devotees reach Sonepur on Kartik Purnima,” Saran range DIG B K Verma said. MLA in favour of organising fair: Sonepur MLA Ramanuj Prasad has asked the district administration to organize the cattle fair despite the pandemic. “If elections can be held amid Covid-19, why can’t the fair be organized? It provides jobs to thousands of people for almost a month,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-sonepur-mela-this-year-due-to-corona/articleshow/79433581.cms||H K Verma
November 27, 2020||Udaipur||For 20 consecutive days, active cases go up in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The graph of active cases, which has been continuously going up for the past 20 days, touched a new high of 27,302 infections on Thursday. Active cases may go further up as the marriage season has started and panchayat polls is scheduled for Friday. Health minister Raghu Sharma has appealed to people to take precaution while going to cast votes on Friday. “In the second phase of zila parishad and panchayat polls, 60 lakh voters will go out to cast their votes. The Covid cases are increasing due to the winter and marriage season. In such a sitatution, people should safely vote by following precautionary measures,” Sharma said. The elections will be held in 21 districts of the state. The pandemic has become worse in the past 20 days as the state added 10,975 active cases, taking the figure from 16,327 to 27,302. Meanwhile, the count of daily new infection has taken a dip in the past few days. After reporting a record daily new infections of 3,314 cases on Tuesday, it has fell in the two following days (Wednesday and Thursday) to 3,285 and 3,180, respectively. Ninteen persons died on Thursday while 3,180 others tested positive, bringing the overall tally to 2,56,947. With 19 more deaths, the state’s toll rose to 2,237. Ajmer reported four deaths, taking its toll to 177, while three persons died in Jaipur which took its fatalities to 424. Three persons too died in Jodhpur, taking its fatalities to 228, while Udaipur saw two deaths that took its toll to 88. Kota reported its 130th casualty, Bharatpur 103rd, Sikar 76th, Alwar 74th, Jhunjhunu 37th, Rajsamand and Churu their 34th Covid death each. The districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (630), Jodhpur (517), Kota (260), Ajmer (200), Alwar (152), Udaipur (132), Bikaner (127), Bhilwara (108), Sriganaganagar (97), Nagaur (95), Jalore (89), Sikar (78), Pali (74), Churu (68), Bharatpur (60), Sirohi (49), Jhunjhunu (45), Hanumangarh (42), Tonk (40), Bundi (38), Sawai Madhopur (37), Barmer (34), Rajsamand (30), Chittorgarh (30), Jaisalmer (29), Dungarpur (24), Baran (20), Dholpur (19), Karauli (18), Dausa (14), Jhalawar (13), Banswara (10) and Pratapgarh (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/for-20-consecutive-daysactive-cases-go-up-in-raj/articleshow/79438028.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Jaipur||For 20 consecutive days, active cases go up in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The graph of active cases, which has been continuously going up for the past 20 days, touched a new high of 27,302 infections on Thursday. Active cases may go further up as the marriage season has started and panchayat polls is scheduled for Friday. Health minister Raghu Sharma has appealed to people to take precaution while going to cast votes on Friday. “In the second phase of zila parishad and panchayat polls, 60 lakh voters will go out to cast their votes. The Covid cases are increasing due to the winter and marriage season. In such a sitatution, people should safely vote by following precautionary measures,” Sharma said. The elections will be held in 21 districts of the state. The pandemic has become worse in the past 20 days as the state added 10,975 active cases, taking the figure from 16,327 to 27,302. Meanwhile, the count of daily new infection has taken a dip in the past few days. After reporting a record daily new infections of 3,314 cases on Tuesday, it has fell in the two following days (Wednesday and Thursday) to 3,285 and 3,180, respectively. Ninteen persons died on Thursday while 3,180 others tested positive, bringing the overall tally to 2,56,947. With 19 more deaths, the state’s toll rose to 2,237. Ajmer reported four deaths, taking its toll to 177, while three persons died in Jaipur which took its fatalities to 424. Three persons too died in Jodhpur, taking its fatalities to 228, while Udaipur saw two deaths that took its toll to 88. Kota reported its 130th casualty, Bharatpur 103rd, Sikar 76th, Alwar 74th, Jhunjhunu 37th, Rajsamand and Churu their 34th Covid death each. The districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (630), Jodhpur (517), Kota (260), Ajmer (200), Alwar (152), Udaipur (132), Bikaner (127), Bhilwara (108), Sriganaganagar (97), Nagaur (95), Jalore (89), Sikar (78), Pali (74), Churu (68), Bharatpur (60), Sirohi (49), Jhunjhunu (45), Hanumangarh (42), Tonk (40), Bundi (38), Sawai Madhopur (37), Barmer (34), Rajsamand (30), Chittorgarh (30), Jaisalmer (29), Dungarpur (24), Baran (20), Dholpur (19), Karauli (18), Dausa (14), Jhalawar (13), Banswara (10) and Pratapgarh (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/for-20-consecutive-daysactive-cases-go-up-in-raj/articleshow/79436410.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Home guard jawan among two killed in different incidents||PATNA: Two people were killed and four others, including a home guard jawan, were shot at and critically injured in different incidents across the state in the past 24 hours on Thursday. A major incident of dacoity was also reported from Gopalganj. A 39-year-old trader, Manish Kumar alias Santu, was found murdered in Shastri Nagar locality of Darbhanga town on Thursday. His motorbike was found abandoned nearby by a police team led by IPS (trainee) Vaibhav Sharma, who reached the spot to probe the incident. The police have detained a woman for interrogation. The body of the deceased stated to be a resident of Pawai village under Suryagarha police station in Lakhisarai, bore external injuries, police said, adding, it has been sent to the DMCH for post mortem. Manish used to sell building construction material and lived in the Saidpur locality of Darbhanga town for the past 20 years. Youth killed: A 25-year-old youth Abhishek alias Chotu was shot dead by unidentified armed criminals at Karorichak under Phulwarisharif police station in Patna around 12.30am on Thursday. Police suspect a dispute with his neighbours as the reason behind Abhishek’s murder. The SHO of Phulwarisharif police station Safikur Rahman said raids are on to nab the accused. Home guard shotat: In Gopalganj, a 55-year-old home guard jawan Bhola Singh was shot at and injured for failing to pay Rs 5 lakh extortion money to local criminals. The injured jawan, who received bullet injuries in his leg, has been admitted to the Gopalganj Sadar hospital. Police said the incident took place when the victim had gone for a morning walk on the outskirts of his native village Ekdarba. Two persons, Sanjay Singh and Raj Kishore Singh, have been named as accused. Patna youth shot at: A 22-year-old youth Sumit Kumar was shot at by unidentified assailants at Maroofganj under Malsalami police station in Patna City on Thursday. He has been rushed to a local hospital for treatment. Extortion is stated to be the reason behind the incident. Two injured in Buxar: In Buxar, two persons — Bajrangi Yadav and Rajan Kumar — received bullet injuries when a gang of armed criminals opened fire at them under Itarhi police station area on Thursday. The injured have been admitted to the Sadar hospital for treatment. The reason behind the incident is yet to be ascertained. In another incident, unidentified armed criminals looted cash and valuables worth over Rs 9 lakh from a house at Sabli village under Baikunthpur police station in Gopalganj district on Wednesday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/home-guard-jawan-among-two-killed/articleshow/79434819.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Cloud cover to clear today, says weatherman||PATNA: The impact of severe cyclonic storm Nivar, which made a landfall on the coasts of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry in the wee hours of Thursday, was seen in Bihar as well as the skies remained cloudy in most parts of the state. Weathermen said that the cloud cover will clear up by Friday, which will pave way for further drop in temperature. The day or maximum temperature in Patna on Thursday was recorded at 25.8 degrees C, which was two notches lower than the corresponding normal for the day. Lowest minimum temperature in the state was recorded at 8.5degrees C in Gaya. Sanjay Kumar, a meteorologist at Patna meteorological centre said that overcast skies in Bihar were due to outer band of clouds formed by Cyclone Nivar. “There isn’t much impact of the cyclone in Bihar, except the partly cloudy skies, which is also expected to get cleared up by Friday,” he said. Deliberating on the change in temperature due to Cyclone Nivar, Sanjay said: “The cloud cover obstructs the solar radiation to escape in the upper level of the atmosphere during the night hours, which leads to slight surge in minimum temperature. However, the same cloud cover obstructs solar rays to reach the lower level of atmosphere, which leads to drop in day temperature.” He added, “The temperature, especially minimum temperature, will drop slightly for at least two days after the cloud cover clears up.” Dinesh Kumar Bharati, an officer at Patna meteorological said in a statement issued on Thursday evening that day temperature slightly dropped, while a tad surge was observed in night temperature. “North- easterly winds blew at the surface level in the region, which was due to severe cyclonic storm over Tamil Nadu. The impact of outer band of clouds is being seen in Bihar as well, which has led to slight drop in day temperature and rise in night temperature. There will be no other impact on weather conditions in Bihar,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cloud-cover-to-clear-today-weatherman/articleshow/79434759.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Business||India loses its IT sector pioneer FC Kohli||MUMBAI: The father of Indian IT industry, Faqir Chand Kohli, passed away due to a heart attack on Thursday afternoon at his house at the age of 96. Kohli led the global tech behemoth TCS since its birth in 1968, thereby sowing the seed of India’s IT industry. Kohli’s pioneering journey started earlier when he joined Tata Electric (now Tata Power) in 1951, immediately upon completing his post-graduation in electrical engineering from MIT, US. He was part of a team setting up perhaps India’s first-of-its-kind computer system to control the electric line between Mumbai and Pune, making Tata Electric the world’s third utility to adopt computers. In 1968, the technocrat was selected by J R D Tata to set up TCS — a startup founded as a management consultancy and transformed into a software development giant over the next three decades by the IT visionary. “He (Kohli) guided the company (TCS) in its early years and defined the vision for its growth. This early vision played an important role in creating the outstandingly successful global IT company that TCS has become today,” said Ratan Tata, chairman of Tata Trusts. TCS, which today is the world’s third-largest IT services company, is the jewel in the Tata Group’s crown, contributing more than 70% to the conglomerate’s profits. He retired from TCS in 1999 at the age of 75. He was a tough taskmaster and TCSers described him as a man of few words, who would refuse to stand fools or those who spoke without doing their homework. However, he never shied away from lending an ear to dissenting views that were backed with facts. “I have had the honour of working with and learning from Kohli from the day he hired me as a trainee in TCS,” said former TCS CEO and now Tata Sons chairman N Chandrasekaran. “Despite his momentous achievements, his simplicity and thoughtfulness is a lesson for us all.” A master strategist, Kohli (known as FCK in IT circles) not only laid the bricks for TCS but also pioneered the rise of India’s $190-billion software services sector. “Kohli was the true pioneer of Indian IT. We have all followed in his footsteps. His contribution to the IT industry and thus to India is immeasurable,” said Wipro founder-chairman Azim Premji. “Sad day for Indian IT. He was not just the 1st CEO of TCS but someone who laid the foundation of India’s greatest growth story,” tweeted Tech Mahindra CEO C P Gurnani. Kohli was also the chairman of Nasscom in 1994-1995, maintaining close ties with academics — from designing India’s first course on control systems to being in charge of establishing IITs in Mumbai and Kanpur. After his retirement, Kohli continued to lead India’s IT story, but this time he took it upon himself to use technology to tackle the problem of adult illiteracy in India. Kohli is survived by his wife Swarn, and three sons, Sanjay, Madhuri and Aniruddh. “He was gracious, unassuming, and always willing to help,” Tata summed up. (With inputs from Shilpa Phadnis)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/india-loses-its-it-sector-pioneer/articleshow/79435822.cms||Reeba Zachariah
November 27, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur man booked for remarks against PM, CM in audio clip||KANPUR: The police have registered a case against a person for abusing Prime Minister Narendra Modi, chief minister Yogi Adityanath, late minister Kamal Rani Varun and Akbarpur MP Devendra Singh Bhole. The accused, Hafizpur ward resident Shahban Qureshi, while talking on phone with his business partner Ruchi a few days ago had an argument with her over some kind of monetary dispute and later abused the PM, CM, late state minister and local MP. The incident, however, came to light after the audio clip of the same went viral on social media on Wednesday. Local BJP leaders, after coming across audio, registered a complaint against Qureshi with the Ghatampur Kotwali police station on the same day. Police after lodging a case under relevant sections of IPC are investigating the matter and are collecting electronic evidence. “In their complaint, BJP leaders accused that Shahban was heard in the viral audio using foul language against the PM and CM Yogi Adityanath, besides late state minister Kamal Rani Varun and Akbarpur MP Devendra Singh Bhole,” said Inspector Ghatampur Rajiv Singh and added, “A case has been registered against him on Wednesday under the IT Act, sections 504 and 506 of IPC.” After registering a case, the local police have launched a hunt to make arrest of the accused possible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/man-booked-for-remarks-against-pm-cm-in-audio-clip/articleshow/79435319.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Patna||Trade unions’ strike evokes partial response in state||Patna/ Begusarai/ Nalanda: The nation-wide strike called by trade unions supported by bank associations, farmers and several political outfits on Thursday to protest ‘anti-labour’ policies and new farm laws of the central government, had a partial impact in the state capital as only financial institutions were partially hit. Barring banking and insurance sector, which have presence of trade unions, normal life was unaffected in the city with all essential services, especially public transport and business establishments open at most of the places. Public transport was affected for less than two hours at Kargil Chowk as bandh supporters took out a protest march shouting slogans against the government policies. Former JNU students’ union president and CPI leader Kanhaiya Kumar also joined the protest at Dak Bungalow crossing in support of farmers and workers. He raised slogans like- ‘Aaj hartal kal hartal, na mane to dera dal’ (strike today strike tomorrow, if they don’t agree then camp) and ‘Jai jawaan, jai kisan, jai samvidhan’. Addressing the gathering, Kanhaiya said farmers and workers across the country are protesting for their rights and opposing the anti- labour policies and farm laws with the support of common people. “When after 200 years of slavery, people of the country can unite and drive away such forces then this is an elected government. The central government has to roll back its anti-labour and anti-farmer policies,” he said. Some workers of the RJD, Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC)- Bihar, All India Central Council of Trade Unions (AICCTU), CITU, All India Kisan Sabha- Bihar among other trade union also joined the protest at the Dak Bungalow crossing. AICCTU national secretary Ranvijay Kumar said Asha workers, aganwadi workers , mid-day meal workers across Bihar has joined the protest against the Centre’s policies. “We are also opposing the orders of Nitish- led NDA for forced retirement of employees above 50 years of age in government sector,” he said. President of Bank Employees Federation of India (BEFI) and Bihar Provincial Gramin Bank Employees’ Association (BPGBEA) B Prasad said normal banking operations, including cash transactions, cheque clearances, other dealings were affected. “The strike was a success across the state. Banking services have been affected and all ATMs also remain closed,” he said. Raj Kumar Jha, general secretary of Bihar State Auto-Chalak Sangh said, “The auto-rickshaw and e-rickshaw drivers held a protest march. “In 20 districts, including Muzaffarpur, Samastipur, Bhagalpur, Jehanabad and Begusarai, the public transport remain off the road,” he said. Meanwhile, traffic remained paralysed for over four hours in the morning on NH-31 in the wake of the nationwide strike call given by various trade organizations in Begusarai. Activists of AITUC, AICCTU, CITU besides other trade organizations took out a march through the streets in the morning and later gathered near the railway station on NH-31 to stage dharna. Trade union supporters also blocked traffic near Barauni Thermal Power Station. Various trade unions took out processions in Biharsharif, Asthawan, Islampur, Rajgir and Hilsa. There was no report of forced closure of business establishments and disruption of the movement of vehicular traffic from any part of the district till the evening. A procession was taken out from Rajendra Ashram, office of Congress Party in Gaya on Thursday. INTUC state secretary Ashok Singh, AICC member and Magadh division spokesman of Congress Vijay Kumar Mithu led the procession, which after reaching Ambedkar park culminated into a public meeting. Terming the failure to connect to the masses as ‘disciplined agitation’ a number of Left leaders including Maksudan Sharma, Janardhan Prasad, Ramdev Chaudhry and others claimed the bandh a success.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/trade-unions-strike-evokes-partial-response-in-state/articleshow/79434150.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 27, 2020||Patna||Patna zoo gears up to keep inmates warm this winter||PATNA: With the winter season setting in and the mercury level coming down, the Sanjay Gandhi Biological Park commonly known as Patna zoo administration has made arrangements to keep the inmates warm by installing 46 heat convectors in different enclosures and night houses. The zoo authorities have started implementing systemic changes to prepare its 1,161 inhabitants and dietary plan to meet their increased nutritional requirement during the winter season. Heaters or blowers, wooden blocks, sheet of hem grass and an extra platter of food have been kept in the cages of carnivorous animals like tigers, lions, leopards, cheetah and other cat families to help them stay warm and healthy. Heaters are also installed in night houses of bears, wolves, chimpanzees and monkeys. Amit Kumar, Patna zoo director said meat-eating animals are taken care of with extra meat of 2- 2.5 kg in their diets and wooden planks have been placed in their cages, so they can rest on the warm surface. “All ventilators of the cages and night houses have been covered with bamboo straw to keep the room warm. Enclosures of several animals and birds like ostriches, emus, eagles, cheetals, sambars, giraffe, deers, bears, rhinos and monkeys have been redone with beds made of straw and hay,” he said. He added: “High-voltage bulbs and pots are placed in snake house to keep the cold- blooded reptiles warm. Normally reptiles go into hibernation during winters, so there is no metabolic activity, but the animals need to keep themselves warm. Blankets and quilts are given to monkeys, chimpanzees and snakes.” Some inmates are being provided with a healthy dose of seasonal fruits and vegetables and other supplements to help them counter cold and strengthen their immunity. Honey and boiled eggs have been added in the menu of the chimpanzees, monkeys and bears while elephants are being fed sugar- cane and jaggery, and they also receive massage of mustard oil. Primates also get health supplement like— chawyanprash. The authorities are also providing lukewarm water in moats and in ponds for birds, reptiles and crocodiles. Paddy straw and wheat husk bedding have been provided to all birds for warm nesting. Zookeepers are constantly checking the weather to make sure the animals stay safe, keeping in view their natural environmental requirements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-zoo-gears-up-to-keep-inmates-warm-this-winter/articleshow/79433621.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 27, 2020||Kanpur||Three-day UP Ranji trials from December 2||Kanpur: Uttar Pradesh Cricket Association (UPCA) will be conducting Ranji trials for its state team from December 2 to December 4 at Kamla Club ground and the Green Park stadium. According to Deepak Sharma, players have been asked to take part in the trials on different dates in view of Covid-19 protocol and social distancing. Dates and districts for taking part in trials are as under: December 2- Group A--Allahabad , Lucknow, Varanasi, Jaunpur, Sonebhadra, Gorakhpur, Muzaffar Nagar, Lakhimpur, Ghazipur, Azamgarh and Fatehpur. December 3-Group B-- Ghaziabad, Moradabad, Aligarh, Meerut, Mathura , GB Nagar, Jhansi, Agra, Mainpuri , Farrukhabad and Bijnor, December 4- Group C—Jalaun, Firozabad, Bareily, Unnao, Hamirpur, Rae Bareli, Shahjahanpur, Saharanpur, Bahraich, Pilibhit, Bulundshahr, Kanpur, Faizabad, Sultanpur and Barabanki.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/three-day-up-ranji-trials-from-december-2/articleshow/79453202.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Business||Credit card requests cross pre-Covid levels in October||MUMBAI: Demand for new credit cards has fully recovered and monthly applications in October have exceeded levels in the same month of the previous year. According to credit information company TransUnion Cibil, last month saw inquiries that were 106% of the queries in October 2019. Most of the demand is coming from small towns and non-metros, with metros yet to register growth over the previous year. Each time a bank processes a credit card application, it raises a query with TU Cibil. These queries had dropped to 5% of the previous year’s level in April this year on account of the lockdown. A few months later in July, the numbers picked up but were still 61% of total inquiries in July 2019. According to RBI data, there were 5.9 crore credit cards outstanding as of September 2020, up from 5.8 crore in March. In April, the number of outstanding credit cards had dipped to 5.7 crore as they were not getting replaced because of the lockdown. The RBI data also shows that SBI Card issued 4.6 lakh cards in the first half of FY21, while in the private sector HDFC Bank and ICICI Bank issued 4.8 lakh and 1.6 lakh during the same period. sm “Credit card inquiry volumes have recovered fully from the trough seen in April 2020, suggesting that consumer economic activity has materially improved since the easing of Covid lockdown measures. Data shows that credit card popularity in traditional cash-driven, non-metro locations has risen with more consumers seeking this product. October inquiry volumes in non-metro locations increased by 23% YoY compared to a decline of -10% YoY for metro locations,” said TransUnion Cibil vice-president Abhay Kelkar. Credit card origination volumes have also started picking up gradually as demand has resumed. Credit card origination volumes for July this year were at 37% of July 2019 levels. This decline is not as sharp as the one seen some months before amid the lockdown in April, where origination volumes slipped to 9% of April 2019 levels. “It is encouraging to see credit card inquiry levels making a full recovery following an easing of lockdown measures. It is even more encouraging to see that lenders can continue to lend with confidence, even in highly uncertain economic times, if they have access to reliable data and advanced analytics,” said Kelkar. According to Kelkar, social distancing rules and lockdowns is helping the move toward digital. This shift in consumer mindset is reflected in the growth observed in outstanding balances. Credit card outstanding balances increased by 32% YoY in July 2020. This compares to a 33% YoY increase in balances at the same time last year. Watch Demand for new credit cards cross pre-Covid levels in October: TransUnion Cibil||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/credit-card-requests-cross-pre-covid-levels-in-oct/articleshow/79436659.cms||Mayur Shetty
November 27, 2020||Patna||Patna: Camp spreads awareness on safe menstrual practices||PATNA: Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Thursday organized a menstrual hygiene and waste management camp at Adalatganj slum areas in association with the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) and Diksha Foundation. PMC has organised the camp as a part of its ‘Swachhata Survekshan Mission’, to make the city clean. The health camp started with an orientation session on the importance of menstrual health and hygiene. In addition to this, deeply rooted social taboos were also discussed during the orientation, observing participation from the girls and women from the slum area. The programme coordinators of UNFPA-Bihar also discussed waste management of used sanitary napkins in detail. A short video on menstrual hygiene and waste management was also shown at the camp. The group of girls present at the venue were very keen and curious. They asked several questions related to the widespread misconceptions on menstruation. Around 237 young women and girls from Adalatganj were given sanitary pads. Sanitation inspector and supervisor of the respective ward from PMC were also present there and appealed to people for safe disposal of sanitary pads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/camp-spreads-awareness-on-safe-menstrual-practices/articleshow/79434753.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Street vendors to learn about health, hygiene||CHANDIGARH: The Chandigarh municipal corporation has tied up with the PGI for providing capacity building training to street vendors on health and hygiene. All the registered street vendors of the city have been given health assurance plan, which is directly connected with the PGI and its related dispensaries in the city. In the first phase, 3,000 registered vendors will be trained for one year and other vendors will be trained in the later stages in a phased manner. The move has come after successful training of 600 registered vendors under the pilot project passed by the Town Vending Committee (TVC) in 2018. The first phase of the training has now been prepared for the vendors. The civic body authority has prepared a financial estimate of Rs 49.40 lakhs to be spent on the training of the 3,000 selected vendors and the time period of the training will be one year. The training will be given at different locations by preparing a time schedule so that all the selected street vendors are able to attend the training session. “Since multiple sessions and modules have been planned for different subjects, experts of the public health department of the PGI are engaged in the entire exercise. Besides other subjects, food products, personal health and hygiene, management of solid waste, use of best products, providing clean and hygiene street food, knowledge about rights and bye-laws of the Street Vending Act will be key areas during the training session,” said sources in the MC. “Since imparting training is the provision given in the Street Vending Act, therefore, we have planned it in a proper manner by making collaborations with experts. Moreover, the pilot project in this regard proved successful and thus the MC has planned to provide training to all the street vendors. Moreover, with the facility of health assurance, the registered vendors can get free medical aid from the PGI and other related dispensaries,” said an official. Since the finance and contract committee (F&CC) of the MC has also approved this subject in its recent meeting, the civic body authority has kicked-off an exercise to prepare the modalities in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/street-vendors-to-learn-about-health-hygiene/articleshow/79433870.cms||Deepak Yadav
November 27, 2020||Patna||Patna: Social distancing norms, use of masks go for a toss||PATNA: Health experts may have warned people that the state faces the possibility of a second wave of Covid-19 infections, but Patnaites continue to violate safety guidelines by not wearing masks and flouting social distancing norms in public places. Hundreds of them are throwing caution to the wind by not using sanitisers or undergoing thermal screening at crowded shops. A shopkeeper in Khetan Market, Dilip Agarwal, has kept a bottle of hand sanitizer near the entrance of his store, but claims that nobody uses it. “As the wedding season is approaching, customers are queuing up outside our shops. It is impossible for us to manage huge crowds,” he says. Ranjit Kumar Singh, the manager of a shop in Hathua Market, echoes similar views. He rues, “After bearing huge losses during the Covid lockdown, we cannot tell customers to stay at home. We try following social distancing norms, but a lot of them do not listen to us.” Shops selling branded jewellery and electronics on S P Verma Road, Fraser Road, Boring Canal Road, Bailey Road and Exhibition Road are equally crowded. The wholesale medicine market on Govind Mitra Road also remains jam-packed with buyers. Worried over the grim situation of Covid in Patna, Nageshwar Colony resident Pankaj Kumar urges people to wear masks in public places. He says, “The pleas of the authorities fall on deaf ears because you can spot only a few people in masks.” Vegetable and fruit markets, which are mostly crowded, seem to be emerging as potential hotspots for spreading coronavirus. However, sellers at Anta Ghat, Digha and Bazaar Samiti are no more cautious as most of them have tested negative for Covid. “What is the point of wearing a mask if I have tested negative for corona?” a vegetable seller at Digha asks. 8 shops issued notices: DM: The district administration has started penalizing the people who flout Covid safety norms. “Altogether eights shops in localities like Fraser Road, Station Road, Mithapur, Dak Bungalow and Chiraiyatand Pul have been issued notices for violating safety norms and will remain closed for the next three days,” Patna district magistrate Kumar Ravi told this newspaper on Thursday and added that eight teams had been constituted to ensure compliance of Covid norms. During the last three days, the administration has penalized 1,415 people and collected Rs 1,40,750 as fine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/social-distancing-norms-use-of-masks-go-for-a-toss/articleshow/79433602.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 27, 2020||Patna||Bihar’s Covid count breaches 2.33 lakh-mark||PATNA: The number of Covid-19 cases in the state touched 2,33,142 on Thursday with 682 more people testing positive for the virus in the last 24 hours. Officially, six more people have succumbed to the virus, taking the state’s toll to 1,243. However, with 2,26,392 recovering from the virus so far, there are 5,505 active cases in the state. As per the health department, Bhojpur, Munger, East Champaran, Purnia, Siwan and Jamui districts recorded one death each on Thursday. AIIMS-Patna recorded has eight fresh deaths, including three who had died on Wednesday. The victims included three from Patna – a 60-year-old man from Panchwati Nagar, a 65-year-old man from Nepali Nagar and a 72-year-old woman from Vijay Nagar. AIIMS-P nodal incharge for Covid-19 Dr Sanjeev Kumar said 13 patients were admitted to the hospital and 13 discharged on Thursday. “Altogether 159 Covid patients are undergoing treatment at the hospital. Among those admitted, there were patients from different localities of Patna like Bhattacharya Road, Rajendra Nagar and Yarpur,” he added. Nalanda Medical College and Hospital did not report any fresh death. One patient was admitted to the hospital and 10 were discharged on Thursday. Of the 682 new Covid-19 cases, Patna accounted for 211. With this, the district’s Covid tally has gone up to 41,331. However, with 39,230 recoveries and 320 deaths, there are 1,781 active cases in Patna. Among other districts, Bhagalpur recorded 34 fresh cases, Muzaffarpur 34, Gaya 28, Araria 27, Darbhanga 23, Siwan 23 and saran 21. State health minister Mangal Pandey tweeted that 595 people have recovered in the last 24 hours, taking the state’s recovery rate to 97.10%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/states-covid-count-breaches-2-33l-mark/articleshow/79433609.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Lucknow||Girl students bag lion’s share of LU medals, win 137 of total 174||LUCKNOW: Nine girl students of Lucknow University have clinched 66 medals of total 174 medals to be awarded to meritorious students of various undergraduate and postgraduate courses. Harshita Dubey of MSc in Mathematics has bagged maximum 14 medals. Overall, 79% of the total medals have been grabbed by girls, while boys got 21%. LU awards a total of 196 medals in various streams and subjects. While 15 medals instituted by university were distributed in the convocation on November 21, seven are not being awarded this year because no candidate was found suitable. The tentative list of the remaining 174 was uploaded on LU website on Thursday evening. Of these, 137 have gone to girls and 37 have been claimed by boys. “We have invited objections from students against the names in the tentative list by December 7. Thereafter, a scrutiny will be done and final tally will be released. A separate function will be held to award these medals,” said LU spokesperson Durgesh Srivastava. Highest number of 14 medals have been bagged by postgraduate mathematics student Harshita Dubey, who had already been awarded two Chancellor’s silver medals — one for being the best women student of the university and the other for being the best student among all PG students — in the convocation. Now, she will get 12 more medals, including prestigious Dr AN Singh gold medal given to student scoring highest marks in Mathematics along with others for scoring highest marks in all semesters, for standing first in MSc, for being the overall successful women student in the university and scoring highest marks in the paper of fluid mechanics among others. Shambhavi Pandey (BA) and Sarita Yadav (MA) have bagged 10 medals each, while law student Pragati Srivastava got eight and Jaya Kumari (MSc) has claimed seven medals. Anam Khan (MA Social Work) has grabbed six medals and Priyanshi Raj (MA Economic) five. “A single student is able to win more than one medal or even 10-12 medals in a course because there are several sponsored medals which are awarded to students for scoring high in a subject,” said an LU official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/girl-students-bag-lions-share-of-lu-medals-win-137-of-total-174/articleshow/79436973.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Business||HC rejects plea to stay merger of LVB with DBS||Swati Deshpande & Rajesh C | TNN Mumbai/Chennai: The Bombay high court on Thursday, in an interim order, rejected a plea for a stay sought by shareholders of Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) on its merger with DBS Bank India. Even as shareholders filed petitions in Chennai and Mumbai seeking to stay the merger, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) directed the administrator of the bank to write off Rs 318 crore worth of tier-2 bonds. The central bank said that the bonds should be written off as the bank’s net worth had turned negative and it has accumulated losses of Rs 2,969 crore and the terms of the bonds provided for such a write-off should the bank be amalgamated with another by the regulator. On October 7, Brickwork Ratings had downgraded these bonds to B+ with negative implications from ‘BWR BB+’. In Mumbai, Kare Electronics, the bank’s erstwhile promoters, and Indiabulls Housing Finance, one of the shareholders of the southern bank, had petitioned the HC, challenging the merger. The petitions made as party the RBI, which approved the scheme of amalgamation that is to come into force from November 27. In Chennai, another petitioner AUM Capital said it held 13 lakh shares in LVB and was aggrieved by the amalgamation. The case is coming up for hearing on Friday at the Madras high court. The petition said that the amalgamation would unjustly enrich DBS. The petitioner citied instances in the past when shareholder value was not written off. The Indiabulls petition was on the grounds that the scheme directed the bank to be delisted and the shares to be cancelled at no consideration. Indiabulls held close to 5% of the bank’s shares, which it had purchased at Rs 188 crore last year. That would now amount to zero. Dinyar Madon, senior counsel for Indiabulls, said the RBI published the draft scheme on November 17 and sought objections by November 20, which were provided by Indiabulls. Despite the objections, the final notification by the government was no different from the draft scheme, making it clear that shareholders’ objections were not considered. Senior counsel Darius Khambata for Kare also objected to the merger and adopted some of Madon’s submissions. But senior counsel Ravi Kadam for the RBI opposed any plea for a stay. Kadam said it was an emergent situation that the liability of a bank be taken over immediately and these depositors’ money be safeguarded as they can, on Friday itself if they want, withdraw their deposits from DBS Bank India. A stay on the merger would hurt the interests of the depositors and account holders. It would also disturb the flow of the economic activity in the banking stream, said Kadam. There were 566 branches with more than 4,000 employees, Rs 20,000 crore as deposits and 20 lakh deposit accounts, Kadam said. The bench of Justices Nitin Jamdar and Milind Jadhav at the Bombay HC said the claim of the shareholders was a monetary one for compensation, which can be decided at the final hearing. It adjourned the matter to December 14 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hc-rejects-plea-to-stay-merger-of-lvb-with-dbs/articleshow/79436718.cms||Swati Deshpande
November 27, 2020||Ajmer||For 20 consecutive days, active cases go up in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The graph of active cases, which has been continuously going up for the past 20 days, touched a new high of 27,302 infections on Thursday. Active cases may go further up as the marriage season has started and panchayat polls is scheduled for Friday. Health minister Raghu Sharma has appealed to people to take precaution while going to cast votes on Friday. “In the second phase of zila parishad and panchayat polls, 60 lakh voters will go out to cast their votes. The Covid cases are increasing due to the winter and marriage season. In such a sitatution, people should safely vote by following precautionary measures,” Sharma said. The elections will be held in 21 districts of the state. The pandemic has become worse in the past 20 days as the state added 10,975 active cases, taking the figure from 16,327 to 27,302. Meanwhile, the count of daily new infection has taken a dip in the past few days. After reporting a record daily new infections of 3,314 cases on Tuesday, it has fell in the two following days (Wednesday and Thursday) to 3,285 and 3,180, respectively. Ninteen persons died on Thursday while 3,180 others tested positive, bringing the overall tally to 2,56,947. With 19 more deaths, the state’s toll rose to 2,237. Ajmer reported four deaths, taking its toll to 177, while three persons died in Jaipur which took its fatalities to 424. Three persons too died in Jodhpur, taking its fatalities to 228, while Udaipur saw two deaths that took its toll to 88. Kota reported its 130th casualty, Bharatpur 103rd, Sikar 76th, Alwar 74th, Jhunjhunu 37th, Rajsamand and Churu their 34th Covid death each. The districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (630), Jodhpur (517), Kota (260), Ajmer (200), Alwar (152), Udaipur (132), Bikaner (127), Bhilwara (108), Sriganaganagar (97), Nagaur (95), Jalore (89), Sikar (78), Pali (74), Churu (68), Bharatpur (60), Sirohi (49), Jhunjhunu (45), Hanumangarh (42), Tonk (40), Bundi (38), Sawai Madhopur (37), Barmer (34), Rajsamand (30), Chittorgarh (30), Jaisalmer (29), Dungarpur (24), Baran (20), Dholpur (19), Karauli (18), Dausa (14), Jhalawar (13), Banswara (10) and Pratapgarh (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/for-20-consecutive-daysactive-cases-go-up-in-raj/articleshow/79438029.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Business||‘Cut in auto tax rates will boost demand’||Pankaj.Doval@timesgroup.com S S Kim has been leading the charge for Hyundai in India since 2018. While competition has been stiff, especially from rival Maruti Suzuki and sibling Kia, the pandemic has proved to be the biggest challenge that has tested the resilience of the Indian auto industry. Hyundai, however, has been able to return to pre-Covid volumes and sold record numbers in October this year. But Kim feels that the industry now requires a tax cut and softer interest rate regime to push demand.... How far have you achieved normalcy? What challenges do you still face? The new normal has set fresh challenges for the industry. The biggest challenge is to sustain business operations and ensure the financial health of the organisation. Our operations achieved 99.9% of (pre-Covid) production levels in September. Currently, the domestic market is witnessing increased demand as customers prefer personal mobility. Green shoots were visible in October 2020 when we recorded our highest-ever domestic sales of 56,605 units, marking a growth of 13% on a year-on-year basis. Has Covid hit remuneration, resulted in downsizing? Despite these stressful times, to motivate and spread positivity among our employees, our promotion and increments were intact for both executive as well as non-executive employees. What more steps should the government take? The auto industry has witnessed multiple challenges since 2019. However, the potential growth of motorisation is progressing in the right direction. Reduction in tax rates and car loans with low interest can build consumerism, helping the industry revive at a faster pace. Any learnings from doing business amid Covid? The sudden shift of product launches to online platforms has given the next dimension to the overall process of real-time experience. During this transition, we tried to reduce customer anxiety with the introduction of EMI Assurance and multiple financial schemes. How much cost increases are you facing? The cost burden has increased due to infrastructural changes — from employee seating to deep sanitisation. Our working divisions have successfully implemented ‘smart ideas’ and cost-effective measures to avoid the spread of Covid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cut-in-auto-tax-rates-will-boost-demand/articleshow/79436431.cms||Pankaj Doval
November 27, 2020||Ajmer||RBSE extends date to submit board exam forms to December 22||AJMER: The Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education (RBSE) has extended the last date for filling 2021 board exam forms with regular fees to December 22. Previously, the last date was on November 30. The decision to extend the date was taken because of the aggravating Covid-19 situation in the state on Thursday. Board secretary Arvind Kumar Sengwa said that since schools are closed due to the pandemic, many students were finding it difficult to reach schools to submit the forms. Several principals had also requested the board to extend the last date of filling forms. Regular fees for board examination forms is Rs 600 for regular students and Rs 650 for private students. For every practical subject, there is an additional fee of Rs 100. The board has already warned private schools not to charge extra from any student and also launched a helpline for students and parents to alert them if any private school harasses them on the count.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/rbse-extends-date-to-submitboard-exam-forms-to-dec-22/articleshow/79436416.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh in dark for 12 hours as powermen go on strike||CHANDIGARH: With powermen on strike over privatisation of the electricity department, city residents spent the day without electricity for up to12 hours on Thursday. With mercury dipping below 10 degree Celsius, the power failure sent shivers down the spine as residents kept waiting for warm water. Sectors 21, 20, 29, Daria village were the worst affected as these remained under darkness for about 12 hours i.e. since Wednesday midnight till Thursday. “One day salary will be cut as per the rule ‘no work, no pay’,” said superintending engineer (SE) Anil Dhamija. He said, “We had no ground staff to conduct maintenance work. We saw power failures mostly in the eastern sectors, but as we had handful of SDOs to get the work done, the power was restored by 1.30 pm on Thursday. Most affected were sectors 21, 29, Daria village, where power went for 8 to 12 hours and the other eastern sectors saw power pangs for 4 to 6 hours.” The other sectors which were affected were parts of sectors 20, 18, 22 and 27 where generator sets were seen operational since night till the power was restored. The electricity went around 12.15 am. The powermen protested at Sector 17 near Shivalikview Hotel. The Federation of Sectors Welfare Association Chandigarh (Foswac) and the UT Powermen Union (UTPU) have condemned the decision of privatisation of the UT electricity department by violating the rules, regulations and provision of the Electricity Act 2003 as well as the directions of the Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC). Foswac and powermen leaders stated that the Centre published a draft of the Electricity Amendment Bill 2020 on April 17, 2020. Thereafter, it decided to privatise the distribution of all the Union Territories without waiting for the Electricity Amendment Bill 2020 to be placed or passed in Parliament. Baljinder Singh Bittu, chairman, Foswac, and Gopal Datt Joshi, general secretary, UTPU, said the move to privatize the department was ill-conceived and devoid of merit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/city-in-dark-for-12-hours-as-powermen-go-on-strike/articleshow/79433881.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
November 27, 2020||Chandigarh||ADC seeks report on clean drains from panchayat officers||Mohali: Additional deputy commissioner (ADC) of Mohali Aashika Jain has sought action-taken report from the panchayat officers of villages outside the MC limits on cleaning of drains and removal of garbage dumps. The move has been taken following the directions of the monitoring committee of the National Green Tribunal (NGT). The administrative officers or the panchayat officers have been issued warnings and told that if they failed to get the areas under their jurisdiction cleared of garbage dumps, their inability will be recorded in their annual confidential report (ACR). Aashika Jain said, “We have issued directions to all the panchayat officers to get drains, rivulets, and other garbage dumps cleared from the villages in or outside the ‘lal dora’. They have also been asked to submit a report, which will be forwarded to the NGT monitoring committee.” The action came after the NGT monitoring committee, headed by the chairman Justice Jasbir Singh, took a strong note of the garbage dumps in the Mohali district and directed the Mohali administration to take action. The NGT had also issued a warning to Mohali municipal corporation (MC) to face a penalty if notwithstanding the deadline of January 31, 2021 for making door-to-door garbage segregation a success and enforcing solid waste management system. The MCs were to collect 100 % garbage and file a report with the NGT. Orders have been given to the MC to start treating garbage at the dumping sites by January 31, 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/adc-seeks-report-on-clean-drains-from-panchayat-officers/articleshow/79433887.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
November 27, 2020||Lucknow||‘Gappu Bhaiyya’ spreads Covid awareness for safer train travel||LUCKNOW: The plump and balding ‘Gappu Bhaiyya’ with his thick, twirling moustache, widely known for his careless attitude and reckless behaviour is embarking on a train journey once again, this time on a holiday tour to Assam from New Delhi after lockdown. The popular animated comic character of North Central Railway’s awareness campaigns is spreading the message of the need to follow precautions against Covid-19. Gappu Bhaiyya continues his thoughtless actions as he refuses to wear mask and spits tobacco on the platform while his fellow passengers take precautions against coronavirus and ultimately succumbs after contracting infection. ‘Gappu Bhaiyya’ spreads #COVID19 awareness for safer train travelhttps://t.co/qXspJ5IerR https://t.co/AASuja2ZNW— TOI Lucknow News (@TOILucknow) 1606447463000The two-minute animated video released by North Central Railway on Wednesday has become quite popular and has been widely shared on social media. NCR chief public relation officer Ajit Kumar Singh said, “The video has a message for passengers to be cautious against Covid-19, by maintaining hygiene and following all precautions to defeating corona.” NCR in coordination with state authorities has also started conducting random rapid antigen test of passengers coming from Delhi. In Maharashtra, all passengers have to carry RT-PCR test report and those not having one are being screened for fever at railway stations when they alight. Passengers displaying Covid symptoms have to undergo antigen test and if they test positive, would be admitted to Covid care centre at their own cost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/gappu-bhaiyya-spreads-covid-awareness-for-safer-train-travel/articleshow/79436981.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Lucknow||Air pollution in Lucknow soars to Diwali level, to worsen||LUCKNOW: The air quality of the city has deteriorated post-Diwali with pollution levels witnessing a spike of over 100 units. As per the data released by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), on Thursday the air in the city was most polluted after Diwali with the Air Quality Index (AQI) of 375. The AQI is likely to increase further in the coming days because weather conditions are conducive to smog formation. On November 17, the air pollution levels were low with an AQI of 128 and the city’s air was in moderate category in the CPCB list till it gradually rose to ‘poor’ and now, in just 10 days after Diwali, the air quality is ‘very poor’ with pollution level witnessing a rise by 247 units. The pollutants in the air before and on the day of Diwali were washed away by thunderstorm and rain and the pollution level had dipped considerably, but pollution levels have again been witnessing a gradual spike in the last one week. “The weather condition in coming days will further increase pollution levels. With low temperature, slow wind speed, and dry spell, the pollutants will not disperse and will settle down in the lower atmosphere leading to a spike in pollutants to a hazardous level,” said environment and climate expert Prof K K Agarwal of Lucknow University’s geology department. Immediate steps like sprinkling of water, easing of traffic flow, ensuring less vehicular load on roads, use of green nets, repair of broken roads should be done to keep the pollution levels low, else air pollution will increase further in the coming days since weather conditions will be conducive to smog formation, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/air-pollution-soars-to-diwali-level-to-worsen/articleshow/79436991.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Dehradun||Traders unhappy with suspension of Kartik Purnima bathing festival in Haridwar||HARIDWAR: A day after the state government announced that Kartik Purnima bathing festival in Haridwar would be suspended due to the Covid-19 pandemic, local traders expressed dissatisfaction over the decision, citing loss of revenues. The Kartik Purnima snan (bath) falls on November 30, when lakhs of devotees from across the country were expected to reach Haridwar to take a holy dip in the Ganga river. The traders quipped that “if (Bihar) elections can happen, why are bathing festivals being postponed?” “We are facing huge losses and the government, instead of helping us, is taking decisions that are further hurting us financially. Bathing festivals play an important role in boosting our business. We have called a meeting on Friday and soon a delegation will meet the officials to request them to review the decision,” president of Pradesh Vyapar Mandal, Sanjeev Chaudhary told TOI. Meanwhile, police force would be deployed at the border and Har-ki-Pauri to stop the devotees from congregating in Haridwar for the festival. SSP Haridwar Senthil Avoodai Krishna Raj S told TOI, “Sufficient police force will be deployed on the UP borders as well as Ganga banks of Har-ki- Pauri. We have asked local priests to support us in maintaining the law and order.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/traders-unhappy-with-suspension-of-kartik-purnima-bathing-festival-in-haridwar/articleshow/79433911.cms||MS Nawaz
November 27, 2020||Dehradun||No lockdown in Uttarakhand due to Covid, clarifies CM Trivendra Singh Rawat||DEHRADUN: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Thursday clarified that the state government has no plans to impose another lockdown or weekend closure in view of rising Covid-19 cases in Uttarakhand. The clarification came after it was reported that Dehradun district administration would impose weekend lockdown from November 29. In his tweet, CM Rawat said, “Kindly do not pay heed to such rumours as the state government has not taken any decision regarding any type of lockdown in the state.” The confusion arose after an order of Dehradun district administration deciding to close markets on weekends was issued a couple of days back. In the order, the Doon district magistrate had given instructions to the city magistrate and sub-division magistrates (SDMs) to strictly enforce weekly market closure order to contain Covid-19. On the weekends, only shops dealing in essential services have been allowed to open. Speaking on the issue, Darshan Singh Rawat, media coordinator to the CM, said, “The CM has already clarified that there is no plan to enforce lockdown, not even weekend lockdown. In Dehradun, what people are confusing with lockdown is actually a weekly market closure, which is mandated under the Labour Act. " Another confusion prevailed over the issue of testing people while entering the state. The health department had decided to test people mainly hailing from Delhi. Whether people from other states are also being checked at the border is not clear yet. Meanwhile, during random testing at Asarodi check post in Dehradun on Thursday, 29 people were found Covid-19 positive. All of them belong to Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/no-lockdown-in-uttarakhand-due-to-covid-clarifies-cm-rawat/articleshow/79433907.cms||Gaurav Talwar
November 27, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand records 355 fresh Covid cases, 11 deaths in 24 hours||DEHRADUN: The state health department recorded 355 fresh Covid-19 cases in Uttarakhand and 11 deaths on Thursday. The death toll in Uttarakhand has reached 1,196 and the total cases have now surged to 72,997. The reports of 16,982 samples are still awaited, and the state has 4,682 active cases now. The oldest patient, who succumbed to the infection on Thursdaywas an 80-year-old man who died at Doon Medical College Hospital while the youngest one was a 27-year-old who breathed his last at Himalayan Hospital in Dehradun. Out of the 11 deceased people, three were women, All of them suffered from multiple ailments along with Covid-19. Uttarakhand has lost maximum patients to Covid-19 in Dehradun (662) followed by Naintial (167), Haridwar (133), US Nagar (103), Pauri (43), Pithoragarh (21), Almora (14), Uttarkashi (12), Tehri (10), Bageshwar (9), Chamoli (9) and Rudraprayag (7). Each of the state’s districts has crossed the bar of having at least 1,000 Covid-19 patients be it in the hills or plains. The highest number of Covid cases surfaced from Dehradun (20,711) followed by Haridwar (11,942), US Nagar (10,200), Nainital (8,396), Pauri (4,069), Tehri (3,501), Uttarkashi (2,978), Chamoli (2,578), Almora (2,272), Pithoragarh (2,105), Rudraprayag (1,809), Champawat (1,300) and Bageshwar (1,136). Uttarakhand has seen a recovery of 66,464 people so far, the recovery percentage being 91.05%. On Thursday, 317 people recovered from the infection in the state. At present there are nine containment zones in the state, out of which eight areas alone are in the state capital — Tyagi Road, Ashirwad Enclave, Curzon Road, Kargi Chowk, Lower Nathanpur and Katapathar village in Vikasnagar while only one containment zone is in Pauri Garhwal’s Srinagar. Meanwhile, officials said that the government has dedicated 38 Covid hospitals and has 420 Covid care centres spread across the state to “take stringent actions and best possible care to tackle the pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-records-355-fresh-cases-11-deaths-in-24-hrs/articleshow/79433903.cms||Shivani Azad
November 27, 2020||Varanasi||UP CM lauds pace of NH development||GORAKHPUR: In a veiled swipe at the Congress, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday said that the total number of national highways built in 65 years in Uttar Pradesh were equal to the national highways built in the state in the last six years of BJP rule itself. Speaking at the inauguration and foundation laying ceremony of 16 national highways in UP through video conference, Yogi hailed Union road transport minister Nitin Gadkari and his deputy Gen VK Singh for putting in continuous effort for the development for construction of national highways in the country. On Thursday, the Union minister dedicated Rs 7,477 crore projects for constructing 505 Kms long roads. Yogi recalled how in 2014 PM Narendra Modi gave the responsibility of developing infrastructure of the country to Gadkari. “And today no part of the country is left where the National Highways haven’t reached. The construction of roads is the key to development,” he said. The CM added that UP was no exception to development of national highways. “PM Modi in his visit to Gorakhpur gave assurance of road construction and the work got completed in time,” the CM said, adding that the gram panchayat land would be given free of cost for construction of national highways. Gadkari said that UP was moving on the path of development with strong connectivity. “The image of UP is changing and continuously the state is developing. With more roads, the opportunities of employment and industry will be created. We are working towards developing the undeveloped areas,” he said, adding that there wouldn’t be any shortage of funds and the work would be completed timely. Earlier in the day, CM Yogi break his fast of Kartik Shukla Ekadashi in Gorakhnath temple under Amla tree along with MP Ravi Kishan, MLA Vipin Singh and other members of temple family and devotees before NH inauguration program at Annexy building in Gorakhpur circuit house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cm-lauds-pace-of-nh-development/articleshow/79435797.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Varanasi||Varanasi: Man murders father’s killer after 28 years, arrested||VARANASI: Cantt police on Thursday nabbed Farid Khan alias Jugnu who was absconding after killing his uncle Shahid Iqbal on November 21 to avenge the killing of his father in 1992. SSP Amit Pathak said, “Acting on a tip-off the Canttt cops raided a locality near Income Tax office on Maqbool Alam Road early morning and nabbed Jugnu. Later, on his information the cops recovered a country-made revolver and live cartridge from Gothaha area.” During interrogation, Jungu confessed to have killed Iqbal in revenge. He also divulged that Iqbal had killed his father in 1992 and since then he had decided to teach a lesson to Iqbal. Five years ago he had bought a country-made revolver and cartridges, he said adding, but could get an opportunity to kill Iqbal when his relative Mushtaq invited him and Iqbal at his residence on November 21. After killing Iqbal, he had reached Goithaha,where he hid the revolver and reached Nepal, said police. But when he could not arrange money for staying in Nepal for long, he came back to Varanasi to collect money and was caught.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/man-murders-fathers-killer-after-28-years-arrested/articleshow/79435924.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Allahabad||PhD admissions in Allahabad University Hindi department as per schedule||PRAYAGRAJ: The PhD admission process in the department of Hindi of Allahabad University (AU) for the academic session 2020 will be held as per the schedule already announced by the university authorities. However, PhD admission for the year 2019 will be completed as per the decision of the Allahabad High Court. Earlier, a section of aspirants had levelled allegations on department authorities of irregularity in the PhD admission process for the 2019 session.  Meanwhile, to resolve the dispute, a five-member committee was constituted by the officiating vice-chancellor Prof R R Tiwari.  “The committee met on Monday and we have resolved that the admission for PhD in the Hindi department for the 2019 session would be done as per the decision of Allahabad high court, while the PhD admission for the 2020 session would take place as per the declared schedule, said the dean of the Arts faculty, Prof Heramb Chaturvedi.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/phd-admissions-in-au-hindi-dept-as-per-schedule/articleshow/79436202.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Delhi||Greenfield link to Jewar airport: Nitin Gadkari||NEW DELHI: Union highways minister Nitin Gadkari on Thursday said his ministry will take up building of a greenfield link to the upcoming Jewar airport in Uttar Pradesh to cater to the future needs of travellers. He also said the work on the new link from Delhi to Dehradun via Baghpat and Saharanpur is being expedited. “We have decided to build the new link to Jewar. If the Uttar Pradesh government can get us the land, we will bear the expenses for the construction of this link,” Gadkari said, after virtually inaugurating a number of highway projects in UP. The new link to Jewar airport will be built to connect the upcoming Delhi-Mumbai Expressway (at Ballabhgarh) to the airport. TOI on December 12 last year had first reported the plan for construction of this access controlled corridor by 2024 when the airport is likely to be operational. Gadkari said the road link was important as the upcoming airport would be bigger than IGI airport in Delhi. “We had a few rounds of meetings with the UP government officials and they are on board for this road link. This project is crucial to provide faster connectivity to the airport,” said an NHAI official. Sources said this road link would be around 30 km and nearly 80% of the stretch will fall in Haryana. The rest will be under UP. The NHAI has already awarded the work for extending the Delhi-Mumbai Expressway from Sohna to DND flyway via Ballabhgarh. On the Delhi-Dehradun new link, Gadkari said this will reduce the distance between the national capital and the capital of Uttarakhand. The NHAI has already received bids for the first two packages of this project, Akshardham to Delhi Border and Delhi Border to Eastern Peripheral Expressway intersection in Baghpat. “The bids are being evaluated. The land acquisition for another 118 km of this stretch is at an advanced stage. The processes are being expedited for award of works of the remaining portions,” said an NHAI official. This stretch from Akshardham to Delhi will be 210 km and will be completely access controlled. Currently, commuters need to take a longer route via Roorkee and Haridwar to reach Dehradun from Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/greenfield-link-to-jewar-airport-gadkari/articleshow/79437000.cms||---
November 27, 2020||India||Ravi Shankar Prasad attacks lobby trying to pressure SC||NEW DELHI: “Of late, there has been a disturbing trend of some people campaigning through social media and newspaper articles insisting on what the Supreme Court judgment or order should be in a particular case. And when the SC does not stick to the course outlined by them, they resort to sweeping criticism of the SC and the judiciary,” law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said on Thursday. “Judges must be left free to decide cases without inhibitions attempted to be imposed by these persons,” he added. Justice delivery cannot be meant for the gallery, Prasad said, adding, “Use of terms like ‘judicial barbarism’ by those, whatever be their status, is abhorrent and unacceptable.” The judiciary and judges must feel free to decide cases as per law and their conscience, the minister said, adding that unleashing such kind of criticism is an attempt to deflect judges from their avowed duty. Prasad’s remarks came against the background of criticism of the court in certain quarters for privileging certain cases and not being responsive to others with the implied suggestion that the SC was leaning towards the government at the Centre. This set off a heated debate over the “sanctity” of the SC even as the attorney general approved the initiation of contempt of court proceedings against standup comic Kunal Kamra for his “offensive” tweets on the apex court in the Arnab Goswami case. Speaking at the same function on the occasion of Constitution Day, attorney general K K Venugopal said Courts of Appeal (CoA) must be set up in four regions of the country to adjudicate appeals against high court verdicts to provide citizens better access to justice and ease the enormous case burden on the SC to make it the truly constitutional court envisaged by the framers of the Constitution. Venugopal said the SC was burdened with petitions on bail, rent disputes, land acquisition and matrimonial disputes, which could be heard by CoAfor a final decision. “Each CoA should have around 15 judges, who should have similar eligibility qualifications as SC judges and they would be selected by the collegium of SC judges headed by the Chief Justice of India,” he said. "Creation of CoA in between the HCs and the SC will enable the SC to hear petitions raising important constitutional questions and matters of national importance instead of mundane and regular appeals against HC decisions. Then only can the SC truly become a constitutional court as envisaged by the framers of our Constitution. It would then hear 3,000 cases a year rather than the present 75,000 cases," he added. Otherwise, cases would continue to take decades for final adjudication, Venugopal said. "If one has to wait for two decades for a final verdict in a case, then justice would fail poor litigants and the middle class. The rich and corporates are not much affected by the delay in justice delivery," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ravi-shankar-prasad-attacks-lobby-trying-to-pressure-sc/articleshow/79437335.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
November 27, 2020||Lucknow||First in India: Prayagraj Express runs at 130kmph with 24 LHB coaches||LUCKNOW: Hailed to be the country's first 24 LHB coach train to operate at 130 kmph, north central railway claimed that the journey time of Prayagraj-New Delhi Express has now been shortened by 40-65 minutes. On its maiden 130kmph journey, the train reached the national capital five minutes ahead schedule. The railway has not removed any intermediary stations (including Fatehpur, Kanpur, Aligarh and Ghaziabad) where the train makes brief halts. On the first day, close to 1,400 passengers travelled in the fastest train. CPRO, NCR, Ajit Kumar Singh told TOI: “Extensive trials and testing were done for high speed 24 LHB coach train at 130 kmph. On Wednesday, the train departed Prayagraj with 1,400 passengers at 10:10 pm and reached Delhi five minutes prior (6:55am) to its arrival time at New Delhi. With increased speed, the train saves 40 minutes toward Delhi journey and 65 minutes toward Prayagraj journey.” “Apart from Prayagraj, eight more express trains have started operating at 130 kmph in NCR zone and are striving to increase more train speed and their punctuality,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/first-in-india-prayagraj-exp-runs-at-130kmph-with-24-lhb-coaches/articleshow/79437004.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Varanasi||CM in Varanasi today to review preparation for PM’s visit||VARANASI: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, on Friday, will take stock of the preparations being made in the city for the arrival of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on November 30 to take part in Dev Deepawali celebration. Talking to TOI on Thursday, district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma confirmed about the CM’s arrival on Friday and said that he will visit all the sites to be visited by the PM during his stay. As per the tentative itinerary of the PM’s visit, after landing at LBS International Airport, Modi will reach Rajatalab to address a public meeting to mark the inauguration of NHAIs project of converting NH-2 into six lane between Handia and Mohansarai. From there he will go to Domari by chopper and board a boat at Awadhut Bhagwan Ram Ghat to reach Lalitaghat to take stock of the progress of Kashi Vishwanath Dham (corridor) project, said the officials. Later, the PM will reach Rajghat for lighting the first lamp of Dev Deepawali, said the officials adding that he will attend the 45-minute event while in the meantime, over 10 lakh lamps will be lit at all the ghats and the sand bed on the opposite bank. From Rajghat, Modi will take a boat ride to have a glimpse of the beauty of Dev Deepawali. Cultural events will be organized at 15 ghats while a laser show will be held at Chet Singh Ghat, said the officials adding that after reaching Samneghat, the PM will go to Sarnath to watch the light and sound show before leaving the city. At Rajatalab, a giant tent is being installed for participation of over 5,000 people in the PM’s public meeting. SP city Vikas Chandra Tripathi has directed the boatmen of other districts and also in rural areas to avoid entering the city through the Ganga while boatmen of the city have also been directed not to move towards Rajghat from Lalitaghat till 7.30pm. Lane separators have been arranged from Prayagraj to be installed in the Ganga stream in order to create separate lanes for revelers and movement of the VIP fleet, said the DM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cm-in-city-today-to-review-preparation-for-pms-visit/articleshow/79435986.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Allahabad||‘Organise all Magh Mela events as per pandemic protocol’||PRAYAGRAJ: The ninth board meeting of the Prayagraj Mela Authority was held under the chairmanship of divisional commissioner R Ramesh Kumar on Thursday. Necessary proposals related to the holding of Magh Mela 2020-21 in view of Covid-19 were discussed. It was proposed to first identify some of the major festivals and occasions that are to be held throughout the year and give the responsibility of organising the same to the Mela Authority. The authority will also prepare an annual calendar which will also have detailed information about these festivals and religious events. The Mela Authority has also been asked to give the responsibility of removing the E-almanac every year, which will be distributed to more and more people through online platforms. Instructions have also been given to start work for the E-almanac of 2021. Apart from this, Mela authority will also start soon the work of creating a website or App of the fair. There was also discussions regarding the action plan in view of Covid-19. Obtaining compulsory Covid-19 negative RT-PCR reports from kalpawasis visiting the Mela area, comprehensive survey in the camps of visiting institutions and creating a database of co-morbid patients which will also be available in digital form, antigen test of kalpwasis every 15 days (twice in the Kalpavas period), weekly survey of the camps of the institutions for identification of suspected Covid-19 infected patients, written information of the kalpawasis residing there from every institution and necessary points like giving responsibility to ensure compliance of the Covid-19 protocol were also discussed. Kumar instructed the administration to organise all the events related to Magh Mela as per the intention of the government, keeping 100% compliance of Covid-19 protocols and taking care of social distancing. IG KP Singh directed the police department to prevent any illegal shops/construction in the mela area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/organise-all-magh-mela-events-as-per-pandemic-protocol/articleshow/79436152.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Madurai||Gandhi market to open today after HC gives nod for reopening||Madurai/Trichy: Vacating an interim stay order, the Madras high court on Thursday granted permission for reopening the Gandhi Market in Trichy district after the state government informed that the traders refused to sell vegetables for the past two days demanding to reopen the market. Additional advocate general K Chellapandian submitted the traders’ decision had affected the general public.The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by K Krishnamoorthy representing the Tiruchirapalli District Manida Valar Sangam, seeking to shift the wholesale traders from Gandhi market to Kallikudi market complex in the district.The traders informed that they were facing difficulties due to lack of facilities at the Kallikudi market, while the state government informed that all sufficient facilities were provided. Hence, a division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi directed the traders to file a report on the problems faced by them and also directed the government to file a report on the facilities provided at the Kallikudi market. The judges also directed the Trichy Corporation to file a report on the difficulties faced by it due to the existence of Gandhi market in the heart of the city.The judges further said that since the market remains closed, the traders have refused to sell vegetables and added that it has been brought to the knowledge of the court that there is a likelihood of law and order problem. Taking into consideration the problems faced by the traders and public, the judges observed that it is appropriate to permit the reopening and vacated the interim stay.In August, the court had granted interim injunction on the functioning of Gandhi market till the disposal of the petition by observing that its functioning would lead to the fast spread of Covid-19, endangering the life of those visiting the market. Subsequently, the Trichy Corporation filed a vacate stay petition.Following the order, the traders have decided to resume operations from Friday. “The high court has vacated the stay by taking note of our genuine plea. We will reopen the market before Friday evening,” Ve Govindarajalu, a representative of wholesale vegetable traders in Gandhi market said. Welcoming the development, traders celebrated their return by distributing sweets and bursting crackers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/gandhi-market-to-open-today-after-hc-gives-nod-for-reopening/articleshow/79436426.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Allahabad||First in India: Prayagraj Express runs at 130kmph with 24 LHB coaches||LUCKNOW: Hailed to be the country's first 24 LHB coach train to operate at 130 kmph, north central railway claimed that the journey time of Prayagraj-New Delhi Express has now been shortened by 40-65 minutes. On its maiden 130kmph journey, the train reached the national capital five minutes ahead schedule. The railway has not removed any intermediary stations (including Fatehpur, Kanpur, Aligarh and Ghaziabad) where the train makes brief halts. On the first day, close to 1,400 passengers travelled in the fastest train. CPRO, NCR, Ajit Kumar Singh told TOI: “Extensive trials and testing were done for high speed 24 LHB coach train at 130 kmph. On Wednesday, the train departed Prayagraj with 1,400 passengers at 10:10 pm and reached Delhi five minutes prior (6:55am) to its arrival time at New Delhi. With increased speed, the train saves 40 minutes toward Delhi journey and 65 minutes toward Prayagraj journey.” “Apart from Prayagraj, eight more express trains have started operating at 130 kmph in NCR zone and are striving to increase more train speed and their punctuality,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/first-in-india-prayagraj-exp-runs-at-130kmph-with-24-lhb-coaches/articleshow/79438669.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 27, 2020||Delhi||BJP’s bid to defame Delhi govt: Saurabh Bharadwaj||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj on Thursday said that the Arvind Kejriwal government and AAP together are standing with Delhiites to reduce pollution levels, and alleged that Bharatiya Janata Party is defaming the capital by setting fires at the Ghazipur landfill. He demanded that the lieutenant governor of Delhi should intervene and order a probe into the issue even as BJP said the allegations are false and baseless. “Whenever the air quality improves, BJP instructs the municipal corporation officials to set garbage on fire to increase the pollution levels in Delhi,” Bharadwaj alleged. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said Bharadwaj’s statement is a repeat of AAP’s municipal corporation in-charge Durgesh Pathak’s allegation.“It seems like there is a competition between Bharadwaj and Pathak on levelling charges on BJP,” Kapoor said. “Fires at landfill sites are a common phenomenon and it is surprising to see AAP levelling such frivolous charges. The Ghazipur landfill site staff and fire brigade staff worked hard to control the fire. Yesterday’s AQI reading was result of non-performance of Kejriwal government to fight pollution,” Kapoor said. Bharadwaj countered the claims by saying that small fires at landfills are frequent but the recent one is not a natural phenomenon scientifically. “BJP members know that the time for stubble burning is gone and have resorted to such shameful tactics to harrass Delhiites,” he claimed. East Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Normal Jain condemned AAP’s allegations and said that the civic agency is making efforts to bring down the height of landfill through proper procedures, such as biomining. “We are working day and night at this landfill to process and segregate the legacy waste. And every day at least 3000 metric tonne of waste is processed here. So why would we even do such rubbish acts,” he said. “Rather, we suspect the hands of AAP workers in the fire incident and our area councillor has mentioned the same in his police complaint.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bjps-bid-to-defame-delhi-govt-bharadwaj/articleshow/79437031.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Varanasi||French ambassador visits Gorakhnath temple||GORAKHPUR: French Ambassador Emmanuel Lenin visited Gorakhnath Temple in Gorakhpur on Thursday. He also performed puja amidst Vedic mantras and shankha sound during his one and half hour stay on the temple campus. He also fed jaggery to cows at the temple. He was informed about Nath sect the temple management gifted him religious and cultural books of Gita Press and Gorakhnath temple in French and English language. The French ambassador reached Gorakhpur on late Wednesday evening and was welcomed by district magistrate Vijyendra Pandiyan. On Thursday morning, at around 7.25am he reached Gorakhnath temple and performed puja and bowed in front of all the temples, Akhand Dhuni and at Samadhi of all Brahammleen Mahant. Dr Pradeep Rao told him about the Gorakshpeeth while he got clicked photos at Bheem Sarovar (lake) and fed jaggery to cows. “He sought information about Gorakshpeeth, gowshala, and cow services of Gorakhshpeethadhishwar Yogi Adithanath and the schemes for cows,” said Dr Pradeep Rao. DM Vijyendra Pandiyan, chief Pujari of Gorakhnath temple Yogi Kamalnath, secretary Dwarika Tiwari, director of Guru Gorakshnath Chikitsalaya Brigadier KPB Singh, media in-charge Vinay Gautam along with others were also present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/french-ambassador-visits-gorakhnath-temple/articleshow/79436028.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Goa||IT, shipbuilding, farm sector core of Goa’s export strategy||PANAJI: The state government on Thursday notified the Export Strategy of Goa which aims to identify potential sectors and increase export of various goods and services. The document states that information technology, shipbuilding, tourism, agriculture and allied sectors are the key areas with export potential. The document, which has been prepared by the Federation of Indian Export Organisations (FIEO) and the directorate of industry, trade and commerce (DITC), also identified various hurdles that prevent local firms from scaling up and expanding into exports. The lack of logistical support and efficient supply chain was a major point identified by most exporters in Goa, the document states. The pharma sector, which accounts for 51% of Goa’s exports, prefers to export goods through JNPT, Mumbai. ‘MPT lacks infra needed for handling meds, perishables’ It doesn't opt for Mormugao Port Trust because the costs and the time taken are higher at MPT. MPT also lacks critical infrastructure required to support goods such as medicines and perishable items. “Industry is facing disadvantage of both cost and time while using MPT. There is a time delay of around 7-12 days when using MPT or even higher,” the strategy document states. It has recommended that the government should constitute a task force committee to improve MPT’s infrastructure. The strategy document also states that large investment to improve infrastructure at Goa International Airport is unviable in view of the construction of a new airport at Mopa. While touching upon all the potential sectors, the document outlines bottlenecks for each sector and offers recommendations. It also identifies various ease of doing business measures and issues where the Goa government needs to play a proactive role and coordinate with Centre. The document also flags infrastructure requirements which could benefit the industry, such as a common effluent treatment plant for seafood processing plants. Improvement in power and water supply, smooth roads, better public transport and reliable internet are the other recommendations offered by the Export strategy document. Agricultural produce, both food crops and cash crops, need to be encouraged. Cashew, mangoes, rice, coconuts, spices, flowers and legumes have the potential for exports. However, due to urbanisation and migration, a lot of agricultural land is either lost or remains fallow. “In order to insulate land ownership rights of the farmers from any potential infringement from the sponsors or the buyers due to tenancy act, contract farming is one of the efficient step towards land utilization and increasing the production from the State,” the document states. The document recommends that community farming in the state needs to be encouraged so that local farmers could derive maximum benefits from the government schemes. Organic farming and cold storage facilities are also required to boost the agricultural sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/it-shipbuilding-farm-sector-core-of-goas-export-strategy/articleshow/79436748.cms||Newton Sequeira
November 27, 2020||Lucknow||Drop in groundwater exploitation a silver lining for conservation plans||Lucknow: Dip in the number of over-exploited development blocks where drawing of groundwater is more than 100% could be a silver lining in the otherwise grim picture of state’s groundwater resources. According to a 2017 report, 82 blocks and nine cities were over-exploited while a report in 2013 showed 113 blocks as over-exploited though it did not mention the status of cities separately. Sources in the UP groundwater department, which is the nodal agency for groundwater conservation, attribute the change to good rainfall as a major reason. Reclamation of ponds and lakes has also made recharging rate better which is otherwise too slow. “Another reason is the revised guidelines (2015) for categorization of ‘stressed’ blocks,” an official said. However, the drop in the number of over-exploited blocks in the state in 2017 could also be due to the fact that criteria for assessment was different in 2013. Despite overall improvement, western UP districts continue to reel under severe water crisis. Meerut has maximum 21 over-exploited blocks followed by Agra (17). In 2013, the numbers of over-exploited blocks in the two divisions were 15 and 19, respectively. Saharanpur, Moradabad, Varanasi and Prayagraj fare no better. Unregulated use of groundwater is the biggest cause of alarmingly low water table. High-rises and apartments add to the pressure. Private tube-wells, deep and free boring further eat into it. Dependence for irrigation and drinking water has also augmented stress. As per 2015 data, drinking water in at least 630 urban bodies was supplied through groundwater. The 2017 report showed cities like Lucknow, Prayagraj, Varanasi, Moradabad, Aligarh, Bareilly, Ghaziabad and Saharanpur as over-exploited while Agra was categorised as critical. To mitigate the crisis, the government is working on the two-pronged strategy of regulation and sensitization. In February this year, the state government passed the UP Groundwater (Management and Regulation) Act, 2019, which lays down strict punishment for those polluting groundwater. It makes rainwater harvesting for government and private buildings, and registration of submersible pumps mandatory. The regulation was pending since 2005. Officials said the regulations would bring about a change only if it gets enforced in letter and spirit. To create awareness on groundwater conservation, the department formed ‘paani-panchayats’ and ‘bhoo-jal sena’ comprising villagers to check depleting water table through sensitization of locals and by organising community-led programmes. The objective was to inform people how to use groundwater judiciously while remaining alert to prevent its pollution. The programme is still on. Initially, the groundwater department used to carry out assessment of water level in all 820 blocks of the state every two years but now it is to be done every three years. “The next report will be released in 2021. We have started working on it,” an official at groundwater department said. The report is simultaneously released by the Centre for all the states. No assessment was carried out in 2015 and the findings of 2013 were released by the Centre in 2015. The change that is reflected in the number of ‘stressed’ blocks in 2017 and 2013 reports is also because of the time gap of about four years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/drop-in-groundwater-exploitation-asilver-lining-for-conservation-plans/articleshow/79437030.cms||Neha Shukla
November 27, 2020||Rajkot||‘Tarpan’ banned at ghats in Siddhpur||Palanpur: Patan district collector Supreet Singh Gulati on Thrusday banned the religious ritual ‘tarpan’ (offerings to the soul of ancestors) at Siddhpur’s Madhu Pavadia ghat and on banks of river Saraswati. Thousands of people had gather for this ritual at the river bank following which the district administration imposed ban on the rituals.“Tarpan is a matter of faith and the administration is sensitive about it. However, in wake of rising Covid-19 cases in the district and people gathering in large numbers for the ‘tarpan’ ritual at the river bank in Siddhpur, the ban became unavoidable,” said Gulati.Action will be taken against anyone found violating the order, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/tarpan-banned-at-ghats-in-siddhpur/articleshow/79433894.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Rajkot||Botad doctor held for ‘illegal’ delivery of 28-week pregnant teen||Rajkot: Nearly a year after body of a baby born prematurely was found buried in a farm of Lathi taluka in Amreli district, the police on Thursday arrested a doctor from Dhasa in Botad district for allegedly conducting the ‘illegal’ delivery.The Damnagar police of Amreli on Thursday arrested Dr. Paresh Shravan (35) for conducting ‘illegal’ delivery of a 28-weeks pregnant 19-year-old girl in December last year. On December 25, 2019, a farmer Hitarth Joshi, found an infant buried in his farm under Damnagar police station jurisdiction and informed the police. “During investigation we received a tip-off about the girl’s uncle who had buried the infant in the farm. We detained him up and he disclosed the entire incident to us,” said D L Parmar, sub-inspector with Damnagar police station.The police had earlier arrested the deceased infant’s mother, her uncle and aunty and charged them under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 315 (Act done with intent to prevent child being born alive or to cause it to die after birth), 120 B (criminal conspiracy) and other relevant sections, said Parmar.According to case details, the 19-year-old girl had got pregnant after having physical relationship with her boyfriend in 2019. Before the the girl realised she was pregnant, she got engaged to another man under pressure from her family. After engagement, by the time the knew she was pregnant, she was already carrying a 24-weeks foetus. According to law, a doctor cannot terminate the pregnancy above 20 weeks with out court permission. Meanwhile, the family approached Dr. Shravan for the termination of pregnancy in Botad. The doctor gave the girl some medicine and asked her to come after a few days. On December 17, 2019 when Dr Sharvan examined her the girl, she was 28-week pregnant and abortion in this condition was not only risky, but was illegal also. So Dr Sharvan advised the girl’s family to go for caesarean delivery to which they agreed. Dr Sharvan also charged Rs 10,000 for performing the caesarean delivery on the premature foetus, said Parmar.“Since the baby was premature it required critical medical care. Dr Shravan asked the girl’s uncle to take the newborn to Amreli Civil Hospital. But the infant died on way to Amreli on December 19, 2019. So the girl’s uncle buried the infant in the farm where he was farming in partnership,” said Parmar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/botad-doctor-held-for-illegal-delivery-of-28-week-pregnant-teen/articleshow/79433997.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Madurai||Smart city projects on track, four to be completed in Dec||Madurai: Most of the smart city projects carried out by the Madurai Corporation are nearing completion, with at least four of the 14 projects expected to be completed by December, while five more are expected to be completed by March 2021. Corporation authorities submitted the progress details at a state-level meeting held in Chennai recently. “Officials at the meeting were satisfied with the progress,” said a corporation official. Projects such as multi-level car parking, heritage development, tourist plaza, conversion of street lights into LED lights and solid water management at total cost of 136 crore are expected to be completed by December this year. Except for the heritage development project, remaining four projects are more than 90% complete. Redevelopment of Periyar bus stand, Vaigai river front development, street scape redesign of four Masi Streets and construction of convention centres at Tamukkam with the total project cost of 324 crore are to be completed by March. A higher official from the corporation said that other projects such as the construction of underground sewerage system in the northern part of the city and water supply augmentation scheme are on track. Integrated command and control centre proposed at the cost of 12.31 crore is the only proposed project, which is yet to take off. As the administrative sanction has been obtained, tender will be floated next month, he said. “A team led by corporation commissioner S Visakan is conducting inspections at the construction sites at regular intervals. The projects, which are lagging, have been asked to speed up by involving additional workers. A few projects would have been completed by now had Covid-19 pandemic not hit,” he added. Visakan told TOI that in a few months’ time, corporation will jump ahead in rankings in terms of progress as half-a-dozen projects would have been completed by then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/smart-city-projects-on-track-four-to-be-completed-in-dec/articleshow/79436437.cms||V Devanathan
November 27, 2020||Madurai||385 govt school students join govt NEET coaching in Madurai||Madurai: As many as 385 students from government schools have joined the free government NEET coaching programme in Madurai district after the introduction of 7.5% quota in medical/BDS seats for government school students. From only 38 students in 2019, this year has seen a huge jump in the district. Officials said that interested students can still enrol in the programme.While initially around 550 students had joined in Madurai, now the number has risen to 790. “Last year, we had around 400 students in the programme but a majority were from aided schools and matriculation. However, this time, we have close to 400 government school students alone,” said S Vennila Devi, NEET co-ordinator from the district.“We created WhatsApp groups for each of the educational districts in Madurai unlike last year where a single group was enough. Through the groups, study material, schedules and questions are being shared. We are roping in experts for different subjects,” said the coordinator. The programme is currently being conducted online through the E-box platform. Students can access video lessons and practise mock tests through the platform. Daily practice tests and weekly tests will be conducted. If schools are reopened, special classes on weekends are being planned, said the officials.Teachers in government-aided schools said that students from their schools have also shown more interest due to the fact that more than 90% of the question in NEET this year was from within the new SCERT textbooks for Class XI and XII.“We are still hoping for the government to include aided school students as well for the 7.5% quota. However, even otherwise, students are more confident in preparing and doing well due to the new syllabus of the SCERT textbooks. Completely covering Class XI and XII SCERT science subject books would be enough to score well,” said a Class XII biology teacher and a tutor for NEET coaching.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/385-govt-school-students-join-govt-neet-coaching-in-madurai/articleshow/79436433.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
November 27, 2020||Dehradun||RT-PCR test to now cost Rs 850 and antigen Rs 679 in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: The Uttarakhand government on Thursday further slashed the prices for Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) and antigen test amid rising Covid-19 cases and influx of tourists in the state. The RT-PCR test would now cost Rs 850 ( inclusive of GST) if samples are collected by private and government hospitals and sent to private labs, while people going to private labs voluntarily have to shell out Rs 900. Earlier, the RT-PCR test was capped at Rs 1,680 While for the antigen test, the state government has reduced the price from Rs 719 to Rs 679. “After talks with officials from the health and family welfare department in the state, the price of Rs 679 has been decided for antigen testing for NABH/NABL accredited private laboratories,” said the order signed by the health secretary Amit Singh Negi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rt-pcr-test-to-now-cost-rs-850-and-antigen-rs-679-in-uttarakhand/articleshow/79433973.cms||Shivani Azad
November 27, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Bio-fuel plants in 7 districts to curb stubble burning||LUCKNOW: The state steering committee approved a budget of Rs 22.56 crore for setting up bio-fuel plants in seven districts — Meerut, Baghpat, Bulandshahr, Ghaziabad, Gautam Budh Nagar, Hapur and Muzaffarnagar — in the national capital region (NCR) for productive use of crop residue and treatment of other bio-degradable waste to address the issue of stubble burning and air pollution. The steering committee headed by chief secretary RK Tiwari held a meeting on Thursday for consideration and approval of the projects as well as their implementation and monitoring under National Adoption Fund on Climate Change and decided to implement orders of the National Green Tribunal on Climate Resilience Building in Rural Areas Through Crop Residue Management in seven districts of NCR. The committee sanctioned a budget of Rs 22.56 crore for setting up bio-fuel plants in Meerut, Baghpat, Bulandshahr, Ghaziabad, Gautam Budh Nagar, Hapur and Muzaffarnagar to prevent crop residue burning and treatment of other bio-degradable waste. The meeting was held for administrative and financial approval for installation of bio-coal plants, bio-CNG plants, bio-manure plants and to discuss the project components and financing, said an official. This will help in bio-energy generation while addressing the problem of burning agriculture waste which leads of massive hike in air pollution levels every year, he added. “The projects will utilize agriculture residue and other bio-degradable waste to produce green energy and help prevent air pollution. The projects will be implemented through MSME entrepreneurs and farmer producer companies,” said an official. The chief secretary said that each project should be finalized only after discussing every minor detail with entrepreneurs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bio-fuel-plants-in-7-diststo-curb-stubble-burning/articleshow/79437035.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Delhi||Fumes still visible at Ghazipur landfill||NEW DELHI: Two days after a fire broke out at the Ghazipur landfill site, fumes were still visible billowing out of some spots till Thursday night. East Delhi Municipal Corporation workers and Delhi Fire Services were working till late to get the situation under control. Officials said that it will take a few more hours. Meanwhile, EDMC has formed a team headed by an executive engineer to give updates on the situation to senior officials and the deliberative wing. “Due to methane gas generated from decomposed waste at various places, flames were visible even on Thursday but most of it is under control. Fires like these have happened in the past too as mounds of waste are getting collected at one place and we don’t have enough space and resources to treat the garbage on a daily basis,” said EDMC mayor Nirmal Jain. EDMC officials said enough fire tenders are at the location. “However, driving on the steep slope is a bit difficult for the water-laden trucks. The fire department has been helping us throughout the day. Our machines are also using soil to control the fumes,” said an EDMC official. Atul Garg, director, Delhi Fire Service said that 8 fire tenders in morning and four in night were at the spot on Thursday. “Till night, 70% of the fire has been put out. But as the flames are still visible, our staff continued its operation till midnight. The flames are being suppressed in one area but reappearing at another. This will continue until the situation is completely normal and our staff is vigilant to ensure no major fire breaks out again,” said Garg.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fumes-still-visible-at-ghazipur-landfill/articleshow/79437036.cms||Vibha Sharma
November 27, 2020||Rajkot||Watchman, aide arrested for godown theft||Rajkot: Two thieves were arrested for theft of electronic goods worth Rs 21.11 lakh from a godown in Daulatpara locality of Junagadh on Thursday. Police said accused Raju Raipara (28) and Sachin Chaudhary (23), had allegedly stolen air conditioners, refrigerators, washing machines, ovens and LED TV sets from the godown owned by Raju Vachhani (39). “Our investigation revealed that Raipara was the watchman of the godown and he plotted the theft in connivance with Chaudhary. The accused had stolen 54 ACs of different brands, 29 refrigerators, five washing machines, trimmers and one oven, all worth Rs 21.11 lakh in the past one year,” said R G Chaudhary, inspector with Junagadh A division police station. “We have been able to recover 40 ACs, 11 refrigerators, eight washing machines, one TV set, one oven, two outdoor ACs and eight trimmers, all worth Rs 16.46 lakh from the accused,” added Chaudhary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/watchman-aide-arrested-for-godown-theft/articleshow/79433932.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Madurai||Cleaned channels bear the brunt of garbage dumping||Madurai: Even though Madurai Corporation spends lakh of rupees ahead of monsoon every year on cleaning 13 channels that flow in the areas under the civic body, people continue to dump garbage either into the channel or near them. The corporation workers use the banks of these channels to burn the waste. The Aavin channel, which flows through Anna Nagar, Yagappa Nagar and Vandiyur, is a classic example of an ill-maintained channel. In Anna Nagar, the channel bank has been turned into a garbage collection spot, where debris and waste are dumped. A Jayakumar, a former councillor of the 30th ward, who lives across this channel said that it was better maintained when it was a panchayat. “The channel was cleaner. However, now even the sanitary workers find it convenient to dump the garbage here and burn it on a daily basis,” he said. Minister for revenue, disaster management and IT, R B Udhyakumar, lives a few hundred feet away from this channel, however, residents said that the corporation authorities are not bothered about garbage dumps emerging on both sides of the channel. “The smarter part of the city may be around the Meenakshi temple, but there is no reason why the other parts, which were previously cleaner, should be turned into dump yard,” said S Karthik, a resident of Tahsildar Nagar. Another resident of Nelpettai, K Hakkim said, “The civic body should make sure that the channels are maintained after they are cleaned.” Corporation commissioner S Visakan said that steps would be taken to clear the garbage dumps at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cleaned-channels-bear-the-brunt-of-garbage-dumping/articleshow/79436440.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Hold online admission process: UT||Chandigarh: The UT education department has now officialy shared the common admission schedule with unaided recognised private schools on Wednesday. Earlier, the schools were conveyed the dates in a meeting held on November 20 regarding admissions, reopening and implementation of the National Education Policy (NEP). In an important decision following the pandemic, the education department has stated in a letter that the admission process should be online and all the standard operating procedures (SoPs) should be followed. In a letter issued to schools, it was stated that, “You are directed to complete the admission process for the session 2021-22 through online mode, keeping in view the SoPs for Covid-19 pandemic.” The department has further asked the schools to upload details of names of children (category-wise), who have applied for admission on their website after the closing date. The names should be uploaded according to the schedule and names of children selected (category-wise) for admission to entry-level class. According to the common admission schedule (a copy of it is with TOI), schools will have to upload information like name of the entry class, dates of admission, total number of seats, age requirement, fee structure, admission criteria, documents required and date of draw of lots, on the school’s website by December 2. The issue and receipt of admission forms will be done by all schools from December 3 to 16. The date to put up the list of eligible candidates will be January 15, 2021. The selection of final candidates and the waiting list will be done by February 1, 2021 and the fee will have to be deposited by February 12, 2021. The decision on whether the draw of lots are to be held online or offline has been left on schools. However, they have been asked to follow SOPs if draw of lots are conducted in an offline mode.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hold-online-admission-process-ut/articleshow/79433986.cms||Kamini Mehta
November 27, 2020||Agra||3 women among 4 dead in Agra as truck crushes auto-rickshaw||Agra: A cement-laden truck crushed an auto-rickshaw under its wheels leaving its four passengers-- three women and a child-- dead on the spot in Agra’s Narkhi area Thursday morning. Police and rescuers took hours to pull out the debris of the three- wheeler which got stuck under the truck on Firozabad-Fariha road, near Bhooteshwar temple. The diver of the truck fled the scene leaving the vehicle behind.Till evening, police were able to identify two out of the four deceased. They are Kiran Rajput and Tripati Chaudhary, both residents of Etawah district. They were undergoing training at a primary school in Firozabad for basic training certificate to become school teacher. Police were trying to identify the other two deceased. Additional superintendent of police (city) Mukesh Chandra Mishra said, “The accident took place at around 11am. The truck was fully loaded with sacks of cement. The auto-rickshaw was carrying five passengers. The truck tried to overtake the auto and lost control. Four passengers of the auto died in the accident and the driver got critically injured. The bodies and the injured were sent to the district hospital.”Chief medical superintendent of Firozabad district hospital, Dr Alok Sharma, said, “After the accident, four people were brought dead at the hospital. One person is in critical condition. The post-mortem of the deceased will be conducted after their family members report at the hospital.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/3-women-among-4-dead-in-agra-as-truck-crushes-auto-rickshaw/articleshow/79433981.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Students below 6 years must be enrolled in anganwadi centres: Workers||Ludhiana: Over 600 members of Anganwadi Mulazam Union staged a protest outside mini secretariat office on Thursday for three hours and raised slogans against the state government. The workers demanded that children aged between three and six years of age should be enrolled in anganwadi centres and not in government schools. The workers stated that in a meeting held between the representatives of anganwadi workers and minister Aruna Chaudhary on November 23, the minister has assured that the issues would be resolved but nothing has been done so far. The protest started at 10.30am. After the intervention of ADC Amarjeet Singh Bains, the workers handed him the memorandum. In Ludhiana, there are 2,487 anganwadi centres that provide benefits under the integrated child development services (ICDS) to 20 to 40 children below six years enrolled in each centre and pregnant women. Subhash Rani, general secretary of Punjab Anganwadi Mulazam Union, said, “We want the state government to ask the education department not to enrol students in pre-primary classes and send them to anganwadi centres. The centres are involving students in various activities and providing cooked food to them.” “During the pandemic also, the workers and helpers worked as Covid-19 warriors and delivered food to children’s homes. We too should be given the required dignity and status which will help the government.” Anju Mehta, another protester, said, “ They claimed that they are short of buses, else they would have taken us to jail. I don’t know why can the authorities work for our welfare. We have not received the increment of 40% since 2007. Also, we should be called as NTT teacher for pre-primary schools.” The private pre-primary schools should also be converted into anganwadis to protect their rights, protesters said. The government should develop anganwadi schools and the workers should be treated at par with government employees in salaries, other perks, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/students-below-6-years-must-be-enrolled-in-anganwadi-centres-workers/articleshow/79436441.cms||Mehak Jain
November 27, 2020||Dehradun||In bone-chilling winter, menstruating women in many areas in Uttarakhand hills still made to sleep in cowsheds||PITHORAGARH: The debilitating practice of confining women to ‘menstrual huts’ — in which menstruating women, even teenage girls — are kept away from their household for the first few days of their periods because they are considered “impure” is persisting in the Uttarakhand hills, even after being highlighted sometime ago and receiving widespread censure. A recent video made by an activist in Dharchula along the India-Nepal border shows how menstruating women are made to sleep in cowsheds, braving the extreme winter chill in the area where maximum temperatures are around 12 degrees Celsius and minimum temperatures tend to be around 8 degrees, leading to bitingly cold conditions. The activist, Nanda Bisht, a resident of Gwal village in Dharchula, documented the ordeal in the video, sharing that “almost all the women in our village including myself have been a victim of this practice.” She added that the “roots of this inhuman practice are very deep and have continued for generations.” “It is especially hard on women who have children. Those women who have 6-7 month-old children can keep them in the cowshed but if they are toddlers, the children are kept away and only allowed to meet the mother after she returns and is “purified” by sprinkling of cow urine,” Bisht added. Usually, as per the practice, the menstruating women remain in the cowshed for four days during their periods. On the fifth day, it is mandated that they take a bath in a nearby river and wash their dirty clothes before returning to the house. “In the severe winter that has set in, it is an ordeal to bathe and wash in the icy-cold waters,” said Deepika Rautela, a teenager who has also been subjected to the practice. Champawat-based social activist Rita Gahtori told TOI that there is an urgent need for the government to intervene and stop this practice. “It is a horrible tradition which is against basic human dignity. Although we are campaigning against it and spreading awareness, it is important that more and more people as well as the government step in to eradicate this evil,” she added. TOI had earlier reported that in many places in the hills especially in the Pithoragarh and Champawat districts, social exclusion of menstruating women still remains a grave reality. In 2018, young girls from six villages in Munakot block in Pithoragarh were forced to skip school when on their period as a temple dedicated to a local deity fell on their path. Some residents had alleged that the temple would be desecrated if menstruating girls were to pass the area. In another shocking case in 2019, a village in Champawat district diverted funds allotted to the village panchayat for development work to build a hut to confine menstruating women. After getting to know of the matter, the district administration had ordered closure of the one-room hut and initiated an inquiry into the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/in-bone-chilling-winter-menstruating-women-in-many-areas-in-ukhand-hills-still-made-to-sleep-in-cowsheds/articleshow/79433999.cms||Prem Punetha
November 27, 2020||Bareilly||Bee attack claims life of 50-year old farmer||Pilibhit: Attacked by a swarm of bees, a 50-year-old farmer, identified as Prabal Pratap Singh, died in his native village Seramau North on Thursday morning. The bees had turned furious after an eagle attacked their giant beehive on a peepal tree with its beak and the farmer who happened to cross by the tree attacked by a bee swarm. The victim’s cousin and gram pradhan Ajay Pratap Singh said his brother was also a cardiac patient. Listening to his screams, four villagers rushed to rescue him, but bees stung them too, he said. Seramau North police station SHO Pushkar Singh said as the victim’s kin did not consent for an autopsy, the body was handed over to the family for the last rites. accused.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bee-attack-claims-life-of-50-year-old-farmer/articleshow/79433073.cms||Keshav Agarwal
November 27, 2020||Chennai||Covid-19: Testing drops to 60,000, that’s 7,000 less than Wednesday in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: The state added 1,467 cases and 14 deaths on Thursday, with the number of people tested for Covid-19 dropping to 60,365. The case tally is 7,76,174, cumulative death toll 11,669 and the state has 11,173 active cases. “Most people may not have come for tests, particularly in the northern districts due to rain,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. The number of people tested each day has come down from 85,000 in September to an average of 65,000 after Diwali. The number of people tested for the viral infection on Thursday came down by more than 7,000 from 67,458 on Wednesday. Testing numbers were 60,000-odd last in the first week of August. More than half of the fresh cases reported daily in the state have been from eleven northern districts. “Drop in testing is not a good sign. Late detection will not only increase risk of spread but also cause deaths. We have been asking our workers to aggressively track cases,” he added. In a note to all collectors and directors, Radhakrishnan has asked district collectors to ensure that people opting to be in relief camps wear masks and maintain social distance. If anyone exhibits flu-like symptoms, has diarrhoea or vomiting, and complains of lack of smell or taste, they should be shifted to the nearest government hospital. “Many of these fevers such as seasonal viral infections or water-borne diseases may mimic Covid-19 or even increase risk of co-infections. If Covid-19 is ruled out, testing should be done for dengue, cholera or typhoid,” he said. For this, district authorities should organise intensive fever and mobile medical units, he added. With 685 fresh cases, the eleven districts in the north reported 46% of fresh cases and 57% of deaths. The northern districts together reported eight deaths. Of this, hotspot Chennai reported 396 cases and most deaths, five. The only other district to report cases in three digits was Coimbatore (158). While all districts reported fresh cases, 28 of the 37 districts reported zero deaths on Thursday. Seven districts – Chengalpet, Kancheepuram, Madurai, Nagapattinam, the Nilgiris, Salem and Tiruvannamalai reported one death each. An equal number of districts reported new cases in single digits – eight each in Kallakurichi and Tirupattur, Tiruvarur (7), three each in Ariyalur and Nagapattinam and one each in Perambalur and Ramanathapuram. After the northern districts, the eight districts in the west together reported 507 fresh cases and four deaths. The central districts reported 87 cases, while the 10 southern districts reported 184 cases. Both central and south had one death each. At the end of the day, 1,797 patients were discharged from hospitals pushing recovery rate to 97%. Perambalur had a recovery rate of (98.9%), followed by Theni (98.6%), Ariyalur (98.5%) and Cuddalore (98.5%). Active cases were the lowest in the south with 974 cases, followed by 1,022 in the central region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/testing-drops-to-60000-thats-7k-less-than-wed/articleshow/79435018.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Business||Skoda-VW to face criminal prosecution for emissions fudge||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Thursday ruled that Skoda Auto Volkswagen India Ltd, which sells automobile brands Skoda, Volkswagen, Audi, Porsche and Lamborghini, will face investigation by UP police in a criminal complaint, lodged after global outrage against it for allegedly installing cheat devices in the vehicles to suppress noxious emission levels. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian dismissed an appeal filed by Skoda Auto Volkswagen India Ltd seeking quashing of FIRs lodged by a Gautam Budh Nagar police on the basis of a complainant who alleged that though the company assured him that there were no cheat devices installed in the seven volkswagen vehicles bought by him, the authorities found that the NOx emission levels from the vehicles were much higher. Appearing for the complainant, senior advocate Maninder Singh said after the National Green Tribunal (NGT) imposed fine on the company, the complainant realised that he had been duped by the Company. Singh said despite knowing fully well that their vehicles have been installed with cheat devices, the manufacturer had prepared wrong records and documents, thus making the company as well as its officials liable for prosecution under various offences under the IPC. The Allahabad HC had refused to quash the FIR against Skoda Auto Volkswagen, which claimed to be the amalgamation of three companies - Skoda Auto India Private Limited, Volkswagen India Private Limited and Volkswagen Group Sales India Private Limited. It had appealed against the HC decision in SC and sought quashing of the FIR. Writing the judgment, Justice Ramasubramanian said mere delay of two and half years for filing the complaint against the company for fudging emission levels of their vehicles could not be a ground for quashing of the FIR. The SC said since NGT, by its final order dated March 7 last year, directed only the CPCB to consider the initiation of prosecution in the light of the applicable statutory regime and ordered the manufacturers to deposit Rs 500 crores as compensation for the damage caused to the environment, it would not preclude individual purchasers to lodge complaint if he felt aggrieved by any alleged false claims made by the manufacturer. The SC acknowledged that the manufacturer's appeal against NGT order for depositing Rs 500 crore is pending with it and that it has ordered no coercive steps to be taken in that regard against the manufacturer. However, it clarified that pendency of the civil appeal would not deter individuals from lodging FIR or the police from investigating the complaint. "The question whether such devices are installed in the cars purchased by the complainant and the question whether there was any representation in this regard to the petitioner, are all questions of fact, peculiar and particular to the complainant. NGT had no occasion to examine the cars purchased by the complainant. At this stage no one can presume whether the defence of the manufacturer to the police complaint will be purely on a question of fact or purely on a question of law or on mixed questions of fact and law," the SC said. The SC said, "It may not be out of context to mention here that the European Union woke up way back in 2007 to the reality of car makers installing a software that manipulate exhaust emissions, depending upon whether the car ran on a test stand or on the road. After the European Commission’s Joint Research Centre found in 2011 that the levels of harmful NOx emissions far exceeded the prescribed levels, a study conducted by the International Council on Clean Transportation (ICCT) revealed similar results in the United States." "In the light of these developments, one of the manufacturers entered into an agreement with the US Environmental Protection Agency in December­ 2016 giving certain options to the customers. These and the subsequent developments, which attained notoriety as the 'dieselgate scandal', led to the German Federal Court of Justice (Bundesgerichtshof­-BGH) giving a ruling on May 25, 2020 in favour of the car owners for damages," the SC said. It said that the Allahabad HC had been more than fair to the manufacturer by protecting its officers from arrest till the filing of chargesheet on completion of investigation by the Gautam Budh Nagar police. "We do not think the manufacturer can ask for anything more," it said while dismissing the appeal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/skoda-vw-to-face-criminal-prosecution-for-emissions-fudge/articleshow/79437402.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
November 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Cabinet rejig: Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa to hold two meetings today||BENGALURU: After multiple attempts to get the party leadership nod to expand his cabinet, chief minister BS Yediyurappa has called for an emergency cabinet meeting on Friday morning followed by a discussion with state MPs in the evening. This has triggered speculation that he plans to mount pressure on party brass with the help of MPs and ministers given chatter about a change of guard. A slew of appointments to statutory bodies over the past two days has reinforced this possibility. After returning from a three-day Mysuru visit, he met ministers to reportedly plan his strategy, party sources said, adding that he’s determined to expand the cabinet over the next 4-5 days. However, an MP from Bengaluru close to Yediyurappa said it’s a courtesy call since it’s customary for the CM to meet state MPs once in three or six months. Another said the meeting follows Chamarajanagar MP V Srinivasa Prasad stating that Yediyurappa doesn't consult them (MPs) anymore. CM may go to Delhi today or tomorrowOn Thursday, senior cabinet colleagues CN Ashwath Narayan, Laxman Savadi, R Ashoka and Basavaraj Bommai went to Delhi for CT Ravi’s office inauguration. They have been reportedly tasked by Yediyurappa to meet party brass and secure an appointment with Union home minister Amit Shah or PM Narendra Modi. Water resources minister Ramesh Jarkiholi is already camping in Delhi. If the leadership responds positively, Yediyurappa may go to Delhi on Friday evening or Saturday morning to meet Shah or Prime Minister Narendra Modi. However, sources in Delhi said Shah has cancelled all appointments till Sunday. Hike in reservation for Lingayats?The cabinet will take a call on hiking reservation for the Veerashaiva-Lingayat community in employment and education from the existing 5% to 15% and resolve to recommend their inclusion in the OBC category. The government reportedly plans to bring the major community under category 2A from 3B so that it gets higher reservation. Under 3B, Lingayats now enjoy 5% reservation , while under 2A, it will be 15%. “If this happens, there could be a storm,’’ sources added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cabinet-rejig-bsy-to-hold-2-meetings-today/articleshow/79437422.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid-19 fatality rate a worry in 11 Karnataka districts; over 8% in Dharwad||BENGALURU: Karnataka’s Covid-19 fatality rate is among the lowest in the country, but 11 districts in the state are a cause for worry. In the past five days, Dharwad district has seen the state’s highest Covid-19 fatality rate (CFR, percentage of Covid patients dying) — at 8%, followed by Dakshina Kannada district, at 4.8%. Against the national average CFR of 1.46% on Thursday, Karnataka reported 0.79%. Chief secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar presided over a meeting on Wednesday to discuss testing, positivity rate and fatality rate in these districts. Besides these 11 districts, Bengaluru Urban is also under focus and a special review meeting is held every week to review the situation in the state capital, said health department authorities. Focused Covid testing required, says officialWhile the daily target for Covid testing is 55,000 in Bengaluru, testing is much less elsewhere in the state. Pankaj Kumar Pandey, commissioner in the health and family welfare department, admitted that the Covid fatality rate in these 11 districts is a matter of concern. “Focused testing and early identification of Covid-19 patients is required,” he said. Greater emphasis, he added, would have to be given on Covid-appropriate behaviour, such as wearing masks and physical distancing, in these districts. In the past week, Mysuru has reported 723 Covid cases and nine deaths. The district conducted 35,233 tests in this period. Dakshina Kannada reported 14 deaths among 277 Covid-19 cases in the past week, during which it did 24,523 tests.  Among the 11 districts, Kodagu carried out the fewest tests, at 7,447, in the past 15 days. It has reported 65 Covid cases in the last seven days and two fatalities. The Covid fatality rate in Dharwad has touched 8.5% in the past 15 days, followed by Ballari at 5.9%. Tumakuru, in the neighbourhood of the state capital, has reported 446 Covid cases and seven deaths in the past seven days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/focused-covid-testing-required-says-official/articleshow/79437426.cms||Sunitha Rao R
November 27, 2020||Chandigarh||English booster club, a boon for govt school students: Teachers||Ludhiana: Terming the English booster club a boon for government school students, all the block mentors (BM) of English subject of the district stressed the need to enhance the English communication skills of the government school students. An online EBC (English Booster Club) webinar was organised where deputy district education officer (DEO), school education, Ashish Sharma, appreciated the English subject teachers for their efforts to train the government school students with English communication skills, thus improving their fluency and command in the English language. Charanjeet Singh, DEO (SE) urged the teachers and the students to propagate English booster clubs more in government schools. Swaranjit Kaur, DEO (SE), lauding the initiative of the higher authorities in launching EBCs in government schools, said, “EBCs will certainly help in polishing the English language skills of students.” The main agenda of this meeting was to discuss the functioning of EBC at school, block, district level. In addition to it, topics like “what is communication skill and what is the importance of Language’ were discussed, which was followed by feedbacks and views. Block mentor Gurpreet Kaur spoke about cultural diversity, language diversity and utilisation of the English language as a mode of communication in connecting diverse cultures of the world. BM English of Mangat-1 block Amandeep Kaur hosted the online meeting. Davinder Singh Chhina, principal of GSS smart school Shahpur, delivered the keynote address on the importance and significance of English booster clubs for school students. Singh told TOI, “EBCs will act as a great medium of communication for government school students and will help in removing their hesitations, with regard to spoken English and Punjab students will be nurtured with great communication skills to compete at national and global level.” District mentor (DM) Subodh Verma was all praise for the teachers and students who had been making great efforts to promote EBCs and promised to organise EBC meetings at regular intervals. DM science Jasvir Singh and DM Maths Sanjeev Taneja, along with block mentors English of all blocks, teachers of English from various schools of Ludhiana with the students of their respective blocks were the part of this meeting. Student participants Riya Sharma, Devika Verma, Harjit Kaur, Sheetal and others spoke about the role of communication and English language.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/english-booster-club-a-boon-for-govt-school-students-teachers/articleshow/79436450.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Woman history-sheeter held with 104 banned vials||Chandigarh: The UT police arrested a woman history sheeter Bala, 58, a resident of Sector 38, while carrying 104 banned injectable vials from Sector 39 on Wednesday. She was earlier arrested in January 2019 and Sarangpur police had recovered 10 gram heroin from her possession. Sector 39 police team was patrolling near the Paddy market, Sector 39. They saw the woman coming towards the police check-post. Upon noticing the cops, she tried to escape, but was nabbed. The police recovered 60 vials of Buprenorphine and 44 vials of Pheniramine from her possession. The accused failed to produce any permit for the same. She was arrested under the NDPS Act. The police said the woman used to buy vials for around Rs 170 and sold the same for Rs 400 to Rs 500 to drug addicts in and around the Tricity. The police said the accused has a tainted past and was booked in as many as 52 cases of house theft, burglaries, rioting, assault and NDPS cases. She has also been convicted in 22 cases so far. The police revealed that she was booked under house theft case in 1992 and used to actively commit thefts, burglaries till 2004. Later, she started smuggling contrabands and was arrested by the police. After getting bail, she again started committing the crime. She was acquitted in 23 cases and booked in12 NDPS cases by the UT police. The police produced her before a local court, which sent her in 14-day judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/woman-history-sheeter-held-with-104-banned-vials/articleshow/79434001.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Protesting PAU employees express solidarity with farmers||Ludhiana: The Punjab Agricultural University Teachers Association (PAUTA), on the call of Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers Organisations (PFUCTO) organised a protest rally and dharna from 9.30am to 4pm opposite the Thapar Hall on November 26 to express solidarity with the farmer organisations’ call for Delhi Chalo on November 26-27. The PAU Employees’ Union and Class Four Workers’ Union also participated in the sit in and extended support to farmer organisations. Meanwhile, the agitation for the fulfilment of demands of the teachers and employees has entered the 44th day at PAU. Protesters started a march from the office of the PAU Employees’ Union and marched through College of Basic Sciences, College of Agriculture, flag post and ended up at the office of the vice-chancellor. Then the employees sat on dharna in front of the Thapar Hall. The president of PAU Employees’ Union Baldev Singh Walia addressed employees and said representatives had a meeting with authorities on November 25. He added they have already given ultimatum to fulfil demands of employees by Monday and if the demands are not met, they will burn effigy of the vice-chancellor at gate No. 1 of the university. He said they support the state-level strike of employees being held on November 26 for fulfilment of demands of service class such as implementation of old pension scheme, implementation of 6th pay commission and release of dearness allowance. “We also support the cause of farmers against the anti-farmer bills passed by the central government.” Some of the demands of the faculty include full pay scales for the newly recruited faculty, counting of service rendered on basic pay towards their promotion, implementation of old pension scheme up to July 9, 2012, as principally approved by the BOM, counting of study leave for promotion, total implementation of CAS as circulated in April 2014, counting of online workshops/refresher courses as eligibility for CAS, counting of refresher courses attended abroad and CAS for library and sports teachers, CAS for Maths and statistics teachers owing to their unique duties. The Confederation of University Associations and unions stands with the farmers of Punjab and supports the call for the withdrawal of the agriculture farming acts passed by the Government of India. The confederation opposes the corporatisation of agriculture, education, health and the new labour codes being formulated by the central government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/protesting-pau-employees-express-solidarity-with-farmers/articleshow/79436445.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 27, 2020||Bareilly||Dog found licking blood from corpse of girl at a government hospital in UP’s Sambhal||Bareilly: The stomach-churning visuals of a dog licking blood from the wounds of a girl’s corpse which lay unattended in the corridor of a government hospital in UP’s Sambhal, has left many aghast and shocked equally. The girl (17) was killed in a road accident.Soon after the photos and videos of the incident turned up on social media platforms, the hospital suspended two of its staffers and ordered an inquiry into it.Chief medical superintendent (CMS) of the district hospital, Dr Sushil Kumar, said that it was the work of one of many dogs who live on the hospital campus. “There are several stray dogs on the premises. I have written to the municipal corporation on four occasions, but they have not taken any action,” Dr Kumar claimed.But, he also said that the alleged incident took place after the body was handed over to the girl’s father.The father, Charan Singh, whose young daughter had just died and the son was fighting for life in an ICU after the road accident, slammed the negligence of the hospital staffers.“I was told over the phone that the children have met with an accident. I rushed to the hospital where I came to know that my daughter had died while the son was under treatment at the emergency ward. When I went to see my daughter’s body, a stray dog was feeding on it. Her body was lying unattended near the stairs outside the emergency ward and it is a clear negligence by the staffers. I will lodge a complaint against them,” Singh said.The girl, Rinki, was returning home with her brother, Pawan Kumar, on a motorcycle when a truck hit them in Sambhal’s Asmoli area on Wednesday. They were taken to the district hospital where Rinki was declared “brought dead” while Pawan was referred to another hospital in Moradabad in a critical condition.On his part, CMS Kumar said, “Undoubtedly it is a heart wrenching incident. We have suspended two staffers for negligence. A probe has also been ordered. After initial investigation, it was found that the body was not sent to the mortuary as the father had refused autopsy. It was handed over to him. The incident took place when the father had gone to the washroom and the body remained unattended for some time. He had also refused to take the hospital vehicle for taking the body home despite it being offered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/dog-found-licking-blood-from-corpse-of-girl-at-a-government-hospital-in-ups-sambhal/articleshow/79432331.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Extensive Covid-19 sampling in Panchkula’s 27 high-risk areas||PANCHKULA: The Panchkula administration has identified 27 high-risk areas, where sampling will be done extensively to contain the spread of Covid-19. Fearing second Covid wave in these areas, the administration wants to take all precautionary measures to prevent it. Deputy commissioner (DC) M K Ahuja said, “The daily ground report shows that cases have gone up in Pinjore and Kalka. Besides, a few populated slums among the sectors have also seen a spurt in cases. As many as 27 high-risk areas have been identified by the administration and the health department, where extensive sampling will be done.” The health department officials have been directed to collect random samples from public places like busy markets, bus stand, commercial areas, public parks, among others. All the 14 incident commanders have been told to keep a strict check at public places and issue challans to those not wearing a mask or ignoring social distancing. The incident commanders will visit public and religious places, parks, gymnasiums, yoga centres, institutes, workplaces, markets and bus stands. Besides issuing challans, they can also register FIRs against violators. In a recent meeting, the DC had asked the officials to deal sternly with those flouting the Covid-19 norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/extensive-covid-19-sampling-in-panchkulas-27-high-risk-areas/articleshow/79433989.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
November 27, 2020||Chennai||Covid-19: Chennai airport to try out full body scanners||CHENNAI: The city airport will soon begin trials of new full body scanners that will replace conventional metal detectors used at security check at domestic and international terminals. These scanners are used abroad and can produce an image of passengers, avoiding the need for security personnel to do frisking. Chennai airport is set to get more than 10 scanners. “A few of the new body scanners have arrived and they will be tried out in the coming weeks. There will be a demo and also a trial here,” said an official. The machines were originally planned to enhance security by making security screening foolproof, but the still raging Covid-19 pandemic has made them all the more crucial for the health safety of Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel who man the counters. “There is a concern about safety of these personnel as they have to frisk hundreds of people in spite of the risk of contracting an infection. They use gloves, masks and face shields and also full body personal protective equipment (PPE). But these are cumbersome. The body scanners will ensure that passengers need to be frisked only when there is a doubt,” said an airport official. The scanners have been customised for Indian situations where the way people dress and the number of people crowding the terminals are different. After the millimetre wave technology used in the scanners helps generate a clear image of passengers, the images will either be blurred using filters to mask body contours or a mannequin-like image will appear on the screens of the CISF personnel in charge of scanning. At most airports abroad, security personnel sit in a closed room far away to ensure that they cannot be seen by the passengers walking in for scanning. In this case, since remote screening is not needed, the equipment with the monitoring booth can be set up at the security check gate itself. Space is being assessed to find out how many can be accommodated in each terminal. Though the terminals were opened in 2013, the space allotted for security checks are not adequate. This puts a limit on the number of counters that can be added for screening passengers. The project was suggested in early 2019 after new specifications were released by the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/city-airport-to-try-out-full-body-scanners/articleshow/79435057.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Dehradun||Corbett Tiger Reserve to launch fresh tiger, aquatic species estimation exercise in December||DEHRADUN: The Uttarakhand forest department is preparing for the fifth annual fresh tiger count that will begin in the first week of December at the Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR). The exercise will not only focus on tigers, but will also take into account the aquatic species thriving in the reserve. Over 1,000 cameras will be installed across Ramnagar and Kalagarh in a phase-wise manner while the reserve will be divided into 541 parts with two square kilometre grids, with each grid having at least two cameras. “We have at least over 252 tigers but there are indications that their population has multiplied. The exercise will include counting of aquatic animals as well since their numbers are said to have dipped in the past four years. We have to verify that, and if required, come up with a strategy to save crocodiles, otters and other aquatic animals,” said CTR’s director Rahul (who uses only his first name). Corbett has the most number of tigers in the country with 231 of the 2,967 big cats in the country living here as per the Wildlife Institute of India’s “Status of Tigers, Co-predators & Prey in India” report. Corbett’s tiger count has been rising — from 137 in 2006 to 174 in 2010 and 215 in 2014. Also, Corbett is the only reserve in the country with more than 200 tigers and has the highest tiger density in India (14). Uttarakhand ranks third in the country with 442 tigers across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/corbett-to-launch-fresh-tiger-aquatic-species-estimation-exercise-in-dec/articleshow/79434018.cms||Shivani Azad
November 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Bandi Sanjay invokes Telugu pride, attacks CM’s silence on Akbar’s remarks||HYDERABAD: BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay on Thursday invoked Telugu atma gouravam (self-pride) and attacked chief minister K Chandrasekar Rao for not booking a case against MIM leader Akbaruddin Owaisi for his remarks on demolishing PV and NTR ghats. After paying tributes at both the ghats, Sanjay said Narasimha Rao and NT Rama Rao were not just former prime minister and ex-chief minister of Andhra Pradesh but legends who wers symbols of Telugu self-respect and pride. “CM KCR began his political career in TDP with NTR and considers him as his political guru. TRS government conducted PV centenary celebrations amid much fanfare recently. Why is he not reacting on Akbaruddin’s remarks or arrest him,” he sought to know. “KCR named his son after NTR. In fact, Akbaruddin’s comments amount to sedition as both PV and NTR had worked for the country,” he said and demanded that police book a case against the MIM MLA. He also came down heavily on the MIM, saying that the party had targeted NTR because he used to wear saffron robes and Rao because he had always tried to protect Hindu pride. “MIM is nothing when compared to a colossus called NTR,” he said. Sanjay also questioned Congress for keeping silent on MIM leader’s comments. Training his guns on the CM for claiming that some disruptive forces were out to foment trouble in Hyderabad during GHMC polls, he wondered: “If KCR had information about suspects who can create violence, why cannot he get them arrested. The TRS made similar allegations on the BJP before Dubbak bypoll. Nothing had happened then.” He alleged that the TRS was trying to postpone the GHMC election in the name of law and order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sanjay-invokes-telugu-pride-attacks-cms-silence-on-akbars-remarks/articleshow/79436451.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 27, 2020||Madurai||AIADMK IT wing helps cyclone hit||Madurai: The IT wing of the AIADMK set up a virtual control room on Wednesday in Madurai to help people in need when the cyclone Nivar struck Tamil Nadu. They were able to address 420 requests for help. Secretary of the Madurai AIADMK IT wing, Raj Satyan said that chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam had asked them to be ready to help the people in need during the cyclone and they had decided to coordinate with volunteers on the field in the 13 districts, identified to be impacted due to the cyclone. He said that they had received 420 requests for help on Wednesday and had been able to help them by passing on the message to the district collectors, through the MLAs and ministers of the concerned areas. Many of the requests had pertained to fallen trees and inundated roads.  People were asked to use official handles like @AiadmkOfficial, @CMOTamilnadu, @EPSTamilnadu,@officeofOps,@tnsdma among others for help.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/aiadmk-it-wing-helps-cyclone-hit/articleshow/79436448.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: EDMC commissioner called by House panel over cause of blaze||NEW DELHI: Chairperson of the environment committee of the Delhi Assembly, Atishi, on Thursday said that the commissioner of the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) has been asked to appear before the panel on Friday to give an explanation over the recent fire incident at the Ghazipur landfill site. The senior AAP functionary said the sitting on Friday had been called to ascertain the reasons behind the fire, why garbage was still being dumped at the landfill site and who was responsible for the incident on Wednesday that saw smoke billow out of the landfill site for over 12 hours before the blaze came under control. “The pollution levels in the capital go up in the months of October and November due to stubble burning in the neighbouring states, which leaves Delhiites choking. The air quality had improved in the last six days, as the incidents of stubble burning have decreased. However, on Wednesday, a massive fire broke out at the Ghazipur landfill, filling all of east Delhi and nearby areas with smoke,” said Atishi on Thursday. The commissioner has been summoned to appear before the committee at 2pm on Friday, following which the panel will also inspect the landfill site, an official said. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor, meanwhile, on Thursday said the summoning of EDMC Commissioner by Environment Committee of Delhi Assembly over Ghazipur Fire was just a political gimmick. “The AAP government has failed Delhi in terms of pollution control. It first tried to blame stubble burning in other states for the pollution in Delhi and is now trying to shift blame on an accidental fire at Ghazipur for the last two days of poor environment," said Kapoor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/edmc-commissioner-called-by-house-panel-over-cause-of-blaze/articleshow/79437047.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Parents confused over pre-KG 2021 admissions||BENGALURU: Many private schools in Bengaluru have launched the kindergarten admission season, but parents are in a fix over enrolling toddlers for the upcoming academic year. Social-media groups for parents are abuzz with discussions whether to enroll their children in full-fledged schools (which offer kindergarten to class 12) as there is no clarity on how things play out by next June. ‘Online classes cannot provide socialisation’“A school, on average, charges Rs 1.5 lakh for pre-kg. The admission amount and first installment have to be paid immediately when we are not even sure whether the child will get to attend the school next year. The main purpose of a pre-kg class is socialisation and physical activity which an online class cannot provide. I thought it would be useless to pay this huge sum for an hour of online class every day. I am, therefore, having second thoughts for admission next year,” said a software engineer residing in Yelahanka, who had raised the issue of a social-media platform. “Parents’ worry is whether skipping a year will lead to a lag in their toddlers and whether it will ultimately lead to losing out in the entrance tests that many schools have for grade 1. This worry stems from the fact that there is so much pressure on children right from kindergarten. I think we need to re-evaluate our obsession with academic goals and concentrate on a child’s overall learning outcomes,” said Shwetha Sharan, co-founder of Bangalore Schools, a parents’ group on Facebook.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/online-classes-cannot-provide-socialisation/articleshow/79437430.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
November 27, 2020||Chandigarh||CMCH principal becomes 1st Asian to get World Stroke Organisation’s award||Ludhiana: Professor Jeyaraj D Pandian, principal, Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) Ludhiana has received the prestigious Global Stroke Services award conferred by the World Stroke Organisation (WSO) for his contribution to the development of stroke care services in India and other developing countries. According to CMCH statement, he is the first Asian to receive the award at the recently concluded joint virtual World Stroke Congress and European Stroke Organisation Conference held from Vienna, Austria. It added that Dr Pandian is also the current vice-president of the WSO and had chaired the international working group of the world stroke campaign and is a member of several committees in WSO. Dr Pandian developed the Ludhiana urban population-based stroke registry in 2013 and with the department of community medicine at CMCH completed the rural population-based stroke registry two years ago. He added the above stroke surveillance models are have been implemented by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in five other regions in India. “Another significant achievement is that he organised the Xth World Stroke Congress in Hyderabad in 2016. He also developed a specific model of stroke unit care known as the Tezpur model in a remote hospital in eastern India which is now being replicated through the Organisation of Stroke Care Services in all income levels (OSCAIL) as a project in both India and Africa. Even more recently, he has been instrumental in implementing India’s first mobile stroke unit in a rural area at Baptist Christian Hospital, Tezpur, Assam,” the statement said, adding that the project is supported by the ICMR and was inaugurated by Union health minister Harsh Vardhan in September. With funding support from ICMR, Dr Pandian “created” the first ever disease network for clinical trials in India named as Indian Stroke Clinical Trial Network (INSTRuCT). “This is a network of 31 stroke centres in India and currently there are two ongoing stroke trials and five more stroke trials have been approved for 2021 by ICMR,” the statement said. Dr Pandian has “mentored” several medical students, residents, and faculty in stroke research. He has published more than 200 scientific papers in several high impact journals. Dr William Bhatti, director of CMCH said it is a matter of great honour for CMCH, Ludhiana and for Punjab, that he has been conferred this award. He also added that the department of neurology is the only centre in the region to have all the facilities to treat stroke or brain attack.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cmch-principal-becomes-1st-asian-to-get-world-stroke-organisations-award/articleshow/79436452.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 27, 2020||Madurai||Trade unions protest, members court arrest||Madurai: Around 2,000 people belonging to various trade unions were arrested by the police for staging protest and processions at various place in Madurai city and rural parts of the district on Thursday. They were released later. They took part in the strike called on by the national-level trade union members putting forth a charter of demands including scrapping of farm bills and anti-labourers bill, disbursal of Rs 7,500 for poor families due to Covid-19 lockdown, 10kg rice per person per month, increase in work days under MNREGA scheme, stop privatizing public sector undertaking corporations and to provide pension for all employees. Members from trade unions including INTUC, CITU, HMS and LPF gathered at the Kattabomman statue and went on a procession towards the railway station. But, police personnel deployed there stopped them. Similarly, protests were carried out at the LIC Office in Sellur and in front of Union Bank in Thirunagar. In total, 900 people were arrested and released. Protests were staged at 11 places in the district police limits. A total of 1,075 people including 389 women were arrested and released. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/trade-unions-protest-members-court-arrest/articleshow/79436457.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludh to remain dry & cold||Ludhiana: A day after Ludhiana witnessed the coldest day of November in last 23 years, the day temperature registered an increase. The good news for residents on weather front is that weather is expected to remain dry in the next few days. According to the daily weather report of School of Climate Change and Agricultural Meteorology of PAU, the maximum (day) temperature in Ludhiana on Thursday was recorded at 22.2 degrees Celsius which is 2.2 degrees less than normal. On Wednesday the day temperature was recorded at 19 degrees Celsius, which was 5.2 degrees less than normal and was lowest in the month since November end of 1997. Meanwhile, as per the weather report, night temperature in Ludhiana was witnessed on higher side at 12.2 degrees Celsius, which is 1.3 degrees more than normal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ludh-to-remain-dry-cold/articleshow/79436456.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 27, 2020||Chennai||Buses back on road by noon, trains, flight services too resume||Chennai: Inter-district bus services, affected due to very severe cyclone Nivar, eased after noon on Thursday. Metropolitan transport corporation (MTC), Chennai, diverted over a dozen of its buses to Vellore, Villupuram and other towns to ensure commuters weren’t stranded. Government bus services to seven districts (Pudukkottai, Nagapattinam, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Cuddalore, Villupuram and Chengalpet) halted from 10am on Wednesday resumed at noon on Thursday. However, it was 4pm by the time services were back in full swing at Chennai Mofussil Bus Terminus (CMBT), Koyambedu. This was because buses parked at two mofussil depots near Chennai had to reach CMBT, said a transport department staff. Buses from depots in Cuddalore, Ranipet, Vellore, Tirupattur, Nagapattinam and other areas that saw heavy rainfall couldn’t reach Chennai till 6pm. Passengers had a long wait to travel to other districts. “The only bus available to Villupuram was to depart an hour after I reached CMBT and almost full. No one at the depot knew when the next bus would arrive,” said Guganantham, a passenger. To avoid crowding, MTC diverted 15 city buses along mofussil routes to Vellore, Villupuram and other towns. A 100 more buses from other mofussil depots across the state were to reach CMBT by 9pm to ensure a service was available every 20 minutes. Southern Railway too resumed almost all its special trains after an assessment showed there was no major damage to rail infrastructure. In Chennai city, MTC operated around 540 buses in the morning as demand was low. Late in the evening as cyclone impact reduced, MTC deployed another 200 buses, mostly to suburban areas. Suburban train services also resumed at 3pm, with service every one hour till 8pm on Arakkonam, Gummudipoondi and Chengalpet routes. Regular special services will resume on Friday. Metro rail services that were closed at 8pm on Wednesday resumed at noon on Thursday. Flight operations at Chennai airport resumed at 9am on Thursday. The airport handled around 56 departures and arrivals which is low as many flights had been cancelled anticipating heavy rain after the landfall. “International flights which had delayed their departures were the first few to arrive. Soon domestic flights too resumed,” an airport official said. The airport is likely to see the usual 180 flights per day from Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/buses-back-on-road-by-noon-trains-flight-services-too-resume/articleshow/79435113.cms||Ram Sundaram
November 27, 2020||Madurai||Man held for murdering father-in-law||edited Madurai: The Ramanathapuram police arrested a 42-year-old man for murdering his father-in-law over a family dispute on Wednesday night. The accused was identified as G Kanagaraj, 42, a native of Kumarapuram, who was staying in Sallithoppu near Thirupullani. Police said that his father-in-law, K Muniyasamy, 55, picked up a fight with his mother-in-law M Murugeswari under the influence of alcohol. Muniyasamy, in a fit of rage, took a sickle and tried to attack Murgeswari. When Kanagaraj tried to stop him, Muniyasamy tried to attack him too. Kanagaraj grabbed the sickle and attacked Muniyasamy. He suffered injuries on his neck and died on the spot. On being alerted, a police team from the Thirupullani station rushed to the spot and conducted an inquiry. A case was registered based on the complaint from Murugeswari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-held-for-murdering-father-in-law/articleshow/79436453.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Pune||MLC polls counting may take 36 hours in Pune division||PUNE: Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao on Thursday said all Covid-19-related measures would be implemented during the biennial Maharashtra Legislative Council election for the graduates’ and the teachers’ constituencies in the Pune division on December 1 and the counting on December 3. Rao, the returning officer of the election, said the counting process was expected to last 36 hours because of large number of candidates for both the seats. “Our staffers will work in three shifts on the counting day,” the Pune divisional commissioner told TOI ahead of the poll process. As many as 62 candidates are in the fray for the graduate constituency and 35 for the teacher’s constituency. The counting would be held at Balewadi Sports Complex on December 3. “There will be nearly 1,200 staffers at the counting centres. If we include the polling agents of political parties, the number of people at the centre could go up to 2,500,” said Rao. The biennial election for a total of five graduates’ and teachers’ constituencies of Maharashtra Legislative Council would be held on December 1. Of the five, three are graduates’ constituencies in Aurangabad, Pune and Nagpur divisions. The other two are teachers’ constituencies in Pune and Amravati divisions. The term of the candidates from these constituencies had ended on July 19. But the Election Commission of India announced the polling dates in December because of the Covid-19 pandemic. In the wake of the pandemic, all the divisions have been told to ensure that the polling process took place following the social distancing measures. The entire election process would be conducted using paper ballot, posing more challenges to the officials associated with the polling. The size of each ballot paper would be 77cm x 61cm. The number of voters at each booth would be limited to 500-700, said Rao, the divisional commissioner. There will be 1,202 polling stations in the Pune division. About 5.5 lakh voters are expected to cast their votes on December 1 in the division . The divisional commissioner said there would be waiting rooms for voters. Three separate rows would be there for men, women and differently abled voters to streamline the process, he said. Circles would be earmarked at a distance of 6 feet from each other for the voters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mlc-polls-counting-may-take-36-hours-in-pune-division/articleshow/79436455.cms||Nisha Nambiar
November 27, 2020||Pune||Lively classrooms, chirpy students lost in reopening||PUNE: Quieter classrooms, no exchange of stationery, holding back on the impulse to walk around were what teachers experienced in the recently reopened schools. Four days since some students of standards IX, X and XII returned to school, teachers were confident that more would come and soon all would be present. Inside the classroom, the initial enthusiasm of meeting friends is yet to die down. Teachers said lack of non-academic classes is making the students lethargic. Nandakumar Sagar, principal of Jijamata High School and Junior College in Jejuri, said, “We have got about 50% students back in the school, and I am sure that within a week or two, the remaining will also join. We take online classes, and we also show the live video of the class to students watching at home.” Sagar said there was no mingling and no breaks, with four lectures of 40 minutes each. “Students like variety in school. Hence, time-tables had a drawing period or a sports period or some activity every day. Now, it is one lecture after another which makes it a bit lethargic for students. Even the staff rooms have become different as teachers comes in batches,” he added. Others said taking physical classes helps them understand whether the students, especially those behind in studies, have actually understood a topic or not. It helps them plan the lesson in a way that all students understand it well, a feature missing in the online teaching-learning process. “Due to lack of cellphones or lack of network, very few students would attend the classes. A teacher’s presence is important, especially for weaker students. During online sessions, we would teach without feedback. But now, students are physically in front of us, we can look at their response. The students can also ask doubts freely. A frown on the face is enough for us to know that there is still doubt about the topic taught,” Shashikant Jadhav, a Marathi teacher at Mahatma Gandhi Vidyalaya in Khanapur, said. There are no common assemblies now. Students directly come to class where they recite the national pledge and sing the national anthem to start the day, said Sanjiv Bhor, a mathematics teacher at Sri Renuka Madhyamik Vidyalaya, Khed. English, science and mathematics are taught every day, with an occasional Marathi or social science class. “Earlier, the entire class would be crowded, but now it feels like we are teaching an empty class. Probably, the reduced student strength is also why there is less competition in the classroom to answer questions. The huge gap in regular teaching may also be why students do not answer in the class like they used to. We are currently teaching the second term portion, and will gradually take a revision of the first term,” Bhor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/lively-classrooms-chirpy-students-lost-in-reopening/articleshow/79436461.cms||Ardhra Nair
November 27, 2020||Meerut||Muzaffarnagar: ‘Sauce-bahu’ saga turns sticky, 6 family members land in hospital||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Unlike the regular saas-bahu saga in soap operas, this one was a bit saucy. Or rather a bit too much. In a bizarre incident in Shamli district, a quarrel between a woman and her mother-in-law over tomato sauce led to a bloody clash between the two families, landing at least six of them in hospital. The weapons used in a pitched battle of sorts by the two sides included lathis and sharp-edged ones. While the incident occurred late on Wednesday in Simbhalka area, an FIR against a dozen attackers was registered after the complaints of the in-laws on Thursday. According to sources, the 30-year-old woman, married for six years, wanted to make a tomato sauce and asked her mother-in-law for fresh tomatoes which the other woman flatly refused. The offended woman launched a no-holds-barred tirade against her mother-in-law, which was duly reciprocated, neighbours said. An hour after the younger woman called up her family members, more than 10 people with lathis and sharp objects landed at the house and allegedly attacked the family. According to the neighbours, the couple have not been on the best of terms and the woman frequently had run-ins with her mother-in-law, which at times turned ugly. The injured, which included the woman’s husband and also her parents-in-law, were taken to the community health centre (CHC) for treatment. Station house officer of the Shamli police station, Satpal Singh, said, “A case against 12 people, including the woman’s father, brother, nephew and several others, was registered. We are trying to arrest the accused. Action will be taken accordingly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/sauce-bahu-saga-turns-sticky-6-family-members-land-in-hospital/articleshow/79434014.cms||Mohd Dilshad
November 27, 2020||Pune||MPSC withholds dates, many aspirants may lose out on exam||Pune: Aspirants of the Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) from the city are waiting for the examination dates to be announced so that they can prepare. Many had moved back to their home towns after the lockdown and are now looking to come back to Pune for the preparation based on the exam dates. Mona Pandit, who has been trying for a better post in her second attempt, said, “I am back in my hometown in Osmanabad, but there is so much uncertainty regarding the exam dates that I am unable to decide my plans. I have already enrolled for coaching in Pune which is online. However, there needs to be more clarity.” Candidates said there was a growing problem of unemployment and lakhs of students apply for this civil services exam and are dependent on its success. Many aspirants said they were on the brink of final age eligibility and if the exam is pushed ahead by a few months, many would not be able to take it. Another candidate, Prerna Upasani, said the university exams were held and now schools have also reopened. The IIT exam was also conducted and they have also finalised the dates for the entrance exam of IITs for the next academic year. “All this is being done so that students are well-prepared. The commission should take similar proactive steps and keep everybody informed about their decisions,” she added. President of Maharashtra Navnirman Vidyarthi Sena, Pune, Kalpesh Yadav, in a letter to the commission said, “It is important that the dates, even if approximate, are conveyed to the aspirants for better planning. Many are unemployed and the exam dates would help the candidates plan for their future.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mpsc-withholds-dates-many-aspirants-may-lose-out-on-exam/articleshow/79436484.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Goa||From New Year, 16 Mapusa Urban branches to close||PANAJI: In line with the liquidation process, 16 branches of The Mapusa Urban Co-operative Bank of Goa Ltd, which were being operated from rented premises, are being shut down from January 1. The remaining nine branches, where the bank owns the premises, will continue to remain open to assist customers with the liquidation and deposit queries. The bank will shut the rented premises to cut the expenditure. “With no income, there is a huge expenditure on these branches which were in leased premises and the rent was too much,” said general manager Shailendra Sawant. “We have informed the landlords and we are also allowing the purchase of dead stock, there is a lot of furniture, lying in these branches.” The branches that are being shut are in Mapusa city, Anjuna, Siolim and Mandrem. Extension counters at Tivim, Aldona, Taleigao, St Cruz, Diwar, Usgaon-Tisk, Curchorem, Sanguem, Margao, Benaulim, Penha De Franca and Cansaulim are also being shut. Nine branches, including the office in Panaji will continue to remain openThe bank, which had 24 branches in Goa besides the head office in Mapusa and 193 staff members in all, went into liquidation after the Reserve Bank of India cancelled its banking licence in April this year. When it shut down, the bank had 1.19 lakh shareholders and 2.48 lakh depositors. The bank has a deposit base of Rs 350 crore of which Rs 230 crore is being held in government securities. MUCB also has real estate assets valued at around Rs 90 crore. Rental fees for the 16 branches and other operational expenditure has been eating into the funds left with the bank, a point that did not sit well with disgruntled depositors. The aggrieved depositors said that they are unhappy with the “prolonged delay” and had also expressed concern over the continued expenditure on rent and utility services at the defunct bank’s branches. Meanwhile, Sawant said that the data on the depositors and the funds owed to each depositor has been submitted to the RBI. “Data on the depositors has been transferred to the RBI and they will scrutinise it carefully. They will go very minutely into the information and only then will the depositors get their money. We hope that before Christmas repayment should start,” said Sawant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mapusa-urban-to-close-16-branches-from-jan-1/articleshow/79436735.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Delhi||American dream soured, man returns to India after 25 years for life in crime||NEW DELHI: Avinash Sharma had moved to the US in 1990 to pursue the American dream. However, he had to return to India in 2015 after failing to get its citizenship. Back home in Delhi, the 60-year-old took up a job at an electrical company but was unhappy with the meagre income that did not support a lavish lifestyle he was apparently used to. Hence, he and his accountant friend Ravi Gupta, a DU graduate, joined hands and got two others, Rohit and Amit, to form a gang in 2017 to target businessmen and collection agents. While Sharma would collect and develop intelligence, the rest would do the recce. Two incidents this year prompted Crime Branch to go after them. In January, they looted Rs 60 lakh from a businessman in Hari Nagar; on September 29, a collection agent was robbed of Rs 50 lakh. Additional commissioner (crime) Shivesh Singh formed a team led by DCP (crime) Bhisham Singh, which conducted a raid at a flat in Vijay Vihar and arrested the gang members. “Three pistols and live cartridges were seized from the flat, which was bought using the looted money and served as their hideout. A Volkswagen Polo car, parked near the hideout, was also seized,” the additional CP said. Gupta told cops that he had used details of businessmen gathered from accounting firms to identify targets. “The gang had also looted Rs 40 lakh from a businessman in Farsh Bazar in 2018 and Rs 36.5 lakh in three incidents in 2017. The crimes were committed at KN Katju Marg, Maurya Enclave and Subash Place. They also looted Rs 7 lakh from a trader in Rani Bagh the same year,” the DCP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/american-dream-soured-man-returns-to-india-after-25-yrs-for-life-in-crime/articleshow/79436459.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Pune||Students want more transparency in Pune varsity’s result check||Pune: Savitribai Phule Pune University’s circular on Wednesday said the university is checking some of the complaints made by students regarding mistakes in their final-year results and a decision would be taken by December 3. The affected students expressed their displeasure on the circular on social media. Many said there should be transparency. “How do we know if our complaints have been checked? Thousands of students have complained about mistakes in their results. We want the university to come out with a Google Form where students can write their grievance and then the university should respond to every student,” Kamalakar Shete, a commerce student said. All final-year examinations for all courses under SPPU were held between October 12 and November 7 in an online and offline manner. While many results are already out, the examination department has received complaints from many students alleging mistakes in them. “After scrutinising the complaints, certain facts have come forward. There is a mismatch in the actual subjects attempted by the student during the examination and the name of the subject mentioned in the complaint, use of two different email ids while attempting the examination, not completing the examination due to technical reasons and so on. Looking at the number of students and other related matters, the exam department has decided to take a decision by December 3. If there are changes in the result, they would be reflected in the mark sheet which would be uploaded on results.unipune.ac.in,” said the circular.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/students-want-more-transparency-in-pune-varsitys-result-check/articleshow/79436465.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Madurai||MKU to hold distance education exams soon||Madurai: The Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) will soon conduct the semester, non-semester and arrear exams for all distance education course students, originally scheduled for April 2020 through online mode. Meanwhile, the university cancelled the online April 2020 arrear exams and July 2020 supplementary exams for UG and PG students that were under way for the past two days due to cyclone Nivar. “Due to cyclone Nivar, the exams had to be cancelled for these past two days, but they will resume again from Friday. Exams that were scheduled for these two days will be held after all other exams are completed,” said MKU vice-chancellor M Krishnan. He said that preparations are also under way to soon conduct the distance education exams. “These exams had not been conducted due to the pandemic and pass marks were also not awarded. Hence, through a private agency, these exams will be conducted by online mode. Everything will be finalised soon,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mku-to-hold-distance-education-exams-soon/articleshow/79436477.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Madurai||Lockdown pushes up No. of Pocso cases||Madurai: The number of sexual assault cases against children in Madurai district, has gone up by 67% this year compared to last year, according to the data available with the rural police. Police have attributed the increase to various factors including the lockdown, increased awareness among parents, children and relatives, and sensitivity with which the police handle sexual harassment and assault cases. While 63 cases were registered under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act last year, 105 cases have been registered so far this year. Given the average number of cases being registered every month, the total number of cases might cross 115 this year, police said. Additional superintendent of police S Vanitha told TOI that during lockdown as people’s movement was restricted to their houses, the idle ones could have targeted innocent children playing in the neighbourhood. Utmost efforts have been taken to register cases immediately and get punishment for the accused in the court of law, she said. “Most children are sexually assaulted by their neighbours or people known to them. It is important for the parents to monitor their children’s movement and with whom they spend time when they get out of the houses,” she said. A police inspector from one of the all women police stations said that during lockdown there was a spurt in the number of child marriage cases too. In most cases, particularly those which were brought to the notice of authorities after the marriage was conducted, Pocso Act was invoked since the minors were raped by the grooms. Police said that awareness programmes have been conducted frequently targeting school children and teachers. Training camps are being conducted time to time to increase sensitisation among police personnel and refresh them with the rules and regulations, which need to be followed while dealing with the sexual assault cases. Elected village representatives and village nurses are kept in the loop to get alerts on child marriages and sexual assault incidents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/lockdown-pushes-up-no-of-pocso-cases/articleshow/79436463.cms||V Devanathan
November 27, 2020||Surat||SGCCI arranges free transport for senior citizens||Surat: In a unique initiative to help the senior citizens arriving in the trains at Surat railway station during night hours, the Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) has decided to provide door-step transportation service in the city. Office-bearers of SGCCI said that the night curfew has been imposed in the city to contain the spread of coronavirus pandemic. In this situation, passengers arriving in the late night trains are not getting the transportation mode to travel to their homes.Group chairman of SGCCI, Dr Anil Saraogi told TOI, “We have gone a step ahead from our core responsibility towards the trade and industry to help the senior citizens of the city. I came across a couple of instance where senior citizens faced problems travelling from railway station during night. Thus, we decided to start transportation service for the senior citizens.” “SGCCI has over 10,000 members and that we have reached out to them via social media regarding the transportation service for the senior citizen. There will be a dedicated helpline number where the relatives in the city will have to upload the train ticket and provide the contact details of the senior citizens,” added Saraogi. About 25 cars have been arranged by the SGCCI along with the drivers to transport the senior citizen from railway station to their destinations. The number cars will be scaled up to 100, depending on the requirement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/sgcci-arranges-free-transport-for-senior-citizens/articleshow/79434047.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Meerut||In a daring daylight murder, man shot dead in moving bus in Muzaffarnagar||MUZAFFARNAGAR: A 55-year-old man was shot dead by unidentified assailants in a moving bus on Bhopa road under Mandi police station limits in Muzaffarnagar district on Thursday. Police said the victim, Radheshyam of Morna village, was on his way to the city in the bus when he was shot dead. Police have launched a probe to arrest the killers and ascertain the motive behind the murder. After getting information, police rushed to spot and launched a search drive to nab the killers, who were sitting behind the victim and deboarded the bus after shooting him in his head. Muzaffarnagar senior superintendent of police Abhishek Yadav, too, inspected the crime scene and instructed area police to crack the murder case. “We have put several police teams to the task of arresting the accused.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/in-a-daring-daylight-murderman-shot-dead-in-moving-bus/articleshow/79434036.cms||Mohd Dilshad
November 27, 2020||Chennai||Post cyclone, city corpn raises guard against dengue too||Chennai: About 200 people moved to relief camps in the city due to very severe cyclone Nivar have been shifted to corporation quarantine centres after they showed influenza-like symptoms. They are being screened for Covid-19. “Their samples have been collected and they have been isolated to ensure that, if infected, spread of Covid-19 is avoided. We have appointed three people in every relief centre to work in three shifts and ensure that people housed in the corporation-run centres wear masks and maintain social distancing at all times,” said Divya Darshini, deputy commissioner, health, Greater Chennai Corporation. She added that around 2,000 people have been accommodated in such centres. Apart from this, the civic body is following the health safety protocols followed post the 2015 floods. “We are spraying bleaching powder and lime powder mix on street corners and in inundated streets. We fear the possibility of sewage mixing with stagnant rainwater. A separate team has been put together at the zone level to manage this. We have also started organising fever camps to identify symptomatic people. We had 400 such camps on Thursday,” she added. The civic body is also ensuring that all robotic machines and amphibians used to clear garbage and plastics blocking stormwater drains, canals and lakes is ready, a precaution to avoid breeding of mosquitoes. Focus is back on slum pockets to ensure people don’t catch dengue or malaria. Source reduction measures have begun using not just domestic breeding checkers (DBC) but also volunteers used for Covid-19 field work. The civic body is also planning to use the iGot Covid-19 (https://igot.gov.in) patient monitoring portal to concentrate on all communicable diseases. “It is being used only to check on Covid positive patients now and helps our officials track them after their results turn positive. We will expand its usage,” said Divya Darshini.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/post-cyclone-city-corpn-raises-guard-against-dengue-too/articleshow/79435147.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Hyderabad||HC hauls up Telangana health chief for contempt as test fiat flouted||HYDERABAD: Telangana high court on Thursday slapped a contempt notice on director of public health Dr G Srinivasa Rao for not implementing the court order to increase Covid-19 tests. The court also took strong objection to an affidavit filed by Dr Rao, calling it an “eyewash”. Recalling its November 19 order in which it said that the government and the health director must increase the number of tests, a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy issued the contempt proceedings against him after hearing him in person and told the director to respond within two weeks, posting the case to Dec 17. The court was upset with the intemperate language used in the affidavit in which Dr Rao said though the court had ordered him to increase the tests to 50,000 per day and also to conduct one lakh tests during one of the days in a week, he would increase the tests as and when the need arises. The judges said their Nov 19 order gave no such discretion to him. The CJ said: “The public health director bestowed upon himself the judicial powers and said he would increase tests as and when the need arises. He says he will do it as and when he feels like doing it and feels that till then the HC order will be in cold storage. Who gave him the power to change my order? He has the courage to tell this to the high court. God alone can help him now.” In a stern warning to all the officials for not acting on court orders with requisite seriousness, the judges said neighbouring AP is doing 1.85 lakh tests per million and Delhi is doing 2.85 lakh tests, whereas Telangana is conducting just 1.32 lakh tests per million. “Winter has set in and there is a danger of a second wave of Covid-19 looming over us. The state is not prepared to face the wrath of the furious second wave. The government has not deployed any mechanism to ensure that people are maintaining social distancing and wearing masks during the ongoing GHMC elections, the judges said, Advocate general B S Prasad made an appeal to the bench that the language used by the health director in the affidavit was not intentional and assured the court that it would be rectified. He urged the court not to issue any contempt proceedings, but the judges did not relent. The judges said as per the numbers in the affidavit, Covid-19 tests did not cross 43,000 in five days in the last seven days. On Nov 24, it went up to 47,000 and on Nov 22, it was a mere 24,000. “The government did not set up more number of RT-PCR labs as promised.” Directing the government to constitute a committee to analyse the traits of the virus, the judges said this may help the state to devise ways and means to tackle the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-hauls-up-t-health-chief-for-contempt-as-test-fiat-flouted/articleshow/79437080.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Pune||Live project experience for CoEP’s civil engineering students at R&D centre||Pune: A research and development centre to provide civil engineering students with knowledge in construction has been set up at the College of Engineering, Pune (CoEP) in association with Vascon Engineers. The latest industry know-how will be imparted by top practitioners in construction and academia, and training on live projects will be given to the students. The proposed R Vasudevan Centre of R&D, housed in the civil engineering building, will bridge the gap between classroom academics and expertise required in jobs, and reduce the gestation periods of professionals entering the industry. Director of CoEP B B Ahuja said, “ The centre is a one-of-a kind partnership to equip our students to be industry-ready with an edge over the others. We are focused on creating an industry-relevant curriculum in a fast-evolving ecosystem.” A recent report by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors shows a demand-supply gap between 82% and 86% of skilled civil engineers, architects and others, a statement issued as part of this collaboration said. The country needs four million skilled civil engineers until next year, it added. The centre will also work on innovative and practical solutions to benefit the industry, and focus on promoting training in the latest technologies and equipment. Managing director of Vascon Engineers, Siddharth Vasudevan, said, “This centre will provide a robust platform for academia and industry to interact, and innovate and co-create newer technologies for the construction industry. Professionals joining the industry fresh out of college require additional exposure and training to be industry-ready.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/live-project-experience-for-coeps-civil-engineering-students-at-rd-centre/articleshow/79436493.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Madurai||Urologists see rise in bladder ailments||Madurai: There has been a jump in the number of patients with complicated bladder-related ailments during the lockdown, thanks mainly to the delay in getting treatment, say urologists. Speaking to TOI in connection with observance of ‘World bladder health awareness month’ in November, they urged the public to take bladder health seriously. Dr V Ramesh, urologist, Harley Rram Hospital, said treating such patients has become challenging as they have delayed seeking medical help due to the pandemic. Some patients had shifted to alternative medicines during the lockdown period which has also worsened their condition. They said diabetic patients, who are also at high risk of contracting Covid-19, are more likely to have bladder issues and urinary tract infections (UTIs). “In the case of diabetic patients, the nerves leading to the bladder are affected and such patients may not be able to fully empty their bladder and stagnant urine leads to infections. Diabetic control is important to prevent such infection,” said Dr R Ravichandran, senior consultant and head of the department of urology and andrology, Meenakshi Mission Hospital and Research Centre. He added that in case of non-diabetics, the risk of developing infections is higher only in the elderly. While many of the bladder-related ailments are treatable by medicines, some patients require surgical intervention. “Delaying simple surgeries like kidney stone removal could lead to major issues in the long run,” said Dr R Venkat Karthey, another urologist. Maintaining personal hygiene is also important to prevent bladder and urinary infections. “In case of women especially, when using western toilets, cleanliness is very important ,” said Dr Ravichandran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/urologists-see-rise-in-bladder-ailments/articleshow/79436509.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
November 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi's private hospitals told to update list of vacant EWS beds in real time||NEW DELHI: A day after TOI highlighted the issue of vacant EWS beds at Delhi’s private hospitals, the state health authorities swung into action. Sources said directions have been issued to private hospitals to update the status of vacant beds in real time on the government website so that the beneficiaries can approach them for Covid-19 as well as non-Covid problems. There are 61 private hospitals across the city that have acquired land at cheaper rates and, according to an order by the Supreme Court, they have to reserve 10% of their in-patient department capacity and 25% out-patient department for free treatment of poor patients. Ashok Agarwal, a member of the committee appointed by Delhi High Court for implementation of free bed facility, said together, they have more than 950 beds earmarked for EWS patients. “Since the pandemic started, many hospitals haven’t been admitting EWS patients on one pretext or the other. I hope the government directives to hospitals to fulfil their mandate will help change the situation,” he said. On Thursday, the real-time data shared by hospitals showed more than 500 EWS beds were lying vacant. This included 25 ICU beds with ventilator support and 55 ICU beds without ventilator support. ICU beds have been in high demand due to Covid-19 outbreak and many patients are struggling to find such beds. The rule says any poor patient can visit a private hospital directly for admission under EWS quota or state-run hospitals can refer their patients if required. Nodal officers have been deputed by all hospitals to facilitate admission to the needy, officials said. “Due to Covid-19 pandemic, many patients with non-Covid problems are avoiding visiting hospitals. This could be one of the reasons behind vacant beds under the EWS category,” said an official in the state health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pvt-hosps-told-to-update-list-of-vacant-ews-beds-in-real-time/articleshow/79436497.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Madurai||Covid-19: Uptick in south TN, sharp fall in central dists||Madurai/Trichy: The 10 southern districts showed a marginal rise of fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday too, with 184 people testing positive. With this, the tally has climbed to 1,28,702, which include 974 active cases, 1,25,668 recoveries and 2,060 deaths. Meanwhile in the central region, the number of fresh cases plunged to a new low for the first time after several months. The eight districts registered 85 cases taking the tally to 70,160. This was a result of the sharp dip in the number of cases in Nagapattinam (3) and Tiruvarur (7) districts. Both the regions reported one death each, in Nagapattinam and Madurai. Dindigul (42) reported the highest number of fresh cases in the south. However, Dindigul has only 90 active cases. With 220 and 127 active cases, Madurai and Tirunelveli have the most number of active cases in the region, followed by Tuticorin (118) and Kanyakumari (113). All other districts have less than 100 active cases, with the least number being at Theni (31). Except for Madurai (33) and Virudhunagar (22), all other districts reported less than 20 fresh cases on Thursday. Kanyakumari (19), Tuticorin (18), Tirunelveli (15), Theni (13), Sivaganga (11), and Tenkasi (10), all reported new cases in double digits. Ramanathapuram, which has 43 active cases, recorded only one fresh case. The Covid-19 death rate in the southern region remains at 1.6%. Officials in the central region said that the decline in the number of testing brought down the fresh positive cases in Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur. Incidences of fresh cases in the two districts were between 20 and 30 in the recent days. Thanjavur recorded 22 cases. Perambalur again reported one case as it has the two active cases at present, the lowest among other districts. Ariyalur registered three cases, while the number of active cases is 18. Trichy recorded 25 fresh cases, the highest in the region, taking the tally to 13,324.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/covid-19-uptick-in-south-tn-sharp-fall-in-central-dists/articleshow/79436485.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 27, 2020||Surat||Polyester weavers oppose duty extension||Surat: The powerloom weaving sector is bracing for the increase in the polyester yarn prices in the coming days with the union finance ministry extending the levy of the anti-dumping duty on the polyester filament yarn imported from China, which is the main raw material for Surat’s textile sector. Industry sources said that about 80% of the yarn used in the manufacturing of fabrics in Surat consist of polyester filament yarn. The monthly consumption of polyester yarn in is pegged at 90,000 tonne. The yarn is supplied by the yarn spinning companies in Surat, Silvassa and Vapi. Sources said that the Directorate General of Trade Remedies (DGTR) had conducted the sunset review of the anti-dumping duty on polyester filament yarn and concluded that the dumping of yarn from China is causing injury to the domestic industry and recommended the continuation of the duty. Ashish Gujarati, president of Pandesara Weavers Association (PWA) said, “Removal of the anti-dumping duty on polyester filament yarn has been our long pending demand. Due to the extension of duty on imported yarn, the local spinners would increase the yarn prices. At present, the powerloom industry is operating at 70% capacity in wake of the coronavirus pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/polyester-weavers-oppose-duty-extension/articleshow/79434059.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Nashik||Trader duped of goods worth Rs 5.6 lakh||NASHIK: The Adgaon police have registered a case of cheating against two people after they allegedly duped a city-based shopkeeper of goods worth Rs 5.6 lakh. The suspects have been booked under section 420 of the Indian Penal Code. According to the complainant, one of the suspect from Akole taluka of Ahmednagar district purchased various goods related to building material from the trader’s shop, but did not clear dues at the time. The goods were packed and shipped off to another suspect in Niphad taluka from where they were supposed to be sent further to Akole. However, after delivering the goods when the trader asked for money, both the suspects refused to pay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/trader-duped-of-goods-worth-rs-5-6l/articleshow/79433153.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 27, 2020||Chennai||PIL seeks fin relief for 1,250 veggie traders||Chennai: A public interest writ petition seeking government’s cash assistance for 1,256 small vendors at Koyambedu Wholesale Vegetable Market for the period the shops were closed due to the pandemic has been filed in the Madras high court. Admitting the plea, a division bench of Justice M Sathyanarayanan and Justice R Hemalatha directed the state to file its response by January 28. When the plea came up for hearing, advocate Kaushik N Sharma representing the petitioner submitted that there are 1,256 vendors who fall under A4 and A5 categories and they did not have any source of income for the past five-and-half months. Therefore, the traders must be granted subsidy, grant/ monetary assistance for the period for which shops were ordered to be closed in the light of Covid-19, he said. He added that the city corporation must also consider providing them property tax remission. According to the petitioner, after the Koyambedu premises was closed due to the pandemic, 196 vendors under A1, A2 and A3 categories were alone allotted shops at Thirumazhisai and the vendors holding A4 and A5 shops were left in the lurch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pil-seeks-fin-relief-for-1250-veggie-traders/articleshow/79435162.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 5,475 fresh Covid cases, toll stays under 100 for 2nd day||NEW DELHI: The daily death toll due to Covid-19 in Delhi remained below 100 for the second consecutive day on Thursday even as new cases registered a marginal increase — from 5,246 on Wednesday to 5,475 on Thursday. In the past 24 hours, 91 people died compared with 99 on Wednesday, the state health department said. The total deaths have now reached 8,811. Of these, 2,300 took place in November, the highest in a month till date. June had seen 2,269 deaths due to the viral disease. The number of daily deaths crossed the 100 mark at least seven times between November 12 and 24. The highest fatalities of 131 recorded in a single day was on November 18. In all, 1,64,556 new cases have been reported in the past 26 days, averaging 6,329 cases daily. The total tally has crossed 5.51 lakh. On the brighter side, the positivity rate — number of positive cases among those tested — has reduced to less than 10% over the last two days. Data from the state health department showed that in the past 24 hours, 63,266 people were tested for Covid-19, the highest till date for the city, of which 8.65% came positive. Of the total tests conducted, a record 28,897 were done by RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat. The city had recorded its highest single-day spike of 8,593 cases on November 11. In all, 6,746 new cases were recorded on Sunday, 4,454 on Monday, 6,224 on Tuesday and 5,246 on Wednesday. “The spike in cases in the first few weeks of November was due to the festival rush. But now there is a reduction in new cases and the positivity rate, which is a good sign. But people, especially those with comorbidities, need to remain extra careful. Maximum deaths due to the infection occurred in people with a history of heart disease, cancer, uncontrolled diabetes, among other ailments,” said a senior health department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/5475-fresh-covid-cases-toll-stays-under-100-for-2nd-day/articleshow/79436583.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
November 27, 2020||Pune||Squad of 4 to check 3 lakh registered documents for RERA violations||PUNE: The state government has directed the Inspector General of Registration and Stamps (IGR) to submit a report on violations in property documents registered in Pune city from October 2019. A four-member squad appointed for this purpose faces an uphill task — there an estimated 3 lakh documents registered at the 27 sub-registrar offices in the city. The panel would visit each office and check the documents for any violations under the Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA) Act or the Maharashtra Prevention of Fragmentation and Consolidation of Holdings Act. The panel would have to scrutinize an average of 2,800 documents at each sub-registrar office per day and submit its findings to the government by December 1. State IGR Omprakash Deshmukh told TOI that the “Herculean” exercise has begun. “We may have to seek an extension if the work is not completed, but each document must be checked and verified without fail,” he said. The government appointed this squad after complaints from citizens about the violations that many projects had not been registered with the state RERA regulator, and other projects also violated the other law. State revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat on Thursday said they would replicate this across the state. “The entire process is aimed at bringing about transparency and to ensure that all the documents, while being registered, are checked for compliance,” he explained. As per a state government circular, officials must check for the RERA registration number and other details while registering documents. “If a project is exempt from this, then relevant documents should be submitted,” Thorat said. A member of the committee said it would be a time-consuming process as the documents are not filed under separate categories. “We would need to check all registered documents, which include leave and licence, sale of new properties and gift deeds,” he said. On an average, each office registers 600-800 documents per month. “The state government eventually plans to check for violations of other Acts,” another member said. Consumer rights’ activist Shrikant Joshi said buyers should not be made to suffer if any violations were found. “The government should weed out such violations,” Joshi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/squad-of-4-to-check-3l-registered-documents-for-rera-violations/articleshow/79435190.cms||Nisha Nambiar
November 27, 2020||Nagpur||12 Delhi flyers found positive, 1,230 rly passengers screened||Nagpur: Of the 103 flyers whose swab samples were collected on Wednesday at Nagpur airport, 12 from Delhi have reported positive in the RT-PCR test. These flyers were tested as they were not carrying a Covid negative report as mandated by the state SOP for travellers coming in from four hotspot states — Rajasthan, Gujarat and Goa being the other three.The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) health team found another 24 flyers arriving without a Covid negative report on Thursday. They too were tested and the results are awaited.Additional municipal commissioner Sanjay Nipane said that NMC immediately started monitoring and contact tracing of the 12 flyers who tested positive. “Our teams called them up and counselled as per Covid protocol. They have been asked to isolate themselves at home if asymptomatic or shift to Pachpaoli CCC. We also advised them to immediately get hospitalized at medical colleges or private hospitals, as per their choice, if they develop symptoms,” he said.The development has caused a concern among civic circles as the travellers can bring new virus strain to the city from hotspots while the situation here is pretty much under control, said officials.For the second consecutive day, the Central Railway screened over 1,000 passengers at the station and didn’t find anyone symptomatic. As per the NMC record, around seven passengers took antigen test on their own and were found negative. “No passenger has so far showed any symptoms. The seven persons who were tested didn’t have fever, cough or cold,” said the civic officials.Central Railway assistant commercial manager (ACM) and spokesperson SG Rao said that nine trains arrived in the city from Delhi and Gujarat on Thursday. “In all, 1,230 passengers arriving from the affected states were screened for temperature and symptoms. The process was carried out smoothly,” said Rao.Similarly, none of the road passengers was found to be positive or showed any symptoms during the checking started on Thursday. A day before, the cops had done the preparations but district officials didn’t reach the border points.The district authorities, assisted by cops, checked road travellers at four points in Narkhed taluka, and one point at Narkhed railway station. Another team will be deployed by the tehsildar at Kelvad taluka from Friday to check travellers coming from Delhi, Gujarat and Rajasthan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/12-delhi-flyers-found-positive-1230-rly-passengers-screened/articleshow/79434061.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Nagpur||Civil aviation ministry objects to charging flyers for Covid tests||Nagpur: Soon after the state government issued restrictions on travellers from Delhi, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Goa, the ministry of civil aviation has raised an objection over alleged bias against flyers, who have to pay for their tests on arrival, if they are not carrying Covid negative test results. Road and rail passengers are tested for free. The central ministry wants a uniform policy towards travellers of all three modes — air, road and rail.Even as the state government had made it mandatory for persons entering Maharashtra from these states to have a Covid-negative report, there are different norms for travellers on the three modes. Fliers have to board the plane with a Covid negative report. However, those not having one can get the tests done at the airport where they arrive by paying for it. The air travellers have to get a RT-PCR test, which takes at least six hours to generate a result.Travellers by rail and road on the other hand have to get the much faster Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) done, and also do not have to pay anything.A senior bureaucrat of secretary rank at Mumbai Mantralaya told TOI that the state government has received an objection from the civil aviation ministry, which is demanding a uniform policy for all.The state government is now working on the uniform policy, which will deal with aspects like charges and type of test to be conducted on travellers. “A final decision has not been taken yet. However, the RT-PCR is always a more reliable option,” the officer said.Talking to TOI, chief secretary Sanjay Kumar said the idea behind charging flyers is to stress that they should be flying with a Covid negative report in hand. He said it is the local body’s discretion to appoint a testing agency. It can be from the private or government sector, depending on the situation, and the decision is of the concerned local body, he said.At Nagpur airport, operator Mihan India Limited (MIL) has been handed a list of empanelled laboratories. Each one will be conducting the tests turn by turn on daily basis, said airport director Abid Ruhi.Additional municipal commissioner Sanjay Nipane told TOI NMC had only provided a list of approved labs to Nagpur airport operator. It was the operator’s discretion to appoint any of the labs, he said.“NMC is already carrying out free testing at 53 centres. However, as per the civic body’s norms, it cannot charge for the tests. The Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) laid down by the state government on the other hand says that the flyers have to pay for the tests at the airport,” Nipane added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/civil-aviation-ministry-objects-to-charging-flyers-for-covid-tests/articleshow/79434067.cms||Shishir Arya
November 27, 2020||Chennai||HC nod to fell 1.8K trees to build Ooty medical college||Chennai: The Madras high court has permitted the state government to cut 1,838 trees standing on the 25 acres allotted for a government medical college in Ooty. A division bench of Justice M Sathyanarayanan and Justice R Hemalatha vacated the stay after authorities informed the court that the trees proposed to be uprooted were neither native species nor part of Shola forest, but only commercial trees such as eucalyptus. The issue pertains to a PIL moved by advocate V Ramesh, who wanted the court to restrain the state from constructing new buildings for the hospital on the land and to utilise the existing buildings of Hindustan Photo Films which is now defunct. On September 14, the court passed an interim order prohibiting the state from felling trees at the site but permitted it to construct new buildings. Now, requesting the court to vacate the stay, advocate-general of Tamil Nadu Vijay Narayan submitted that the earmarked trees were not native trees and they also do not form part of Shola Forests which existed during colonial period. “Cutting and removing the trees to pave way for a medical college hospital will not lead to ecological imbalance or environmental degradation,” Vijay Narayan said. As per the list provided by the AG, de-marked trees are 1,683 Eucalyptus Globlus, 1 Eucalyptus Grandis, 59 Accasia Mearnsil, 39 Pinus Pettula, 13 Accasia Melonoxylum, 2 Michalia Chenpaga, 39 Cypress Couprosses, and 2 Phodocarpus Latifolia. Recording the submissions, the bench said: “This court, on careful perusal of the materials and consideration of the rival submissions, is of the considered view that felling of the trees can be done, in the light of the clearances obtained, the details of which have been narrated in the affidavits filed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-nod-to-fell-1-8k-trees-to-build-ooty-medical-college/articleshow/79435175.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Kolkata||Registration time not enough: Calcutta University colleges||KOLKATA: Several colleges have approached Calcutta University, requesting more time to upload their registration data along with the students’ testimonials on the varsity’s website to conclude the admission process for the undergraduate courses. The university has set a deadline of November 30 for the colleges to upload the scanned and self-attested copies of the students’ testimonials along with other information on its website. This year, the entire registration process for admissions is being held online, owing to the pandemic. The university has set up a new portal for the head of colleges to upload all registration related data and certificates and has handed over a detailed list of information the university needs for the registration process. Most principals, however, felt the time granted was inadequate. “The university issued the notification for registration on November 13, a Friday. Since the list of requirements is long, we need to give the students at least 7 to 10 days to furnish all the information and mail us the certificates,” said the principal of a north Kolkata college, who did not wish to be named. “We must consider that many students stay in far flung areas where both internet connectivity and availability of a scanner can be big problems. Once we receive all the mails, we have to extract the data and draw up the Excel sheet and send it to the university. The university must review the deadline,” he added. As soon as the university notified the dates, most colleges approached the students through their websites and also contacted them on their mobiles, seeking the scanned copies of the certificates, that include marksheets of class X and XII, copy of the application form downloaded from the college’s portal, photo, signature, proof of birth, proof of address and caste, BPL and person with disability certificates if applicable. Last date to submit the documents at Lady Brabourne College and New Alipore College was Thursday while that for Maulana Azad College was November 24. The last date to submit the details at Gokhale Memorial Girls’ College is midnight of November 27. “After securing admission, many candidates do not follow the college’s website regularly, which is why we have also sent messages on the registered mobile numbers of the students,” said the principal of a south Kolkata college.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/registration-time-not-enough-cu-colleges/articleshow/79435193.cms||Zeeshan Javed
November 27, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand’s first ‘gravity dam’ to address Dehradun’s water woes||DEHRADUN: The state’s first gravity dam project, to be built at the foothills of Mussoorie on the Saung river, is expected to relieve Dehradun of its chronic water shortage during summers. The project that got forest clearance from the Union environment ministry on Wednesday, would involve construction of a 3.50 km-long lake, which is also expected to serve as a tourist attraction and stimulate the state’s eco-tourism plans.  Dehradun requires around 200 million litres of drinking water per day (MLD), of which 180 MLD comes from groundwater, which has stressed the water table. “We extract 180 MLD from our 291 tubewells, and fetch the remainder from natural aquifers. But in summers, as water in tubewells gets depleted by over 15%. This leads to a crisis situation sometimes. The dam will help us adequately supply water to all of Doon localities, especially its dry areas,” said Sandeep Kashyap, executive engineer, Pey Jal Nigam, Uttarakhand. The city’s dry areas include Raipur, the downward area from Dillaram Chowk towards Saharanpur Chowk, Sahastradhara, Chukhu mohalla, Rispana Pul etc. Residents of these areas excessively depend on tubewells, which exacerbates the supply during summers and peak tourist season. The dam, named after the river Saung that will feed it, will be built over 138.122 hectares in village Sondhna in Maldevta, and will be around 130.60m in height. It is estimated to cost Rs 1,580 crore if construction is completed within three years. Its reservoir will span around 76 hectares, and with its 150MLD water, it is projected to fulfill the drinking water needs of 10 lakh people till 2051. The dam will also reduce the need for new tubewells, preserving Doon’s scarce groundwater and saving electricity costs. Speaking of the need for more such reservoirs in the state, S C Pant, the superintending engineer of Pey Jal Nigam, said, “The Saung dam will end the water crisis facing urban Dehradun. But we’ll still have to think of people living in the city outskirts, in places like Selaqui, Pondha and Harrawala, where this water won’t be available.” He added, “These types of reservoirs have become a necessity over the past decade, in order to provide uninterrupted water supply to the state’s rising population.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhands-first-gravity-dam-to-address-doons-water-woes/articleshow/79434102.cms||Shivani Azad
November 27, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata airport falls back on diesel gensets after power snap||KOLKATA: Power supply to Kolkata airport was disrupted on Thursday evening when two high-voltage cables were severed during Metro construction work. The terminal’s power load was transferred to standby diesel generators around 6pm, but even this supply floundered around 8.15pm, leading to shut down of in-line baggage X-Ray, conveyor belts, automatic tray retrieval system at security check and elevators and escalators in the departure area and the baggage retrieval carousel in the arrival area. “The airport is now functioning on emergency supply. Only critical operations, like X-Ray scan of bags and emergency lights are in operation. Nearly every other operation in the terminal is being manually operated. This is leading to delay in flight operations by 30-60 minutes,” an airline official told TOI at 9pm. The cable damage had momentarily stopped all power supply to the terminal. Once generators became operational, there were still minor fluctuations that caused concern. Around 8.15pm, everything other than the terminal emergency lights abruptly shut down after the generators tripped, plunging the facility into semi-darkness. Electrical engineers had to put critical services on reserve solar power generated in-house to keep the passenger facilities functional. The airport has the capacity to generate 17MW solar power. “Luckily, the generator issue was sorted out around 9.15pm,” an airport source said. “Only one of the supply lines — to the passenger terminal — was affected. The supply line to flight operation zones remained uninterrupted,” a CESC official said, adding that work was underway to restore supply sometime in the night. The partial blackout left airport officials red-faced as passengers took to Twitter to mock the authorities. Kanaad Bhat tweeted, “At @KolkataAirport since 30 minutes. Waiting for luggage as power is down. And this is supposed to be among the top metros in the country. Thanks.” Another passenger said, “Loadshedding in airport came true in my life. Cheers to @KolkataAirport for fulfilling one of my dreams today...”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/airport-falls-back-on-diesel-gensets-after-power-snap/articleshow/79435226.cms||Subhro Niyogi
November 27, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra: Thousands visit Shirdi Sai temple, donate over Rs 3 crore in just eight days||NASHIK: The Shri Saibaba Sansthan Trust, Shirdi, has received Rs 3.1 crore in donations from the devotees who visited the temple in the eight days since the religious centres were allowed to reopen. The state government has issued the standard operating procedure for religious places to follow amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Trust officials said the volume of donations was 50% less than the donation volume prior to the Covid-19 outbreak. However, the number of devotees visiting the temple is significantly lower due to the regulated entry. “Usually, the temple receives Rs 6 crore on average in eight days, depending on the rush,” a senior officer from the trust said. Since the reopening of the temple on November 17, as many as 48,200 devotees have visited the temple. In pre-Covid times, the temple used to recieve around 40,000 devotees per day. Now, entry into the temple is allowed only if the devotee has pre-registered. Also there is a daily cap of 6,000 visitors. Visitors made their offerings in the form of cash donations and other means. While Rs 1.5 crore was collected in the ‘donation box’, Rs 33 lakh was donated across the counter. The temple trust also received another Rs 1.2 crore via debit card, cheque payment, demand draft, money order transactions. Foreign currency worth Rs 1.7 lakh was also received by the Sansthan during the period. The devotees also contributed in the kind by donating over 64 gm of gold and over 3,800 gm of silver to the temple. The ‘paid darshan’ scheme earned a revenue of Rs 61 lakh during the period, the authorities added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/thousands-visit-shirdi-sai-temple-donate-over-rs-3cr-in-just-eight-days/articleshow/79433168.cms||Abhilash Botekar
November 27, 2020||Pune||One held on charge of culpable homicide||PUNE: One person was arrested, while his accomplice was booked on Thursday on the charge of culpable homicide in relation to the death of a 45-year-old Nana Peth resident who succumbed to heart attack after the duo allegedly threatened him with dire consequences over a money dispute on Wednesday. One of the two men was armed with a sharp weapon then. “Amjad Maqbool Khan’s medical report stated that he died of heart attack following a vein damage due to sudden rise in blood pressure,” senior inspector Vishnu Tamhane of the Samarth police told TOI. An FIR in this regard been lodged by Khan’s friend Imtiaz Menon (42), who was accompanying him at the time of the incident on Wednesday afternoon. Menon did not know the two men, but based on the description he provided to the police and the investigation, including phone calls received by the victim, the police established the identity of the two suspects. “On Thursday, we arrested Tajid Javed Shaikh (20), one of the suspects staying in Bhavani Peth,” Tamhane said, adding, “The search is on for Shaikh’s accomplice.” The officer said Khan was running a used electronic goods shop in Nana Peth. “Shaikh and his accomplice had lent him Rs15,000 about five months ago and were after him for recovering the dues. On Wednesday, the duo called and threatened him for money. In a bid to wriggle out, Khan pushed one of the suspects, who was armed with sharp weapon, but soon collapsed on the road. He was rushed to a hospital thereafter.” Tamhane said, “Khan himself was previously arrested in cases of body offences. He was suffering from heart ailment and high blood pressure. His family members and friends told us that they were not aware about Khan’s financial dealings with other people.” Police have arrested Shaikh under the section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/one-held-on-charge-of-culpable-homicide/articleshow/79435192.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Nagpur||No stopping school reopening confusion: Will RT-PCR be valid next mnth, ask teachers||Nagpur: Wednesday’s decision by authorities to defer school reopening in rural Nagpur till December 13 has led to multiple queries being raised by teacher associations. Right from questioning the validity of RT-PCR tests, to expenditure on sanitization to allegations of non-transparent functioning of the department, is being discussed among academic groups.Ashok Gavhankar, general secretary of Vidarbha Junior College Teachers Association (VJUCTA) said, “From November 17, our teachers have been lining up at the testing centres to get the RT-PCR tests done. This was all being done with the proposed reopening of schools on November 23 in mind. First the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) deferred it for city schools and now district collector too has pushed it ahead. But tests are continuing with no clarity on whether or not it will be valid later.”He added that there was nothing against the test, but the haphazard planning. “Fix up on date and stick to it. Everything is kept till the end like a suspense thriller,” said Gavhankar.Resident district collector Ravindra Khajanchi, who signed the order for school reopening postponement, said retesting will be subject to condition. “I think if they show symptoms, then definitely retest will be required,” said Khajanchi. Purshottam Panchbhai, vice president of Maharashtra Rajya Rashtravadi Shikshak Sangh (MRRSS), said this flip-flop by authorities show their immaturity. “They do not take decision looking ahead. Health experts had already predicted a spike in Covid-19 cases post-Diwali. So there was no need to reopen schools immediately after. All decisions must be taken with a one month viewpoint, not with a short sighted one,” said Panchbhai. Sundeep Gaikwad, vice president of School Headmasters Charitable Association (SHCA), said government must immediately release financial grant for schools. “Non-salary grants are anyway pending. But for this Covid-19 sanitization expenses, separate fund has to be released for schools. All preparations done by schools in rural areas have come to a naught. Now they have to do the same thing next month,” said Gaikwad. The SHCA and VJUCTA have already decided not to reopen school until all students are tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-stopping-school-reopening-confusion-will-rt-pcr-be-valid-next-mnth-ask-teachers/articleshow/79434104.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
November 27, 2020||Nagpur||50 volunteers get second dose of Covishield vaccine||Nagpur: The human trials of Covishield vaccine under way at GMCH Nagpur entered a crucial phase when 50 volunteers, who had received the first dose of the vaccine a month ago, got the second dose on Thursday. Covishield has been developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca, and it will be produced and distributed in India through the Serum Institute of India (SII), Pune. Recently, it was announced that the vaccine has shown more than 70% efficacy in initial trials. Dr Sushant Meshram, principal investigator of the trials at GMCH, said the promising results of the trials so far give confidence that Covishield could be a realistic solution to the Covid-19 pandemic.“All 50 volunteers had been given first dose of the vaccine on October 23. Their health parameters were monitored consistently for next 28 days. As all of them were doing fine, we administered second dose to all 50 in last two days,” Dr Meshram said. Now, blood tests of all volunteers will be conducted on 56th day and their health report will be collected on 90th day. The group of 50 volunteers includes 20 women and 30 men. While 45 participants are between 18 and 55 years of age, the team also includes 5 senior citizens, above 65 years. Trials at GMCH are being conducted as part of the third and final phase trials of Covishield, which is expected to become the first Covid-19 vaccine to become available in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/50-volunteers-get-second-dose-of-covishield-vaccine/articleshow/79434085.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 27, 2020||Business||Rs 25,000 crore bullet train contract creates record||NEW DELHI: The National High Speed Rail Corporation (NHSRCL) on Thursday signed the country’s largest ever government-funded civil contract of nearly Rs 25,000 crore for the Ahmedabad-Mumbai bullet train project with infrastructure major Larsen and Toubro (L&T). The construction company said they have deployed people on ground to start work. The NHRSCL has awarded work for 325 km falling in Gujarat to L&T. TOI on Thursday had reported that PM Modi asked the railways to go ahead with the work in Gujarat portion and complete it rather than waiting for Maharashtra to get the required land for this flagship project. Read AlsoL&amp;T bags over Rs 7,000 crore order to construct part of Bullet Train ProjectInfrastructure major Larsen and Toubro (L&amp;T) on Thursday said it has bagged an order worth over Rs 7,000 crore to construct a part of the Mumbai-Ahmedabad High Speed Rail (MAHSR), also known as the Bullet Train Project.Speaking on the occasion, the Japanese ambassador to India Satoshi Suzuki said the contract for such a mammoth infrastructure project has been awarded at a time when it was required to accelerate economic activities. He said the project will not only help in transfer of Japanese technologies to India but it will also transform urban development along its corridor. Read AlsoAfter Mumbai, Ahmedabad to get bullet train to DelhiAfter Mumbai, Delhi too will not be far away in the future. The National High Speed Rail Corporation Limited (NHSRCL), which is implementing the Ahmedabad-Mumbai bullet train project, has invited tenders to collect data for bullet trains connecting Ahmedabad to the country's national capital Delhi.Railway board CEO and chairman, V K Yadav, said that after completion of this first bullet train project, the government will take up more such train corridors on seven more routes. There will be employment generation not only for professionals like engineers, technicians, designers and architects but also for skilled and semi-skilled workforce and construction workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rs-24000-crore-bullet-train-contract-creates-record/articleshow/79437491.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Pune||ATM tied to SUV, uprooted||Pune: Three men uprooted a cash dispensing machine from its kiosk after tying it to a white sports utility vehicle (SUV) around 1.30am on Thursday at Manchar, about 66km from the city. The cash dispensing machine contained Rs5 lakh. The value of the machine was Rs1 lakh, Pune rural police said. “The kiosk was unmanned and the siren at the facility was defunct,” said an officer from the rural police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/atm-tied-to-suv-uprooted/articleshow/79435215.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Covaxin trial vials arrive at NICED||KOLKATA: The vaccine vials for the phase III clinical trial of Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, arrived at ICMR-NICED (National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases), Kolkata, on Thursday. The 500 vaccine vials were shipped from Hyderabad. The first volunteer is expected to get the shot on December 1. Sources in NICED said they were getting enquiries from many people who wanted to volunteer for the clinical trials. NICED on Thursday appealed to volunteers via its website to participate in the trial. Those above 18 years and preferably living within a 10km radius of the institute’s Beliaghata campus are being encouraged to get themselves enrolled by contacting 98361 696622 or mail to bbv152niced@gmail.com. “All applicants, however, will undergo a screening to confirm the eligibility criteria,” said a source. The first candidate vaccine, indigenously developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech reaching the city, has already elicited much excitement among Kolkatans, especially among medics and researchers. “First of all, this is a made-in-India vaccine and Kolkata is finally going to participate in the clinical trials for Covid at an institute of repute like NICED,” said Subhrojyoti Bhowmick, director of clinical research at Peerless Hospital. Doctors said that Kolkatans, so far, had been hearing about vaccine trials in other cities or countries. Now, the vaccine trial in the city will help sensitizing the mass. “When people see that the trials are being conducted in Kolkata and there is direct proof of colleagues, relatives being volunteers, they will realize that the vaccine is not a hoax. Since I am in favour of science, I am proud and hopeful that the study at NICED is going to sensitize people about Covid vaccine,” said Diptendra Sarkar, professor of surgery at IPGMER. The phase III study at NICED will involve 1,000 volunteers — 500 getting the vaccine while the rest will get placebo shots. “With the trials about to begin at NICED, it will help in getting volunteers in other trials. Also, the city has got very capable investigators, potential infrastructure sites for clinical trials. So there is no reason why we should lag behind other cities,” said Snehendu Koner, head of business development of site management firm CliniMed LifeSciences Pvt Ltd. “Unlike vaccines by companies like Moderna and Pfizer, Covaxin is an attenuated vaccine that does not require extreme cold chain conditions. Hence, this kind of vaccine is best suited for countries like India,” added Bhowmick.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covaxin-trial-vials-arrive-at-niced/articleshow/79435199.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
November 27, 2020||Pune||Pune: Three abduct & assault businessman over Rs 5 lakh dues||PUNE: The Yerawada police are on the hunt for three men after a 36-year-old businessman lodged a complaint that they abducted and assaulted him over a Rs5 lakh loan on Wednesday. The trio let Vikas Shahji Kamble, a resident of Sakorenagar in Vimannagar, off at Kalas near Dhanori later in the night, following which he approached the Vishrantwadi police station. “A team of the Vishrantwadi police visited the spot and tried to trace the suspects. The case was transferred to us on Thursday,” An officer from the Yerawada police said. The officer said Kamble, who runs a telecalling business, borrowed money from the trio last year, which was to be repaid in EMIs. “Kamble paid EMIs regularly, but wasn’t able to during the lockdown. When he was unable to make the payments even after everything reopened, the suspects got angry,” the officer said. On Wednesday, the trio called him up at 6pm and asked to meet him near his residence. “They wanted to frighten him into repaying them. The trio bundled him into a car in Sakorenagar, took him to deserted spot in Kalas and they thrashed him with a belt. They left him there and drove away,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/three-abduct-assault-bizman-over-rs-5-lakh-dues/articleshow/79435228.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Pune||Garbage plant worker loses life as earth mover hits him||PUNE: A 24-year-old garbage plant worker died on Wednesday afternoon after he was hit by a heavy duty earth mover at the Hadapsar industrial estate garbage depot. An officer from the Wanowrie police station said that the earth mover had been engaged to shift and segregate garbage. The operator drove the machine on a heap of trash but he lost control over the machine. As it rolled back downward, its bucket swung and hit Shahbaz Shaikh, who died of grievous head injury. The police later booked the operator of the earth moving machine on the charge of neglecting safety of others at workplace and causing Shaikh’s death by negligence following a complaint lodged by the victim’s brother, Guddu (23), a resident of Hadapsar. Senior inspector Krantikumar Patil of Wanowrie police station said, “ We will arrest the operator in due course of time. We have also sought relevant documents from the contractor, who employed Shaikh and the operator.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/garbage-plant-worker-loses-life-as-earth-mover-hits-him/articleshow/79435195.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Nagpur||Khaparkheda plant CE demoted, but interviewers let off||Nagpur: Mahagenco has finally taken action against Prakash Khandare, chief engineer of Khaparkheda Thermal Power Station, who was promoted by an interview panel in 2017 by illegally allotting additional 10 marks. But no action has been taken against the eight members of the panel.If this was not enough, Mahagenco has decided not to recover the extra salary paid to Khandare between June 2017 and November 2020. Khandare has also not been transferred and is now the deputy chief engineer of Khaparkheda plant.Both the Mahagenco spokesperson and executive director (projects) SM Marudkar, who conducted the inquiry into the promotion, refused to comment on the action to be taken against the interviewers.Mahagenco had floated an advertisement in March 2017 for filling up the post of three chief engineers. It got application from 12 deputy chief engineers and superintendent engineers.They appeared for a written test of 400 marks in which Khandare scored 232 marks. This translates into 40.6 marks out of 70. The remaining 30 marks were for the interview — subject knowledge, leadership skills, communication skills and innovation & creativity. Khandare scored 17 out of 30 in the interview. His total should have been 57.60 but in the final column his total was shown as 67.60, 10 more than the actual.The marks of another candidate Sunil Ingle were also inflated by 10 but he was not selected. There is no discrepancy in marks of remaining 10 candidates. The interview was held on May 22, 2017.The members of the interview panel were Mahagenco managing director Bipin Shrimali, KM Chirutkar, AR Nandanpawar, Vinod Bondre, Shyam Wardhane, VM Jaideo, JK Srinivas and CS Thotwe.Khandare was working as deputy CE of Nashik plant. On the basis of inflated marks, he was promoted as chief engineer of Paras Thermal Power Station before his transfer to Khaparkheda in 2019. Some weeks ago, activist Anil Wadpalliwar had provided TOI documents that show that Khandare was given 10 additional marks for selection for promotion. TOI had sent an e-mail to Mahagenco public relations officer (PRO) Mahesh Aphale. Some days later it received an e-mail informing that executive director (HR) had asked executive director (projects) SM Marudkar to conduct a detailed inquiry into the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/khaparkheda-plant-ce-demoted-but-interviewers-let-off/articleshow/79434116.cms||Ashish Roy
November 27, 2020||Dehradun||Jauljibi and Darchula entry points opened for Nepalese pensioners||PITHORAGARH: The Pithoragarh district administration on Thursday opened entry points at two more locations in Jauljibi and Dharchula for Nepalese pensioners of the Indian Army on Thursday. It will remain open for three days. To recall, the Pithoragarh administration had opened a single entry point at Jhulaghat on Monday for 5 days. “The Nepalese authorities had requested us to open the entry points of Jauljibi and Dharchula,” said AK Shukla, SDM of Dharchula.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/jauljibi-and-darchula-entry-points-opened-for-nepalese-pensioners/articleshow/79434113.cms||Prem Punetha
November 27, 2020||Delhi||‘40% dip in Covid positivity rate but no plans to open schools in Delhi yet’||NEW DELHI: Health minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday said that the Covid-19 positivity rate was consistently declining, but there were no plans of reopening schools till a vaccine was available in Delhi. “A vaccine is expected very soon and till the time we are completely sure about the situation, schools in the capital are unlikely to open,” Jain told reporters on Thursday. Deputy CM Manish Sisodia had also recently said that Delhi government was not planning to open schools till a vaccine for the viral disease was available. Jain said the positivity rate had been consistently declining, something he had been saying from earlier. “The positivity rate is now less than 8.5% compared with 15.2% on November 7. This is a dip of more than 40%. You can’t analyse this in one day. If the data from each week is considered, it will show the positivity rate declining consistently,” he added. On Thursday, 5,475 new cases were recorded from 63,266 Covid-19 tests, including 28,897 RT-PCR, with the positivity rate being 8.6%. The ratio of positive patients to tests conducted on Wednesday was 8.5%. Jain said the number of RT-PCR tests being conducted was around 35,000, but testing had reached a saturation level and all results were not coming within 24 hours. The minister added that along with the dip in the positivity rate, the vacancy of Covid beds had also gone up in the past few days. Now, around 50% beds were available in the city’s hospitals. From a total of 16,172 Covid-19 beds on November 9, the number on Thursday touched 18,299. The number of ICU beds with ventilators went up from 1,264 to 1,475 during this period, while those without ventilators rose to 3,204 from 2,044. Delhi recorded 91 deaths on Thursday, taking the toll in November to 2,300, the highest in a month since 2,269 fatalities were recorded in June. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had requested experts to audit death cases and suggest measures that could reduce fatalities in a meeting of Delhi Disaster Management Authority chaired by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal on Wednesday. Jain said the CM had sought suggestions for additions in the protocol, audit and whatever steps were necessary to controlling the spread of the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/40-dip-in-positivity-rate-but-no-plans-to-open-schools-yet/articleshow/79436652.cms||Sidharatha Roy
November 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19: Gujarat hits third peak in case numbers in 6 days||AHMEDABAD: In the 24 hours ending 5pm on Thursday, Gujarat added 65 Covid-19 cases every 60 minutes, taking the state’s tally to 1,560. This was the highest ever one-day tally for the state, which had three days of highest-ever tallies since November 21. The state’s Covid-19 case tally has now reached 2.03 lakh. The state also recorded 16 Covid deaths in these 24 hours, taking its total death toll so far to 3,922. Of these 16 deaths, 12 or 75%, were in Ahmedabad city alone. Surat recorded three deaths and Vadodara one, as all 16 deaths came from urban areas. The new cases included 361 in Ahmedabad, 289 in Surat, 180 in Vadodara and 138 in Rajkot. The case tallies in these districts reached 48,795, 42,440, 19,395 and 15,840, respectively. Thursday was also the seventh consecutive day that Ahmedabad district recorded more than 300 new Covid cases. The share of active cases to the total is now 7.2%, at 14,529, while the share of discharged and deceased patients is 90.9% and 1.9%, respectively. Even as the number of tests conducted in the day dropped from the record high of 91,000 tests on Wednesday to 70,820 on Thursday, the highest number of cases was reported, implying an increase in positivity (cases per 100 tests).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-hits-third-peak-in-case-numbers-in-6-days/articleshow/79435222.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Dehradun||BCCI secretary Jay Shah visits Dehradun to inspect cricket facilities||DEHRADUN: The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) secretary Jay Shah visited Dehradun on Wednesday to inspect various cricket facilities in the city. Shah first went to the Rajiv Gandhi International Cricket Stadium and then to the Abhimanyu Cricket Academy in the city. The BCCI secretary also inspected the bio-bubble camp at the ACA where the probable squad for the Uttarakhand state team is currently practicing, before the final list of players is announced for the upcoming Ranji Trophy tournament. “BCCI secretary took note of our requirements and immediately asked the financial department of the BCCI to release funds for our state association,” said Mahim Verma, CAU’s secretary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bcci-secy-jay-shah-visits-doon-to-inspect-cricket-facilities/articleshow/79434118.cms||Mohammad Anab
November 27, 2020||Surat||Athwalines riverside walkway in shambles||Surat: Dr Dipak Patel, a city-based dermatologist is upset over the utter neglect of the Athwalines-Parle Point stretch of the riverside walkway where he goes for his morning walk every day. The place, he says, is in shambles, with its green cover being damaged at many places, burning of dry leaves on the walkway and garbage lying along the 4km stretch. Not only Dr Patel, but many people from the posh Athwalines and Parle Point areas, who use the walkway in the morning hours are witnessing the destruction on daily basis. Despite their repeated complaints to the Surat Municipal Corporation’s (SMC) Athwa zone, the officials are yet to act. Deputy commissioner and head of Athwa zone, RJ Pandya told TOI, “I will instruct the staff of Athwa zone to immediately clear the waste and burnt remains from the walkway track. We will soon deploy security personnel to guard the walkway during the night hours.” The 4km riverside walkway connecting Navadi Ovara in Nanpura to Parle Point was constructed at the cost of Rs 3 crore. The forest area along the walkway is home to more than 40 different species of birds and reptiles. Environmentalists said there is a group of nature lovers who visit the walkway on a regular basis and plant saplings of different species to maintain the forest cover. However, some unscrupulous elements damage it for reasons best known to them. Ashish Vakil, member of Nature Club Surat (NCS) told TOI, “A composting pit of the SMC is located few yards away from the walkway at the Chowpaty garden. It is the responsibility of the SMC staff to collect the dry waste and dispose of in the compost pit, which is not happening. Instead, the waste is burnt to damage the environment.” According to Vakil, starting from Thursday the NCS has decided to collect dry waste from walkway and take it to their composting pit. Snehal Patel, president of NCS told TOI, “The walkway is a favourite spot for the morning joggers. There is no need to cut the weeds and chop the trees along the walkway. We have also seen dry waste being burnt in the compost pit at Chowpaty garden.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/athwalines-riverside-walkway-in-shambles/articleshow/79434140.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Nagpur||Local demand up as gold rates ease, grey market more active||Nagpur: Falling gold rates have led to an increased retail buying in the local markets, say traders. There is a higher demand in the grey market where unaccounted transactions happen as against the official channel, say sources.In the grey market, gold is at Rs50,800 a tola (per 10 grams). In the legal trade, the rate is Rs49,400, which comes to a little over Rs50,900 after adding the Goods and Services Tax (GST). Sources say couple of days ago the grey market prices had even surpassed the official rates by a couple of hundreds, touching Rs50,900.This clearly shows that as the global prices of gold are falling, there is a demand locally. The number of buyers is more in the grey market where dealings happen in cash and no tax is paid. This is because the grey market and official rates are neck to neck. There have been times when the former’s rates were higher than the latter, said sources.Global prices of the yellow metal have eased following good news about vaccines being developed for Covid. As the local markets follow the global trends, the rates are down at home too.In last four days, gold prices have fallen by Rs1,600, touching Rs49,500 a tola. Silver has eased by Rs2,000, touching Rs61,000 a kg in the market here.Traders say that the retail buyer is looking to cash in on the opportunity. The fall in rates also coincides with the marriage season. Traders too accept that demand is higher in the grey market. The situation is similar for silver as the rates in grey market and officials channels are almost the same, say traders. The official rates of silver are in the range of Rs60,500 to Rs61,000, which comes to over Rs62,000 after adding GST. Grey markets too are quoting over Rs62,000 for one kg of silver.Rakesh Rokde of M/s Rokde Jewellers, who also heads the Nagpur Sarafa Association said, “There has been an increase in gold buying, especially after the rates have gone below Rs50,000 a tola.” Rajkumar Gupta of Pooja Jewellers at Itwari in Nagpur said that easing of rates and marriage demand has spurred buying.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/local-demand-up-as-gold-rates-ease-grey-market-more-active/articleshow/79434111.cms||Shishir Arya
November 27, 2020||Nashik||Active Covid-19 cases in Niphad double in 12 days||Nashik: The number of Covid-19 cases in Niphad taluka has almost doubled in a span of 12 days — from 124 on November 10 to 237 on November 22.“There has been a steep rise in the number of cases post Diwali in Niphad taluka that is one of the best irrigated taluka in Nashik district and has major agricultural market places,” a health official said. Niphad taluka has Asia’s biggest onion market (Lasalgaon APMC) and there are also flourishing market committees that include Pimpalgaon APMC, among others.The number of patients increasing in Niphad taluka is a cause of concern for the district administration that has now called for immediate measures to check the spread of the infection.“We were able to curtail the spread of Covid-19 during the ‘My Family My Responsibility’ campaign launched by the state government as a result of which the number of active cases dropped from about 300 to 124,” the officails aid.However, post-Diwali the number of cases have started going up. “We have asked for increasing the tracking and tracing along with testing in the taluka to ensure the spread of the disease is under control,” a senior official said.Similar is the case of Sinnar taluka which has also reported marginal rise in Covid-19 cases in recent times.The active Covid-19 case numbers dropped from 300 on November 11 to 212 on November 18 and have a gain shown a marginal rise to 251 on November 22.It should be noted that Niphad and Sinnar talukas are adjacent to each other and the rural areas had 2,408 active cases on November 18 which was the least during these times. Currently, the number of active cases stands at 2,611 which is still lower than 2,812 active cases that was registered on November 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/active-covid-19-cases-in-niphad-double-in-12-days/articleshow/79433181.cms||Abhilash Botekar
November 27, 2020||Trichy||Spl newborn unit at MGMGH bags award||Trichy: The department of paediatrics at Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) was adjudged one of the best performers in treating unwell newborn babies in Tamil Nadu. The special newborn care unit at MGMGH was given the award by the health minister Dr C Vijayabaskar on November 20 in Chennai as part of the national newborn week celebrations. On receiving the award for the third consecutive year, dean of the hospital Dr K Vanitha said on Thursday that their hospital was chosen for the award for saving more number of ill newborn preterm and low birth-weight babies. “The coordinated effort of all the staff made this achievement possible. Our unit is saving around 4,500 ill newborn babies every year,” the dean said. The department treats the babies free of cost for people with weaker financial background. Out of 4,500 babies, around 1,500 were born in other hospitals while the others were delivered at this hospital. Neo-natal specialist of the hospital Dr K Senthilkumar said, “Our prime objective is to make the babies, who are admitted here, recover completely and lead a normal life for which we will make all the possible efforts with the support of the administration.” Around 1,000 babies are benefited through ventilator treatment every year. More than 500 babies, weighing less than 1.5kg were saved. Such babies were also administered 500 doses of pneumococcal vaccine. Senthilkumar said that their team follows up with a patient for two years from the date of their first treatment here. As of now, the hospital has been tracking 8,000 such babies. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/spl-newborn-unit-at-mgmgh-bags-award/articleshow/79437112.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Dehradun||Fresh spell of rain, snow lashes Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: A fresh spell of snowfall occurred at the higher reaches of Uttarakhand while the plains and foothills were lashed by very light to light showers, the meteorological centre said on Thursday. Under the influence of a western disturbance, Uttarakhand has been witnessing rain and snow activity since past 48 hours, causing a dip in the temperatures. On Thursday, several places like Kedarnath, Auli, Munsyari, Dharchula and other high altitude places, mostly at an altitude of 2,800 metres and above, received snowfall. While in Uttarkashi district, Mori, Uttarkashi city, Dunda and Purola received 20mm rainfall, Tyuni and Mussoorie in Dehradun district witnessed 10mm rain each, according to the Met office. "The western disturbance resulted in rain and snowfall in the past 48 hours in the state. Higher reaches of Uttarkashi, Rudraprayag, Chamoli and Pithoragarh districts received snowfall," said Bikram Singh, director of the regional meteorological centre. Meanwhile, the Met officials claimed that the weather is going to clear from November 27 onwards and dry weather will prevail across the state at least till December 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/fresh-spell-of-rain-snow-lashes-uttarakhand/articleshow/79434117.cms||Gaurav Talwar
November 27, 2020||Pune||Pune: Wife dies after man smashes pan on her head||PUNE: A 28-year-old woman died of grievous head injuries after her husband allegedly smashed a cooking pan on her head during a heated exchange early on Thursday morning at their small hutment in Hadapsar. Hadapsar police have detained her husband Adinarayan Yadav (32). People from the neighbourhood gathered at the spot on hearing Kala Adinarayan Yadav’s cries. Her husband remained in the house till the police reached the spot. Police took her to the Sassoon general hospital where she was declared brought dead. Police said that the woman had sustained serious head injuries in the attack. The post-mortem report is awaited. Police have registered a case of murder against the husband. The couple have three children. They are native of Andhra Pradesh and the family migrated to Pune about seven years ago.  The husband demanded money to buy liquor, but the wife refused. He then picked up an iron cooking pan in a fit of rage and allegedly smashed it on her head.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/wife-dies-after-man-smashes-pan-on-her-head/articleshow/79435234.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Dehradun||DDA to construct 3 bus terminuses in US Nagar||RUDRAPUR: In a move aimed at upgrading the municipalities, the District Development Authority (DDA) of Udham Singh Nagar will develop three new bus terminuses in its three towns — Gadarpur, Kichha and Khatima. The new terminuses will be equipped with ultra-modern facilities. DDA secretary Pankaj Upadhyay told TOI that the authority will take over the older bus stands and will develop commercial projects there as well. “The revenue department has transferred lands to the transport corporation for the new projects. In Kichha and Gadarpur, the new bus stations will be developed at the bypasses while in Khatima it will be constructed at the city border. The new terminuses will not only improve the transport facilities but will also ease congestion in these towns and will smooth the traffic flow,” said Upadhyay. “According to the agreement with the corporation, the DDA will acquire the older bus stations and develop those commercially. The funds raised from these commercial complexes will further be used to provide ultra-modern facilities at the newly-developed bus terminuses. The new bus terminus will have space for mofussil buses, interstate buses, parking for two-wheelers and four-wheelers, bus depots, workshops, restaurants and public toilets,” Upadhyay added. The DDA secretary said that the plan for constructing a new bus terminus in Kashipur is also in the pipeline. "We are searching for the land for this project on the highway. Once the land is finalised, we will start with the departmental process,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dda-to-construct-3-bus-terminuses-in-us-nagar/articleshow/79434122.cms||Aakash Ahuja
November 27, 2020||Patna||Bihar restricts number of guests at weddings to 100||PATNA: Only 100 people will now be allowed at marriage functions in the state instead of 200 as the state home department issued a fresh order on Thursday in the wake of a spurt in coronavirus cases. According to the new order, ‘baraat’ procession will not be allowed during weddings and only 25 people can attend ‘shradh’ function. Department’s additional chief secretary Amir Subhani said these restrictions are in addition to the Centre’s guidelines issued on Wednesday. The state government’s order will remain effective till December 3. Earlier, the Centre had ordered surveillance, containment and caution to prevent further spread of Covid-19 after increase in Covid cases in several cities. States and Union territories were asked to take call on public gathering including at weddings, depending on the local situation. Since positivity rate in Patna is more than 10% and districts like Begusarai, Jamui, Vaishali, West Champaran and Saran are also witnessing increase in cases, all government and private offices in these districts, except essential services, will be allowed to function with just 50% attendance. Buses to and from Patna have been asked to ply with 50% capacity. State transport secretary Sanjay Agarwal said the order would remain effective till December 3. Wearing of masks has been made mandatory for all guests at weddings. Thermal screening and hand sanitisation of guests at the entrance of the wedding venue have also been made mandatory. Managers of marriage halls and hotels will have to ensure safe disposal of masks, face covers and gloves. While no band, baaja and baraat procession is allowed on roads for next one week, bands are permitted inside the marriage venues. Keeping in mind Kartik Purnima which falls on November 30 this year, people’s representatives will be roped in to create awareness regarding Covid-19 protocols. An official said though there is no restriction on participation of devotees, officials and people’s representatives will try to ensure social distancing. People above 60 years of age, children and pregnant women should remain indoors, the advisory said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-restricts-number-of-guests-at-weddings-to-100/articleshow/79434028.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 27, 2020||Patna||Govt committed to making Bihar a developed state: Governor Phagu Chauhan||PATNA: Governor Phagu Chauhan on Thursday said the state government would continue to work on the development agenda that won the endorsement of the people during the recently concluded assembly elections. “Elections were peaceful, free and impartial in the state. People of the state have accepted the agenda of development and set the tone for the government,” the governor said. “I have complete faith that the government will move along the path of integrated development and continue to work to make Bihar a developed state,” the governor said in his brief address that lasted for around 13 minutes. The governor was addressing the joint session of the state assembly and legislative council in the spacious central hall in the new legislature building, after the constitution of the 17th assembly and subsequent formation of the new NDA government led by CM Nitish Kumar. The CM, two deputy CMs Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi, as well as leader of the RJD-led opposition combine Tejashwi Prasad Yadav were present. The governor said as a result of the adoption of “strategic integrated development”, coupled with putting in place modern structure for financial discipline, the state’s growth rate touched double digits in the last 15 years. “The fruits of decentralized development were made available to all sections of the society,” he said. Drawing the attention of the House members to the global coronavirus pandemic that has afflicted the country, including Bihar, the governor said the government has remained alert to the problems faced by people and taken measures to prevent the spread of the virus. “The state government spent Rs 10,000 crore on relief measures to combat the Covid-19 pandemic,” the governor said. Congratulating people of the state for maintaining social and communal harmony during the festive season, the governor said the government would continue to adopt “zero tolerance” against crime, corruption and communalism. The governor referred to infrastructure development, improvements made in health, education and agriculture sectors, grant of scholarships to boy and girl students and also facility for loans through students’ credit card scheme. Meanwhile, during the governor’s address, CPI(ML) senior member Satyadeo Ram read out the text of his “parallel speech”, describing the governor’s address as a “bundle of lies”. He also drew the attention of the House towards “growing law and order problem” and general strike by the trade unions. After the governor finished his address and left for the Raj Bhavan, parliamentary affairs minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary told Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha that reconstitution of the various House committees of the assembly was required, as after the dissolution of the 16th assembly, the existing committees had become defunct. Accordingly, the parliamentary affairs minister said that the Speaker should constitute the new House committees, and also depute the MLAs to the senate and syndicates of various universities in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-committed-to-making-bihar-a-developed-state-governor/articleshow/79434114.cms||Abhay Singh
November 27, 2020||Pune||Criminal shot at by rival gang in Nigdi||Pune: Four members of a criminal gang have been arrested in connection with a clash between two rival gangs late on Wednesday night at Nidhi Ota Scheme during which one person opened fire at another, with the bullet piercing through the man’s leg. The victim, Akash Basavraj Dodmani (23), is undergoing treatment at a hospital. His brother, Ravi (26), sustained injuries. The Nigdi police have registered an offence against 17 suspects under relevant sections of IPC and Arms Act. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/criminal-shot-at-by-rival-gang-in-nigdi/articleshow/79435230.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Nashik||13 flyers reject RT-PCR on Wednesday, get tested at govt facility on Thursday||NASHIK: Thirteen airline passengers who flew into Nashik from Ahmedabad on Wednesday refused to undergo Covid-19 tests due to the high charges levied by the private party entrusted with the collection of swab samples of travellers who did not have RT-PCR certificates. The 13 passengers instead gave their swab samples at a government facility in Sangamner on Thursday. The standard operating procedure (SOP) for the flyers says that either they should have an RT-PCR test done within the stipulated time before a flight, or, they should undergo the test (at their own expense) at the airport when they land in Maharashtra. The 13 passengers, who are all related and residents of Sangamner taluka in Ahmednagar district, had undertaken antigen tests before starting from Ahmedabad. After they reached Nashik on Wednesday evening, they refused to give swab samples claiming the charge (Rs 1,600 per test) was exorbitant. They said they wanted to get the test done at a government facility instead. The passengers also added that they had to get home for an important programme. The authorities pointed out that the passengers had conducted the antigen tests before the flight and were reluctant to pay for fresh tests. The administration thus allowed them to travel to their destination, but with the condition that they would give their swabs to a government facility on Thursday morning. Also, they should not leave the destination before the reports arrived and the same were sent to the district authorities in Nashik. Meanwhile, the airport authority, in consultation with the district administration, has replaced the private agency with a private medical college for swab collection and the tests of passengers who do not have RT-PCR test reports. The private medical college will charge the government rate of Rs 800 per test. As far as the reports of the swabs collected on Wednesday evening is concerned, the health authorities are yet to receive the results from the concerned laboratories – both in Nashik and Jalgaon. On Wednesday, 88 swabs were collected by the various agencies for conducting the RT-PCR tests in Jalgaon and Nashik airports and collection of 13 swabs on Thursday (at Sangamner) takes the total numbers of tests on the first day to 101. On the second day, 102 passengers landed in Nashik from Delhi and tests were conducted for 37 of the 57 passengers who came from Ahmedabad. Twelve other passengers were also tested on Thursday. The Nashik and Jalgaon district administrations have made arrangements at the railway stations across the district to ensure screening of people coming from Delhi-NCR, Goa, Rajasthan and Gujarat. For road travellers from Gujarat to Igatpuri, Dindori, Peth and Surgana, police checkposts have been set up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/13-flyers-reject-rt-pcr-on-wednesday-get-tested-at-govt-facility-on-thursday/articleshow/79433192.cms||Abhilash Botekar
November 27, 2020||Kolkata||Strikers’ sporadic protests fail to keep Kolkata away from work||KOLKATA: The stray disruptions, which broke out in certain pockets during the 24-hour nationwide strike could do little to derail life in Kolkata on Thursday. The bandh was called by 16 central trade unions, including Left and Congress, in protest against the central government’s policies on labour and farm laws. Though there was a marginal shortage of private buses, commuters reportedly did not face much inconvenience, given the adequate number of government buses on the roads —complete with drivers and conductors wearing helmets, geared up to tackle any attack —as well as other modes of public transport. Attendance at government and private offices remained on a par with that on new-normal days. The IT sectors at Salt Lake Sector V and New Town also reported usual turnout despite a brief agitation on New Town Arterial Road, where a group of bandh supporters blocked the stretch for 20 minutes and burnt tyres. But the bandh was apparent in the central business district, where most shops were closed and youngsters played cricket on deserted roads. With labourers joining the strike, none loaded or unloaded goods vehicles at Posta and the entire market was shut. Book stalls and shops on College Street were shut, too. Flyers reached the airport early to avoid any delay but none complained about harassment while travelling. Train services were marginally affected on Sealdah south and main sections in the morning as agitators blocked the tracks with logs but the situation normalized later. Some groups picketed outside Howrah station, asking operators not to play vehicles but police ensured nothing was stopped. Rallyists in Jadavpur, Garia and Kamalgazi disrupted traffic and even asking shopkeepers to down the shutters. on Lenin Sarani, rallyists broke the glass walls of a confectioner and at Kamalgazi, some passengers were forced off buses, till police intervened. Road blocks were reported from Behala 14 No. bus stand, Sukanta Setu, Lenin Sarani, Dum Dum, C R Avenue and Patuli, but none lasted more than a few minutes. Around 140 Left and Congress supporters were arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/strikers-sporadic-protests-fail-to-keep-kolkata-away-from-work/articleshow/79435238.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Dehradun||After touching historic high in June, water level in Naini lake falls||NAINITAL: After the water level in Naini lake touched a historic high, where it had soared over 10 feet in July for the first time in 30 years, the level declined to 7.6 feet on Thursday. Officials claimed that the combined effect of scant rain since the end of August and increased tourist footfall has led to a dip in the lake’s water level. Officials said if the trend continues, it may cause a ‘stressed’ situation this time, especially during Christmas and New Year, when the city receives highest tourist footfall. “There is nothing to be concerned about yet. However, if the trend continues and the winters do not bring any snowfall or rains, then there is a possibility that a stressed situation might occur in the winters,” said HC Singh, executive engineer, irrigation division in Nainital, the agency responsible for maintaining the lake. The Naini Lake, apart from being the major tourist attraction of Nainital, is also the only source of water for the entire town. Rains are the major source for the lake, and it was primarily because of good rains and no tourist activity in the summer that water levels here had risen. Almost 8 million litres of water is supplied from the lake to locals every day. Though it has been brought down significantly since December 2017, when over 16 million litres of water was supplied to the town every day, there might be a water scarcity if the city recieves no rains or snowfall. “We still depend on the rains to recharge the lake’s water. Hence, if we see no rain or snowfall during this winter, then we may have to face a lot of difficulties,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/after-touching-historic-high-in-june-water-level-in-naini-lake-falls-officials-concerned/articleshow/79434142.cms||Prashant Jha
November 27, 2020||Patna||BJP MLA files plaint against Lalu for trying to ‘lure’ him||PATNA: BJP MLA Lallan Paswan on Thursday filed a complaint at vigilance police station here against jailed RJD chief Lalu Prasad, who had allegedly approached him to abstain from voting during the Speaker’s election in the state assembly on Wednesday. The issue came to light after former deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi tweeted about the phone call on Tuesday and released the audio clip of the alleged conversation on Wednesday. Modi told TOI on Thursday that Lalu even suggested him to join the RJD-led alliance. “After Lallan told me about Lalu’s call, I called on the same number and one Irfan picked up the call. I asked him to hand over the phone to Lalu. Lalu was surprised that I called him. However, I told him (Lalu) to refrain from such unethical practices. He told me that I should also join RJD fold as I have been dumped by BJP. I replied that I am a loyal member of the BJP and he should stop making such attempts,” he said. Read AlsoSushil Modi releases audio of Lalu Prasad ‘luring’ BJP MLAFormer deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi (SuMo) on Wednesday released an alleged audio clip of jailed RJD chief Lalu Prasad asking BJP’s MLA from Pirpainti, Lallan Paswan, not to vote in the election for Bihar legislative assembly Speaker’s post. Lalu, in the alleged telephonic conversation, promisedModi, who is the president of ethics committee in the Bihar legislative council, added Lalu was continuously doing politics from jail in Ranchi. Meanwhile, BJP’s Pirpainti MLA Lallan Paswan alleged in his complaint that he had received a call from Lalu and promised a ministerial berth if he abstained from voting during the election of Speaker of Bihar legislative assembly. Later, Lallan told a television news channel that action is being taken as per law. “It is wrong to lure MLA, a public servant. Such actions come under Prevention of Corruption Act. Consequently, I took the required legal action by lodging a complaint at the vigilance police station against Lalu,” he said. Former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi and minister Mukesh Sahani also claimed on Thursday that Lalu made similar offers to them as well. “I received calls till midnight on Tuesday and told that Laluji wanted to talk to me. However, I did not speak to him. If Lallan Paswan and Sushil Modiji are making such allegations, it is 200% true. Lalu was repeatedly trying to talk to me and other members of my party during and after the elections as well,” Manjhi said, adding there should be a detailed probe into Lalu’s activities from jail. Read AlsoAfter alleged phone call, Lalu shifted from hospital director's bungalow to paying wardRJD chief Lalu Prasad, who is serving jail term in Ranchi in several fodder scam cases, was on Thursday shifted from the hospital director's bungalow to its paying ward following his alleged phone call to a Bihar BJP MLA.Sahani said Lalu also called him up but received a befitting reply. RJD functionaries have, however, refuted the allegations. “Though police will conduct investigation into the matter and probably do forensic test of the purported audio clip, but party functionaries are of the view that the voice in the clip is not of Laluji’s,” said RJD’s national vice-president Shivanand Tiwari, adding shifting of Lalu from Kelly’s Bungalow to RIMS was a routine process. Watch FIR filed against Lalu Prasad over his alleged phone call to BJP MLA||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjp-mla-files-plaint-against-lalu-for-trying-to-lure-him/articleshow/79434080.cms||Piyush Tripathi
November 27, 2020||Trichy||Central dists receive less rainfall||Trichy: Normal northeast monsoon skipped the central districts including Trichy, though heavy downpour was forecast during the course of cyclone Nivar that made a late night landfall near Puducherry on Wednesday. The district received 54% less rainfall from the normal, which is the maximum deficient recorded in the state.Heavy rain was predicted for two days since Tuesday in the central districts since the formation of the tropical cycle system. But Cyclone Nivar spared the districts leaving the region with less rainfall. All the eight central districts too had a rain-deficient monsoon so far with Trichy recording the maximum percentage of negative deviation between actual and normal rainfall recorded between October 1 and November 26.In Trichy, the weather relatively remained dry till Wednesday night except for drizzling that lasted for a few hours. The district witnessed a moderate rainfall only early on Thursday. Kallakudi and Lalgudi localities bordering Ariyalur district received a maximum rainfall. “We were prepared to mitigate water stagnation. But, till Thursday morning, Trichy city had only drizzles. Inundation was not reported on major roads as drains were cleared a day ago,” an official with Trichy Corporation said.The situation is no different in other central districts including Ariyalur and Perambalur. As the central region used to receive rain for 17 to 18 days in October and November, the deficient monsoon has come as a disappointment. Next to Trichy (-54%), Nagapattinam (-47%), Thanjavur (-45%) and Ariyalur (-43%) have recorded an insufficient rainfall in the northeast monsoon period ending November 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/central-dists-receive-less-rainfall/articleshow/79437113.cms||Deepak Karthik
November 27, 2020||Nashik||Cops, FDA find abortion drug in auto in Malegaon||Nashik: A joint team of Azadnagar police in Malegaon city and food and drug administration (FDA), Nashik, seized 150 medical kits used for medical termination of pregnancy from an autorickshaw. Each kit, comprising five tablets, costs around Rs 600. These tablets are supposed to be taken only under the supervision of gynaecologists. Police sources in Malegaon said that the entire consignment of the kits was being transported in the auto on Tuesday. “We stopped the auto and found the kits. We immediately called FDA officials to the spot. They told us that these medicines are used for medical termination of pregnancy,” said police officials. Police officials said that the auto driver tried to flee but was chased and caught. “The auto driver was produced before the court, which remanded him in police custody for two days,” added police officials. The main suspect, who had ordered the procurement of the medical kits, is absconding. FDA officials suspect that such medicines could be illegally sold from homes. “The chemist shops are not allowed to sell such medicines without authorized prescription from a doctor. We are carrying out investigation with the police to ascertain whether such medicines are being sold covertly in Malegaon. Consumption of such medicine without the advise of doctors could be health risk,” warned FDA officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cops-fda-find-abortion-drug-in-auto-in-malegaon/articleshow/79433211.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 27, 2020||Trichy||Water tanks still dry in Ariyalur, Perambalur||Trichy: Out of the 168 tanks in Ariyalur and Perambalur districts, only one tank has achieved 100% storage capacity. A majority of tanks have not filled up to even 50% of their capacity as the two districts received only a minimal rainfall. PWD officials said that water levels are lower than previous year. None of the rain-fed 69 tanks in Ariyalur have achieved full storage capacity. Sendurai periya eri has water level between 81% and 90%, while nine other tanks have filled up to 41% to 50% of their capacity. Around 43 tanks have water less than 25% of their capacity. “Since November, the rainfall was inadequate in Ariyalur,” a senior PWD official told TOI. As many as 26 tanks recharged by Cauvery water through the Kollidam are below their half capacity mark. In Perambalur, out of the 73 tanks, only one has water full to its capacity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/water-tanks-still-dry-in-ariyalur-perambalur/articleshow/79437115.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Surat||Hundreds bid tearful adieu to their beloved Babubhai||Surat/Bharuch: People cutting across professions, religions and social strata thronged Piraman village, 14 km from Bharuch, to pay their last respects to Congress stalwart Ahmed Patel whose body was flown in from Delhi to his birthplace. Patel, 71, died on Wednesday due to multiple organ failure after being detected of Covid-19 infection in October. Congress leader and Gandhi family scion, Rahul Gandhi, reached Piraman at 11am and offered his condolences to the bereaved family at their residence in Patel Faliyu. The affection for their beloved ‘Babubhai’, as Patel was fondly known here, got the better of the fervent requests by locals not to crowd the village due to the pandemic. People from nearby villages had also started trooping in as early as 6am to join the funeral procession. Piraman villagers were seen volunteering to help visitors park their vehicles, providing masks to all those who did have one and giving sanitisers to everyone to ensure the Covid-19 guidelines were followed. Other party leaders including AICC in-charge of Gujarat, Rajeev Satav, Gujarat Congress president Amit Chavda, leader of opposition in Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhary, former MP chief minister Kamal Nath and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Shankersinh Vaghela, also attended the funeral. Patel’s mortal remains were kept at a hospital in Ankleshwar after being flown in on Wednesday night and brought to Piraman at around 10am. Streets were chock-a-block and people struggled to find a proper location for the best view even as other senior Congress leaders also joined in the family in its grief. Poignant scenes were witnessed as people, mostly women, broke down during the funeral procession. Police had to divert traffic for vehicles going towards the national highway and passing through Piraman village due to heavy rush. Abbas Barafwala, a rickshaw driver from Bharuch said, “When Ahmedbhai was in college, he used to hire my auto. He knew me since then and helped me tide over a lot of problems. Such people are a rarity” Sunita Vasava, a tribal woman from Piraman, was standing since early morning near the cemetery to pay homage. “Whenever we faced any problems, including financial crunch, we approached Ahmedbhai and he never disappointed us. He will be sorely missed.” Talking to reporters, Karnataka Congress leader DK Shivakumar said, “Ahmed Patel was a guiding force for all of us in the party and his demise was a colossal loss for us.” ReplyForward||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/hundreds-bid-tearful-adieu-to-their-beloved-babubhai/articleshow/79434215.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Nashik||Marginal rise in footfall at NMC’s fever clinics||Nashik: The 30 odd fever clinics set up by the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) in the city have registered a marginal rise in patients in the last one week. These clinics were started to examine patients with fever in view of Covid-19 outbreak. About 24 of these clinics conduct rapid antigen tests in case patients have Covid-like symptoms. According to NMC officials, the footfall of patients with fever was more in September due to spike in Covid-19 cases. Each of these clinics attended around 35-40 patients per day on an average in September. “But, with the number of new cases declining, the footfall of patients at these fever clinic had also reduced to 5-7 per clinic per day on an average by the first week of November,” said NMC officials. “However, the number of patients with fever has again increased up to 12-15 cases each clinic per day on an average,” added officials. “We are segregating the fever cases into Covid and non-Covid ones. We are also conducting antigen tests of patients with Covid-like symptoms. If a patient tests positive for Covid-19, he or she is immediately shifted to a Covid facility for the necessary treatment. The non-Covid patients are prescribed medicines accordingly,” said NMC officials. Civic officials said that the government has projected a second wave of coronavirus by December. “We will think of increasing the number of fever clinics in the city if Covid-19 cases start increasing during the projected second wave,” they said. “We are also making available more antigen test kits for some fever clinics so that these tests can be done at large for early detection of patients in case there is a rise in cases in the coming days,” added NMC officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/marginal-rise-in-footfall-at-nmcs-fever-clinics/articleshow/79433206.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Outsiders lost their way in diversions, traffic jam||Mohali: The outsiders passing through Mohali and Chandigarh on Thursday lost their way in diversions after traffic was rerouted via Panchkula due to the ongoing farmers’ protest against the farm laws at the Lalru border. Commuters had a tough time negotiating the traffic jams caused due to road closure at Zirakpur.The Mohali administration had diverted traffic at seven points between Zirakpur and Derabassi to avoid chaos at Haryana entry at Lalru.Commuters, especially those passing through Chandigarh and Zirakpur while on way to Delhi, faced a tough time when they were diverted towards Panchkula from near Zirakpur. Most of them lost their way and made rounds in Panchkula.The police had diverted the traffic towards Panchkula-Nada Sahib-Barwala to Yamunanagar Expressway for reaching Ambala and Delhi. The traffic diversion signboards were put up at Airport Road at Patiala crossing, another diversion was from Patiala turning at Zirakpur under the flyover where a massive traffic jam was witnessed.Vehicles had to brave traffic snarls as the entry points at highways approaching Chandigarh were sealed for around 10 hours. At the borders at Zirakpur, Derabassi and Lalru, which were sealed, serpentine queues of vehicles were seen till late night. Mohali police had sealed the Zirakpur entry border at 9.30am and the traffic movement at the flyover was also stopped. The incoming traffic from Ambala was diverted at Derabassi towards Panchkula for reaching Chandigarh. Similarly, the outgoing traffic from Airport Road at Patiala crossing was diverted towards Zirakpur, where it was further diverted towards Panchkula-Nada Sahib-Barwala to Yamunanagar Expressway for Ambala and Delhi.Commuters made many phone calls to the TOI, reporting how they had been stuck in the jam for over an hour. Rajni Bala, a resident of Zirakpur, said, “I have been making rounds of roads to reach Zirakpur from Chandigarh. The protesters must think about common people also, as after day’s work we long to reach home.”Rajat Jain of Ambala said, “The scene at Panchkula side was the worst. I had to wait for 40 minutes for my turn to change the route to the other side of the highway.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/outsiders-lost-their-way-in-diversions-traffic-jam/articleshow/79434168.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
November 27, 2020||Pune||Fresh UDC rules to provide impetus to SRA projects||PUNE: The pending slum rehabilitation authority projects in the Pune Muncipal Corporation (PMC) areas are likely to gather momentum with new uniform development control (UDC) rules introduced by the state government. The new rules will promote vertical development of SRA schemes in PMC areas, which will ultimately help in densely populated areas. The state government has allowed up to 4 FSIs for these projects across the state as per new DCR. At least 20 schemes will be speeded up now with new rules in place. Experts feel that along with uniform DCR, other reliefs should be given for paving the way for new SRA schemes. According to SRA and PMC officials, relief on height restrictions and steps for building consensus among slum dwellers will be the key factors in making the projects work on the ground.As per the data of SRA, around 486 slums are there in PMC area. Around 30% of population now live in these slums. Most of them are located in densely-populated areas. Their rehabilitation is a major concern due to lack of space in these areas. Most of residents want that they should be rehabilitated at the same location. It leads to legal and social complications as far as redevelopment of slum pockets is concerned. “Though more FSI is a welcome sign, it is not enough for very speedy construction of SRA projects. On an average, just 3 FSIs are consumed in majority of SRA projects. In some cases, 4 FSIs can be availed for the rehabilitation projects,” said a senior official of PMC. The SRA Pune has demanded that consent from 51% residents should be considered before starting the projects. “Any changes in development control rules, which will help in easing out commencement of new constructions is a good sign. Before making any specific comment on state’s new DC rules, I will have to study the fine print of uniform development control rules. I am yet to get a copy of it,” said Rajendra Nimbalkar, CEO, SRA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fresh-udc-rules-to-provide-impetus-to-sra-projects/articleshow/79435243.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
November 27, 2020||Delhi||Diabetes is number one accidental finding during Covid-19||NEW DELHI: Paramjeet Singh (name changed), a healthy 34-year-old marketing professional, developed fever and cough three weeks ago. Tests confirmed he had Covid-19. After days of home isolation when his condition continued to deteriorate, Singh was rushed to Sir Ganga Ram Hospital (SGRH), where a battery of blood tests was carried out to assess the vital parameters before putting him on steroids and antiviral medications. The result showed that he had diabetes. “His blood sugar levels and HbA1c (shows the average glucose attached to haemoglobin for previous three months) were significantly raised,” said Dr Atul Gogia, senior consultant, internal medicine department, SGRH. Singh was put on anti-diabetic medications in addition to the other drugs. But he is not alone. Dr Gogia said nearly 10-15% of Covid patients, with no known history of diabetes, were being diagnosed with the lifestyle disorder. “One explanation could be accidental diagnosis. It is possible that the person had diabetes but did not know. Due to tests conducted as part of Covid treatment, he gets to know of it,” said the doctor, adding that they were conducting research to see whether Covid-19 could be triggering diabetes. Covid-19 is known to affect multiple organs, including pancreas, which produces insulin, one the main hormones that helps regulate blood glucose levels, the SGRH doctor said. Dr Sujeet Jha, principal director, endocrinology, diabetes and metabolism, Max Hospital said, he was also getting six to eight patients daily of new-onset diabetes. “Many of these cases are accidentally diagnosed during Covid treatment,” he said, adding that researchers abroad were exploring the possibility of Covid-19 triggering diabetes in healthy people. “There is a bidirectional relationship between Covid-19 and diabetes. On the one hand, diabetes is associated with an increased risk of severe Covid-19. On the other, new-onset diabetes and severe metabolic complications of pre-existing diabetes, including diabetic ketoacidosis and hyper-osmolarity, have been observed in Covid-positive patients,” stated a letter published in New England Journal of Medicine in June, which was signed by 17 diabetes experts. Another issue seen among Covid patients is sudden rise in blood sugar levels due to the administration of steroids, one of the very few medicines that have shown mortality benefit. “Steroid administration leads to dangerously high levels of blood sugar among diabetics. But there are also instances of non-diabetics developing the complication,” said Dr Anoop Misra, chairman, Fortis C-Doc Hospital for diabetes. He added that people at high risk for the disorder, for example those with family history, should get themselves screened for diabetes for timely diagnosis and management of the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/diabetes-is-no-1-accidental-finding-during-covid-19/articleshow/79436715.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
November 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Make all hospitals Covid treatment facilities: AHNA||AHMEDABAD: In view of the increase in Covid-19 bed occupancy in the city, the Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA) on Thursday wrote to Dr Rajiv Kumar Gupta, ACS (forests and environment) who is in charge of Covid action in Ahmedabad, to take action to ensure the availability of beds to patients. Dr Bharat Gadhvi, president of AHNA, said they suggested converting all hospitals with more than five beds that have ‘C’ forms into Covid treatment facilities. “With community spread, there is no need for rules such as separate entries and exits for Covid hospitals. Hospitals can be treatment facilities if they agree to the charges and adhere to the rules laid out by the central and state governments,” he said, adding that an average of 300 beds requisitioned by the AMC have been vacant for the past few days while paying patients find it difficult to secure one. As of Thursday morning, of the 3,043 non-requisitioned beds at 92 hospitals, 92% were occupied. Occupancy of ICU beds with ventilators and without ventilators are 93% and 95%, with 15 and 24 beds available, respectively. Isolation beds are 90% full, whereas high-dependency units (HDU) with oxygen supply are 92% full. The letter says that after Diwali, the city has seen a major surge in cases, mainly due to citizens ignoring the warnings of doctors, hospitals and government authorities. “In the last few days there has been a rush for beds. We strongly believe that the numbers will increase further and healthcare infrastructure will be stressed if action is not taken immediately,” the letter says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/make-all-hospitals-covid-treatment-facilities-ahna/articleshow/79435233.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Chandigarh||65-year-old woman dies, husband hurt in hit-&-run||tnnPanchkula: A 65-year-old woman was killed and her husband injured in a hit-and-run at Chandimandir light-point on Wednesday evening. Om Prakash Rathi, 70, a resident of Amravati Enclave, Pinjore, and retired Haryana health department employee, said in his police complaint, “My wife Parmeshwari Devi and I were on way to attend a Saket satsang when a speeding truck ran into our two-wheeler at Chandimandir light-point.” While his wife died on the spot, he received multiple injuries.Following the accident, the truck driver sped away. Rathi called up his son Raj Kumar, who took them to civil hospital in Sector 6 in an ambulance.Police have registered a case under sections 279 (rash driving on public way) and 304-A (death caused due to negligence) of the IPC against the truck driver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/65-year-old-woman-dies-husband-hurt-in-hit-run/articleshow/79434174.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Nashik||Covid-19: Doubling rate improves to 77 days in Nashik city||NASHIK: The rate at which Covid-19 positive cases are doubling in Nashik city has further improved in the past fortnight — from 56 to 77 days — due to drop in the number of new Covid-19 cases. The doubling rate of Covid-19 patients was 44 days on October 20, but it improved to 56 days in the first week of November. By Wednesday, the city had reported a total of 65,634 cases, out of which 899 have died. “As many as 63,524 people have recovered from the infection. The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients has crossed 96% and the death rate has reduced to 1.36% so far,” a health official said. On September 9, city’s Covid tally stood at 32,833 along with 576 deaths. Till then, as many as 27,660 patients had recovered from the infection — a recovery rate of 84%. The city had 5,607 active patients by that time. The city had recorded over 850 cases per day (average) in the month of September and the cases had reduced to 350 cases per day (average) in the month of October. The number of new Covid-19 cases have reduced to 146 per day on an average between November 1 and 25. A civic official said that they had increased the tracing of Covid-19 suspects for early detection and providing timely treatment. “This helped us reduce the number of new cases and also increase the recovery rate. Moreover, the death rate also reduced to 1.36%, which is the lowest since May,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/doubling-rate-improves-to-77-days-in-nashik-city/articleshow/79433221.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 27, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Expect clear skies by Sunday||KOLKATA: The city remained cloudy on Thursday even as the minimum temperature climbed marginally to 17.6°C. While the cloud cover may persist till the first half of Saturday, it will clear up by Sunday when the mercury may begin to slide, said the officials of Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC), Alipore. As cyclone Nivar hit the Tamil Nadu coast on Thursday, clouds from the outer band of the system kept floating into Gangetic Bengal. “We expect the clouds to disperse by Saturday. We may see a gradual drop in temperature from Sunday. It will not be a sharp plunge but the mercury will slide to 15-16 degrees by Tuesday,” said RMC director G K Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/expect-clear-skies-by-sunday/articleshow/79435254.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 27, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Ghosts of Gaja made people prepared for cyclone Nivar||NAGAPATTINAM: While Cyclone Nivar left people of the delta districts untouched, the ordeal of Cyclone Gaja, which ripped through the region in 2018, still stays afresh among the local people in Thanjavur and Nagappattinam. This time, people were well prepared to face the cyclone by making safety arrangements. K Murugamani, 40, a resident of Olimathi Odathurai village in Tiruvarur district, has well covered his thatched house with tarpaulin and rope this time. Several farmers trimmed their trees to escape from the onslaught of the cyclonic winds. “I lost my thatched house, several farmers lost lakhs of coconut trees and properties when Cyclone Gaja struck. We were scared this time when the news of the depression came, but the cyclone left us this time without any damage,” Murugamani added. A group of agriculture labourers at Saliyamangalam in Thanjavur district confirmed that they were safe. “There is no rain today (Thursday) and even sun also started to shine. So, we resumed our work,” said S Mallika, an agriculture labourer. Fishermen in Nagapattinam who tied their boats to poles near the New Beach in Nagapattinam said that their boats were safe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/ghosts-of-gaja-made-people-prepared-for-nivar/articleshow/79437120.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
November 27, 2020||Trichy||Delta heaves a sigh of relief||Nagapattinam: People in the delta districts, especially Mayiladuthurai and Nagapattinam, heaved a sigh of relief as Cyclone Nivar spared the region, causing minimal damage to properties and agricultural fields. Rains lashed all through Wednesday night, inundating some agricultural fields in Sirkazhi and Kollidam, but water started receding and draining out on Thursday. Normalcy returned quickly in both the districts, including their coastal regions. Fishermen have been engaged for draining out water by clearing clogs. People who were shifted to relief centres continue to stay there in the two districts. The district administrations in Thanjavur, Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur, Pudukottai and Ariyalur had made elaborate arrangements to safeguard human lives, livestock and properties. There was hardly any sign of the cyclone in the delta districts during early morning hours on Thursday when Nivar hit land near Puducherry. Commercial establishments remained opened on Thursday, but public, as a matter of caution, avoided venturing out till noon. As buses started plying, life got back to normalcy during the course of the day. Monitoring officer C Munianathan and Nagapattinam district collector Praveen P Nair said there was no causality in the district. About 150 houses, including huts, were partially damaged in rain and heavy wind, they said. In Thanjavur district, monitoring officer N Subbaian said 20 electric poles were damaged. All of them were replaced on Thursday. Trees fell in seven places, but they too were removed on a war-footing. As of now, there is no information about damage to crops in the district. In anticipation of heavy loss to standing samba paddy crop, as it happened in the case of Gaja in 2018, the state agriculture department had persuaded farmers in delta districts to sign up for crop insurance and pay premium on a war-footing in recent days. Out of 3.7 lakh acres covered under samba in Tiruvarur district, 2.8 lakh acres have been covered under insurance. In Nagapattinam district, farmers have so far insured 3.1 lakh acres out of the total coverage of 3.3 lakh acres. In Thanjavur district, out of 3.15 lakh acres, 1.8 lakh acres have been covered under insurance. As the deadline for insurance coverage is fixed as November 30, agricultural department officials are hopeful of 100% coverage in Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur districts. December 15 is the deadline for Thanjavur district. In Tiruvarur district, a 65-year-old woman, Rukmani, was electrocuted at Nannilam while she tried to switch on a light in her bath room. Her 24-year-old neighbour sustained injuries while he attempted to save her, police said. In Pudukottai district, people who were shifted to relief camps returned to their houses on Thursday morning. Ten relief centres were established in the district. Roughly 7,000 people were identified in vulnerable zones for quick evacuation on Thursday. Meanwhile, farmers have appealed to the state government to send an expert committee to assess crop damage in some parts of delta region and Cuddalore and Villupuram districts. Normally, Central and state committees visit affected fields after two to three weeks. Delayed assessment would not give an exact picture, said secretary of Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers’ Protection Association, Swamimalai S Vimalnathan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/delta-heaves-a-sigh-of-relief/articleshow/79437118.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Kolkata||App biker held for slapping woman in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Within 48 hours of arresting an app biker for stalking a 25-year-old woman near Garfa after her ride had ended, cops arrested another app biker, identified as Vikram Verma, on Thursday for allegedly molesting a woman and slapping her. Regent Park police said the woman was returning home from Park Street after work on Wednesday night when the accused dropped her on NSC Bose Road near Tollygunge even though she had put an address in Bansdroni as drop point. An argument ensued after the woman protested. As she began walking, Verma rode from behind and allegedly molested and slapped her. The woman approached police who arrested the rider. Meanwhile, cops said they have asked the app-bike aggregator, whose rider was involved in the earlier incident on Sunday night, to reply to some queries on security after which a meeting may be convened. “The most important question is how the new riders — especially those joining the app platforms during pandemic (the Garfa accused joined barely four months ago) — are being verified,” said an officer. Rapido, the aggregator whose rider was involved in this incident, has already deactivated and blocked him from their platform. “The security and safety of our customers is of utmost importance to us. We are soon coming up with a system upgrade that will assign high rated captains for female users, as an added safety measure...” read a statement by Rapido.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/app-biker-held-for-slapping-woman/articleshow/79435248.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 27, 2020||Pune||MahaMetro unearths 150-year-old animal bones at site in Mandai||PUNE: Workers on Monday discovered large animal bones, pegged at around 150 years old, at a Metro work site in Mandai. Researchers from Deccan College examined the bones at the site on Monday and said on the face of it, the bones appeared to be from an elephant and a cattle-like animal, adding that further analysis was needed. Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation is digging a duct to shift utility and drainage lines to make way for the construction of the underground Metro station in the area. Officials said the bones were found at a depth of 2.5 to 3 metres. “In the past two days, the workers at the site found bone-like objects, which they set aside. We contacted the state archaeology department and Deccan College for further inspection,” a MahaMetro official said. “Prima facie the bones appear to be about 150 years old,” Pankaj Goyal, a researcher from Deccan College, said. “From the basic structure, we are certain that the largest bone is from an elephant. The other bones appear to be from an animal from the cattle family, which includes cow, ox, buffalo, etc. A further study will help us exactly identify the type of animal,” he said. The analysis involves an inspection of various parameters and scientific checks.  “These will be matched with other, similar bones,” Goyal explained. Pune historian and author Mandar Lawate said that there was evidence that the Mandai area was home to several circus shows. “That could explain the presence of these animals in the area,” he said. The Mandai is located in Pune’s central area and is among the city’s oldest parts. The Metro’s underground tunnel line is aligned via Mandai towards Swargate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mahametro-unearths-150-year-old-animal-bones-at-site-in-mandai/articleshow/79435251.cms||Sarang Dastane
November 27, 2020||Pune||PMC to rope in wastepickers to help recover property tax||PUNE: The civic body, in an attempt to assess property tax and recover dues at the grassroots level, has decided to rope in wastepickers to gather information from owners. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will carry out the drive in the fringe areas of the city and also in places where new constructions have come up. “The civic body will train the waste pickers on how to carry out assessments, which will involve basic information gathering,” said a senior PMC official. According to PMC officials, the municipal areas have around 10.6 lakh properties in its jurisdiction which fall under the tax ambit. The number of properties has increased after the inclusion of 11 villages within municipal limits in 2017. “Many property owners have remained untapped as possible tax payers,” said Ulhas (Aba) Bagul, leader of Congress in the PMC. He said wastepickers have access to citizens across municipal areas. According to PMC officials, they have to recover around Rs4,500 crore — basic tax of around Rs2,000 crore and interest of Rs2,500 crore — from the tax defaulters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-to-rope-in-wastepickers-to-help-recover-property-tax/articleshow/79435247.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi's 1st vaccine storage at Rajiv Gandhi hospital||NEW DELHI: Delhi government’s Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital in northeast Delhi is going to have the city’s first storage facility for Covid-19 vaccine. The dedicated Covid-19 hospital has been chosen by the Centre and will be among the first such facilities in the country. The utility block of the hospital will be used for the storage facility, which will be spread over 5,000 square metres. The hospital authorities said a team of the Union health ministry had already surveyed and approved the utility block. “For the Centre’s programme for vaccination, it had written to Delhi government that they need some place with an area of at least 5,000 square metres. We have given the area to them, which has been earmarked, and they will occupy it soon,” Dr B L Sherwal, medical director of the hospital, told TOI. He said the area was being retrofitted for it to be converted into a cold storage facility. “Modifications are being carried out as deep freezers will come, for which the existing doors will have to be changed. We will also need more electricity points, apart from power backups,” the medical director added. Delhi government will use the existing cold chain system in the city used for regular immunisation programmes, apart from the supply and distribution chain, for introduction of the Covid-19 vaccine, but there was a requirement for a suitable site for bulk storage. “Delhi government has also assessed the preparedness of the cold chain infrastructure for any required strengthening,” an official said. The government is preparing a database of health workers at the forefront of the battle against Covid-19 who are likely to get vaccinated in the first phase. The database will include doctors, nurses, lab technicians, pharmacists and auxiliary nurse midwives from both government and private sectors. The Union health ministry had last month directed all states and Union territories to submit plans on backend infrastructure, cold storage and distribution by October 31. The governments were also told to prepare for a robust vaccine supply chain. “The database will be submitted to the Union health ministry and it will decide on how to go about it,” a Delhi government official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/1st-vaccine-storage-at-rajiv-gandhi-hosp/articleshow/79436731.cms||Sidharatha Roy
November 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: BJP favouring parking contractors, alleges AAP||NEW DELHI: AAP’s corporation in-charge, Durgesh Pathak, on Thursday alleged that the BJP-run north corporation was working under the pressure of advertisement and parking mafia. He claimed that the corporation had tried to increase house tax by 34% but waived off licensing fees of parking and advertising contractors from March to September though it didn’t have the money to pay salaries. It seems BJP has received a massive benefit by waiving off the fees, he alleged. On Wednesday, both proposals were on the standing committee’s agenda. The corporation withdrew the house tax proposal after continuous efforts of AAP leaders, Pathak claimed. “We have repeatedly observed that BJP has a nexus with the parking and advertisement mafia,” he alleged. Standing committee chairman Chhail Bihari Goswami said it had become a habit of AAP to levy allegations against BJP without even knowing facts. “We have not given a complete relief from the payment of licensing fees to parking contractors. Considering that none of the parking lots was operational during the Covid lockdown, we have given them relief under the force majeure clause,” he said. For post-lockdown, they will get relief in certain percentages depending on their locations, Goswami added. “A slab rate has been prepared after analysing the situation.” “As far as the property tax proposal was concerned, we didn’t receive any representation from AAP and the decision to withdraw it was taken by us in the meeting,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bjp-favouring-parking-contractors-alleges-aap/articleshow/79436717.cms||---
November 27, 2020||India||Covid blow: 37% girls from poor families uncertain of returning to school||NEW DELHI: About 37% of girls from poor households are uncertain whether they would be able to return to school after the pandemic, according to a study which also found that as compared to 37% of boys, only 26% girls in such families have access to mobile and internet to attend online classes. While 52% of the households surveyed had a TV set at home, only 11% of the children accessed educational programmes on TV, says the study conducted in June among 3,176 families whose children attend government schools across five states— Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Assam, Telangana and Delhi. The study—‘Life in the Time of Covid-19” by The Right to Education Forum, Centre for Budget and Policy Studies and Champions for Girls' Education found that about 70% of the families didn’t have enough food, which puts studies, especially education of girls, most at risk. It found that 78% of boys and 76% of girls from households which didn’t have food or cash crisis were hopeful of returning to school while half of them from families which faced cash and food shortage said the same. Terry Durnnian, chief education, UNICEF India, and Pramila Kumari Prajapati, chairperson of the Bihar State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (SCPCR), expressed concern over the impact of the pandemic on education, especially of girls from poor families. Online classes due to the closure of schools amid the pandemic has had a negative impact on education of girls who are not given priority in terms of internet access as compared to boys, the study found. Education-related programmes are also being telecast on TV, but most of the children are not able to garner its benefits, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-blow-37-girls-from-poor-families-uncertain-of-returning-to-school/articleshow/79437504.cms||Manash Pratim Gohain
November 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Pkl’s Majri Chowk caught in a gridlock||tnnPanchkula: A few areas of the city, especially Majri Chowk, witnessed traffic jams due to the farmers agitation on Thursday.With the closure of Ambala-Delhi route, the government advised travellers to use an alternative route to the Capital from Chandigarh via Panchkula. The route advised was Chandigarh-Panchkula-Yamunanagar-Delhi.To reach Yamunanagar highway, commuters had to cross Majri Chowk. As a result, the junction saw heavy vehicular flow under the bridge since morning.Stuck in a snarl-up, a commuter said, “I have an urgent hearing in a court in Delhi. Due to this traffic gridlock, I might not reach there on time.”Another hassled car driver said, “It is always the residents who suffer due to these agitations.” Traffic cops were on their toes to regulate vehicular flow.Panchkula police had imposed Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code on Wednesday in the wake of the call of central trade unions, employees’ union, Bharatiya Kisan Union and other farmer organizations to go to Delhi to seek withdrawal of three contentious agricultural bills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pkls-majri-chowk-caught-in-a-gridlock/articleshow/79434218.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||PM Narendra Modi may visit Zydus Biotech Park near Ahmedabad||GANDHINAGAR: Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to visit Zydus Biotech Park near Ahmedabad on November 28 to review development of the company’s ZyCoV-D (Covid-19) vaccine. Key sources in the state government said that along with a visit to Serum Institute of India (SII) in Pune on November 28, the PM will also visit Zydus Biotech Park in Ahmedabad. SII has partnered with global pharma giant AstraZeneca and the Oxford University for developing Covid-19 vaccine. The state’s civil and police administration have been put on high alert due to the PM’s visit. Modi likely to visit Anandiben’s familyPM Narendra Modi’s is likely to visit Uttar Pradesh governor and former Gujarat chief minister Anandiben Patel’s home to greet the family on the marriage of Patel’s grandson. The marriage is scheduled for November 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pm-may-visit-zydus-biotech-park/articleshow/79435276.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Nashik||Airlines face testing times again amid state order||Nashik: Airlines were gradually recovering from the huge losses they suffered during the Covid-related lockdown, but the state government’s recent move to make the RT-PCR test mandatory for passengers has again hit the business hard in Nashik city. The state government recently made it mandatory for passengers coming from Gujarat, Delhi, Goa and Gujarat to Maharashtra to undergo the test upon arrival if they fail to carry a Covid-negative report, with effect November 25. Two airlines operate daily flights from Ahmedabad to Nashik, one from Jalgaon to the Gujarat city while a private airline started operating a Nashik-Delhi-Nashik flight from Wednesday. “The passenger load on flights has reduced at large. Moreover, cancellation of tickets for flights coming from Ahmedabad has also started decreasing since Wednesday as flyers want to avoid the RT-PCR test,” said sources from private airlines in the city. “The number of passengers had started increasing since the Diwali festival. We were getting around 60 passengers in our 72-seater flight in the past week. However, the state government’s decision on the RT-PCR test has again affected the passenger load,” said sources of an airline operating on the Ahmedabad-Nashik route. “Moreover, the cancellation of tickets also increased in the last two days. Thirty-three of 45 passengers cancelled their tickets for the Ahmedabad-Nashik flight on Wednesday,” added the sources. The number of passengers in the Ahmedabad-Jalgaon flight was also hit during the last two days due. According to local tour operators, they are receiving enquiries from tourists who have already booked flights whether they should cancel their tickets as they will have to undergo tests when they return. According to central government officials, the new rule of testing flyers will adversely affect official travel plans of flyers as many of them need to travel to Delhi to for works. “There was an important meeting today (Thursday), but the it was cancelled as officials from Maharashtra were not keen to travel since they would be required to produce the RT-PCR test report when they return. Hence, the meeting was held video conference,” said the officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/airlines-face-testing-times-again-amid-state-order/articleshow/79433238.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Wanted: Doctors, to certify citizens dead!||AHMEDABAD: As if shock of losing his beloved grandfather was not enough, Ishit Thakkar, a resident of Ambawadi, got another shock when four of the doctors in his vicinity refused to visit his home. “We wanted the death certificate, a prerequisite to perform his last rites. We eventually called up a relative, who with his contact could help us with the document,” said Thakkar, a travel agent. But Thakkar was not alone in the ordeal – scores of the citizens found it difficult to get the death certificate the conventional way in past few months. The doctors cited the pandemic as the primary concern. “We used to visit the household for declaring a patient dead. But in current scenario, it’s not possible and advisable to go to every household,” said Dr Nitin Patel, a family physician from Navrangpura. “I however help the regular patients with whom I am conversant and aware of their medical condition.” Dr Kirit Gadhvi, president of Ahmedabad Medical Association (AMA), said that with lack of knowledge about the patient’s previous medical history, it becomes a difficult task for the doctors. “If the patient is already having a co-morbidity or old age, it becomes an easier task. But if the patients are young or there are any chances of dispute about nature of death, we advise approaching police so that the post-mortem can reveal cause of death,” he said. Dr Pragnesh Vaccharajani, secretary of Ahmedabad Family Physicians Association, said that they advise the citizens to remain in touch with general practitioners (GPs) of their area. “The doctor needs to know the patient. If the certificate is issued without proper understanding of the disease, the doctors could also be in trouble,” he said. Sources said that the families sometimes also take help of the paramedics to call the doctors and get it done. Sources in the civic body said that if the circumstances are not found suspicious, some of the crematoriums allow the cremation of deceased above 60 years of age without documentation, understanding the ordeal the families go through. (With inputs from Himanshu Kaushik)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/wanted-doctors-to-certify-citizens-dead/articleshow/79435910.cms||Parth Shastri
November 27, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu: Cyclone, rain dampen clay lamp business for Karthigai Deepam||SALEM: The heavy rainfall and cyclone Nivar have dashed the potters’ hopes of clocking brisk clay lamp business during the Karthigai Deepam, which falls on Sunday (Nov 29). Potters at Omalur, Kanjanaickenpatty, Tirumalaigiri, Tharamangalam, Vazhapadi, Pethanaickenpalayam, Gangavalli and Attur towns in the district usually fully focus their efforts on making clay lamps during this time of the year. Otherwise, the mainly make pots. Having already lost their business to the Covid-19 pandemic, these potters were betting big on the upcoming festival to make some money. V Ravikumar, a potter from Tirumalaigiri village, says, “Since March 25, the business has been very dull. We were expecting good business this Karthigai Deepam. The cyclone and incessant rain have shattered our dreams.” He said traders hadn’t placed orders with them because of the prevailing bad climate. These potters usually make 1,000 small lamps and 500 big one a day and earn roughly Rs 600. Trades buy these lamps for anywhere between Rs 1 and Rs 15, depending on their size. As Karthigai Deepam won’t be celebrated in a grand manner at Tiruvannamalai temple because of the pandemic, these potters haven’t received big orders from the traders. “A few of them wanted the clay lamps to be priced at 30 paise per piece against Rs 1 last year,” says N Sowmiya, a potter from Kanjanaickenpatty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/cyclone-heavy-rain-dampen-clay-lamp-biz-for-karthigai-deepam/articleshow/79435255.cms||Senthil Kumaran
November 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: As Novelty Cinema wears off, site to be used for parking||NEW DELHI: The standing committee of North Delhi Municipal Corporation has approved a proposal for leasing out the Novelty Cinema complex site for 99 years. The 1,158-square-metre plot in Walled City was earlier supposed to be redeveloped as a spice market. However, the project could not materialise and the committee has now okayed a proposal to develop a commercial complex-cum-parking facility. One of the oldest theatres in the capital, Novelty Cinema came into existence in the 1930s. The structure, which was lying in a neglected state, was razed two months before the lockdown after the civic authority decided to lease out the site. The corporation has fixed a minimum reserve price of Rs 34 crore for the project. “This is a commercial plot, where the floor area ratio for any project has been kept at 125. Now that the project has been approved in the standing committee meeting, we will start inviting bids after taking an anticipatory approval. We are expecting to get a good response,” said a senior official. The proposal was placed in the last standing committee meeting but it was postponed as the opposition AAP blamed the BJP-run civic body for trying to sell all its land assets before the next municipal elections and demanded an immediate rollback. However, standing committee chairman Chhail Bihari Goswami said a commercially viable project at the site would help the cash-strapped civic body. “We are running under a financial crisis and Delhi government is not releasing our due amount. We are now left only with the option of using our assets,” he said. The corporation has been struggling to redevelop the property into a financially viable project since 2000 when it took over the premises after the expiry of the lease. Initially, there was a plan to redevelop the site as a cinema-cum-commercial complex with the help of a private concessionaire. But before any work started, the trifurcation of Municipal Corporation of Delhi happened and the site came under the north corporation. “We have flattened the land after demolishing the dilapidated structure, where homeless and drug-addicts had taken shelter,” said a senior official. The corporation’s remunerative project cell will soon chalk out a plan for the project, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/as-novelty-wears-off-site-to-be-used-for-parking/articleshow/79436727.cms||Vibha Sharma
November 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi students in a fix over another online exam, but DU confident||NEW DELHI: Delhi University is again going to adopt a blended open-book examination format — this time to conduct the end-semester examinations for the second- and third-year undergraduate and final-year postgraduate students. As the first such examination, held earlier this year due to Covid-19, was marred with glitches and there are still problems with results, both students and teachers are worried. The number of students appearing this time will be twice more than the previous one. DU, however, claims it is prepared to conduct a smooth examination. A student can also opt for a physical test in colleges and will have to choose the mode while registering for the examination. “But they will have to upload their answer sheets on the examination portal,” D S Rawat, dean of examination, told TOI. “DU has given the option to students to come to colleges as some face issues of internet connectivity at home,” Rawat said. He, however, believes that not more than 3% of them will opt for it due to Covid-19. Many principals also agree with him. S P Aggarwal, principal of Ramanujan College, said, “We have seen that 95% of the students opted to give the examinations from home or a third-party location like a cyber cafe. We have a lot of space and have provisions for students’ safety. Last month, we conducted the Ignou exams with ease.” Sri Venkateswara College principal Venkat Kumar said most students were from outside Delhi and would choose the online mode. “Even parents of the students residing in Delhi won’t be keen on sending their children to colleges,” said Kumar. Amreen Kaur, a second-year student of College of Vocational Studies (CVS) who stays in NCR, said, “My parents won’t want me to travel by the metro.” However, she is also worried about glitches. “Some of our seniors had been marked absent or had got zero. We know it is important to appear for the exams, but I wonder how fair the open-book exam is!” she said. Teachers, too, have their own set of concerns. Kumar Ashutosh, the exam nodal officer at CVS, said, “The volume of students will be higher. This time, the students are required to submit their answer scripts only on the examination portal, while last time more than 50% of the examinees had sent them through the DU exam email.” He suggested that the university could reduce the load by opting for internal assessment and projects for second-year students. However, Srinithi Sridharan, a BA (H) English student of PGDAV College, hopes that DU must have improved the system if it is confident of conducting the open-book exam at a mass scale. Sanjeev Singh, director of DU’s computer centre, said, “Our system is well in place and the exams will be conducted without any difficulty.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/students-in-a-fix-over-another-online-exam-but-du-confident/articleshow/79436741.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
November 27, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra anganwadi worker who rowed kms to feed kids and pregnant women honoured||NASHIK: The aganwadi centre at Chimalkhedi village in Nandurbar district will be renovated and provided with more facilities, thanks to Relu Vasave for her stupendous efforts in providing nutritious food to babies and pregnant women in hamlets using a boat to cross the Narmada river ever since the outbreak of Covid-19. Nandurbar district collector Rajendra Bharud made the announcement while honouring Vasave, a worker attached to the centre, on Thursday. “Vasave’s deeds as the aganwadi worker during the pandemic are being applauded nationally. She has set an example how one should discharge responsibilities. The entire district is proud of her,” he said while addressing a gathering during the felicitation programme at the district headquarters. Nandurbar Zilla Parishad CEO Raghunath Gavade and other senior district officials were among those present . Bharud and Gavade presented Vasave with a citation, saree and sweets. The administration provided a car to bring her along with some family members from Chimalkhedi, which is in a remote part of the district. Speaking briefly, Vasave shared her experience as an anganwadi worker during the pandemic. “This felicitation would certainly inspire me to do the work more zealously. I am touched by the gesture of the senior district officials,” she said. TOI had in its November 15 edition highlighted Vasave’s role in a news item titled ‘Woman rows 18km daily to attend to tribal babies, expecting moms’. Appreciation and congratulatory messages started pouring on different social media platforms from people from all walks of life. Niti Aayog, in a tweet, also applauded her tireless efforts in providing quality nutrition to babies and pregnant women. With road connectivity non-existent, boat is the only mode of transport to visit the hamlets. The beneficiaries, mostly tribals, stopped visit the anganwadi kendra at Chimalkhedi after the Covid outbreak .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nandurbar-anganwadi-worker-honoured-centre-to-get-facelift/articleshow/79433246.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
November 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Unemployed couple sells 3-month-old son for Rs 10,000||Coimbatore: A 22-year-old woman was arrested at Kangeyam in Tirupur district on Thursday for selling her three-month-old baby boy for Rs 10,000 to a couple, who were also taken into police custody. The Kangeyam all-woman police have rescued the baby boy, who would be produced before the child welfare committee (CWC) on Friday. An investigation officer said the woman, a native of Aarapalayam in Madurai district, had separated from her first husband around seven months ago and got married to N Murugan, 31, of Tirunelveli district. Employed with a textile mill in Tirupur, the woman was living in a rent house near Kangeyam with Murugan, an earthmover driver. According to the officer, the woman delivered the baby boy three months ago. “She did not go for work after the delivery. Her husband was also out of work because of the lockdown and they were struggling to lead a life. So, they decided to sell the infant,” the officer said quoting the statement of the infant’s mother. The toddler was subsequently sold to Viswanathan, 40 and his wife V Vijaya, 34, of Keeranur near Kangeyam, who didn’t have a baby in their 20 years of married life. “They offered to pay Rs 10,000 for the child.” On Tuesday afternoon, the child was handed over to Viswanathan and his wife. Meanwhile, the Child Line got a tip about the sale of the infant and its member P Madhavan, 21, lodged a complaint with the Kangeyam all-woman police inspector Hemalatha, who registered a case against both the couples under Section 81 of Juvenile Justice (care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015. Police arrested the baby’s mother and the couple who bought it, while Murugan went into hiding. The arrested three were produced before a judicial magistrate, who directed police to produce the baby boy before the CWC on Friday morning and sent the mother to a shelter home. The couple who bought the child were let off on bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/unemployed-couple-sells-3-month-old-son-for-rs-10000/articleshow/79435264.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 27, 2020||Chandigarh||No night curfew in city; pay Rs 1,000 for not wearing mask||Chandigarh: There will be no night curfew in Chandigarh. The decision was taken in a review meeting chaired by UT administrator VP Singh Badnore on Thursday.However, the UT administration has increased the fine for not wearing a mask at public places from Rs 500 to Rs 1,000. The UT was contemplating a hike in fine in the wake of surge in Covid-19 cases.Besides, the administration has decided that classroom teaching in Sector 32 medical college would start from December 1.Coaching institutions will be permitted to open from December 1, subject to strict observance of pandemic protocol, both in classes and hostels. The officials were asked to ensure that the Covid protocol was followed at public gatherings like marriages and social events, among others.Even as the administration has decided against night curfew, the closing time of bars, restaurants, clubs among others, might be reviewed in the next meeting in case of surge in cases.The officials were directed to intensify testing and ensure strict enforcement of guidelines in areas like Sector 26 mandi, ISBT, railway station, parks, Sukhna Lake, Rock Garden and other busy market places.Chandigarh DC Mandip Brar said 27,878 challans had been issued to people violating the pandemic guidelines.The UT administrator directed the officials to be ready for storage, transportation, distribution and planned vaccination of people, once the vaccine is made available.Key decisionsNo night curfew in ChandigarhThe closing time of bars, restaurants, clubs might be reviewed in the next meeting if cases surgeFine for not wearing a mask at public places increased from Rs 500 to Rs 1,000 Coaching institutions can open from December 1, subject to strict observance of Covid protocol||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-night-curfew-in-city-pay-rs-1000-for-not-wearing-mask/articleshow/79434236.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
November 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Tuition centres in city must now get NOC according to new fire norms||Ludhiana: Keeping in view the mushrooming of coaching centres in the city, the local bodies department has issued new fire safety norms for these centres to follow. Now, the centres are divided in three categories based on the area, and the owners will have to make arrangements accordingly. But sources said this may again remain a policy on paper if the authorities do not make an attempt to find out the exact number of tuition centres operating in the city and hold them all equally responsible. The guidelines are notified and will be implemented in the entire state. The notification is the result of a writ petition that is being heard in Punjab and Haryana high court. Also, after the Surat coaching centre tragedy last year, the authorities were working on to bring some norms for the coaching centres. The three categories are: coaching centres running in existing shop-cum-office and shop-cum-flat having height less than 15m, those running in standalone commercial complexes/buildings having height not more than 15m and coaching centres running in all other establishments having height more than 15m. These norms will be applicable with immediate effect and will be implemented by the fire and town planning wings of urban local bodies. The NOC from fire department will have to be obtained by the building owner/occupants within one year for high-rise buildings (15 meters and above) and within six months for buildings having height less than 15 meters from the date of issuance of this notification. Failing which, the coaching centre will be sealed by fire wing/urban local bodies. However, neither the fire department nor the municipal corporation (MC) have exact data on how many tuition centres are operational in the city. Not only in the commercial areas, even in residential areas many oaching centres have popped up in the recent past. There is single entry/exit in most of the buildings and fire arrangements are also insufficient. According to the fire department, only big industrial houses, schools, hospitals and big malls are applying for fire NOC. In the last one year, the fire accidents that have occurred are mostly in places that had no fire NOC. Advisor to Punjab fire department Bhupinder Sandhu, said, “Earlier also fire NOC was mandatory for these coaching centres, but there were no clear cut directions or norms. Now, we have divided the coaching centres in three categories.” He said all the fire officials in the state are sent this information. “Fire NOC will be issued according to new guidelines and if coaching centres or institutes will not get NOC, then local fire officials have been given the powers to seal the centre,” he added. Meanwhile, requesting anonymity, one of the fire officials claimed that coaching centres are often located in places where changes are not possible — for example, he said, most often there is space for only one entry and exit — and they cannot force the owner to open a second entry/exit. He said these changes are possible in standalone locations only. He said fire department is going through the norms to see how the new rules can be implemented, but he insisted that it may not be possible without the support from town planning wing of the MC. Required fire safety arrangements Fire extinguishers required in all types of categories First-aid hose reel Automatic sprinkler system Manually operated electronic fire alarm system Automatic detection and alarm system Underground static water storage tank||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/tuition-centres-in-city-must-now-get-noc-according-to-new-fire-norms/articleshow/79435267.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Goa||‘South Goa district hospital to be top Covid-19 facility’||MARGAO: With the Covid-19 caseload having declined over the past few weeks, the state’s health department has turned its focus to the upgradation of the new South Goa district hospital. Sources in the health department said that moves are underway to develop the new healthcare facility into a state-of-the-art Covid hospital, complete with operation theatre, ICU, modern medical facilities and diagnostic tools, at the earliest. “The work of requisitioning all required equipment for the new hospital is currently underway,” a senior health official said. “By rough estimates, the process of seeking government approvals, procurement and installation is likely to take 2-3 months. Until that time the ESI-Covid hospital will continue to function as a Covid hospital,” the senior health official said. Sources said that once the South Goa Covid hospital gets operational, the ESI hospital will continue to remain functional as a facility for treating mild to moderate Covid cases, while severe and critical cases will be treated at the new district hospital. Currently only mild to moderate cases, as well as step-down patients, are admitted in the South Goa district hospital. However, sources said, no decision has been taken as yet over shifting the Hospicio hospital to the new district hospital. The South Goa district hospital, meanwhile, has been getting good reviews from patients for quite some time now. Patients discharged from the hospital have been speaking highly of the service rendered by the team of doctors and health care workers at the hospital, apart from a fair level of hygiene maintained at the healthcare facility. Though there’s been no surge in Covid cases in Goa post-Diwali as was anticipated, medical professionals have advised utmost caution over the next two months, especially ahead of the Christmas and new year celebrations when the state will be witnessing a large number of tourist footfalls. They are of the view that though Goa’s graph has not shown any major spikes, one cannot let one’s guard down even as there is need to be prepared for any possible second wave. “However, we are now better equipped to deal with any situation, both in terms of facilities and the state of mind. With ample availability of beds and improvised infrastructural facilities in place, the confidence level of the medical fraternity is also on a high,” a senior health professional said. Nevertheless, medical experts have advised people to be watchful of one thing that could prove to be the state’s undoing — Covid fatigue. “The wave hasn’t ended. Everybody needs to exercise control and restraint for at least the next 2-3 months,” a health official stressed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/s-goa-district-hosp-to-be-top-covid-facility/articleshow/79436728.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
November 27, 2020||Surat||Gujarat BJP chief’s son test positive for Covid-19||Surat: Gujarat BJP president C R Paatil’s son Jignesh Paatil tested positive for Covid-19 on Thrusday and has been home quarantined in Surat city. Part sources said that Jignesh had mild symptoms following which got himself tested on Wednesday.Meanwhile, 231 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Surat city on Thursday, taking the case tally to 31,257.According to Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) officials, three patients succumbed to the virus, two from Athwa zone and one from Rander zone on Thursday. With this the death toll in Surat city rose to 769.SMC commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani held meeting with leaders from diamond and textile industry and discussed rising Covid-19 cases and urged industry players to take all precautions.A total of 178 patients were discharged from different hospitals in Surat city on Thursday.SMC’s enforcement team on Thursday fined 4,621 people in the city for not wearing face masks and collected Rs 2.62 lakh as a penalty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/gujarat-bjp-chiefs-son-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/79434243.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Bareilly||Patient dupes Pilibhit orthopedic surgeon of Rs 50,000||Pilibhit: Orthopedic surgeon Dr Prabhakar Sharma, on Wednesday, filed a written complaint at Sungarhi police station that he was duped of Rs 50,000 by a former patient. Police have lodged an FIR in the matter. In his complaint, Dr Sharma has said that a 35-year-old Bareilly-based man, identified as Vipul Shrivastav, had approached him a couple of months ago, to seek medical consultation for some physical complication. After earning his trust and maintaining cordial relations with him, he took the money as loan in three installments. Shrivastav had introduced himself as an employee of SBI Life Insurance. Trusting him, the surgeon told him about his mother’s bank account that had become dormant. On Shrivastav’s assurance that he could get the account re-activated, the surgeon gave him Rs 5,000 to be deposited in that account. Soon after this, on November 4, the accused demanded Rs 20,000, ostensibly to bribe some bank officer in order to sort some other complication with the surgeon’s own bank account. On the next day, he demanded an additional Rs 25,000, stating the sum of Rs 20,000 was insufficient to get the work done. After the surgeon had one of his employees hand over the cash, the accused disappeared from the scene. The surgeon alleged not even the initial amount of Rs 5,000 was deposited in his mother’s account, which has remained dormant as before. SHO Atar Singh said the accused has been booked under sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) and 406 (criminal breach of trust) of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/patient-dupes-pilibhit-orthopedic-surgeon-of-rs-50000/articleshow/79432485.cms||Keshav Agarwal
November 27, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Retailers, malls push for Black Friday sales||KOLKATA: Leading malls and electronic goods retailers in the city seem to have latched onto the American concept of Black Friday sales, offering huge discounts to attract buyers and beat the slowdown blues. In the US, Black Friday is the informal name for the Friday following Thanksgiving Day that is regarded as the beginning of the Christmas shopping season there. Following in the footsteps of American stores, which offer high rebates and open as early as midnight or even earlier at times, retail chains here, such as Great Eastern, Khosla Electronics and Spencer’s, are also joining in the bonanza. Though e-taliers are eyeing good business, the excitement seems particularly pronounced in malls, stores and retail chains. At Acropolis Mall, brands, such as Nyaka, Jack and Jones, Skechers and Shoppers Stop, are providing Black Friday doorbuster deals, like 40% off from November 26 to 30. “Black Friday has been a sales promotion phenomenon in the US and Europe and India is also availing of the same strategy. We are leveraging Black Friday sales to attract more consumers and boost sales. We have decided to continue with Black Friday promotions next year, too,” said K Vijayan, GM, Acropolis Mall. From November 27 to 29, shoppers at the 160 outlets of Spencer’s across the country can buy expensive products at 10-year-old prices. Devendra Chawla, CEO, Spencer’s Retail and Nature Basket, said, “It is our constant endeavour to ensure savings for our customers. With Black Friday sales, our customers can avail one of the lowest price drops of the year across online, phone delivery and in-store channels.” Quest mall, too, is ready with discounts in garments, lifestyle and stationary segments. Cut to electrical appliances and jewellery products, leading chains have come up with similar offers. Manoj Khosla of electronics chain Khosla Electronics said, “We are embracing Black Friday with a bunch of offers for customers.” Pulkit Baid, director of Great Eastern appliances told TOI, “In 2019, we introduced Black Friday sale in Kolkata and witnessed a good response, especially from the millennials. This time, we have bigger plans.” Mia by Tanishq, a leading jewellery brand, has unveiled an exclusive sale. A spokesperson said, “Buyers can get up to 25% off valid on Mia products. This offer is applicable for various jewellery items hat they can gift.” Yashovardhan Gupta, MD, Torero Corporation, said, “. If we break it up across all channels, retail discretionary purchases have really suffered, especially from March to August. In November, we saw business activities close to what it was in 2019. For Black Friday, there’s a big demand for gifts. This time, our strategy is special pricing, given the financial distress caused by pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/retailers-malls-push-for-black-friday-sales/articleshow/79435322.cms||Sarthak Ganguly
November 27, 2020||Dehradun||35-year-old woman drowns as boat carrying 25 people & 2 bikes overturns in US Nagar||RUDRAPUR: A 35-year-old woman died after a boat capsized in the Haripura reservoir in Gularbhoj area of Udham Singh Nagar district on Thursday. The boat, which is the only mode of transportation in the area, was carrying 21 people, including three men and a kid, along with goods and two motorbikes. The deceased has been identified as Asha Rani Dogra, a resident of colony no. 2 of Gularbhoj. According to the police, the villagers were coming back from Peepal Parao forest range after collecting wood and got on board at Semal Chaud village. As the sailor, Somnath Singh, lost control, the boat overturned, and the passengers fell into the water. The people at the nearby banks rescued the drowning passengers and managed to save 20 of them. Asha Rani was unconscious when she was pulled out of the water. Later, she was taken to a nearby hospital, but the doctors declared her dead on arrival. Notably, the Haripura reservoir is one of the major tourist destinations for advent sports enthusiasts, and it was the ambitious project of education minister Arvind Pandey. It is only 4 kilometers away from minister Pandey's house, but ironically no trained professionals are deployed here for the safety of the commuters. Gram pradhan of Thanda Nala Copa, Manoj Devradi, said due to load beyond boat’s capacity to carry and its dilapidated condition led the incident. “They don't even have life jackets for the passengers riding these boats which cater to almost five villages in this area,” Devradi lamented. Meanwhile, Gularbhoj police outpost incharge, Jagdish Tiwari, said the body of the deceased has been sent for post-mortem and a probe has been initiated in the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/35-year-old-woman-drowns-as-boat-carrying-25-people-2-bikes-overturns-in-us-nagar/articleshow/79434260.cms||Aakash Ahuja
November 27, 2020||Coimbatore||HC okays felling of trees to build Ooty medical college||The Madras high court has permitted the state government to cut 1,838 trees standing on the 25-acre allotted for a government medical college in Ooty.A division bench of Justice M Sathyanarayanan and Justice R Hemalatha vacated the stay after authorities informed the court that the trees proposed to be uprooted were neither native species nor part of Shola forest, but only commercial trees like eucalyptus.The issue pertains to a PIL moved by advocate V Ramesh who wanted the court to restrain the state from constructing new buildings for the hospital on the land and to utilise the existing buildings of Hindustan Photo Films which is now defunct.On September 14, the court passed an interim order prohibiting the state from felling trees in the site but permitted it to construct new buildings.Now, requesting the court to vacate the stay, advocate-general of Tamil Nadu Vijay Narayan submitted that the earmarked trees were not native trees and they also do not form part of Shola Forests which existed during colonial period.“Therefore, cutting and removing the trees to pave way for establishment of a medical college hospital would not lead to any ecological imbalance or environmental degradation,” Vijay Narayan said.“We assured the court that scientific method/norms would be adopted for cutting, removal and storage of the trees. As regards the auction of the trees is concerned, it will be done subject to further orders to be passed by this court,” he added.As per the list provided by the AG, de-marked trees are 1,683 Eucalyptus Globlus, 1 Eucalyptus Grandis, 59 Accasia Mearnsil, 39 Pinus Pettula, 13 Accasia Melonoxylum, 2 Michalia Chenpaga, 39 Cypress Couprosses, and 2 Phodocarpus Latifolia.Recording the submissions, the bench said: “This court, on careful perusal of the materials and consideration of the rival submissions, is of the considered view that the felling of the trees can be done, in the light of the clearances obtained, the details of which, have been narrated in the affidavits filed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/hc-okays-felling-of-trees-to-build-ooty-medical-college/articleshow/79435288.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 27, 2020||Nashik||Mixed response to the strike||Nashik: The strike called by trade unions on Thursday received mixed response in the industrial, banking and other sectors Of the 4,500 industrial units, only over 200 industrial units affiliated to the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) remained closed on Thursday D L Karad, the state president of CITU said around 50,000 workers and employees of industries and government departments joined the stir. The All India Bank Employees’ Association (AIBEA) had also joined the strike. “Transactions worth crores of rupees were hit as around 275 branches of all public sector banks, except SBI, joined the strike,” said Aditya Tupe, an office bearer of AIBEA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/mixed-response-to-the-strike/articleshow/79433258.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 27, 2020||Bareilly||Farm machinery banks in 126 co-op cane & sugar mill societies start work across UP||Pilibhit: As many as 126 farm machinery banks, which were set up in 126 co-operative cane and sugar mill societies across 44 UP districts where cane is the main crop — in order to make advanced machines for crop residue management easily available to cane growers — have started renting out the machines, as the cane season advances.According to additional chief secretary of sugarcane and sugar industry, Sanjay R Bhoosreddy, the banks are providing machines to farmers on nominal rent, at a time when sugar mills across the state have started processing, and farmers are getting ready to prepare their fields to sow Rabi crops, after quickly clearing them of cane residue and disposing it.The cane department’s prime objective is to eliminate cane growers’ dependency on similar private machinery banks. By clearing the fields without having to burn residue, they eliminate air pollution that follows burning of the residue. By converting it into compost, they increase fertility and moisture-retaining capacity of the soil, and reduce farmers’ expenditure on fertilizers. The machinery banks are also expected to save farmers from spending their hard-earned money on buying the expensive machinery, Bhoosreddy said.He said, “The state has 165 cooperative cane societies and 24 cooperative sugar mill societies. We’ll keep a close watch to see if the existing machinery banks are sufficient to fulfill the demand of cane growers. If the state sugarcane administration feels the need, we’ll introduce more machinery banks.”Each farm machine bank had been equipped with 35 machines of 12 types, including residue mulcher, hydraulically-reversible mould board plough, and rotavator, all of which are very expensive. The cane administration will constantly monitor whether farmers are being provided the machinery at the specified rent, said Bhoosreddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/farm-machinery-banks-in-126-co-op-cane-sugar-mill-societies-start-work-across-up/articleshow/79432507.cms||Keshav Agarwal
November 27, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Senior doctors back, non-Covid bed occupancy hits 85%||MUMBAI: After months of staying away, patients are returning to hospitals for non-Covid treatment in larger numbers even as senior doctors have resumed consultations. Occupancy of non-Covid beds in some hospitals has touched 85-90%, suggesting that fear of being infected is gradually receding and a greater confidence to visit hospitals for OPD consultations or surgeries is setting in. Joint replacements, heart surgeries and angioplasties are increasing in number. Despite manpower crunch, hosps have waiting period for non-Covid patients82-year-old Dr Dev Pahlajani, one of the seniormost interventional cardiologists in India who resumed consultations at Breach Candy Hospital and his clinic a month ago, said, “Both patients and doctors are more aware and confident of the preventive measures to be taken.” Despite manpower crunch, hospitals are nearly running to capacity. The uptick in non-Covid services is across both public and private hospitals. At KEM Hospital, daily count of surgeries has reached 150-160 after dropping to single digits in March to June. The pre-Covid number was almost 250. Daily OPD footfall too has started to breach 4,000-4,300 now. Though it’s only 50% of the OPD load seen in pre-Covid times, numbers are much higher than seen till July-August. The hospital is also carrying out a minimum of 20 deliveries everyday now. Dean Dr Hemant Deshmukh said non-Covid procedures have shot up since the early months of the pandemic. “Covid is still here so it may be a while before things normalise completely, but there is an increase no doubt in non-Covid footfall,” he said. Patients are walking in for heart surgeries, angioplasties and angiographies, and joint replacements.. A similar pattern is now emerging even in smaller, private facilities. Surgeon Dr Lalit Kapoor and his wife, both in their 70s, resumed work gradually after patients kept showing up at their nursing home in Andheri, which is in the same premises as their residence. “These are people we have known for generations. So, when they come with a wound or an acute pain, we cannot say no,” he said. “I have started performing around 2-4 surgeries a month from nil,” he said. His wife, who is a senior paediatrician has seen a huge rise in demand for vaccination services. At bigger hospitals such as Lilavati Hospital, there is, in fact, a waiting period of a few hours for a non-Covid bed. The 200 non-Covid beds here are running to capacity and the management plans to add another 20. “We are performing upto 15-20 major surgeries in a day now,” said Dr V Ravishankar, CEO of Lilavati. Heart, orthopaedic, gastroenteric, neurological and cancer surgeries are being carried out regularly. The hospital now has 25% vacant Covid beds. Doctors say initially when the lockdown was eased in June, footfalls were relatively less, giving rise to fears of increase in non-Covid deaths. TOI had reported how the city experienced a sharp rise in fatalities from all causes between March and September 2020 compared to the same year-ago period. Deaths in 2020 are 26-30% more compared to 2019 and 2018 and Covid accounts for only around 50% of the additional number. “That fear of stepping into a hospital is gradually reducing. We saw a sudden jump in admissions in the past few weeks when positive cases fell significantly,” said Dr Rohinton Dastur, director medical of Bhatia Hospital. Doctors at Dr LH Hiranandani Hospital, Powai concurred that there’s been a steady rise in non-Covid services. “We presently have 50% occupancy of non-Covid beds,” said Dr Manish Gupta, medical director. However, some hospitals are still operating only on urgent cases. Orthopaedic surgeon Dr Pradeep Bhonsale, who consults with Nanavati Hospital, said they operate only on cases where patients are in pain or are rendered immobile. “We still don’t want to congest, so we are only taking cases that can’t wait,” he said. Still, over 85% of the hospital’s non-Covid beds are occupied, said Manpreet Sohal, director of Nanavati. Others like Dr Pahlajani, who has carried out about a dozen angioplasties and angiographies in the past 30 days, are ensuring adequate precautions are taken to reduce risk of exposure. Dr Pahlajani said Breach Candy’s catheterisation lab replaces its team every two weeks after a non-stop stint during which they don’t leave the premises. Dr Kapoor, who runs a 15-bed hospital in Andheri, however, said the manpower crunch remains a stumbling block and many small and mid-level hospitals are not running optimally. Dr Dastur agreed that after the exodus of nurses, Bhatia Hospital has been able to operationalise only 100 of their 195 beds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sr-docs-back-non-covid-bed-occupancy-hits-85/articleshow/79437125.cms||Sumitra Debroy
November 27, 2020||Coimbatore||3 special trains to Chennai cancelled||Coimbatore: Western district might have been spared by Cyclone Nivar, but the residents still felt its impact as several trains from the city were cancelled on Thursday, leaving people to abandon their travel plans. In view of Cyclone Nivar, three special trains being operated from Coimbatore to Chennai central and as many trains in the return direction scheduled to ply on Thursday were cancelled completely. This was the second consecutive day, the railway authorities had to cancel trains due to the cyclone. On Wednesday, three trains were cancelled. At the same time, train no.02601 Chennai Central – Mangalore special train and train no.02639 Chennai Central – Alappuzha special train were operated. A statement from the southern railways said that few trains were partially cancelled on Thursday. Train no.02640 Alappuzha–Chennai Central special train was partially cancelled between Alappuzha and Erode while the train will run from Erode to Chennai Central as per schedule, said the statement. Train no.02083 Mayiladuthurai – Coimbatore Jan Shatabdi special train was operated from Mayiladuthurai in the scheduled timings. So were no.06187 Karaikal–Ernakulam special train and no. 06231 Mayiladuthurai – Mysuru special train operated as scheduled. Similarly, long distance buses to several destinations in cyclone-hit areas like Cuddalore, Puducherry and Chengalpet were cancelled. Officials said they would take stock of the situation and resume the services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/3-special-trains-to-chennai-cancelled/articleshow/79435311.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Amrita University invites application for awards||Coimbatore: The Amrita University has invited applications from deserving teachers and school principals from across India for Amrita Academic Excellence Awards 202. A statement from the university said that after the success of maiden Amrita Academic Excellence Awards for teachers and principals from Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, the nomination has been extended throughout the country. Teachers with at least five years of classroom experience can apply, while principals must have at least 10 years of combined experience as a teacher, vice-principal or principal to be eligible. All teachers and principals must submit their applications online, or offline, by November 30, 2020. “After the submissions, the Amrita administration would scrutinize all applications. The winners of Amrita Academic Excellence Awards 2021 will be announced by Amrita by December 31, 2020. All winners will be felicitated on January 9, 2021, at the Chennai campus of Amrita School of Engineering,’’ the statement said. For more details visit www.amrita.edu/aaea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/amrita-university-invites-application-for-awards/articleshow/79435328.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 27, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh CM asks ministers to implement central schemes & meet targets||BHOPAL: In the first cabinet meeting held after the bypolls, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan instructed ministers to submit a monthly report card on the performance of their departments. Briefing the media after the cabinet meeting on Thursday evening, home minister Narottam Mishra said, “Chief minister Chouhan said that since people have put their faith in this government, responsibilities have also increased.” Mishra claimed that the roadmap for the development of the state is ready. “Chief minister Chouhan said that ministers should not waste even a single day. Every department should specify their targets along with a roadmap. The state also has to top in implementation of Central schemes. Ratings will be done on the works of each and every department,” the home minister said. “Every Monday, ministers will have to review work done by their respective departments. The chief minister has instructed the council of ministers to have a good grip over their departments and implement government policies and schemes at the grassroots”, Mishra added. “In a major decision, the state cabinet decided to make new rules for quality nursing education. A proposal has been passed stating hospitals cannot give training to nursing students from more than one institution. Nursing schools will also have to give an affidavit about the training facilities and faculty,” Mishra said. “Those institutions who have BSc level nursing programme will be eligible for an MSc level course. There are many such rules that have been approved by the cabinet today. Betrayal and running shop in the name of nursing schools will no longer be accepted,” Mishra said. A nursing college giving MSc course has to be attached to at least a 50-bedded super-speciality hospital. The council of ministers also cancelled the earlier allocation of land and Rs260.57 crore sanctioned for the Sankota irrigation project in Sehore district since the project was encroaching on forest land. A new project was sanctioned in place of the earlier Seep Amber irrigation project in the same district with a capacity to irrigate 8,000-hectare land. The cabinet has sanctioned Rs174.94 crore for the project. The Cabinet on Thursday also approved Rs153.9 crore for upgradation of the Jabalpur Medical College and the School of Excellence in Pulmonary Medicine in Jabalpur has been given approval for 20 new posts.  In another decision, the government decided to distribute uniforms to children in state-run schools from Classes 1 to 8. “The intention behind the decision is to give earning opportunities to self-help groups”. Mishra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cm-asks-ministers-to-implement-central-schemes-meet-targets/articleshow/79435341.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Bareilly||Drive against overloaded cane carrying vehicles, trucks & trolleys seized||Pilibhit: Assistant regional transport officer Amitabh Rai has launched a special enforcement drive against overloaded sugarcane vehicles across the district, to avert road accidents and to ensure the safety of commuters, especially school students, following orders of district magistrate Pulkit Khare to take harsh action against them. On the first day of this drive, enforcement teams seized two tractor trolleys and a truck loaded with sugarcane, and issued challans against five other sugarcane-laden vehicles. A penalty of Rs 1.35 lakh has been imposed on their owners. Farmers carry sugarcane to procurement centres and also directly to sugar mills on tractor-trolleys, while trucks are engaged to transport the acquired cane from procurement centres to the mills. According to Rai, the maximum permitted height of sugarcane loaded over the body of a truck is 3ft, while it can carry up to a maximum 18 tonnes of cane. The maximum weight allowed on a tractor-trolley is fixed at 10 tonnes. He said on checking the trucks and trolleys at Barkhera and Bisalpur, many trucks were found loaded with 28-30 tonnes of cane, while trolleys were carrying over double the permitted weight of cane. Enforcement teams seized two overloaded trolleys near Barkhera sugar mill. They also impounded the documents of an overloaded truck near village Churra Sakatpur near Bisalpur sugar mill, Rai informed. Challans were also issued against five other tractor-trolleys in Bisalpur for flouting norms assigned by the transport department. Similar action was taken against few other overloaded vehicles on the first day as a symbol of warning to all defaulter trucks and tractor-trolleys. In future, stern action would be ensured against all overloaded cane vehicles, Rai warned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/drive-against-overloaded-cane-carrying-vehicles-trucks-trolleys-seized/articleshow/79432541.cms||Keshav Agarwal
November 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Vehicle tracking devices must for public service vehicles||Coimbatore: From December 1, the owners of the public service vehicles could register their vehicles at regional transport offices (RTO) in the state only if they have installed the vehicle location tracking device (VLTD) along with emergency buttons. The ministry of road transport and highways, over a year ago, had issued a notification mandating the installation of VLTD with one or more emergency buttons in all the vehicles except two-wheelers, e-rickshaw, three wheelers and other transport vehicles which do not require permit under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988. According to sources from the RTO office, “Based on the central government notification, the state government recently issued a direction mandating the installation of VLTD with emergency buttons for new public carrier vehicles and goods vehicles seeking national permit that approach the RTOs for registration from December 1. It is to ensure the safety of the passengers.” The officials are yet to get notification regarding the old vehicles, the source added. “The central government has already mandated VLTD for all the vehicles and the state government has decided to implement it in a phased manner. At present, they have issued notification for new registration vehicles and directions for old vehicles could be given anytime. As the vehicle owners had already taken a huge hit due to Covid-19 pandemic, it would be better if the government gave us sufficient time to recover,” V Durai Kannan, president of Coimbatore district bus owners’ association. CP Balaji, joint secretary of All India Tourist Vehicles Drivers’ welfare association said, “The time extension given by the government to renew fitness certificate (FC) is nearing its end and we have to spend at least Rs 40,000 to Rs 60,000 including insurance, painting and other expenses, to get the FC certificate. In this situation, if the government asks even the old vehicles to install the devices, we definitely could not afford it.” It is only four months ago, the government has mandated the vehicle owners to paste reflective stickers – while colour stickers on the front side, yellow colour on both the sides and red colour on backside - in their vehicles, the source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/vehicle-tracking-devices-must-for-public-service-vehicles/articleshow/79435358.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Overflowing garbage bins, clogged canals raise a stink||Coimbatore: Residents and activists have urged the Coimbatore Corporation to take necessary steps to clean the overflowing garbage bins on city roads and clean water channels that were clogged with waste at the earliest. Singanallur MLA N Karthik said the water channels, including that of Rajavaikal and the one at Sanganoor, were filled with garbage and sewage water. “They overflow whenever it rains. The city corporation hasn’t taken any steps to desilt them, despite several representations.” He also blamed the civic body for not taking any steps to prevent sewage water from entering the lakes, which were being beautified at several crore rupees. Pointing out that he had inspected Peelamedu poori kadai sandhu, where sewage water remains stagnant and public dispose garbage, the DMK MLA lambasted the city corporation for not cleaning them. “If this is situation in the city that is home to the municipal administration minister, what will be the state of other cities?” Activist S P Thiyagarajan said most of the garbage bins in the city were often found overflowing. “It’s because of the absence of door-to-door collection and corporation not cleaning the bins regularly.” He said the garbage on the roads has been attracting cattle and stray dogs, causing inconvenience to the public. He also blamed the city corporation for not sprinkling bleaching powder around the garbage bins. Pointing out that storm water drains were found overflowing whenever it rained, the activist said the drains were filled with garbage and they were not desilted for years. Varalakshmi, a resident of Peelamedu, said the city corporation should consider replacing the garbage bins with new ones as most of the existing ones were damaged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/overflowing-garbage-bins-clogged-canals-raise-a-stink/articleshow/79435391.cms||Nivedha Selvam
November 27, 2020||Kolkata||‘Gentle reminders’: Teachers reach out to parents ahead of payment deadline||KOLKATA: As the November 30 deadline for clearing school fees looms ahead, institutes are asking teachers to explain the seriousness of the situation to parents and urge them to pay the arrears on time. While most schools have recovered only a part of the dues pending since April, a large number of parents are reportedly yet to pay up or shown any intent to meet the deadline. The WhatsApp status message of “Thanks Team” from the principal of Asian International School, Vijaylakshmi Kumar, perhaps summed it up on behalf of others. From a situation, where only 40% parents had paid to 85% of them clearing the dues, Kumar seems to have her teachers to thank. She said her team went through an orientation process before calling up parents. The tone while talking to parents can never be one of command but that of empathy, teachers have been told. Teachers at DPS Howrah are explaining to parents how distressed the school was and how clearing dues will help teachers and staff. The calls have seen at least 80% parents paying up. Only 25%-30% of the “virgin” fee books since April are finally being used at Loyola High School. “It was less than a trickle till last week. Now, some parents are coming in as the arrears have piled up, making the amount look big despite the waiver,” said principal Fr Rodney Borneo. The school has now asked its teachers to write to parents on the WhatsApp class groups used for online classes. Teachers at Jewish Girls’ School, along with principal Monica Vincent, have been calling up parents over the reasons for non-payment. Most mothers are also former students and the school thought this was the best way to connect. “A parent will always open up to teachers better and most of us have known each other for years. Many have paid after a talk and those who still could not are really distressed,” Vincent said. Nearly 30% parents there are yet to pay up and teachers are in touch with them. Some schools, such as Shri Shikshayatan, are waiting to see the payment tally till Friday and then, ask their teachers to remind parents about the deadline during class, said Bratati Bhattacharya, spokesperson for the group. So far, 70% defaulting parents have paid up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/gentle-reminders-teachers-reach-out-to-parents-ahead-of-payment-deadline/articleshow/79435557.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
November 27, 2020||Kochi||Ernakulam district consumer panel headless, 1,876 pleas pending: RTI reply||KOCHI: The functioning of Ernakulam district consumer redressal commission has almost come to a hiatus, and the Kerala state consumer disputes redressal commission has stated that 1,876 petitions are pending before the district commission as of September 30, 2020. The details have been furnished in reply to a RTI query filed by Roy Thekkan, general secretary of city-based NGO Ernakulam district consumer protection council. Each district commission has a president and two members on board. Petitions seeking compensation up to Rs 1 crore can be filed before the district commission. On the functioning of the Ernakulam district commission, Thekkan told TOI, “After the retirement of the president in February 2020, the government has not made a new appointment. Even though the retirement dates are known to the authorities in advance, there is a lack of interest in ensuring the proper functioning of the commission. The district commission is unable to serve its purpose.” He also said that there are two members in the district commission. However, the absence of a president considerably slows down the process of complaint redressal, and results in increased number of pending cases. While it is required to dispose of a case within three months, most cases go on for months and years. Earlier in 2019 there was a period when the Ernakulam district commission did not have members and there was only the president. This adversely affected the functioning of the commission and delayed disposal of petitions. Former president of Ernakulam district commission Cherian P Kuriakose said that the charge of Ernakulam office has been handed over to the president of Kottayam district commission. “He comes every two months for two days. However, in Ernakulam the commission has been receiving a flood of complaints, particularly those related to apartment complexes. Though KRERA has come into existence, they cannot address issues related to claims,” he said. Meanwhile, in the RTI reply, the Kerala state consumer disputes redressal commission stated that there are 890 petitions pending before them. There are also 1,798 appeals pending before the state commission. When it comes to consumer protection commissions in all 14 districts of the state, there are a total of 13,779 pending petitions. Thrissur district tops the list with 3,201 pending petitions. It is followed by Thiruvananthapuram which has 1,636 pending complaints. Ernakulam stands third in the list. The state commission also states that apart from Ernakulam, the commissions at Kozhikode, Malappuram, Palakkad and Idukki do not have presidents. In Kozhikode district commission the post of member also remains vacant. Also, it is pointed out that the Consumer Protection Act, 2019 has widened the definition of ‘consumer’. It now includes any person who buys any goods, whether through offline or online transactions, electronic means, teleshopping, direct selling or multi-level marketing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/dist-consumer-panel-headless-1876-pleas-pending-rti-reply/articleshow/79434311.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Agra||Rainfall in Agra region, cold wave spread shiver||Agra: Over 45 minutes of drizzle in Agra region on Thursday morning resulted in the drop of mercury level. Cold winds flew at a speed of 10 km per hour, spreading shiver across the region. The sky mostly remained covered with clouds throughout the day. Weak sunlight was witnessed in the afternoon. The maximum temperature was recorded eight degree Celsius less compared to the normal limit. Moreover, after snowfall in parts of Uttarakhand, cold winds flew in Agra region during the day. Till 8pm, the maximum temperature dipped to 20.1 degree Celsius, lowest so far this year. On a minimum scale, the mercury level dropped to 13.5 degree Celsius. Besides Agra, cold waves also swept across Firozabad, Mathura, Etah, Aligarh and Mainpuri. Aligarh remained colder as compared to Agra. Here, minimum temperature was recorded at 10 degree Celsius, four degrees less as compared to normal. According to the meteorological department, the Agra region till November 30 is likely to witness fog/mist in the morning and mainly clear sky later. Mild sunshine will take place in the afternoon. Mercury level is expected to further dip - both minimum and maximum scale by degree Celisus - in the next four days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/rainfall-in-agra-region-cold-wave-spread-shiver/articleshow/79433316.cms||---
November 27, 2020||India||MV rules to allow nominee for smooth ownership transfer||NEW DELHI: In a move to make hassle-free transfer of vehicle ownership to the identified family member or any other nominee on the lines of bank accounts, the road transport ministry has proposed to amend the Central Motor Vehicle Rules enabling the owner to put the name of nominee while applying for registration. The name of the nominee can also be added later through an online application. This will bring huge relief to family members of the owner, particularly in case of his/ her death. The draft rule specifies that the owner has to submit some proof of the nominee for verification. Currently, in case of death of the registered owner, the family members need to get the ownership transferred within three months and comply with procedures which often require frequent visits to different offices. “This is yet another move to improve the ease of living,” a transport ministry official said. The transfer of ownership in case of death of the registered owner will happen in the name of the nominee who needs to inform the registering authority in the state of his residence or place of business through the portal for a fresh certificate of registration in his or her name. “This is a big reform and will end the hassles the many face, particularly in cases where the registered owners passes away,” said transport expert Anil Chhikara. In yet another move, the ministry has proposed to make it easier for registration of more than 50-year old two-wheelers and four-wheelers as “Vintage Vehicles”. The owners of such vehicles can get the first registration of such vehicles by paying Rs 20,000 for 10 years and the renewal fee would be Rs 5,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mv-rules-to-allow-nominee-for-smooth-ownership-transfer/articleshow/79437525.cms||Dipak K Dash
November 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Kala Utsav to be conducted virtually||Coimbatore: Offering a reprieve for secondary level students from online classes, the school education department is all set to conduct virtual Kala Utsav, a national-level arts competition, this year. Students from classes IX to XII are asked to record their performance and submit it to teachers through WhatsApp or pen drive from Friday. Kala Utsav, an initiative of the ministry of human resource development (MHRD), is aimed at promoting arts in education by nurturing and showcasing the artistic talent of students across the country. It has been organized for the past five years and would be conducted for Class IX to XII students of government, government-aided and private schools. An official from the office of chief educational officer (CEO) said that the number of competitions was increased this year to nine from four and at the maximum two students – a girl and a boy – are allowed to participate in each competition. The competitions are vocal music- classical, vocal music- traditional folk, instrumental music- classical, instrumental music- traditional folk, dance- classical, dance- folk, visual arts - 2-dimensional) visual arts - 3-dimensional and indigenous toys and games. The competition was supposed to take place from Wednesday at educational district level, the official said. “It was postponed after the state government declared a holiday on Wednesday due to Cyclone Nivar. Students are asked to send four to six minutes of videos of their performance to teachers before Monday.” The school education department has directed all schools to participate in the competition. Winners will participate in the revenue district-level competition expected to take place in December. “More than ever, the competitions are much needed now. Apart from encouraging students and providing them an opportunity to showcase their talents, the competition would provide a reprieve from online classes. Ever since the lockdown was imposed to contain Covid-19 pandemic, students had been attending online classes and had not stepped out of their houses,” said a government schoolteacher. “With the diversion, students will feel refreshed and pay full attention to their studies after they return. Extracurricular activities are important and they would help students to become creative,” said G R Chendooran, district president of the Tamil Nadu Post Graduate Teachers Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/kala-utsav-to-be-conducted-virtually/articleshow/79435523.cms||Nivedha Selvam
November 27, 2020||Agra||2,256 prisoners released on parole in UP amid Covid asked to return to jail||Agra: As many as 2,256 convicts, who were released on parole by the Uttar Pradesh government to check the spread of Covid-19 in jails, have been sent notices asking them to return to their respective prisons on expiry of their parole extensions. According to jail authorities, the prisoners were given 3-4 extensions after their first parole of eight weeks on various dates initiated since the last week of March. The date of their return will depend on the date of release from the jail and expiry of the extension period. Confirming this on Thursday, senior superintendent of prison [headquarters] Ambrish Gaur said that notices have been issued to all 2,256 prisoners who were released from 70 prisons across the state. “Prisoners will be readmitted to jails only after their antigen and RT-PCR test report for Covid-19 comes negative,” senior superintendent of Mathura district jail, Shailendra Maitrey, said. Maitrey told TOI that the prisoners, who had been released on special parole due to the Covid pandemic almost eight months ago, will be put up in temporary jails first and shifted to regular jails when they test negative. Even on returning to jail, they will be quarantined for 14 days in special barracks as a precautionary measure. According to a Supreme Court directive to the states to release prisoners facing up to seven years of jail term on parole, a high-level committee was formed by the state government and convicts who have been punished for seven years or less, were released on an eight-week parole on a personal bond, and freed from the jails. The latest National Crime Records Bureau data on prisons in India stated that Uttar Pradesh is one of the worst states in overcrowding of its jails despite having the highest capacity to accommodate prisoners among all states. While the state’s jails have the capacity to keep 58,914 inmates, it houses almost double.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/2256-prisoners-released-on-parole-in-up-amid-covid-asked-to-return-to-jail/articleshow/79432554.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
November 27, 2020||Agra||On her way to Delhi to join farmers’ stir, Medha Patkar denied entry in UP||AGRA: On her way to join ‘Delhi Chalo’ agitation in the national capital along with scores of farmers from Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka and Maharashtra, social activist Medha Patkar was prevented from entering Uttar Pradesh near Saiyan village in Agra district close to Rajasthan border on Wednesday night, prompting the Save Narmada crusader to stage a protest on the Agra-Mumbai national highway (NH-3) against the government’s new farm laws and other policies in Rajasthan’s Dholpur on Thursday. “We spent the night on the highway in the rain,” Patkar told TOI. “We were provided with tea and food only in the morning (on Thursday) that too by the Rajasthan administration.” UP Police had, however, no answer to their questions as to under which law she and others were prevented from entering the state. “It was a diktat, in fact,” said Patkar, adding: “The protest will continue till Friday.” Accusing the government of dividing them and breaking their unity, Patkar said, “The government doesn’t want us to show our strength, so the borders were blocked. But our unity is very strong and we will keep our fight against injustice going.” Addressing the protesting farmers at the border, she said, “The Centre is not allowing farmers even to breathe. How can they enforce such laws without consulting the farmers, their organisations and states?” Lambasting the UP Police for suggesting them to take another route to Delhi via Rajasthan and Haryana, Patkar said: “We would have to cover extra 250 km distance to reach Delhi had we taken the route suggested by them. We are not foreign-funded agencies and don’t have so much money to spend. They could have escorted us to that the Delhi border, but they chose not to do so.” Mahendra Tomar, a Narmada Bachao activist, told TOI that they blocked the highway for one hour initially and asked the administration and police to work out a solution. "But as they didn't do anything, the protesters and farmers blocked the highway again. They, however, did not disrupt the traffic by keeping half of the highway opened for the movement of vehicles.” Justifying their decision to halt the farmers’ march to Delhi, SP (Agra west) Ravi Kumar told TOI: “The Delhi government has requested us to stop farmers from reaching the national capital since they had no permission to stage a protest. Besides, such gatherings would also have violated the Covid protocol.” “The prohibitory orders are in force in Agra, too, so we have deployed nearly 100 police personnel at the border,” added the SP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/on-her-way-to-delhi-to-join-farmers-stir-medha-patkar-denied-entry-in-up/articleshow/79433342.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
November 27, 2020||Surat||Relax timings and guest count, Surat wedding planners plead||Surat: Among the worst pandemic hit professionals, especially wedding planners and event managers, who had to ultimately leave their glitzy domain to hit the high road demanding relaxation in stringent Covid norms that has has been ruining their businesses. In a protest rally organized to make their voice heard in Surat, wedding industry associates on Friday appealed the state government to relax norms related to organizing events. From event management, sound, LED lights, pandals to photographers and caterers joined the car rally on Athwalines and finally submitting memorandum to Surat collector. Posters pasted on cars stating ‘Nahi Chahiye Koi Madad Ya Kheirat, Bas Shuru Ho Jaye Band, Baja Baraat’ (Don’t want alms or aid, let weddings take place with regular paraphernalia) with hashtag #saveweddingindustry on each placard. Over hundred cars joined the rally under the banner of Service Industry of South Gujarat. “The changing rules have robbed the wedding industry of events. There is no clarity from the government related to guidelines which has created more chaos among people and business associated with it. Now, cutting the guest list to 100 and imposing night curfew has a]only worsened the situation. We urge the state government to give relaxation in timing and increase number of guests in weddings,” said Prakash Hathi, secretary of South Gujarat Event Management Association. At least 25,000 families from South Gujarat are associated with the wedding industry, Hathi said. In a statement, Surat Mandal Decorators Electrical Association also decried the government’s move to allow other industries to function normally and only restrict the wedding industry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/relax-timings-and-guest-count-surat-wedding-planners-plead/articleshow/79434315.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Agra||69 test Covid-19 +ve in Agra, district tally 8,925||Agra: At least 69 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Thursday evening, taking the district tally to 8,925. The patients included two junior doctors of the SN Medical College and a staffer of the district hospital. Besides, there were four patients suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome, three of influenza-like illness, three of severe acute respiratory infection, two of coronary artery infection and two kidney patients. Also, 48 Covid patients were discharged on Thursday. Of the 8,925 cases reported in the district, 90.7% have been declared cured of the infection and discharged. The number of active Covid cases increased from 645 on Wednesday, to 666 on Thursday. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “The current sample positivity rate is 2.6%. So far, 8,096 people have been cured and discharged."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/69-test-covid-19-ve-in-agra-district-tally-8925/articleshow/79433348.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: 'Why we heaved a sigh of relief after cyclone Nivar struck'||CHENNAI: The memories of the destruction caused by cyclone Vardah and the 2015 floods began to haunt Chennai residents when IMD forecast Cyclone Nivar to make landfall as a very severe cyclonic storm at an estimated speed of 120-130kmph gusting to 145kmph. But unlike Vardah or Gaja that left a trail of destruction, Nivar, though a very severe cyclonic storm, spared Chennai and the rest of the northern districts it crossed on Wednesday night. According to experts, the damage was comparatively minimal because the cyclone’s structure was disorganised and not compact enough to pack stronger winds that can cause major destruction. Professor Sridhar Balasubramanian, climate expert from IIT Bombay, said the eye of Nivar was not distinctly visible, which means the storm was disorganised with drastic reduction in the wind speed on the outer edge compared to the speeds in the eyewall, the ring around the eye in the centre. Hence, the damage caused by winds was less. But storms like Vardah and Gaja were organised and compact with less difference in the wind speeds at the eyewall and the edge of the storm, hence packing stronger winds to cause more destruction when crossing the land. The eyewall usually has the maximum wind speed. “A storm with a visible eye is dynamically more dangerous as it will be more organised and compact. Nivar was a disorganised storm spread over a larger area from Nagapattinam to Nellore, which means less wind velocity,” he said. “Land friction caused by topography of Sri Lanka and later the Delta region did not let it Nivar organise in a compact manner,” he said. He said convective bands of the storm spread over a large area were moving slowly bringing more rain, unlike Gaja or Vardah which moved faster bringing more winds and less rainfall over the land. Further the winds of Nivar were not strong enough to push and cause stronger storm surge. On Thursday, officials from Regional Meteorological Centre, Chennai, visited ground zero where the storm made landfall to conduct a post-storm survey. N Puviarasan, director, Area Cyclone Warning Centre, RMC Chennai, said interaction with fishermen revealed that the wind speeds were relatively less during landfall than what was anticipated. Though the winds were at a maximum speed of 140kmph over the sea, it reduced during landfall. “Our nearest automatic weather station in Puducherry recorded 50kmph wind speed during landfall. The storm itself had good wind speeds on the eastern side and while it was less on the western part,” he said. However, experts said the automatic weather station in Puduchery, which is 30km south of the landfall location, is on the ground level where trees and buildings may be obstructing it from capturing the actual wind speeds. Former deputy director general, IMD, Y E A Raj said the track of Nivar was similar to that of cyclone Nisha in 2008 which formed around the same region and moved northwestwards like Nivar to make landfall near Nagapattinam. The wind speed of Nisha was 83kmph and it brought good rainfall of 55cm over four days. “Nivar has moved over Rayalaseema and has brought a lot of rain on Thursday which is unusual for that region in November-end. On Friday too, there will be more rain as the system is stationed near Rayalaseema,” he said. “But extent of damage caused by Nivar may be known after some time, as even in Gaja, it was initially thought there was not much damage but it later emerged over a period that it caused much more damage than what was expected,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/why-we-heaved-a-sigh-of-relief-after-nivar-struck/articleshow/79435468.cms||U Tejonmayam
November 27, 2020||Kochi||No negligence in C K Harris’s death: Kochi police||KOCHI: Kochi city police issued a notice informing the family of C K Harris who died at Kalamassery medical college in July after being tested positive for Covid-19 that the primary inquiry into his death did not reveal any negligence or wrongdoing on the part of the hospital staff or authorities that warranted legal action as alleged in their complaint. The notice was issued to Anwar Haneef, the brother-in-law of Harris and the complainant. Haris, a 51-year-old resident of Fort Kochi, had died at the hospital on July 20. He was admitted to the hospital on June 26 after he tested positive for Covid-19. Haneef, however, said that the police were evidently lax in investigating his complaint. “In the notice given to me, even the date of death was wrongfully shown as July 24. It raises suspicions on whether they inquired about some other Harris. We have asked for a copy of the full report of their inquiry and we would continue our legal fight,” Haneef said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/no-negligence-in-harriss-death-cops/articleshow/79434327.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra State Cooperative Bank scam: ED plea on closure report junked||MUMBAI: A special court on Thursday rejected ED’s intervention application challenging the closure report filed by the Economic Offences Wing of Mumbai police in the Rs 25,000 crore Maharashtra State Cooperative Bank scam. The court said the application filed by ED to intervene “is not tenable and is rejected”, adding it was “not passing any orders on the closure report as an opportunity is required to be given to the informant to contest.’’ It is alleged that bank officials granted loans to cooperative sugar factories, whose owners were connected with them, to benefit the bank’s directors. The scam was allegedly perpetrated over a period of 15 years, from 2002 to 2017. The ED, which was probing the money laundering, in the last hearing had cited bids placed by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar’s family in acquiring the sugar mills auctioned by the bank while he was the director. Last September, the police had registered an FIR on directions of the Bombay high court in a PIL filed by Mumbai businessman Surinder Arora. The PIL named NCP’s Ajit Pawar and former NCP leaders Vijaysingh Mohite-Patil and others as former directors of the bank and alleged foul play in loan disbursals. Arora’s counsel S B Talekar said the “offences investigated by the EOW and being investigated by ED arise out of the same transactions of either sanctioning and disbursement of illegal loans or illegal sale of cooperative sugar factories.’’ The EOW in its report held that its investigation did not reveal any wrongful loss to the bank or government due to illegal disbursement of loans as well as illegal sale of cooperative sugar factories and as such, no offences were made out against the then directors and officials of MSC Bank, the District Central Cooperative Banks and others. The main bone of contention, argued the complainant, was that once a closure report is accepted, the ED probe would come to a standstill. Additional Solicitor General (ASG) SV Raju, special counsel for ED, had submitted that it was not just an EOW case but a case involving public funds and hence public interest. The court, he argued, had powers to permit further investigation and to allow ED to file a protest petition against the closure report. The court in its order gave advocate Talekar for the informant, Arora, time to file a detailed protest petition, if any, and adjourned the matter to December 14. The court said it was “not passing any orders on the closure report as an opportunity is required to be given to the informant to contest.’’ “The EOW overlooked voluminous reports of enquiries of premier government agencies such as Comptroller General and expert bodies like Nabard,’’ said Talekar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/msc-bank-scam-ed-plea-on-closure-report-junked/articleshow/79437206.cms||Swati Deshpande
November 27, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Centre acting like Punjab not part of India’||CHANDIGARH: Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Thursday attacked the BJP governments in Haryana as well as at the Centre for “outraging the Constitution” in dealing with the peacefully protesting farmers. “I strongly condemn the repression and persecution launched against the farmers in Haryana,” said Sukhbir. He added that the water cannon would not douse flames of democratic protest against injustice. The SAD president said the Modi government was treating Punjab as if it was not a part of the country. “Are we not a part of India? Are farmers, traders and other common Punjabis not Indians?” he asked. Referring to the growing repressive trends in the country, the SAD president said, “They are ruling the country as if it were a dictatorship. It’s a very sad day for the country when the Constitution was openly flouted by those who were tasked with protecting, safeguarding and implementing the Constitution in letter and spirit,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/centre-acting-like-pb-not-part-of-india/articleshow/79436746.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Kochi||Kerala HC tells CBSE to consider plea on exam registration format||KOCHI: The high court has asked CBSE to consider the plea for changing the format of the form for Class IX and Class XI registrations so as to accommodate the expansion of initials used in students’ names. Justice N Nagaresh noted that it is common in Kerala to use abbreviations of names other than father’s or mother’s name as initial and that the present form requiring a student to enter the expansion of the initial in the ‘surname’ column would be misleading. In the judgment, the court said, “Members of some of the communities in Kerala, traditionally have no surnames. A good section of citizens having surnames do not state or display surnames because surnames mostly are indicative of caste status. Keralites use abbreviations along with their names, which need not necessarily be the abbreviations of their surname. Sometimes the abbreviations are indicative of one’s father’s name, sometimes of mother’s name. Many a time, the abbreviations are indicative of their family name.” The court was considering a petition by Harish PA of Kochi through senior advocate T Sethumadhavan. Through a circular, CBSE had asked students to give the expanded names in the registration form and not use abbreviations. Further, it was required that the data furnished should be similar in all documents like birth certificate, Aadhaar, passport, school records, etc. CBSE’s counsel had submitted that the circular was only advisory and intended to make the students anticipate the requirement of a surname. The students can either stick to the name given in the admission register or take an informed decision to add, remove, or modify their particulars, which will not be permitted later, CBSE had told the court. In the judgment, the court said it was not passing an order as the circular is only advisory but asked CBSE to consider the parent’s representation regarding the format of registration forms next time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hc-tells-cbse-to-consider-plea-on-exam-regn-format/articleshow/79434367.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab gets one lakh MT stock of urea||PATIALA/FEROZEPUR/FAZILKA: With over one lakh MT urea reaching Punjab in the last two days after resumption of train services on Monday, farmers and pesticide dealers heaved a sigh of relief. According to Markfed officials, free movement of trains will ensure smooth supply of urea in Punjab. The state already has 5.47 lakh MT of DAP in stock. Shortage of urea will be overcome in the next few days with fertiliser companies sending urea bags, which are needed for wheat sowing. In the last two days, the state got 28 rakes that were in transit while 12 new rakes are on the way. One rake contains 2,700 MT of fertiliser. With 28 rakes, the state has got 75,600 MT urea, over 70% of shortfall. Also, 32,400 MT more is on the way. Fertiliser supply officer Amarinderjit Verma said the district needs 17,232.65 MT of DAP at present. So far, only 54.68% or 9,422.25 MT has been supplied. Besides, 35,052.86 MT urea was required in the district, of which only 11.93% or 4,180.8 MT was supplied. Verma said the two rakes have been sanctioned for Patiala district, of which one will be supplied in Rajpura and the other in Nabha. Meanwhile, three rakes of freight trains carrying 7,830 metric tonnes of fertiliser arrived at Ferozepur on Thursday. Hardev Singh, chief agriculture officer, Ferozepur said expected to arrive in the district shortly. After a long hiatus, railway loading yards at Abohar and Fazilka bustled with activity. IPL’s DAP and urea fertiliser reached Abohar by train. The consignment contains 1,200 metric tonnes of urea and 2,500 metric tonnes of DAP, a much-needed fertiliser. Arrival of a full rake has also dispelled fears of shortage in the district. Chief agriculture officer Surinder Singh said another rake of fertiliser arrived in Fazilka. It contained 2,600 MT of urea, which was being sent to cooperative societies so that it could be distributed among farmers without delay. Deputy registrar, cooperative societies, Sarveshvar Singh Mohi said, “According to the instructions of the state, we have been supplying 80% to cooperative societies and 20% to private dealers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/punjab-gets-1-lakh-mt-stock-of-urea/articleshow/79436744.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Surat||Four fall sick in mysterious circumstances, one dies||Surat: Health of four persons from Bagumara village within Palsana police station limits deteriorated mysteriously on Wednesday evening after they consumed some poisonous substance. Of them, a woman of around 30 years died while being shifted taken to a hospital in 108 ambulance. Another 35-year-old man is critical and under treatment in the hospital, said the police. Two others, including a 12-year-old boy, have regained consciousness but are still under treatment. No offence has been registered with the police till now. Sanjay alias Bodo Sukha Rathod, 35, Raju alias Fugli Rathod, 30, Hitesh Rathod, 25, and 12-year-old Shivkumar Rathod of Halpativas in Dabha in the outskirts of Bagumara village fell unconscious on Wednesday. The victims are all family members of farm labourers. On being alerted, 108 ambulance arrived at the spot and shifted the patients to the hospital when the woman died on the way.Sanjay, Hitesh and Shivkumar were admitted to a private hospital near Chalthan where Sanjay is still critical and unconscious. Hitesh and Shivkumar have regained their consciousness. Police have started the process to register their statement to find out the facts. The doctor at the hospital informed police that a blood report and medical examination of the patients suggest that they consumed some poisonous material. Meanwhile, the woman was cremated without any following any legal procedure. Police officials claim that they were alerted by the hospital only on Thursday and by that time the woman’s last rites were already over. Since no post mortem was done, it is not clear how she died, said cops. “The woman had died on Wednesday and police were informed only on Thursday. Her cremation was already done. Family members told the police that the deceased had asthmatic problems,” said a police officer. Meanwhile, sources in the village informed that the four had gone to the canal for fishing and allegedly found some liquid in an Indian Made Foreign Liquor bottle there which they consumed. Soon after their health deteriorated, they said. Police claimed that only after registering a statement of the patients they can know exactly what made their health deteriorate so fast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/four-fall-sick-in-mysterious-circumstances-one-dies/articleshow/79434352.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Use of brute force reprehensible: Punjab AAP||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has held Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar responsible for allegedly orchestrating atrocities on the farmers of Punjab by stopping them from holding a protest march to Delhi against the three agriculture laws. Punjab AAP unit president and Sangrur Lok Sabha member Bhagwant Mann, while condemning the act, said stopping farmers’ protest march to Delhi by brute force was a highly reprehensible act on the part of the Union and Haryana governments. He added that the AAP strongly opposed the move to bulldoze the stir. Mann said, “Our Constitution guarantees us the right to protest in a democratic manner. It is a matter of grave concern that the BJP government has crossed all limits of constitutional propriety by denying the farmers their legitimate right to hold protests against the draconian agriculture-marketing laws.” He added that the minimum support price (MSP) regime was the statutory right of the farmers and the AAP would fight tooth and nail to ensure legal guarantee of MSP to farmers on all crops. The Sangrur MP also said it was due to the poor governance of the Modi government at the Centre and Capt Amarinder Singh government in Punjab that all sections of the society, including farmers, labourers and traders were facing the heat on all fronts. Mann said Amarinder had proved himself as the weakest chief minister of the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/use-of-brute-force-reprehensible-aap/articleshow/79436745.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad may get light to moderate rains today||HYDERABAD: The city is likely to receive light to moderate rains on Friday in view of cyclone Nivar which is likely to weaken into a deep depression. Following Nivar’s landfall in coastal Andhra Pradesh, the city had cloudy overcast on Thursday. As per the Telangana State Development Planning Society, some areas such as Alwal, Moulali, Khairatabad, Asifnagar, Charminar, Monda Market among others received 1-23 mm of rainfall on Thursday. The maximum temperature too dropped by three degree Celsius below normal to 25.7 degree Celsius. The minimum temperature recorded was 19.5 degree Celsius, three degree Celsius above normal, during this time of the year.  “The city may experience light to moderate showers for the next two days. A slight drop in mercury levels can also be expected during this time,” said K Naga Ratna, in-charge director, India Meteorological Department, Hyderabad. Not just that, a fresh low pressure is likely to form over central parts of South Bay of Bengal around November 29 triggering more rains. The low pressure area is likely to move westwards and become more marked. We will be able to analyse the intensity and impact of low pressure only once it is formed||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyd-may-get-light-to-moderate-rains-today/articleshow/79435514.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris: 34 Covid cases reported||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris district reported 34 new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 7,339 on Thursday. The district also reported a Covid death. A 75-year-old man from Thummanatty village succumbed to the virus at the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital. While 11 patients were discharged from the facilities on the day, the district saw 7,139 people recovered so far. Of the 159 active cases, seven patients are being treated at government facilities in Coimbatore, while five are admitted at private hospitals in the city. As many as 21 active cases are kept in home quarantine. The remaining cases are admitted and being treated at government hospitals in Ooty, Coonoor and Gudalur, besides two Covid care centres. Of the new cases reported, seven people tested positive after travelling to neighbouring districts. The remaining were contacts of earlier cases. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-34-covid-cases-reported/articleshow/79435556.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 27, 2020||India||To tame prices, govt cuts import duty on palm oil||NEW DELHI: The government on Thursday reduced the basic customs duty (BCD) on crude palm oil to 27.5% in its bid to increase availability of the edible oil in the domestic market. The current BCD on crude palm oil is 37.5%. The reduced rate will come to effect from Friday. The move comes barely a week after the issue of rising prices of edible oil came up for discussion at a meeting of the Group of Ministers headed by home minister Amit Shah. The duty cut is likely to help cool off rising edible oil rates.Palm oil constitutes over 40% of India’s total edible oil consumption. Edible oil is India’s third-largest imported commodity after crude oil and gold. TOI on November 20 had reported how prices of palm, soybean and sunflower oil had increased by 20-30% in the past one year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/to-tame-prices-govt-cuts-import-duty-on-palm-oil/articleshow/79437528.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Chennai||Cyclone spares Cuddalore, Pondy, floods low-lying areas||PUDUCHERRY: A group of youth gleefully rowed a boat on stormwater that had inundated a vacant piece of land after the overnight heavy rain caused by Cyclone Nivar. Elsewhere, women folk complained of waterlogging, reflecting the contrasting emotions of the people in Tsunami Nagar in Cuddalore old town. A vast majority of people in the Union territory of Puducherry and Tamil Nadu’s districts of Cuddalore and Villupuram heaved a sigh of relief as Nivar seemed to have skimmed the coastline, leaving barely a mark compared to the extensive damage that cyclone Thane left behind in 2011. Nevertheless, Nivar threw normal life out of gear. The cyclone made landfall near Marakkanam coast near Puducherry, leaving the low-lying regions in the tiny town, its suburbs and Tamil Nadu’s northern coastal districts inundated. It destroyed crops raised on 1,618 hectares in Cuddalore district alone. The district is at the tail-end of the Cauvery delta. Puducherry and Cuddalore districts did not report any casualties while Villupuram district reported one death. A 47-year-old woman died when a portion of her house collapsed due to heavy rain caused by the cyclone. Her son, 29 sustained injuries and is undergoing treatment at Villupuram medical college hospital. A couple from Nettapakkam in Puducherry sustained minor injuries when the roof of their house collapsed on them. Both were discharged after undergoing treatment as outpatients in a nearby primary health centre. Thane had claimed the lives of 48 people. “Tsunami Nagar inundates only when the region witnesses heavy rainfall. Nivar left the locality in knee-deep stormwater affecting the normal life of the people,” said V Varadhan, 56 from the locality. “There are close to 800 families in the locality and the administration with the cooperation of the people must come out with a permanent solution to prevent waterlogging,” said Varadhan. Several thatched houses and a few pucca houses, power and communication poles in Tamil Nadu’s northern districts and Puducherry and Karaikal districts were damaged by the cyclone’s fury. More than 500 trees in the region and along the cyclone’s path were either uprooted or its branches ripped off by strong winds. Puducherry chief minister V Narayanasamy, who visited the cyclone-affected areas on Thursday morning, said there was no fatality in Puducherry. He said the damage was significantly reduced as people remained indoors and the rain and gale wind speed were intermittent during the cyclone. Narayanasamy said more than 2,000 people had been accommodated in relief camps. He said all the fishermen who ventured into the sea for fishing from Karaikal had returned to shore safely by Wednesday evening. Puducherry received a record rainfall of more than 237mm from 8.30am on November 25 to 2.30am on November 26. Narayanasamy said Nivar has damaged infrastructural facilities and properties worth Rs 400 crore in Puducherry. He said the government will urge the Union government to provide a financial aid of Rs 400 crore to undertake relief and rehabilitation work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cyclone-spares-cuddalore-pondy-floods-low-lying-areas/articleshow/79435558.cms||Bosco Dominique
November 27, 2020||Mumbai||Travel agents urged to refund processed fares to travellers||MUMBAI: Travel Agents’ Association of India (TAAI) on Thursday appealed to members to refund airfares processed by airlines. It is to be seen how the appeal will be received by travel agents. The matter pertains to flights cancelled this summer due to Covid lockdown. Airlines moved the sum paid for airfare into a credit account. But later, post-lockdown, some airlines processed the refund. In cases where the ticket was booked through an agent, the refund was sent to the agent. “We have been receiving updates from authorities, airlines, consumer bodies and passengers that despite full refunds being processed by airlines, member agents are not settling accounts of travellers. With regards to refunds received by agents from airlines, we request members to kindly settle accounts with customers/travellers, who too are in despair,” said TAAI’s letter. “Members can charge a nominal fee/service charge for efforts of undertaking a tedious and complicated process of processing refunds through RA/GDS mechanism on IATA’s portal or with low-cost carriers,” the letter added. “Many like Air India, Go Air, SpiceJet, Thai Airways and Kenya Airways are not yet processing refunds as desired or as per Supreme Court and DGCA directions,” said the letter, adding that the association was in talks to get airlines to process refunds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/travel-agents-urged-to-refund-processed-fares-to-travellers/articleshow/79435096.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Amritsar||Haryana: Marching farmers bulldoze resistance||PATIALA/BATHINDA/AMBALA/HISAR/JIND: Haryana police used everything from iron barricades, boulders, concrete slabs, sand bags, barbed wires, and chains to block roads. And then brought in trucks, tippers filled with loose earth, cranes and fire tenders, to reinforce. But farmers jumped over barriers, demolished concrete slabs with roadroller, pulled boulders away using tractors and rolled away heavy vehicles by pushing them with their hands, even as police used water cannons on them and lobbed teargas shells. The scene was repeated all along the border entry points between Punjab and Haryana, including at Shambu, Sadopur, Teokar, Lalru, Patran, Moonak and Ratia. Once Punjab farm activists entered Haryana and were joined by their counterparts, nearly similar scenes played out at Karnal, Agroha and other places in the evening. Biggest gathering of protesters and most dramatic clash was witnessed at Shambu–Ambala border, as thousands of farmers faced water canons and teargas shells, as they moved towards Delhi. The police had blocked the highway on the bridge of Ghaggar river. First, Ambala police used water cannons to disburse the protesting farmers. When that didn’t work, they had placed the tippers loaded with loose earth across the road. Some of the activists broke the window panes of the tippers and released the brakes. They then pushed away the huge trucks and cleared the way for their caravans. BKU (Rajewal) president Balvir Singh Rajewal said, “What Haryana police did was totally undemocratic. We crossed from Shambu and have marched towards Delhi. We will stay at Panipat tonight. So far, no farmer has been seriously injured.” Similarly, police had made a wall of concrete and boulders to block the national highway at Lalru border between Punjab and Haryana, but farmers used tractors and road rollers to disintegrate the boulders and moved ahead at around 11am. They had come equipped with chains and ropes to pull the concrete boulders with tractors and road rollers. The farmers had transported the road roller on a truck bed. One of the protesting farmers said, “We demolished the concrete barriers set up by Haryana police. They hit us with water cannons and teargas but failed to deter us. We will reach Delhi and shake the BJP government to its roots if the farm bills are not withdrawn.” An assistant commissioner of police again tried to block the passage by parking fire tender on the highway, hundreds of farmers came together and pushed the vehicle out of the way, while the police officer watched. Activists had also put up temporary community food kitchens just few metres before the Lalru border, where all the approaching farmers were offered food. Sadopur on NH-152 in Ambala district and Teokar on Patiala-Pehowa road in Kurukshetra district also saw action. Along with state police, paramilitary force Rapid Action Force (RAF) personnel were also involved in the efforts to stop farmers. Leaders of farm bodies Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) Dakaunda, BKU (Lakhowal), Ganna Kisan Sangharsh Committee and others led activists travelling on tractor trolleys, motorcycles, cars and on foot. The clash lasted three hours. At Sadopur border on NH-152, the police blocked the road in a similar way and barbed wire was used on concrete blocks to stop farmers. At Teokar in Pehowa, barricading was done on the bridge of Markanda river. Ambala range inspector general of police Y Puran Kumar said, “We had prepared well. We made full efforts to stop them. In fact, we held them back for three hours. Their gathering was huge and we did not want to use much force. So, ultimately the blockade was breached.” The protesters also broke the police barrier at Bahamanwala village near Boha town of Mansa to go to Ratia and at Rampura villages ahead of Moonak in Sangrur to enter Tohana. Farmers’ groups claimed that at both places, nearly 4,000 farmers, in convoys of tractor trolleys, managed to go across. At Moonak–Tohana border, farmers under BKU (Sidhupur) also broke the police barricades around midday and by the end of the day had crossed Tohana and reached Naruana. A farmer Daljit Singh sustained some injuries when police used water cannons. “Our activists braved police oppression at Bahmanwala barrier. Not caring for their safety, they broke open the barricades and headed towards Haryana. We are determined to reach Delhi,” said farm organisation BKU (Dakonda) president Buta Singh Burjgill and Punjab Kisan Union president Ruldu Singh Mansa. BKU Sidhupur president Jagjit Singh Dallewal said, “Nothing can stop our activists from fighting for their rights.” Similarly, at Patran-Gulah Cheeka in Patiala district, police allegedly pelted stones, besides using water cannons and teargas shells on the farmers. The stones allegedly hit some protesting farmers and one of them suffered head injury. The injured farmer was given first aid by the health team brought by former Patiala of MP, Dharamvira Gandhi. At Jind’s Datta Singhwala village and Ratia in Fatehabad, farmers broke four levels of police barricading and entered Haryana. While Punjab farmers, who had entered through Jind border started an agitation after crossing over into Haryana, thousands others who entered from Ratia side were marching towards Hisar till the time of filing of this report. Unlike Fatehabad district, farmers in Sirsa sat peacefully at two places in protest. After the farmers dismantled the barricades, the police cleared the way for them and stood on the road side. Three vehicles, including those of Garhi police station house officer, Narwana sub-divisional magistrate and duty magistrate, were vandalised by stone pelters. BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) chief Joginder Singh said some miscreants had broken the windows of the vehicles, but their protest was peaceful. The movement of the farmers in Hisar was barely noticeable during the day, but the state employees held a major protest despite the imposition of Section 144 of CrPC. They closed the Hisar bus stand’s gate and blocked the road near it. Late in the evening, farmers from Punjab and Haryana, who travelled from Fatehabad, broke the police barricades in Agroha. After this the farmers continued to march on foot and then crossed the Landhri toll plaza and headed towards Hisar. Hisar district administration arrested around 10 farmer leaders on Tuesday night, but despite the lack of leadership, farmers left for Delhi on motorcycles and other vehicles on Wednesday. Those who left for Delhi late at night were stopped by the police on NH-9 near Bhoda Hoshnak village in Fatehabad district. After being stopped, the farmers put a pandal on the Hisar-Fatehabad border near Agroha, causing long queues of vehicles on the highway. Later, they broke through and started moving towards Delhi. When group of farmers from Punjab reached Kanheri village near Hisar district, police put up barriers near Bithmara village. The farmers were trying to reach Surewala Chowk in Hisar. Deputy commissioner of Hisar Priyanka Soni and superintendent of police Balwan Singh Rana also reached the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/marching-farmers-bulldoze-resistance/articleshow/79439607.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Ludhiana||Haryana: Marching farmers bulldoze resistance||PATIALA/BATHINDA/AMBALA/HISAR/JIND: Haryana police used everything from iron barricades, boulders, concrete slabs, sand bags, barbed wires, and chains to block roads. And then brought in trucks, tippers filled with loose earth, cranes and fire tenders, to reinforce. But farmers jumped over barriers, demolished concrete slabs with roadroller, pulled boulders away using tractors and rolled away heavy vehicles by pushing them with their hands, even as police used water cannons on them and lobbed teargas shells. The scene was repeated all along the border entry points between Punjab and Haryana, including at Shambu, Sadopur, Teokar, Lalru, Patran, Moonak and Ratia. Once Punjab farm activists entered Haryana and were joined by their counterparts, nearly similar scenes played out at Karnal, Agroha and other places in the evening. Biggest gathering of protesters and most dramatic clash was witnessed at Shambu–Ambala border, as thousands of farmers faced water canons and teargas shells, as they moved towards Delhi. The police had blocked the highway on the bridge of Ghaggar river. First, Ambala police used water cannons to disburse the protesting farmers. When that didn’t work, they had placed the tippers loaded with loose earth across the road. Some of the activists broke the window panes of the tippers and released the brakes. They then pushed away the huge trucks and cleared the way for their caravans. BKU (Rajewal) president Balvir Singh Rajewal said, “What Haryana police did was totally undemocratic. We crossed from Shambu and have marched towards Delhi. We will stay at Panipat tonight. So far, no farmer has been seriously injured.” Similarly, police had made a wall of concrete and boulders to block the national highway at Lalru border between Punjab and Haryana, but farmers used tractors and road rollers to disintegrate the boulders and moved ahead at around 11am. They had come equipped with chains and ropes to pull the concrete boulders with tractors and road rollers. The farmers had transported the road roller on a truck bed. One of the protesting farmers said, “We demolished the concrete barriers set up by Haryana police. They hit us with water cannons and teargas but failed to deter us. We will reach Delhi and shake the BJP government to its roots if the farm bills are not withdrawn.” An assistant commissioner of police again tried to block the passage by parking fire tender on the highway, hundreds of farmers came together and pushed the vehicle out of the way, while the police officer watched. Activists had also put up temporary community food kitchens just few metres before the Lalru border, where all the approaching farmers were offered food. Sadopur on NH-152 in Ambala district and Teokar on Patiala-Pehowa road in Kurukshetra district also saw action. Along with state police, paramilitary force Rapid Action Force (RAF) personnel were also involved in the efforts to stop farmers. Leaders of farm bodies Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) Dakaunda, BKU (Lakhowal), Ganna Kisan Sangharsh Committee and others led activists travelling on tractor trolleys, motorcycles, cars and on foot. The clash lasted three hours. At Sadopur border on NH-152, the police blocked the road in a similar way and barbed wire was used on concrete blocks to stop farmers. At Teokar in Pehowa, barricading was done on the bridge of Markanda river. Ambala range inspector general of police Y Puran Kumar said, “We had prepared well. We made full efforts to stop them. In fact, we held them back for three hours. Their gathering was huge and we did not want to use much force. So, ultimately the blockade was breached.” The protesters also broke the police barrier at Bahamanwala village near Boha town of Mansa to go to Ratia and at Rampura villages ahead of Moonak in Sangrur to enter Tohana. Farmers’ groups claimed that at both places, nearly 4,000 farmers, in convoys of tractor trolleys, managed to go across. At Moonak–Tohana border, farmers under BKU (Sidhupur) also broke the police barricades around midday and by the end of the day had crossed Tohana and reached Naruana. A farmer Daljit Singh sustained some injuries when police used water cannons. “Our activists braved police oppression at Bahmanwala barrier. Not caring for their safety, they broke open the barricades and headed towards Haryana. We are determined to reach Delhi,” said farm organisation BKU (Dakonda) president Buta Singh Burjgill and Punjab Kisan Union president Ruldu Singh Mansa. BKU Sidhupur president Jagjit Singh Dallewal said, “Nothing can stop our activists from fighting for their rights.” Similarly, at Patran-Gulah Cheeka in Patiala district, police allegedly pelted stones, besides using water cannons and teargas shells on the farmers. The stones allegedly hit some protesting farmers and one of them suffered head injury. The injured farmer was given first aid by the health team brought by former Patiala of MP, Dharamvira Gandhi. At Jind’s Datta Singhwala village and Ratia in Fatehabad, farmers broke four levels of police barricading and entered Haryana. While Punjab farmers, who had entered through Jind border started an agitation after crossing over into Haryana, thousands others who entered from Ratia side were marching towards Hisar till the time of filing of this report. Unlike Fatehabad district, farmers in Sirsa sat peacefully at two places in protest. After the farmers dismantled the barricades, the police cleared the way for them and stood on the road side. Three vehicles, including those of Garhi police station house officer, Narwana sub-divisional magistrate and duty magistrate, were vandalised by stone pelters. BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) chief Joginder Singh said some miscreants had broken the windows of the vehicles, but their protest was peaceful. The movement of the farmers in Hisar was barely noticeable during the day, but the state employees held a major protest despite the imposition of Section 144 of CrPC. They closed the Hisar bus stand’s gate and blocked the road near it. Late in the evening, farmers from Punjab and Haryana, who travelled from Fatehabad, broke the police barricades in Agroha. After this the farmers continued to march on foot and then crossed the Landhri toll plaza and headed towards Hisar. Hisar district administration arrested around 10 farmer leaders on Tuesday night, but despite the lack of leadership, farmers left for Delhi on motorcycles and other vehicles on Wednesday. Those who left for Delhi late at night were stopped by the police on NH-9 near Bhoda Hoshnak village in Fatehabad district. After being stopped, the farmers put a pandal on the Hisar-Fatehabad border near Agroha, causing long queues of vehicles on the highway. Later, they broke through and started moving towards Delhi. When group of farmers from Punjab reached Kanheri village near Hisar district, police put up barriers near Bithmara village. The farmers were trying to reach Surewala Chowk in Hisar. Deputy commissioner of Hisar Priyanka Soni and superintendent of police Balwan Singh Rana also reached the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/marching-farmers-bulldoze-resistance/articleshow/79436749.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Trade unions hold protest||Coimbatore: Members of various trade unions here participated in the nationwide strike on Thursday. Employees in banks, income tax department, BSNL, insurance firms and unorganized sector, autorickshaw drivers mill workers and construction workers participated in the strike. After 500 trade union members attempted to besiege the office of the Coimbatore collector on Thursday morning, the city police blocked the main entrance by placing barricades. Members of INTUC, AITUC, HMS, CITU, LPF, MLF, AICCTU, SDTU and TTSF participated in the demonstration. They urged the central government to cancel the ‘anti-labour and anti-farmer policies’ and not to privatize the insurance, railway, bank, airports, telecom, electricity, mines and petroleum firms. The protesters also demanded the Union government to reopen the National Textile Corporation mills in Coimbatore. Police arrested protesters including Coimbatore MP P R Natarajan and trade union leaders, and kept them at a marriage hall. They were later let off. Meanwhile, some protesters posted photographs of the barbed wire barricades on Twitter. Use of such barricades during people’s protest is against a court order, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/trade-unions-hold-protest/articleshow/79435580.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 27, 2020||Surat||Father-son duo cheat diamond trader of Rs 86L||Surat: A father-son duo was booked for cheating a diamond trader of Rs 86.03 lakh in Varachcha area of the city on Wednesday.The accused Rakesh Hirpara and his father Vallabh Hirpara had purchased polished diamond in April 2019 from trader Dipen Dhameliya but did not make payment. Following the cheating Dhameliya suffered loss in business and had to discontinued diamond business last year. He later started travel business in Katargam. According to Dhameliya, he knew Rakesh for the last 10 years. They did not have business terms earlier but in April 2019 Rakesh purchased 526 carat diamonds worth Rs 77.42 lakh from him. Rakesh also purchased diamonds worth Rs 8.64 lakh from another trader Vipul Diyora, but did not make payment. After Rakesh defaulted on payment in 90 days, Dhameliya made several attempts to recover the money. He contacted Vallabh when Rakesh stopped picking up his calls. After several attempts, Rakesh and Vallabh called Dhameliya to discuss compromise. They refused to pay the money and threatened to kill him. Dhameliya told police that he did diamond business in Mumbai for eight years and later for five years in Surat. But due to heavy losses and cheating by the duo he had to exit from diamond trading business.“The accused duo is on the run. They will be arrested soon,” said a police officer at Varachha police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/father-son-duo-cheat-diamond-trader-of-rs-86l/articleshow/79434365.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: Marching farmers bulldoze resistance||PATIALA/BATHINDA/AMBALA/HISAR/JIND: Haryana police used everything from iron barricades, boulders, concrete slabs, sand bags, barbed wires, and chains to block roads. And then brought in trucks, tippers filled with loose earth, cranes and fire tenders, to reinforce. But farmers jumped over barriers, demolished concrete slabs with roadroller, pulled boulders away using tractors and rolled away heavy vehicles by pushing them with their hands, even as police used water cannons on them and lobbed teargas shells. The scene was repeated all along the border entry points between Punjab and Haryana, including at Shambu, Sadopur, Teokar, Lalru, Patran, Moonak and Ratia. Once Punjab farm activists entered Haryana and were joined by their counterparts, nearly similar scenes played out at Karnal, Agroha and other places in the evening. Biggest gathering of protesters and most dramatic clash was witnessed at Shambu–Ambala border, as thousands of farmers faced water canons and teargas shells, as they moved towards Delhi. The police had blocked the highway on the bridge of Ghaggar river. First, Ambala police used water cannons to disburse the protesting farmers. When that didn’t work, they had placed the tippers loaded with loose earth across the road. Some of the activists broke the window panes of the tippers and released the brakes. They then pushed away the huge trucks and cleared the way for their caravans. BKU (Rajewal) president Balvir Singh Rajewal said, “What Haryana police did was totally undemocratic. We crossed from Shambu and have marched towards Delhi. We will stay at Panipat tonight. So far, no farmer has been seriously injured.” Similarly, police had made a wall of concrete and boulders to block the national highway at Lalru border between Punjab and Haryana, but farmers used tractors and road rollers to disintegrate the boulders and moved ahead at around 11am. They had come equipped with chains and ropes to pull the concrete boulders with tractors and road rollers. The farmers had transported the road roller on a truck bed. One of the protesting farmers said, “We demolished the concrete barriers set up by Haryana police. They hit us with water cannons and teargas but failed to deter us. We will reach Delhi and shake the BJP government to its roots if the farm bills are not withdrawn.” An assistant commissioner of police again tried to block the passage by parking fire tender on the highway, hundreds of farmers came together and pushed the vehicle out of the way, while the police officer watched. Activists had also put up temporary community food kitchens just few metres before the Lalru border, where all the approaching farmers were offered food. Sadopur on NH-152 in Ambala district and Teokar on Patiala-Pehowa road in Kurukshetra district also saw action. Along with state police, paramilitary force Rapid Action Force (RAF) personnel were also involved in the efforts to stop farmers. Leaders of farm bodies Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) Dakaunda, BKU (Lakhowal), Ganna Kisan Sangharsh Committee and others led activists travelling on tractor trolleys, motorcycles, cars and on foot. The clash lasted three hours. At Sadopur border on NH-152, the police blocked the road in a similar way and barbed wire was used on concrete blocks to stop farmers. At Teokar in Pehowa, barricading was done on the bridge of Markanda river. Ambala range inspector general of police Y Puran Kumar said, “We had prepared well. We made full efforts to stop them. In fact, we held them back for three hours. Their gathering was huge and we did not want to use much force. So, ultimately the blockade was breached.” The protesters also broke the police barrier at Bahamanwala village near Boha town of Mansa to go to Ratia and at Rampura villages ahead of Moonak in Sangrur to enter Tohana. Farmers’ groups claimed that at both places, nearly 4,000 farmers, in convoys of tractor trolleys, managed to go across. At Moonak–Tohana border, farmers under BKU (Sidhupur) also broke the police barricades around midday and by the end of the day had crossed Tohana and reached Naruana. A farmer Daljit Singh sustained some injuries when police used water cannons. “Our activists braved police oppression at Bahmanwala barrier. Not caring for their safety, they broke open the barricades and headed towards Haryana. We are determined to reach Delhi,” said farm organisation BKU (Dakonda) president Buta Singh Burjgill and Punjab Kisan Union president Ruldu Singh Mansa. BKU Sidhupur president Jagjit Singh Dallewal said, “Nothing can stop our activists from fighting for their rights.” Similarly, at Patran-Gulah Cheeka in Patiala district, police allegedly pelted stones, besides using water cannons and teargas shells on the farmers. The stones allegedly hit some protesting farmers and one of them suffered head injury. The injured farmer was given first aid by the health team brought by former Patiala of MP, Dharamvira Gandhi. At Jind’s Datta Singhwala village and Ratia in Fatehabad, farmers broke four levels of police barricading and entered Haryana. While Punjab farmers, who had entered through Jind border started an agitation after crossing over into Haryana, thousands others who entered from Ratia side were marching towards Hisar till the time of filing of this report. Unlike Fatehabad district, farmers in Sirsa sat peacefully at two places in protest. After the farmers dismantled the barricades, the police cleared the way for them and stood on the road side. Three vehicles, including those of Garhi police station house officer, Narwana sub-divisional magistrate and duty magistrate, were vandalised by stone pelters. BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) chief Joginder Singh said some miscreants had broken the windows of the vehicles, but their protest was peaceful. The movement of the farmers in Hisar was barely noticeable during the day, but the state employees held a major protest despite the imposition of Section 144 of CrPC. They closed the Hisar bus stand’s gate and blocked the road near it. Late in the evening, farmers from Punjab and Haryana, who travelled from Fatehabad, broke the police barricades in Agroha. After this the farmers continued to march on foot and then crossed the Landhri toll plaza and headed towards Hisar. Hisar district administration arrested around 10 farmer leaders on Tuesday night, but despite the lack of leadership, farmers left for Delhi on motorcycles and other vehicles on Wednesday. Those who left for Delhi late at night were stopped by the police on NH-9 near Bhoda Hoshnak village in Fatehabad district. After being stopped, the farmers put a pandal on the Hisar-Fatehabad border near Agroha, causing long queues of vehicles on the highway. Later, they broke through and started moving towards Delhi. When group of farmers from Punjab reached Kanheri village near Hisar district, police put up barriers near Bithmara village. The farmers were trying to reach Surewala Chowk in Hisar. Deputy commissioner of Hisar Priyanka Soni and superintendent of police Balwan Singh Rana also reached the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/marching-farmers-bulldoze-resistance/articleshow/79439606.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Water cannons, tear gas fail to dampen spirits in Karnal||KARNAL: Thousands of Haryana farmers led by Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh Charuni on Thursday broke the barricades laid by Karnal police near Karan Lake on National Highway-44 to prevent the farmers’ movement towards Delhi. Police used water cannons and tear gas to disperse the farmers, who broke barricades, but they moved forward, braving showers of water. After a night halt at Samana Bahu village on Kurukshetra-Karnal border, the farmers on Thursday morning had started their march towards Delhi on bikes, tractor-trolley, and reached Karan Lake, 5km from Karnal town, at around 11:30am where they had langar. After having langar, the farmers first removed the cemented barricades with hands, after that they removed the loaded truck with the help of their tractors and then broke the iron barricades. The police used water cannons to disperse the farmers, but failed to stop them.  Besides Karan Lake, the Karnal administration also tried to stop them after parking trucks at Bastara toll plaza under Gharaunda subdivision in Karnal district, but the farmers cleared the way and continued their march.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/water-cannons-tear-gas-fail-to-dampen-spirits-in-karnal/articleshow/79436750.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Cradles for abandoned babies in Telangana||HYDERABAD: With several instances reported of unwanted newborn babies being abandoned in public places, a ‘sarkar ooyala’ (government cradle) was placed at Nagarkurnool area hospital on Thursday. Cradles have been arranged other government hospitals in the district. A well-decorated cradle was placed at the hospital by women and child welfare officials for mothers to leave their unwanted babies in them and not abandon them. Unwanted infants born outside of the hospital could also be left there and no questions would be asked, officials said. “It is a sad situation that unwanted babies are put to danger as they are thrown or abandoned in public places. The babies can be left in the cradle and the government will take care of them,” district collector A Sharman said. He said similar arrangements had been made at the government hospitals in Kalwakurthy, Kollapur, Achampet and Amrabad for safe custody of unwanted babies. Officials said after giving birth to an unwanted baby, mothers were abandoning them in open nalas and drainages or leaving them in bushes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cradles-for-abandoned-babies/articleshow/79435560.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Trichy||Cyclone Nivar in Tamil Nadu: Minimal damage to farms in delta districts||TRICHY: People in the delta districts, especially Mayiladuthurai and Nagapattinam, heaved a sigh of relief as Cyclone Nivar spared the region, causing minimal damage to properties and agricultural fields. Rain lashed all through Wednesday night, inundating some agricultural fields in Sirkazhi and Kollidam, but water started receding and draining out on Thursday. Normalcy returned quickly in both the districts, including their coastal regions. Fishermen have been engaged for draining out water by clearing clogs. People who were shifted to relief centres continue to stay there in the two districts. The district administrations in Thanjavur, Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur, Pudukottai and Ariyalur had made elaborate arrangements to safeguard human lives, livestock and properties. There was hardly any sign of the cyclone in the delta districts during early morning hours on Thursday when Nivar hit land near Puducherry. Commercial establishments remained opened on Thursday, but public, as a matter of caution, avoided venturing out till noon. As buses started plying, life got back to normalcy during the course of the day. Monitoring officer C Munianathan and Nagapattinam district collector Praveen P Nair said there was no causality in the district. About 150 houses, including huts, were partially damaged in rain and heavy wind, they said. In Thanjavur district, monitoring officer N Subbaian said 20 electric poles were damaged. All of them were replaced on Thursday. Trees fell in seven places, but they too were removed on a war-footing. As of now, there is no information about damage to crops in the district. In anticipation of heavy loss to standing samba paddy crop, as it happened in the case of Gaja in 2018, the state agriculture department had persuaded farmers in delta districts to sign up for crop insurance and pay premium on a war-footing in recent days. Out of 3.7 lakh acres covered under samba in Tiruvarur district, 2.8 lakh acres have been covered under insurance. In Nagapattinam district, farmers have so far insured 3.1 lakh acres out of the total coverage of 3.3 lakh acres. In Thanjavur district, out of 3.15 lakh acres, 1.8 lakh acres have been covered under insurance. As the deadline for insurance coverage is fixed as November 30, agricultural department officials are hopeful of 100% coverage in Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur districts. December 15 is the deadline for Thanjavur district. In Tiruvarur district, a 65-year-old woman, Rukmani, was electrocuted at Nannilam while she tried to switch on a light in her bath room. Her 24-year-old neighbour sustained injuries while he attempted to save her, police said. In Pudukottai district, people who were shifted to relief camps returned to their houses on Thursday morning. Ten relief centres were established in the district. Roughly 7,000 people were identified in vulnerable zones for quick evacuation on Thursday. Meanwhile, farmers have appealed to the state government to send an expert committee to assess crop damage in some parts of delta region and Cuddalore and Villupuram districts. Normally, Central and state committees visit affected fields after two to three weeks. Delayed assessment would not give an exact picture, said secretary of Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers’ Protection Association, Swamimalai S Vimalnathan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cyclone-nivar-in-tamil-nadu-minimal-damage-to-farms-in-delta-districts/articleshow/79435631.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
November 27, 2020||Surat||Bag containing Rs 1.5 lakh cash snatched||Surat: While trying to save his smartphone, an employee of a Hazira-based industry lost a bag containing Rs 1.5 lakh in cash to bag snatchers on Wednesday. The looters attacked Vishal Rathod in broad daylight on the crowded Ring Road when he was going to return the money to his father-in-law. An offence was booked against two unidentified persons on a motorcycle in Khatodara police station for allegedly snatching Rathod’s bag on Wednesday afternoon. The bag was snatched when Rathod was near a branch of the ICICI bank. The motorcycle on which the accused came didn’t have a number plate, Rathod claimed in his complaint. Police have started examining CCTV videos to collect information about the loot. Rathod told the police that he had come to return the money he had taken from his father-in-law who stays in Katargam as the latter needed the money to make payment for furniture. Rathod, a resident of Adajan, was going through Ring Road on his motorcycle when the incident occurred. Rathod stopped to take a call from his wife near the ICICI Bank when the snatchers came close on their motorcycle. The rider tried to snatch Rathod’s phone but failing to do so the pillion rider snatched his bag with the cash that Rathod had kept on the fuel tank of his motorcycle. The escaped from the spot even before the victim could react. “Police are examining the CCTV footage to identify the vehicle used in snatching or the individual. Police will check video footage of connecting roads to track the snatchers,” said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bag-containing-rs-1-5-lakh-cash-snatched/articleshow/79434381.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Kochi||SIT to probe repeated seizure of narcotics||KOCHI: Ernakulam rural police have formed a special investigation team (SIT) to probe into the repeated seizures of narcotic substances from the district in the recent days. According to police, a 15-member team directly under district police chief (Ernakulam Rural) SP K Karthick would probe into the incidents. Police said that the team would comprise handpicked officials from various stations in the rural police limits. Police officers said that the team would look into the drug busts, including the seizure of 45 LSD stamps from three youths at Perumbavoor a few days ago. The team would tabulate the list of accused who have been caught in such narcotics cases in the past, as part of the probe. The SIT was formed close on the heels of the seizure of over 140kg of ganja by the rural police on Wednesday morning. Police said the three accused who were arrested in connection with this case were remanded in judicial custody and that they will be sought in police custody to probe further into the racket. Police suspect that the accused are wholesale drug dealers. Earlier, around 13kg of ganja was seized in two separate incidents in the city on Tuesday. Also, as much as 2.5kg of ganja was seized from a courier firm after the contraband was found hidden amidst rice powder, turmeric and coriander powder in a carton, which was meant to be sent to Dubai. Rural police had the other day arrested two youths in connection with the seizure of abandoned sacks containing 13kg of ganja at Pattimattom.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/sit-to-probe-repeated-seizure-of-narcotics/articleshow/79434384.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Amritsar||Women ensure no one goes hungry at Khanouri and Dabwali||BATHINDA: While farmers headed towards Delhi to raise voice against farm laws, several village women took up the cause of preparing meals for the protesters as they were stopped midway by the authorities. The women in large numbers set up open chullahs to feed the protesters. Flour, vegetables and pulses in large quantities were used at Khanouri and Dabwali to feed the farmers. If the men took to prepare vegetables the women rolled rotis in thousands. “We may not fight from the front, braving water canons or lathis of the police, but we are here to provide crucial support of feeding the protesters. We have come prepared for the dual cause of taking part in protests and feed the protesters. We will not let anyone go hungry,” said Gurdial Kaur at Khanouri. Kulwinder Kaur of Channo village, having reached Dabwali border with many other women to take part in protests and also to prepare langar, said no battle could be won without active participation of women.  “We are here to ensure no one, who is out to take part in protests, goes hungry. The protesters are like an extended family. We have deputed even our daughters to see how others have to fight for survival and learn vital lessons of life.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/women-ensure-no-one-goes-hungry/articleshow/79436752.cms||Neel Kamal
November 27, 2020||Hyderabad||MP raises doubts in Jagathi case||HYDERABAD: YSR Congress MP V Vijayasai Reddy was shown as a public servant by CBI in its supplementary chargesheet filed in Jagathi Publications case in 2012 though he was declared as an accused in the first chargesheet in the same case. This was done with an aim to sustain an otherwise unsustainable case, his counsel E Uma Maheswara Rao said. The counsel was arguing before principal special judge BR Madhusudhan Rao of CBI courts seeking discharge of the MP from the case. As the case lacked enough grounds to show it as a corruption case and to depict investments as bribes, CBI filed supplementary chargesheet and added section 13(1)(D) of Prevention of Corruption Act by showing Vijaya Sai as a public servant. His previous post as a director of Oriental Bank of Commerce was used to bring him under purview of a public servant, the counsel said. “But what the CBI could not do is to link any of his activities as director of the bank to Jagathi Publications’ activities. CBI used his position to depict him as a public servant because their presence is essential to make out a corruption case,” the counsel said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mp-raises-doubts-in-jagathi-case/articleshow/79435659.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Indcoserve launches six new tea brands||Udhagamandalam: In a bid to build a strong brand identity for Nilgiris tea, Indcoserve, the apex body of 16 industrial cooperative tea factories in the Nilgiris, has introduced six new tea brands. The new brands are Nilgiris Kahwa Tea, Honey Hill Tea, Marlimund Tea, Bedford Tea, Mountain Rose Gold Tea and Ooty Gold Tea. So far, Indcoserve has been marketing only dust grade teas. One among them is Ooty Tea, which is sold through fair price shops under the public distribution system of the government of Tamil Nadu. “This is the first time that we have come out with leaf teas keeping in view the leaf tea preference in the north Indian tea market,” said Indcoserve CEO Supriya Sahu. “These blends are a delightful mix of leaf and dust teas, and are sure to win the hearts of tea lovers. It is an initiative to expand the presence of Indcoserve across the country. We have been trying to build a very strong brand identity through the process of reimagining the vision for Indcoserve,” she said. “Carefully crafted leaf tea blends using the finest tea from Indco tea factories and packaged in carton boxes, also marks the first entry of the carton package in Indcoserve. Special attention has been paid to colours and designing so that the products stand out in the crowded tea market,” Sahu said. To explore new markets, Indcoserve has for the first time appointed five sales executives in Chennai, Coimbatore, Trichy and Erode. “We will soon make the new products available on e-commerce websites including our own website, which is under construction. The products would also be made available through popular shopping portals like Amazon and Flipkart.” Indcoserve is India’s largest tea cooperative federation working with around 30,000 small tea farmers, manufacturing about 13 million kilograms of black tea annually. The new brands were formally launched by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami when he visited Ooty on November 6.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/indcoserve-launches-six-new-tea-brands/articleshow/79435625.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Chennai||Cyclone Nivar: Police take pride in ensuring Chennai was ‘casualty-free’||CHENNAI: By keeping their force on toes before and immediately after Cyclone Nivar made the landfall, Chennai police achieved a casualty-free cyclone experience for the city. From rescuing about 200 senior citizens, to evacuating nearly 8,000 vulnerable people to safer locations with the help of fishermen and clearing scores of uprooted trees, police in the city kept their hands full. “Timely and adequate measures put in place by the state police helped the government to achieve a casualty-free cyclone,” said the Special DGP Rajesh Das. No casualties have been reported except a man who died of a wall collapse at Kanai police limits in Villupuram on Wednesday night, he said. “People who woke up on Thursday felt like the cities and towns are quite normal,” said the Inspector-General of Police (north zone) P Nagarajan. “As we had synced a police team with the Tamil Nadu Disaster Rescue Force, they together were able to cut remove all the 52 uprooted trees overnight without waiting for fire and rescue services to come,” he said. A North Chennai police team identified senior citizens living alone in their houses and managed to contact 80 of them over phone and offer them help. They also visited their homes and delivered food and other essential items. “Those who needed medicines were provided with the items. This is an initiative to ensure we are with them,” said joint commissioner, north, V Balakrishnan. In North Chennai region alone, at least 200 senior citizens were rescued and accommodated at two relief centres. Volunteers identified by the fisheries department worked with courage and enthusiasm, and evacuated more than 8,000 people from low-lying areas, said Rajesh Das. The temporary special control room at the commissioner’s office received about 185 distress and rescue calls to remove uprooted trees. Police, in coordination with other departments, removed 267 fallen trees in various places in the city. There were touching anecdotes too. Five senior citizens, including three women, who were stranded at Red Hills bus stand since Monday due to rains were rescued by Inspector Saravanan. After providing them bedsheets and food, the five were taken to a private home for senior citizens and admitted. Similarly, at Pulianthope, sub-inspectors of police Harihara Puthiran and Senthil Kumar rescued a 107-year-old confirmed bachelor, Amrose, who was stranded at his house after rainwater flooded at his house. Police officers said they decided to work round-the-clock to prevent casualties, and also keep all roads free of any form of hindrance including tree falls, said an Rajesh Das, adding: “And we achieved it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/police-take-pride-in-ensuring-city-was-casualty-free/articleshow/79435651.cms||A Selvaraj
November 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Bharat Munnani functionary held for attacking DMK man||COIMBATORE: The Chettipalayam police arrested the Bharat Munnani district president on Thursday for assaulting a DMK functionary. The arrested person was identified as P Manoharan, 40, of VOC Street at Kallapalayam. DMK branch secretary C Prabhu, 40, of Kallapalayam near Chettipalayam had lodged a complaint against him. “Prabhu and Manoharan are members of WhatsApp group Arasiyal Medai. On Thursday around 11am, Manoharan posted a message on the group saying that he will vandalise the Periyar statue at Chettipalayam. Prabhu condemned Manoharan for the post. Manoharan met Prabhu on the Chettipalayam – Kallapalayam Road and attacked him. He also threatened him with dire consequences,” a police officer said. Manoharan was booked under sections 294 (b), 323 and 506 (i) of the Indian Penal Code. He was remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bharat-munnani-functionary-held-for-attacking-dmk-man/articleshow/79435649.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 27, 2020||Kochi||Fronts lay thrust on Kochi development||KOCHI: Elections seem to have brought the words like development and needs of the public to the fore. Leaders of three major political fronts in the district were vociferous about the need for addressing various issues plaguing Kochi and providing the denizens with “facilities which are essential part of a civilized society”. Speaking at a meet the press organized by Ernakulam Press Club on Thursday, leaders of LDF, NDA and UDF aired the plans and programmes their fronts propagate for the development of the city. While UDF leader and KPCC general secretary N Venugopal said that the front needs yet another stint for ushering in the development of the city, CPM district secretary C N Mohanan said that LDF would rectify the flaws of the UDF and make Kochi a place “where denizens can live a life of a civilized society”. Leaders of both the fronts blamed each other for not making Kochi a metro city. At the same time, BJP district president S Jayakrishnan, who represented NDA, said though both LDF and UDF got opportunities for ensuring the development of the city, they didn’t do anything in this regard. Mohanan said the UDF which was in power in the past one decade couldn’t address various issues faced by the city. “Corporation authorities failed to tackle waterlogging in the city. While the birth certificates of babies can be issued online in Edamalakkudy panchayat, which is a remote village, Kochi doesn’t have the facility. The corporation failed to implement the e-governance project. They also couldn’t implement the city gas project. If LDF assumes power, the city will be elevated into metro status,” Mohanan said. At the same time, Venugopal said that the UDF led administration tried to bring in development in the city. “Of the 9,000 applications from homeless to get houses, the corporation completed construction of 3,800. Various measures to provide facilities for construction of overhead tanks for augmenting drinking water supply were taken. Jayakrishnan said NDA will ensure the development of the city if it wins the election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/fronts-lay-thrust-on-city-development/articleshow/79434406.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Police to convene meeting with gun licence holders||COIMBATORE: Police will soon convene a meeting with gun license holders in the city to caution them against the misuse of the weapon. The city police decided to hold the meeting in the wake of recent incidents of gun shooting in the state. There are more than 1,000-gun licence holders in the city. Earlier, gun licence holders should bring their weapons to the city police commissionerate or collectorate once in a year to renew their licences. Now, the Union government has allowed to renew the licence once in five years. “More than 1,000 people, including revenue department officials, businessmen, Hindu outfit leaders and farmers, in the city are licensed gun holders. Most of them have advanced pistols and some revolvers. We plan to invite them for a meeting soon,” a senior police officer said. “The gun licence holders should be very cautious and it should not be stolen and misused. Otherwise, the licence holders would face criminal charges,” the officer said. “The licence holders should not take their guns and magazine along with them while travelling in flight or trains. If they possess their weapon while driving in their own car, they must keep necessary documents in the vehicle,” the officer said. “We are going to meet all the gun licence holders in the city to explain to them on how not to misuse their weapon,” he added. People facing threats could apply for a gun licence for their self-defense. Those who are residing in the city can apply for the arms licence with the city police commissioner while those in semi-urban and rural areas can apply to the district collector through the superintendent of police. The applications will be verified by the intelligence agency of the respective police station. Once the intelligence agency gives nod to issue gun licences, the district collector or the city police commissioner would issue the licence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/police-to-convene-meeting-with-gun-licence-holders/articleshow/79435639.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Kochi||Government forms new panel to review findings of Sprinklr probe panel||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The decision to appoint a new committee – to examine the recommendations of the two-member expert committee about the Sprinklr deal – with almost the same terms of reference (ToR) as the previous one has raised many eyebrows. The previous committee consisting of former civil aviation secretary M Madhavan Nambiar and well known cybersecurity expert Gulshan Rai (who replaced former additional chief secretary Rajeev Sadanandan in the committee) was constituted by the government on April 20, to examine three aspects: A) whether the privacy of citizens were adequately protected under the arrangement with Sprinklr Inc B) whether adequate procedures were followed while finalizing agreement with the firm and C) whether deviations, if any, were fair, justified and reasonable considering the extraordinary and critical situation in Kerala. The latest order, issued by chief secretary Vishwas Mehta, said a new team headed by retired district judge K Sasidharan Nair and comprising of a retired professor and a serving professor of computer science, from two engineering colleges, will examine the report of the previous committee. The first two ToR in the new order says committee should examine whether the procedures laid down in the rules of business were followed with respect to Sprinklr deal and whether there were lapses. ToR also said that new committee should also suggest measures to ensure data security and show the way forward in future deals. It is learnt that almost all questions were answered exhaustively by the first committee. It is learnt that the highly-qualified committee had detected grave procedural lapses in hiring Sprinklr, but observed that at that juncture the state was staring at a crisis due to Covid-19 outbreak. The report is learnt to have said that the data of only 1.8L people of the three-crore plus people in state went to the servers of Sprinklr and the same was returned to servers of C-DIT within 10 days. “Government’s decision to appoint a new committee, with almost the same ToR as that of the previous committee, raises suspicion that the move is nothing but a time-buying exercise to keep the report away from public domain. The general opinion among senior officials was that the firm was hired by flouting rules,” said a senior IAS official on condition of anonymity. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said that government’s recent move is an attempt to hide the findings of the first committee. He said the developments proved opposition’s allegations on Sprinklr deal. But, Madhavan Nambiar refused to comment on the matter. “We have submitted our report and it is not our mandate to advise the government on how to go about it,” he said. It is a unique proposition that despite the committee’s time-bound report, a retired district judge and some college teachers with no exposure to rules of business in government or cyber security will have the final word in the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/govt-forms-new-panel-to-review-findings-of-sprinklr-probe-panel/articleshow/79433424.cms||KP Saikiran
November 27, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Taxi driver held for MNS man’s murder||THANE: Crime branch arrested a taxi driver for the murder of an MNS functionary in broad daylight on Monday. Police are still to find out the motive. They said the shooting of Jamil Shaikh was well-planned, with a single round fired by other assailants on bikes. Shahid Shaikh (31), a resident of Kranit Nagar, Rabodi, earlier worked with an online cab aggregator but due to the pandemic and lockdown, was operating as a private driver. “Prima facie, he provided logistical support,” said an officer. He added that they pieced together clues and found that Shaikh tagged Jamil’s daily movement. DCP (crime) Laxmikant Patil said, “He provided a bike for the recce and a car to help the assailants flee after the hit.” Police said he used the number plate of a truck on the bike used to gun down the functionary. After carrying out the hit, they turned towards Castle Mill and then towards Jail Lake, further towards Kalwa and then vanished in the traffic. Police said the other accused have been identified and will be nabbed soon. Meanwhile, thousands turned up for the burial of Jamil on Wednesday. Most who joined the procession demanded a CBI probe. Nishikant Karlikar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/taxi-driver-held-for-mns-mans-murder/articleshow/79435098.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Vadodara||Artist’s accused killer denied bail||Vadodara: A sessions court recently denied bail to Wasim Malek, the alleged killer of a budding theatre artiste Prachi Maurya. Malek had allegedly murdered Maurya, his former girlfriend, in April last year for breaking up after four-year-old relationship. Malek (24) had sought bail on November 11 pleading that the trial of the case is not moving forward due to the pertaining situation of Covid-19. He also told the court that police had already filed chargesheet and since the trial is on the stage of framing charges, his custody will not be needed by cops. Police filed an affidavit in the court raising objections to his bail application. It was stated that the witnesses in the case have sought security as they fear threat to their lives from Malek and they have mentioned that in a statement before a judicial magistrate. Malek may also tamper with evidence if he is released which may weaken the case, police said. Upholding the arguments, the court of additional sessions judge P M Unadkat, turned down Malek’s bail application.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/artists-accused-killer-denied-bail/articleshow/79434288.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP dry fish business takes another hit due to cyclone||VISAKHAPATNAM: Cyclone Nivar has dealt another blow to the already reeling dry fish business in the state, especially in the southern districts of Prakasam, Guntur, Nellore, and Krishna. Owing to heavy rainfall due to the cyclone and a lack of proper storage facilities, tonnes of dry fish stock have been destroyed across the state. “The four districts of South Andhra jointly produce around 100 tonnes of dry fish every day. Whatever the fishermen had stocked since Saturday has developed fungus owing to the rain,” AP Traditional Fish Workers’ Association general secretary, Naga Anjaneyulu Lakanam, told TOI. Around 10,000 fishermen, mostly women, are involved in the business of dry fish in these four states. There are around 22,000 people involved in this trade across the state. “Normally we start drying fish while on the boat itself. Once we land, it takes a couple of days to process the dry fish. If processed properly, the fish can last between 15 and 25 days without cold storage facility or refrigeration. But because of the incessant rainfall and a lack of proper storage facilities at the harbours, all our produced got spoilt,” said M Bulaya, a local fisherman. Under the present scheme of things, dry fish traders are left with no other options but to sell their spoiled stock to poultry farms. “It can be used as cheap quality fodder at poultry farms. Generally, we sell salmon, snapper, variites of prawn and other dry fish at Rs 600 to Rs 1000 per kilo in the wholesale market. No matter which variety you are selling, at the poultry farms, the soiled dry fish won’t fetch more than Rs 30 per kg,” said Arijili Dasu, general secretary of National Fisher Folk Forum. Normally, AP produces around 5 lakh tonnes of dry fish a year which is mainly exported to the eastern and northeastern states, and to a few tribal pockets of Malkangiri in Odisha and Chattishgarh. Around 10% of the produce is consumed locally, mostly in the tribal areas of the agencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-dry-fish-business-takes-another-hit-due-to-cyclone/articleshow/79434430.cms||Arpit Basu
November 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Rs 21 crore fine on two firms for permit violation||VISAKHAPATNAM: The regional vigilance squad of the mines and geology department imposed a total penalty of Rs 21 crore on two firms for misusing mining permits and illegal quarrying of road metal and gravel at Martoor village under Anakapalle mandal in the district. As part of its drive against illegal mining activities in the Visakhapatnam region, the regional vigilance squad — led by mining department’s assistant director R Pratap Reddy — carried out searches on the quarries of Aparna Enterprises and Anjani Stone Crushers at Martoor and exposed the irregularities. Speaking to TOI, Pratap Reddy said that SS Reddy for Aparna Enterprises had taken the lease for a road metal quarry measuring over 6.4 hectares at Martoor village. The firm had obtained persmission to excavate road metal of a little over 3.23 lakh cubic metres but had excavated only 34,144 cubic metres and indulged in illegal excavation of road metal in other quarries. The firms also indulged in illegal excavation of 1,944 cubic metres of gravel. “We have slapped a fine of Rs 16.48 crore on Aparna Enterprises for misusing permit norms and illegal excavation of road metal and gravel,” Pratap Reddy said. Similarly, Anjani Stone Crushers, owned by MS Reddy had obtained permission for excavation of a little over 1.05 lakh cubic metres of road metal but excavated only 26,835 cubic metres by misusing permit norms and went on to illegally excavate road metal in surrounding areas. The mining official said they had imposed a fine of Rs 4.46 crore on Anjani Stone Crushers for various violations. The department has issued notices to owners of both firms. The vigilance team observed that both firms had violated norms with a profit-driven motive. Pratap Reddy said they will continue to expose similar illegal activities across various quarries in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/rs-21-cr-fine-on-two-firms-for-permit-violation/articleshow/79434501.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Bhopal||Half of ICU beds in Bhopal occupied||BHOPAL: With the increase in Covid-19 cases, 5% more intensive care unit (ICU) beds in the city hospitals were occupied on Thursday, leaving just about 48% of these critical beds for hospitalisation in the state capital. There are about 450 ICU beds in the main Covid-19 care hospitals in Bhopal. Beds with oxygen support are about 1,600, according to the health department. Out of 150 ICU beds at Hamidia Hospital’s Covid-19 care centre, 58 are filled while 92 ICU beds are vacant. Similarly, 35 out of the 400 HDU beds are filled and 365 beds are empty. Out of 40 normal beds without oxygen facilities, 16 are filled and 24 beds are empty, according to a district administration official. Over the past two weeks, a spurt in Covid-19 has been evident across the state capital. About 30 Covid-19 testing laboratories conduct the test for the infection, going by health department reporting. Four laboratories, including AIIMS Bhopal, conduct most of the RT-PCR tests. Most RT-PCR tests have been conducted by the Gandhi Medical College (GMC). Preparedness for management of co-infection of Covid-19 with other seasonal epidemic-prone diseases is taking centrestage as the winter chill begins. 5,486 cases have been reported in 25 days of November. There are about 2,300 active cases in the state capital. At the beginning of October, there were 2,000 active cases on an average. In October, Bhopal reported 6,953 new cases of the infection. In the last 31 days, 2.7 deaths were reported on an average each day. In September, 3.4 deaths were reported in 30 days. However, fewer number of new cases — 6.713 — were diagnosed in September in Bhopal. Since the pandemic began, more than 30,000 people have tested positive for the infection. More than 508 deaths have been attributed to Covid-19 in Bhopal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/half-of-icu-beds-in-bhopal-occupied/articleshow/79435662.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Bombay HC protection for 28 private hospitals on Covid rates||MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Thursday extended protection to 28 private hospitals from coercive state government action in a spat over charging of Covid-19 patients. A bench of Justices Shahrukh Kathawalla and Riyaz Chagla passed the order on a petition by doctor-owners of hospitals in Panvel, Thane, Navi Mumbai and Borivli who are aggrieved by “arbitrary fixation” of treatment rates by notifications on March 3, April 30 and August 31. They contended that the notifications seek to exercise financial control over them when they have not receive financial aid, free or subsidised land or state or central government assistance. Their petition, through advocate Vishal Thadani, stated that the state cannot assume the role of an adjudicator, which is the “prerogative only of judiciary and tribunal, when tribunals are constituted”. It added that in case of an allegation of overcharging or exploitation by a doctor, it is within the realm of Indian Medical Council, an expert professional body, and not state or municipal administration “who neither have expertise or knowledge of the field relating to prescription of medicines and treatment’’. On October 15 the judges took note that the government pleader’s office had moved the Chief Justice for permission to consolidate matters involving a similar issue and to place them before one bench. They directed that a September 17 order, where Panvel Municipal Corporation was restrained from taking action against a Kharghar hospital, will be also be applicable to the 28 hospitals. At the hearing on Thursday senior advocate S U Kamdar, for Indian Medical Association, said the last notification will expire on November 30 and these petitions will become infructuous but the judges posted the next hearing on December 4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/bombay-hc-protection-for-28-pvt-hosps-on-covid-rates/articleshow/79439166.cms||Rosy Sequeira
November 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Last surviving man to see Alluri Sitharama Raju dies at age 111||RAJAHMUNDRY: The last surviving man to have met legendary freedom fighter Alluri Sitharama Raju, 111-year-old Beeraboyina Balu Dora passed away at Kondapalli village of Rajavommangi mandal in East Godavari district on Sunday (November 22). Balu Dora was only a child when Alluri Sitharama Raju arrived in Kondapalli village and waged a fierce six-day-long battle against the British. Dora is said to be a witness to the battle. According to Padala Veerabhadra Rao, national founder and president of Alluri Sitharamaraju Yuvajana Sangham, Balu Dora used to carry food to the legendary freedom fighter who was staying on the hill during the Kondapalli battle. A fierce battle took place between Alluri Sitharama Raju and British forces between May 1 and May 6, 1924. The British set the whole Kondapalli village on fire when they came to know that Alluri was there. The villagers moved the freedom fighter to Mampa in Visakhapatnam district where he was caught by the British. The British tied Alluri to a bed made of lace and shot him dead. The freedom fighter died at Rajendra Palem on May 7. In course of the battle, the British also caught Alluri’s lieutenant Vegiraju Satyannarayana Raju. Aggi Raju was sentenced for life, sent to Andaman prison.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/last-surviving-man-to-see-alluri-sitharama-raju-dies-at-age-111/articleshow/79434550.cms||Samson Raj
November 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Workers across sectors join national strike||VISAKHAPATNAM: Despite the weather conditions, the strike call given by trade unions evoked peaceful successful response from workers across north AP. A large number of workers gathered outside the public sector units (PSUs) including the Vizag Steel Plant and other places, protested against the PSU disinvestment, labour and farm laws passed by the Centre in recent months. Various trade unions at different industries including HPCL, Coromandel and others observed the strike. A rally was organised by the CITU and AITUC from Waltair Railway division manager’s office to GVMC despite the continuous rain. CPI state assistant secretary JV Satyanarayana Muthy said that workers had come out and jointly participated in the strike to protect PSUs, job security and also re-implement the old Labour Act. He demanded the Centre to stop privatisation of PSUs and cancel the Major Ports Authority Bill and other alleged anti-labour laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/workers-across-sectors-join-national-strike/articleshow/79434534.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Another deep depression brews over Bay of Bengal off Tamil Nadu coast||VISAKHAPATNAM: A fresh deep depression is brewing over the Bay of Bengal as per sources at the India Meteorological Department (IMD). This, during the north-east monsoon which is known for cyclones. The system is likely to trigger heavy to very heavy rain activity similar in southern India. Numerical weather prediction (NWP) models and IMD forecasts indicate that a fresh cyclonic storm may form close to Tamil Nadu and Sri Lanka and will likely make its impact over southern India in the first week of December. Since Tuesday, governments across Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, and Puducherry along with the IMD have been engaged in cyclone preparedness activities in the wake of cyclone Nivar which made its landfall late on Wednesday evening near the coast of Puducherry. As part of their analysis of Nivar, IMD officials started studying NWP models of another developing storm and issued a fresh weather warning stating that a new low pressure system would form around November 29. Speaking to TOI, IMD Andhra Pradesh director S Stella said, “It (the low pressure system over Bay of Bengal) will get stronger and is likely to move westward. It is too early to talk about further developments.” Meanwhile, state energy secretary Nagulapalli Srikanth said that the electricity infrastructure had been damaged due to cyclone Nivar. The damage was estimated to be over Rs 1.2 crore as per the Tirupati-based Southern Power Distribution Company Limited (SPDCL). Discom officials informed the energy secretary that 154 kilometres of 33KV lines, 426 kilometres of 11KV lines, 75 33KV poles, 600 11KV poles, along with 400LT line poles were damaged across 57 mandals in south-coastal AP and Rayalaseema. Power had been restored in 38 mandals on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/another-deep-depression-brews-over-bay-off-tn-coast/articleshow/79434046.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
November 27, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: ‘Reorganisation Act has to be amended for shifting of capital’||VIJAYAWADA: The twin Bills brought by the state government to trifurcate the capital are contradicting with each other, argued Ambati Sudhakar Rao, the counsel for Amaravati farmers, on Thursday. Rao said while it’s stated in the Capital Region Development Authority (CRDA) Repeal Act that all master plans would be saved, the state government proposed to shift the executive and judiciary to other places through Decentralisation of Governance and Including Development of All Regions Act. When the state government is saving all notified master plans of Amaravati, executive and judiciary should also stay in Amaravati as it was notified in the master plan where the secretariat and high court are going to be located, he argued, adding that the legislations brought by the state government are contradicting with each other and cannot be implemented together. Rao further argued that Amaravati was decided as capital of Andhra Pradesh as per the State Reorganisation Act and the government cannot do legislations in this regard. If at all the capital is to be shifted from Amaravati, it has to be done by amending the State Reorganisation Act, Rao said. Karumanchi Indraneel Babu, who also argued on behalf of the farmers, said the capital was decided through a legislation after the state assembly passed a unanimous resolution. The high court was set up in Amaravati through a Presidential notification which is again according to the provisions of State Reorganisation Act, he added. Once the high court principal seat is notified by the President of India, it cannot be changed again even by the President as he cannot use his power multiple times under the State Reorganisation Act, Babu said. The arguments will continue on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/reorganisation-act-has-to-be-amended-for-shifting-of-capital/articleshow/79434490.cms||Srikanth Aluri
November 27, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: UDF promises free Covid-19 vaccine||KOCHI: The poll manifesto for the Kochi corporation brought out by the UDF promises free Covid-19 vaccine for the needy, setting up of additional Covid first-line treatment centres and distribution of sanitizers produced by the corporation, in all households, if voted to power. The manifesto also speaks of a special programme to ensure post-Covid care that takes care of mental and physical well-being of citizens. Other promises include completion of the waste-to-energy plant by June 2021 and transformation of Kochi into a zero-sewage city. It also speaks about creation of separate Vending Zone to regulate street vendors and a Green Zone from Rajendra Maidan to High Court. It has also repackaged the Queen of Arabian Sea sculpture mooted by the GCDA in 2015 as a future project. Promises to build ROBs at Vathuruthi and Vaduthala, which were part of 2015 manifesto, also finds a place in the document along with making Kochi a total e-governance city. The 2015 manifesto had promised an M-Governance project to make available all services of Kochi corporation through a mobile app, but it was never realized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/udf-promises-free-covid-19-vaccine/articleshow/79434415.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Another 1,031 Covid-19 cases in Andhra Pradesh, 8 deaths||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 1,031 Covid-19 cases on Thursday, taking the state’s overall caseload to 8,65,705. The lowest one-day spike (21 infections) was recorded in Kurnool district. Meanwjile, the death toll increased to 6,970 with eight more people succumbing to the coronavirus. As many as 67,269 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, with Guntur recording the highest number of cases (172), followed by Krishna (162), West Godavari (126), East Godavari (117) and Chittoor (102 cases). The number of positive cases was less than 100 in eight districts. Meanwhile, 1,081 patients were discharged from hospitals, taking the cumulative recoveries to 8,46,120. The state has 12,615 active cases as of Thursday, with eight out of 13 districts having less than 1,000 active cases. Vizianagaram has the lowest 176 active cases while East Godavari has the highest (4,143). Of the eight deaths on Thursday, two were from Krishna district, while one each were reported from East Godavari, Guntur, Kadapa, Kurnool, Visakhapatnam and West Godavari. The state has so far tested 98.55 lakh samples, with an overall positivity rate of 8.78 per cent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/another-1031-covid-19-cases-in-ap-8-deaths/articleshow/79434448.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh: Drones likely to be deployed to assess monsoon crop damage||AMARAVATI: The Centre is contemplating use of drones to assess crop damage during natural calamities. The state government has received a communication from the Centre stating that crop damage enumeration would be verified with pictures captured by drones shortly. Recently, central teams visited flood-hit districts in the state to assess the damage. Sources said that Union home ministry, the nodal agency to extend assistance to the states during natural calamities and agriculture ministry, secured clearances from the Civil Aviation Ministry for usage of drones for enumeration of crop losses. Sources said that the Centre had decided to take up drone-based assessment in 10 states including AP in the first phase and extend it to other states based on feedback from the states. The Centre has asked the state government to provide support in launching drone-based studies to estimate the losses. The Centre so far had been relying on reports by special teams that visit natural calamity-hit states and the reports submitted by the respective state governments in releasing the financial assistance. In most cases, financial assistance by the Centre would be negligible when demands of the states are taken into consideration. The Centre is also facing criticism from the states ruled by opposition parties for not granting liberal assistance. While the Centre feels that state governments would always exaggerate the losses, states would think that the Centre is not extending full support. To put all such practices to an end, the Centre is planning to switch to the more scientific study of the damages including crop, roads, electricity network and irrigation facilities. It is likely to ease the job of the central teams which were unable to take up comprehensive study as their tours were mostly confined to a day or two. “We welcome the Centre’s initiative as it prove all our reports are scientifically prepared and help farmers and infrastructure departments get an early assistance,” said energy minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/drones-likely-to-be-deployed-to-assess-monsoon-crop-damage/articleshow/79434504.cms||Samdani MN
November 27, 2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC protection for 28 private hospitals on Covid rates||MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Thursday extended protection to 28 private hospitals from coercive state government action in a spat over charging of Covid-19 patients. A bench of Justices Shahrukh Kathawalla and Riyaz Chagla passed the order on a petition by doctor-owners of hospitals in Panvel, Thane, Navi Mumbai and Borivli who are aggrieved by “arbitrary fixation” of treatment rates by notifications on March 3, April 30 and August 31. They contended that the notifications seek to exercise financial control over them when they have not receive financial aid, free or subsidised land or state or central government assistance. Their petition, through advocate Vishal Thadani, stated that the state cannot assume the role of an adjudicator, which is the “prerogative only of judiciary and tribunal, when tribunals are constituted”. It added that in case of an allegation of overcharging or exploitation by a doctor, it is within the realm of Indian Medical Council, an expert professional body, and not state or municipal administration “who neither have expertise or knowledge of the field relating to prescription of medicines and treatment’’. On October 15 the judges took note that the government pleader’s office had moved the Chief Justice for permission to consolidate matters involving a similar issue and to place them before one bench. They directed that a September 17 order, where Panvel Municipal Corporation was restrained from taking action against a Kharghar hospital, will be also be applicable to the 28 hospitals. At the hearing on Thursday senior advocate S U Kamdar, for Indian Medical Association, said the last notification will expire on November 30 and these petitions will become infructuous but the judges posted the next hearing on December 4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bombay-hc-protection-for-28-pvt-hosps-on-covid-rates/articleshow/79435099.cms||Rosy Sequeira
November 27, 2020||Mumbai||Kapil Wadhawan petitions NCLT against DHFL administrator||MUMBAI: DHFL promoter Kapil Wadhawan moved National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) against an administrator of Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd and its committee of creditors (COC) for a resolution plan. In the application moved on November 24, Wadhawan, erstwhile director of board of directors of DHFL, sought to be allowed to be part of COC meetings. Wadhawan said he learnt bids received by DHFL for the entire company was “only Rs 31,000 crore, which is abysmally low’’, with only one-third coming in as “upfront payment’’. His plea claimed ‘bidders are seeking with barely any investment to take over the company using resources of DHFL itself’’. In August 2019, DHFL submitted a resolution plan which provided for full repayment of principle to all its creditors without any haircut. Prepared by market leaders, SBI Capital Markets along with Ernst & Young, the plan said his petition, was “in fact approved in principle by all banks and National Housing Bank’’. On November 20, 2019, Reserve Bank of India (RBI) exercised its powers and superseded the board of directors of DHFL by appointing R Subramaniakumar as administrator. Around a week later, the insolvency process was initiated by RBI under the insolvency and bankruptcy code before NCLT. Wadhawan said the administrator refused to provide notices of meetings of COC, depriving him of an opportunity to assist in corporate insolvency resolution process (CIRP). Hence, the petition raised the points over the administrator’s “conduct”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/kapil-wadhawan-petitions-nclt-against-dhfl-administrator/articleshow/79435101.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC elections: BJP vows free Metro ride for women, to scrap LRS||HYDERABAD: The BJP announced its manifesto with a focus on the basic needs of people on Thursday. The manifesto released by former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis promised Covid-19 vaccination for all through the GHMC, free transport for women in metro and buses as well as scrapping of the Layout Regularization Scheme (LRS) after coming to power. The Covid-19 vaccine will be given through the GHMC in line with Central guidelines. Speaking to TOI, party sources said the vaccine would either be free or given at a very low cost. There would be no need to go to private hospitals. The party promised Rs 25,000 to those who haven’t received flood relief, and Rs 15,000 to those who already got Rs 10,000. The manifesto also provided for waiver of pending challans for bikes and autos in GHMC limits. It promised 1 lakh housesunder the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana scheme. To make online education accessible to everyone, government school students will be given free tablets and wifi facility in key areas. The saffron party also promised to set up a Rs 10,000-crore fund for modernization of nalas and drainage system under the name of a child, Sumedha, who was died in the floods. It announced provision of a complete waiver of property tax in SC colonies and slums. For the poor, who use below 100 units, power will be free. BJP announced free transport for women in metro rail and buses. About the GHMC, it will fill 28,000 vacant posts in the first year in addition to existing 22,000 posts. The 22-page manifesto promised road repairs within 15 days of damage and if this doesn’t happen Rs 500 to be paid to the residential welfare society every day. Hyderabad: Maharashtra former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis took a dig at the TRS government for not officially celebrating Telangana Liberation Day on September 17. He announced that celebration of Telangana Liberation Day was the first promise in the BJP manifesto. “The Tricolour was hoisted in Telangana, parts of Maharashtra and Karnataka on September 17, 1948. Other governments celebrate this occasion, why not Telangana?” he said. Alleging that Hyderabad had become the “joint property of AIMIM and TRS”, he said, “We will reclaim the city from these parties and give it to people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-vows-free-metro-ride-for-women-to-scrap-lrs/articleshow/79435668.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 27, 2020||Chennai||Metrowater may begin daily supply in Chennai||CHENNAI: The city has plenty of drinking water with at least 80% of its five water reservoirs is full after last week’s rains and the spell immediately preceding Cyclone Nivar. Noting that the five water bodies, plus Veeranam lake in Cuddalore district, together hold 8.5 million cubic feet (tmc) water, which is enough for about nine-month requirement of Chennai, an official said Metrowater has now decided to scale up water release for drinking water purposes, from the current 750MLD to 830MLD. At present, water supply in core areas of the city is on alternate days. With the increase in storage levels, Metrowater is contemplating daily supply to residents. “The government will make an announcement in this regard soon,” the official said. “With this comfortable storage position, it was decided to increase the piped water supply to the residents in core areas,” he said. For the first time since the Chennai deluge in 2015, public works department released water from Chembarambakkam. It was, however, scaled down from 9,000cusecs on Wednesday to 1,000 cusecs on Thursday. Simultaneously, Metrowater increased drawal from Chembarambakkam – from the earlier 75MLD to 100MLD, it is now drawing 220MLD -- for drinking water supply. There is a forecast that another low-pressure area will form in the Bay of Bengal in the next few days bringing more rain, said an officer, adding: “In such a situation, storing water will become a problem and it has to be released into the sea. With a view to avoid such a situation, it was decided to increase the piped supply to the city residents.” Also, the Srisailam and Somasila reservoirs in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh are nearing full capacity and the third reservoir, Kandaleru, is slowly getting filled. Once it is full, TN PWD officials can request their counterparts to release water from there through the Krishna canal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/metrowater-may-begin-daily-supply-in-chennai/articleshow/79435665.cms||P Oppili
November 27, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: M Sivasankar allowed to call kin from jail||KOCHI: Special court for considering cases under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) on Thursday permitted IAS officer M Sivasankar, the fifth accused in the enforcement directorate (ED) case relating to Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling, to make video calls to his immediate family members from prison. The court also granted other requests of Sivasankar, including access to writing material and meeting close relatives as well. The requests were granted after the court perused the report of the jail superintendent and heard the submission of the counsel for Sivasankar and the enforcement directorate special prosecutor. The court directed the jail superintendent of Kakkanad district jail to permit Sivasankar to make video calls with his immediate family members and advocates and to permit him to make phone calls using the wireless smartphone facility available in the prison with his wife, son and father. The jail superintendent shall also permit Sivasankar to have meetings with his relatives, Narayanan, Unnikrishnan and Anand Krishnan as well as his lawyer in jail, three days a week. The duration of the meeting of each person shall not exceed an hour, the order further said. As per the order, the jail superintendent shall also provide note book, paper and pen to Sivasankar as requested. The above directions shall be complied by the jail superintendent in accordance with the Prisons Rules, the court ordered on Thursday. Meanwhile, questioning of M Sivasankar, Swapna Suresh and Sarith P S, who were sent in Customs custody on Wednesday, continued on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/sivasankar-allowedto-call-kin-from-jail/articleshow/79433442.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Kochi||Teachers told to report for work from Dec 17||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Keeping in line with informal plans of reopening schools in January, state general education department has directed teachers of Classes X, XI and XII of government and aided schools to report for work from December 17. A communication in this regard from the office of general education minister C Raveendranath said only 50% of teachers need to report every day. The decisionwas to improve the learning support system and prepare for revision classes. According to education department, efforts are being made to complete the ongoing digital classes for Classes X, XI and XII by January 15. Subsequently, practical and revision classes for these students would be arranged in schools, provided the conditions remain favourable for the same at that time. Based on KITE and SCERT reports, digital classes schedule for lower and higher classes would be revised so that students would be prepared to complete their lessons and appear for terminal examination. Meanwhile, classes broadcast through Victers education channel have not covered even 50% of the syllabus. However, the state is yet to take a decision on whether to slim down the portions. A final decision on revision of academic calendar and examination schedule is likely after the CBSE announces its plans in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/teachers-told-to-report-for-work-from-dec-17/articleshow/79433459.cms||B S Anilkumar
November 27, 2020||Hyderabad||42-year-old ironing lady in poll fray||HYDERABAD: Manikya Bandaram Rekha is a busy woman these days. With the Telugu Desam Party selecting her to fight from the Ramagopalpet seat (reserved for women), the 42-year-old is juggling between canvassing and ironing clothes — a job she has been doing for years to earn a living. But Rekha isn’t complaining. Her first priority if she wins? To fix the drainage system of the area. “Every time it rains, our area gets flooded. Water enters the houses leaving residents high and dry. My plan is to improve the drainage network in the locality apart from enhancing the condition of roads and nalas so that there is a permanent solution to this issue,” the undergraduate said. In between conducting door-to-door campaigns in Nallagutta area of Ramgopalpet, trying to garner support and assure her electorate that she will resolve the civic issues of the area, Rekha said she is very grateful that the opportunity came her way. “Though it’s my husband who is more politically inclined, I was chosen to contest since the seat is reserved for women,” the TDP candidate said. However, she quickly added: “But that does not mean that people should consider me to be a dummy. I know exactly what ails my ward and, if elected, I will dedicate my time to work towards the betterment of Ramgopalpet.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/42-yr-old-ironing-lady-in-poll-fray/articleshow/79435680.cms||Preeti Biswas
November 27, 2020||Mumbai||Longest serving rector of Mount Mary’s Basilica passes away||MUMBAI: An elderly shepherd of the Catholic Church in Mumbai, Msgr Nereus Rodrigues, passed away at age 97 on Thursday. He was the longest serving rector of Mount Mary’s Basilica, Bandra, and a pioneering educationist who founded St Andrew’s College in the same suburb. Holy Family Hospital nearby also owes its landmark status to him. His last rites will be held on Friday. Born on April 5, 1923, Msgr Nereus was ordained as a priest on December 21, 1949. He was rector of Mt Mary’s Basilica from 1995 to 2016, where he remained in residence till his demise. tnn The Archdiocese of Bombay released a statement acknowledging Msgr Nereus’ priestly service that spanned 71 years. “Just a few years shy of his 100th birthday, Msgr Nereus Rodrigues was an institution at Mt Mary Basilica and well known to practically everyone in the archdiocese. Professing a vocation at a young age, he went on to complete his doctorate in canon law and taught the subject at the seminary. He also held a postgraduate degree in education from London University and a degree in American School Administration from the University of Southern California.” “For Msgr Nereus, working in education was the highlight of his priesthood. He had served as principal of schools in the archdiocese and as president of the lay principals, Catholic and non-Catholic associations. Under the leadership of Cardinal Simon Pimenta, he... was instrumental in setting up St Andrew’s College." He variously served as principal, rector and trustee. ”What started out as a cottage maternity hospital is today the landmark Holy Family Hospital thanks to the efforts of Msgr Nereus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/longest-serving-rector-of-mount-marys-basilica-passes-away/articleshow/79435105.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Corporator couple tests luck 2nd time||HYDERABAD: A couple from the TRS party, who are in fray for the second consecutive time, said they are confident of retaining their seats. Jagadeeshwar Goud will be contesting from Madhapur and his wife Poojitha Goud from Hafeezpet. The two could be seen distributing pamphlets to residents with a list of works executed in the ward from 2016 and ward manifesto printed on them. One of the main issues in these two wards is traffic snarls and poor drinking water supply. The most affected are people in slums and middle income colonies. “Before 2016, there were lot of traffic issues, but due to the underpass built at a cost of Rs 44 crore and infrastructure projects taken up by TRS traffic issues have been solved,” said Jagadeeshwar Goud. About scarcity of drinking water, he said Manjeera pipelines have been laid. “In Matrusri Nagar works worth Rs 25 crore have been executed, which include roads, drainage and Manjeera pipelines,” he said. While Goud, who joined TRS in 2016 is contesting for the third time, his wife is contesting for the second time. Goud won from Hafeezpet in 2009 on Congress ticket. After delimitation, the ward was split into Madhapur and Hafeezpet. He then asked for a corporator’s ticket for his wife. The couple was able to win both seats. Jagadeeshwar Goud is also a two-time GHMC standing committee member. In 2016, the TDP came second in Madhapur. The candidate who contested on TDP ticket has now joined TRS. The Congress candidate G Radha Krishna Yadav, who came third, is contesting on a BJP ticket. In Hafeezpet ward Congress came second, that candidate has joined TRS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/corporator-couple-tests-luck-2nd-time/articleshow/79435687.cms||Nabinder Bommala
November 27, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP complains about CP Anjani Kumar to SEC, alleges he is supporting ruling party||HYDERABAD: BJP state unit on Thursday complained to the State Election Commission (SEC) against Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar for violating the model of conduct. The BJP asked SEC to take action against him for allegedly supporting the ruling TRS. In the complaint, the party objected to the press statements of the CP. The complaint alleged that CP said “Hyderabad is developing fast and and competing with Bengaluru". It asked for the relevance of this statement coming from the official. The saffron party raised objection to the fact that he said there was no communal tension and there were no curfews. BJP also alleged he was silent on Rohingya issue only to suit TRS. Meanwhile, BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay during campaign rally said CM KCR was raising the law and order issue to scare people from voting. He also alleged that there was a conspiracy to prevent tours of BJP national leaders in the name of law and order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-complains-about-cp-anjani-kumar-to-sec-alleges-he-is-supporting-ruling-party/articleshow/79435708.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Nagpur||Over 10k at OBC march in Chanda, defy Covid rules||Chandrapur: Various OBC organizations came together to take out a grand protest march to mark the Constitution Day on Thursday. The protest was aimed at pressing the popular demand having separate census column of OBC in upcoming national census next year. The protest march was taken out despite denial of the permission and the Covid regulations went through the roof as protesters violated every norm of the virus precaution. Senior leaders including guardian minister Vijay Wadettiwar, MP Balu Dhanorkar, MLA Subhash Dhote, Pratibha Dhanorkar, Kishor Jorgewar, ZP president Sandhya Gurnule and other leaders of OBC community actively participated in the protest march which had a strength of over 10,000. The protest march began from Deekshabhoomi and culminated at Warora Naka Square after taking a round of the city. The traffic in the city came to standstill while the protesters were on road. Severe traffic jams and hassles were witnessed in inner lanes of city where the traffic was diverted to allow free access to the protest march. Apart from demand of OBC census, 19 other demands related to community were raised through the protest march. Guardian minister Vijay Wadettiwar, who participated at an individual level in the rally, termed the protest march as grand success. “ OBCs are demanding what is their right. Central government will have to take notice of this anger brewing in the OBC community. I myself as OBC minister will bring the feelings of OBC community into the knowledge of chief minister,” he said talking to media persons during the rally. Police sources informed that the administration has denied the permission to the protest rally citing the Covid-19 crisis. But, full police protection was deployed during the rally to avoid any untoward incident. The OBC leaders overlooked all the cautions and went on to take out grand march risking Covid infection to thousands of people. SDPO Sheelwant Nandedkar claimed that protest march was illegal and the offences are being registered against the organizers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/over-10k-at-obc-march-in-chanda-defy-covid-rules/articleshow/79435728.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt to give Rs 5,000/month to 30,000 sex workers||MUMBAI: The state government has decided to provide Rs 5,000 a month to sex workers and Rs 2,500 more to those with children attending school. The state will distribute over Rs 51 crore to more than 30,000 women across 32 districts in the state for October to December. The state issued a government resolution on Thursday stating that the assistance was being given to 30,901 women as per a Supreme Court order as relief during Covid-19. Fund will be used from Chief Minister’s Relief Fund for now. The GR stated that information was available for 32 districts, while the remaining will be done in few days. Minister for women & child development Yashomati Thakur instructed officials that the assistance should be given to sex workers, but, being sensitive, without insisting on identity proof. As per the GR, Pune district has 7,011, Nagpur 6,616, Mumbai city 2,687 and Mumbai suburban district 2,305. It has also been decided to set up district-wise committees under chairmanship of district collectors to send the proposal to the commissioner for women & child development for further action to provide basic assistance like dry food grains and cash assistance to sex workers supporting their families. The committee comprises a district social welfare officer, a representative from district legal services authority, a female police officer (recommended by commissioner of police or district superintendent of police), district-level representative of NACO and a member from an NGO. The district women & child development officer will work as a member secretary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-govt-to-give-rs-5000-a-month-to-sex-workers/articleshow/79435106.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
November 27, 2020||Mumbai||CBI searches Customs officials’ premises, recovers Rs 9 lakh in blank guns case||MUMBAI: CBI on Thursday searched premises of Customs officials and private persons, including an importer and Customs broker, at eight places, including Mumbai, Pune and Delhi, and recovered Rs 9 lakh in a case pertaining to import of blank guns. CBI mentioned six Customs officials, including deputy commissioner C S Pawan, Custom broker Ocean Waves and importer Balaji Automotives, besides unknown persons in the FIR. CBI had registered a case against the officials who were posted at Air Cargo Complex, Sahar, in 2016-17. They allegedly entered into a conspiracy with others, including proprietors of private companies and fraudulently cleared consignments which were declared ‘metal toy gun’ under a wrong classification. TOI had carried reports on corruption at the air cargo complex, including the connivance of officials in import of blank fire guns, leading to suspension of several officials. The metal toy gun or blank fire gun were cleared by Customs under a classification wherein stringent conditions like an import permit or an arms licence was not required. A person from the industry said this had been the practice. Now, clearance is under a different classification, where among other conditions, an arms licence is also required. To import a blank gun, one requires a licence, as it is a prohibited item, unlike toy guns, an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cbi-searches-customs-officials-premises-recovers-rs9l-in-blank-guns-case/articleshow/79435118.cms||---
November 27, 2020||India||Lalu shifted from bungalow to hospital||Jailed RJD president Lalu Prasad was on Thursday shifted back to his hospital room from the British-era bungalow within Ranchi’s Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) that allegedly provided him the scope to be an active player in Bihar politics before and after the elections, reports Gaurav Pandey. Lalu’s return to room number 11 of the hospital’s paying ward coincided with allegations that he tried to offer inducements to at least two other senior BJP functionaries over phone, besides former deputy CM Sushil Modi. The ailing RJD president and former Bihar chief minister had been moved to Kelly’s Bungalow – a single-floor bungalow with four bedrooms, two dining spaces, a study, two large verandahs and a kitchen — on August 5 after the ward he was in became part of a Covid-19 treatment centre. Police sources said Lalu was shifted back to the hospital ward after Ranchi DC Chhavi Ranjan asked Birsa Munda jail superintendent Hamid Akhtar if and why the RJD chief was allowed to use a phone during his stay in the bungalow, which is supposed to be the official residence of the RIMS director. “I have asked the jail authorities to submit a clarification at the earliest,” Ranjan said. Akhtar said Lalu had been shifted back to the ward on the recommendation of the team of doctors treating him. “We received a letter from the RIMS medical superintendent on Thursday morning, requesting us to shift the high-class prisoner Lalu Prasad back to the paying ward.” The Jharkhand government had ordered a probe on Wednesday after Sushil Modi released an audio clip purportedly containing Lalu’s voice during the alleged phone call to him. IGP (prisons) Virendra Bhusan said he had asked the DC to initiate action against those responsible for the breach, if found to be true. Convicted in multiple fodder scam cases in December 2017, Lalu was at Birsa Munda central jail in Ranchi for about two months before he was shifted to RIMS on health grounds. He was referred to AIIMS Delhi for some months before being sent back to RIMS in May 2018. The Jharkhand BJP said Lalu being shifted back to the hospital ward meant the allegations against him were true. The party requested the Jharkhand high court to take suo motu cognisance of the alleged violation of jail rules by Lalu under the patronage of the Hemant Soren government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lalu-shifted-from-bungalow-to-hospital/articleshow/79437540.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Kolhapur||With most schools shut, demand grows for more online videos||KOLHAPUR: Ten more teachers from Kolhapur district have tested positive for Covid-19, taking the number of teachers who have contracted the infection to 58. Currently, 370 schools have opened in Kolhapur district with 40 of them reopening in the last two days. Around 23,000 students — mostly Class X and XII students and a handful of Class IX students — are going to school to attend classes. Most students are taking online lessons from home. Not a single school in Kolhapur city has been permitted to reopen. Municipal commissioner Kadambari Balkawade has asked authorities not to open schools till the necessary infrastructure is put in place to screen teachers, staff and students and prevent the infection spread. Meanwhile, complaints are pouring in from parents of public schools about online videos. Parents are alleging that teachers are not uploading online videos and only the Youtube links of educational videos were being provided for study purposes. They have been demanding that teachers shoot more videos so that their wards are able to grasp the subject better. Officials in the education department said that teachers could not shoot enough videos due to Diwali holidays. New schedule for Class XI admissions After the state government gave the permission to start admissions for Class XI students without the SEBC quota for Maratha students, the education department has rolled out a new schedule for admissions. Students need not have to register again. Maratha students will be automatically transferred to open category and accordingly, the first list of selected students as per their choice of college and streams will be published. Meanwhile, Maratha outfits have taken an objection to the decision as their demand to add seats for main courses in the most sought-after colleges is yet to be meet. Members of the outfits said most Maratha students would not get admission and some may not get their choice of college and course if they seek admissions under the open category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/with-most-schools-shut-demand-grows-for-more-online-videos/articleshow/79433575.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Multiple Covid deceased packed in same van||Ahmedabad: A major controversy erupted in state capital Gandhinagar on Thursday when images of multiple bodies of Covid victims stacked up in an ambulance being taken for cremation, emerged on social media platforms. The standing committee chairman of the Gandhinagar Municipal Corporation (GMC) Devendrasinh Chavda, fearing it may snowball into a major issue, wrote a letter to the municipal commissioner Dr Ratankanvar Gadhavicharan to institute a fact-finding team and probe the incident and take action within 10 days. The opposition Congress has accused that deceased persons were not accorded basic dignity, now that the administration has failed to curtail the virus surge “It has come to my notice that instead of carrying one body in the Shavahini or mortuary van there were three to four bodies, which is against protocol. The matter has been widely publicized and one has to inquire whether this was carried out with the permission of the relatives of the deceased,” claimed Chavda’s letter to the municipal commissioner. In his statement to the press, opposition leader Shailendrasinh Bihola has said, “The officials have broken all health protocols. Were the families of these deceased individuals even asked before they carried them for the cremation? The GMC owes an explanation to these families and the city.” Meanwhile, the state health department in Gandhinagar began inquiries into the incident to learn whether there was shortage of mortuary vehicles for carrying the dead to the ‘Antim Dham’ cremation area in Sector 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/multiple-covid-deceased-packed-in-same-van/articleshow/79435746.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Jaipur||Sanitisation must at wedding venues||Jaipur: With the winter marriage season kicking off, both the civic bodies, Greater and Heritage, have asked wedding garden operators to carry out sanitisation before and after the ceremony. Sanitisation machines have been made must at all wedding venues. If more than 100 guests are found at a wedding venue, the organiser has to shell out Rs 25,000 fine. The government has also made it clear that if marriages are held without permission or if guests are found without masks and social distancing, Rs 5,000 fine will be imposed. Thermal screening has also been made mandatory at every marriage garden. Keeping the toilets at the wedding venue clean and sanitised has also been made mandatory. Along with this, videography of every function has also been made a must. JMC, Heritage, commissioner Lokbandhu has instructed frequent cleaning and sanitisation of chairs, common facilities and all the points coming in human contact such as railings, door handles and public surfaces at the venues. Even during the ceremony, at least one employee will have to be appointed by wedding venue operator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sanitisation-must-at-wedding-venues/articleshow/79435743.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||47 persons caught without masks on city roads test positive||Ahmedabad: The persons next to you at a traffic junction without a mask could well be an asymptomatic carrier of Covid-19. The AMC’s solid waste department, which has been tasked with enforcing mask compliance, found that five percent of those it caught without masks and tested, turned out to have the novel coronavirus.The department has taken up a drive in which those caught without masks are being taken to testing kiosks and checked. The department caught 958 people without masks and of these 47, or 5 per cent, tested positive. Of these 47, six were home isolated and the rest were sent to the Samras Hostel Covid care centre.So far 60 people caught moving about on city roads without masks have tested positive for Covid. The officials said their drive began with an intention to enforce compliance, as five per cent of such people are testing positive, it has raised the concern that these people may have passed on infection to many others.Harshad Solanki, director of the solid waste department, said though the number of people caught without masks was low in the East Zone of the city, the percentage who tested positive after being caught was the highest in the city. Some 13.2% of the 68 persons caught without masks there tested positive. It was followed by the North Zone, where the case positivity rate was 6.5%, the South West Zone with 6.2% and the North West Zone with 5.9%.The health department is now tracing the contacts of these people and trying to establish if they attended any large gatherings like weddings or other functions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/47-persons-caught-without-masks-on-city-roads-test-positive/articleshow/79435758.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Citizens’ clarion call: Hate politics not in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Away from the political rallies, voters across greater Hyderabad are giving voice to another campaign, fast gaining ground on and off social media. Their concerted appeal: Say no to hate. Despite differences in political ideologies, people from across social strata and background say they are concerned over the discriminatory tone of contesting parties – getting louder in the final lap of campaigning. “Campaign for the GHMC elections getting hotter by the day. And bitter too,” posted Mahesh D, summing up the sentiment of a large section of the electorate. Another long-time resident, V B J Chelikeni Rao, said: “It’s the first time I am seeing a local election being fought like this. Hyderabad has, historically, been known as a city of harmonious coexistence. What’s happening now is unfortunate.” He added, “I fear this might lead to a poor turnout on polling day.” But while that might be a concern, entrepreneur Arvind Kumar believes that, “hate doesn’t sell any more; at least in Hyderabad”, stressing the #stophatepolitics hashtag. Appealing to candidates to stick to conversations around roads, high electricity bills, floods instead voters reminded them of the role local governments play in India: that of ensuring development. “...Parties are fighting GHMC elections like general elections. They are campaigning on national issues and not talking about local issues,” wrote Narendra Babu, while another said how slogans around Hindu-Muslims and masjid-mandir, were unwarranted. “Actually, in GHMC elections you need to talk about drainage, infra etc,” the user posted. Many also urged voters not to fall prey to those trying to create communal tension. “Rise above hate and communal agendas this #GHMCElections2020 and vote for development,” tweeted Azher Hussain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/citizens-clarion-call-hate-politics-not-in-hyd/articleshow/79435754.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
November 27, 2020||Jaipur||Conduct door-to-door screening in cities & villages to check coronavirus: Rajasthan CM||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday said the government’s main goal was to bring down the rising graph of Covid infection in the state and asked the officials increase sampling and screening in both urban and rural areas with micro planning. Gehlot was conducting a high-level review of corona management through video conference from the chief minister’s residence. Emphasizing on sampling and door-to-door screening in cities as well as rural areas, he said due to the increase in the corona cases and its infection, the state government had imposed night curfew at eight district headquarters, limiting attendance of guests in marriages and increasing penalty for not wearing masks. He said wherever there was negligence in observing health protocol, the administration should take strict action. Chief minister also discussed the preparations for vaccination. He directed to initiate proper planning and preparation on deciding priority groups, proper transportation and a safe delivery. Secretary medical and health Siddharth Mahajan informed about the preparations for vaccination. He said work has began on points of keeping vaccine safe in the state, strengthening cold chain facilities, data analysis of people applying vaccine. He said the guidelines and treatment protocols for daycare in private hospitals were being finalised. Vice-chancellor of Rajasthan University of Health Sciences (RUHS) Dr Rajababu Panwar said Unicef’s experience and expertise in vaccination could be taken advantage of in Covid vaccination. Gehlot said, “Wearing masks and keeping safe distance till the vaccine comes is the key to the prevention of this epidemic. We must constantly make people aware of this.” Gehlot directed to increase the awareness campaign against corona from November 30 to December 31. Gehlot said Covid positive patients are also facing mental problems due to living alone and due to the side effects of the disease. Besides, due to work from home, the mental health of children and the elderly is being adversely affected due to long time stay at home. It is possible that some mental problems are being experienced by the Covid patients and others staying at home for a long time. The medical and health department should prepare sensitive guidelines in this regard and ensure proper counseling of such people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/conduct-door-to-door-screening-in-cities-villages-to-check-virus-cm/articleshow/79435751.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Jaipur||Barmer 9th city in Rajasthan to impose night curfew||JAISALMER: Barmer on Thursday became the ninth city to impose night curfew in the wake of rising Covid cases. The administration has asked all shops to remain open from 9am to 7pm. Barmer SDM Suraj Bhan Vishnoi said he held a meeting with DSP, SHO, Vyapar Mandal, Sabji Mandi, Anaj Mandi representatives at SDM office on Wednesday in which it was decided that all kinds of shops in the sub-division will remain open from 9am to 7pm. He directed shopkeepers to follow social distancing and wear masks while working. He said action would be taken as per rules for violating rules. People have been violating Covid guidelines in panchayat elections and could be seen without masks in meetings, he said, adding this lackadaiscal attitude was the major reason for increase in cases. In many political meetings in Barmer and Jaisalmer, social distancing was not being maintained and people were not wearing masks. .Barmer CMHO Dr Babulal Vishnoi said so far 4,662 cases had been reported from there and 62 people have died. Even on Wednesday, 30 cases were reported following which the administration has started taking efforts to stop the infection. Teams have been formed by the district administration to monitor marriages in the district. On the directions of Jaisalmer collector Ashish Modi, teams have been formed to check compliance for Covid guidelines . The teams are extensively inspecting weddings to stop people from flouting Covid guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/barmer-9th-city-in-state-to-impose-night-curfew/articleshow/79435761.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat among 11 states with least PDI||Ahmedabad: Physical distancing is the key to controlling this pandemic, but then as a state why do we fall prey to repeated cycles of the pandemic? How prepared are we while providing access to basic hygiene amenities as a state to deal with this scourge? Will we see Covid cycles repeat in the coming months? A new study that measures Physical Distance Readiness Index (PDI) for each state, instituted by the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, claims that Gujarat is least prepared and among 11 states which face the danger of repeat cycles unless people co-operate. The other states include Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal. The relatively best prepared are just seven states and Union territories. Chandigarh, Kerala, Meghalaya , Nagaland , Pondicherry , Tripura and Uttarakhand. The study states, the first lockdown, had caused states to stumble upon grave fault lines in society, economy and state policies, which threw challenges to combating Covid. The PDI index was prepared using five parameters--access to safe drinking water; access to clean toilets at home, access to electricity, income security and finally access to mobile phone and Internet, as per researchers, Lakshmi Lingam of school of media and cultural studies and Rahul Suresh Sapkal of school of management and labour studies at TISS. The researchers also emphasise on the need to focus on sociological issues of caste, class, gender and community practices which have to be considered to draw up plans while fighting the disease. “In this entire Covid campaign I saw homogeneous messaging for all Amdavadis on physical distancing. There seems to be four population segments in Ahmedabad, one living around Kalupur, the other living near industrial estates, the third is the posh western population and fourth are migrant population. Each will require separate messaging strategy,” says city-based sociologist Gaurang Jani. He also advocates the use of the untapped college and school going students in online campaigns and group messaging to persuade people at home to wear masks and maintain physical distance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-among-11-states-with-least-pdi/articleshow/79435784.cms||Paul John
November 27, 2020||Jaipur||Ensure 100 days of work under MGNREGA: CS||Jaipur: Chief Secretary Niranjan Arya on Thursday directed secretary rural development and panchayati raj department Manju Rajpal to write to the Centre urging them to allocate funds for completion of the construction of newly-created 1,600 gram panchayats and 70 panchayat samiti buildings. Arya also directed MGNREGA officials to ensure that more than 15 lakh families complete 100 days of employment in this financial year. The chief secretary instructed MGNREGA commissioner P C Kishan to ensure that there isn’t a single panchayat in the state where NREGA workers do not demand work and there is zero expenditure in that panchayat. He also asked the officials to ensure differential group system and differential wage payment is implemented under NREGA in the state. The department will launch ‘Pura Kaam, Pura Daam’ campaign in the state to achieve this objective. Arya, during a review meeting of rural development and panchayati raj department on Thursday, also directed the officials to take action against negligent workers responsible for slow progress in the construction of Ambedkar Bhavans and building of bhavans in the newly-created gram panchayat and samitis in 2014 and 2019. Taking note of the slow progress of various inter-departmental works under Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Rurban Mission, he said he will instruct the secretaries of PWD, RSLDC, agriculture, Rajeevika at his level to speed up the implemenation of various works. He instructed the officials look for the possibility of producing 5 lakh litres of bio-diesel daily in the state so that it could help in employment generation, reduction in expenditure on fuel and pollution level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ensure-100-days-of-work-under-mgnrega-cs/articleshow/79435769.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 27, 2020||Puducherry||Nivar soft-lands near Marakkanam, fills up water bodies in Tamil Nadu & Puducherry||CHENNAI: At least three people were killed in Tamil Nadu, more than 1,000 trees uprooted and several low-lying areas were inundated as very severe cyclonic storm Nivar made landfall near Marakkanam, about 30km north of Puducherry, between 11.15pm on Wednesday and 2.30am on Thursday. Defying most predictions and belying fears about cyclone Vardah-like destruction of December 2016 and that of cyclone Gaja in November 2018, Nivar caused minimal damage but brought abundant rainfall, filling up most water bodies in the region. About 2.3 lakh people have been accommodated in cyclone relief camps across the state, chief minister K Palaniswami said in Cuddalore on Thursday during his visit to the district to assess the impact of the cyclone. The cyclone moved at a speed of 17 to 18 kmph, but the wind speed recorded at Puducherry, the nearest automatic weather station to Marakkanam, was only 50kmph, as against the projected 120 to 130kmph gusting up to 145kmph, said officials. After landfall, it weakened into a severe cyclonic storm and by 1pm on Thursday, it further weakened into a cyclonic storm and moved over Rayalaseema region, bringing intense spells in many parts of interior Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. Officials said it would weaken further into a deep depression by Thursday evening. Offering a safety net to Tamil Nadu farmers, about 7.7 lakh acres of 10.17 lakh acres of samba paddy in the delta districts of Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam have been given insurance cover by the state agricultural department. In the tail-end district of Nagapattinam, 94% of the crop has been insured. Union home minister Amit Shah spoke to the chief ministers of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry and assured all possible help from the Centre. The Centre was closely monitoring the situation and NDRF teams are already on the ground to help people, Shah tweeted later. “There is no big impact in the state due to all precautionary measures taken for the cyclone,” Palaniswami said, responding to DMK leader M K Stalin’s comment that the government needed to learn from its past experiences. Affected farmers would be compensated through disaster relief fund and crop insurance scheme, the CM said. Responding to a demand from people in Cuddalore to declare the district as a disaster region, Palaniswami said such an announcement could be made only if there were continuous events. “These events take place every three to four years. The IMD forecast heavy damage due to cyclone Nivar, but the impact is less due to the precautionary measures taken by the administration,” he said. Asked about the delay in restoring power in many regions, he said power supply was shut down to avert untoward incidents and deaths. M Rajeevan, secretary, ministry of earth sciences under which IMD functions, tweeted that a perfect forecast by IMD on cyclone Nivar helped in informing people almost three days in advance. “This was possible due to improved observations, state of art weather prediction models and experienced field forecasters,” he said. “We could operate all three radars which helped us track better,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/nivar-soft-lands-near-marakkanam-fills-up-water-bodies-in-tn-pondy/articleshow/79438055.cms||Julie Mariappan
November 27, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Walled City commuters bear brunt of stray cattle menace||JAIPUR: Stray cattle have become a big menace for residents of Walled City. For the last eight months since lockdown, civic problems have increased all around the city especially after the division of Jaipur Municipal Corporation into Greater and Heritage. Residents of Jaipur Municipal Corporation Heritage are facing immense difficulty due to stray cattle. In places like Chandpol Gate, Govind Devji temple and near Chaughan stadium around five to 10 cattle can be seen on road. Vikas Kothari, a resident of the Walled City area, said that for the past couple of months this problem has increased. “On every corner of the city, stray cattle can be seen blocking the traffic and roads. We have to be careful while crossing the road,” said Kothari. One of the reasons of these cattle is the presence of illegal dairies in the Walled City areas. According to rules, no one is allowed to keep more than one cow in the city or else it will be considered as dairy. There are many illegal dairies being functioning inside the Walled City areas selling milk and owners are the ones responsible to set their cattle loose in the street. Authorities have done little to shift these dairies to the city outskirts despite various courts orders. Laxmikant Sharma, head of animal husbandry department in JMC Heritage said that they are working to resolve the complaints as soon as possible. Moreover, there is also a problem of division of resources among the two corporations. Letters have been written by the officials in JMC Heritage to UDH headquarters to separate the resources and give them vehicles for catching the cattle as at present it is not possible to resolve all the complaints. Most of the cattle seen in the Walled City area have a tag on their ear. It means they have been caught earlier and sent back to their owners who have again left them on loose. This is actually a violation of law and FIR can be registered against the owner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/walled-city-commuters-bear-brunt-of-stray-cattle-menace/articleshow/79435779.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Want political tourists or TRS, KT Rama Rao asks voters||HYDERABAD: TRS working president KT Rama Rao described top BJP leaders who are campaigning in Hyderabad for GHMC polls as political tourists. Addressing gatherings during his roadshows in Malkajgiri, Serilingampally and Rajendra Nagar constituencies on Thursday, he said it’s the TRS which will stand by people during crisis. “These political tourists will come from Delhi, see the place and go. They will do nothing for the people,” he said. Reminding people about Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s promise of depositing money in the accounts of the citizens, KTR said: “Whoever received Rs 15 lakh in their Jan Dhan account can vote for Modi’s BJP and whoever didn’t receive should vote for the TRS.” He said the Osmansagar reservoir at Gandipet was built in 1920 from where drinking water was being supplied to Hyderabad. No leader thought about the increasing population in Hyderabad and its expansion. “Only KCR thought about it and decided to build Keshavapuram reservoir at Shamirpet which will ensure drinking water for another 30 years for the city. CM KCR is a futuristic leader,” said KT Rama Rao. While listing out developmental works taken up by the TRS government in the last six years, he said Kalyana Lakshmi, KCR Kits, Annapurna centres, Basti Dawakhanas, Ambedkar overseas scholarships, etc, were meant for the downtrodden.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/want-political-tourists-or-trs-ktr-asks-voters/articleshow/79435771.cms||Koride Mahesh
November 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Bandi Sanjay out with new stunts as elections near, says Kavitha||HYDERABAD: MLC Kavitha addressed the media during campaigning for TRS party at Gandhinagar where she criticized MP Bandi Sanjay of playing a new political stunt revolving around the former Prime Minister PV Narasimha Rao’s ghat. She further questioned the BJP government as to why they remained silent and did not celebrate the legacy of PV Narasimha Rao during the centenary celebrations carried out by the TRS government. Kavitha asked the BJP what stops the central government from awarding Bharat Ratna to late former Prime Minister PV Narasimha Rao. Central governments have never cared to give Bharat Ratna to either PV Narasimha Rao or former chief minister of state N T Ramarao even after a long standing demand. Daughter of CM KCR , Former MP Kavitha said that the BJP never speaks on issues that contribute in the overall development of society like falling GDP and others instead it sticks to using the religion card. Kalvakuntla Kavitha urged the people of Greater Hyderabad not to fall prey of such political stunts at the hands of national parties. She later appealed the people of GHMC to vote for development, vote for TRS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bandi-out-with-new-stunts-as-elections-near-says-kavitha/articleshow/79435763.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Chennai||Nivar soft-lands near Marakkanam, fills up water bodies in Tamil Nadu & Puducherry||CHENNAI: At least three people were killed in Tamil Nadu, more than 1,000 trees uprooted and several low-lying areas were inundated as very severe cyclonic storm Nivar made landfall near Marakkanam, about 30km north of Puducherry, between 11.15pm on Wednesday and 2.30am on Thursday. Defying most predictions and belying fears about cyclone Vardah-like destruction of December 2016 and that of cyclone Gaja in November 2018, Nivar caused minimal damage but brought abundant rainfall, filling up most water bodies in the region. About 2.3 lakh people have been accommodated in cyclone relief camps across the state, chief minister K Palaniswami said in Cuddalore on Thursday during his visit to the district to assess the impact of the cyclone. The cyclone moved at a speed of 17 to 18 kmph, but the wind speed recorded at Puducherry, the nearest automatic weather station to Marakkanam, was only 50kmph, as against the projected 120 to 130kmph gusting up to 145kmph, said officials. After landfall, it weakened into a severe cyclonic storm and by 1pm on Thursday, it further weakened into a cyclonic storm and moved over Rayalaseema region, bringing intense spells in many parts of interior Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. Officials said it would weaken further into a deep depression by Thursday evening. Offering a safety net to Tamil Nadu farmers, about 7.7 lakh acres of 10.17 lakh acres of samba paddy in the delta districts of Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam have been given insurance cover by the state agricultural department. In the tail-end district of Nagapattinam, 94% of the crop has been insured. Union home minister Amit Shah spoke to the chief ministers of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry and assured all possible help from the Centre. The Centre was closely monitoring the situation and NDRF teams are already on the ground to help people, Shah tweeted later. “There is no big impact in the state due to all precautionary measures taken for the cyclone,” Palaniswami said, responding to DMK leader M K Stalin’s comment that the government needed to learn from its past experiences. Affected farmers would be compensated through disaster relief fund and crop insurance scheme, the CM said. Responding to a demand from people in Cuddalore to declare the district as a disaster region, Palaniswami said such an announcement could be made only if there were continuous events. “These events take place every three to four years. The IMD forecast heavy damage due to cyclone Nivar, but the impact is less due to the precautionary measures taken by the administration,” he said. Asked about the delay in restoring power in many regions, he said power supply was shut down to avert untoward incidents and deaths. M Rajeevan, secretary, ministry of earth sciences under which IMD functions, tweeted that a perfect forecast by IMD on cyclone Nivar helped in informing people almost three days in advance. “This was possible due to improved observations, state of art weather prediction models and experienced field forecasters,” he said. “We could operate all three radars which helped us track better,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/nivar-soft-lands-near-marakkanam-fills-up-water-bodies-in-tn-pondy/articleshow/79435782.cms||Julie Mariappan
November 27, 2020||Jaipur||Staff reluctant to report for duty at JMC Heritage||Jaipur: The recently created Jaipur Municipal Corporation, Heritage, is dealing with staff crunch as majority of the clerical and sanitation staff appointed hasn’t joined for duty. After the bifurcation of the Jaipur Municipal Corporation, officials and workers were given an option to choose between the two bodies. Most of them opted to stay in JMC, Greater and those who have been posted in JMC, Heritage, haven’t joined duty. According to sources, many of them are now trying to get their transfers cancelled and have applied to the directorate of local bodies for it. Mayor of JMC, Heritage, Munesh Gurjar said this has evolved as a concern for all of us. “Officials have started coming to office but most of the clerical staff and sanitation workers are yet to join. We have even called a meeting to discuss on this issue on Friday. Whoever has not joined duty will be dealt with strictly,” said Gurjar. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/staff-reluctant-to-report-for-duty-at-jmc-heritage/articleshow/79435768.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Hyderabad||All provocative speeches under scanner, says DGP||HYDERABAD: With the campaigning for GHMC elections reaching the last lap and several leaders making controversial remarks to grab eyeballs ahead of the December 1 poll, DGP M Mahendar Reddy on Thursday said all speeches are under police scanner and legal opinion is being taken before taking action. He said: “Some individuals are planning to create communal disturbance in some parts of the city or state.” He, however, refused to divulge specific details. As part of GHMC election bandobust, 51,500 policemen would be on duty. In a reaction to BJP state president Bandi Sanjay’s question why police have not nabbed any person, when they have specific information about some people conspiring to create communal violence, the DGP said that “action is already being taken, but they are not putting it out to avoid making it sensational”. “Taking advantage of GHMC elections, some are trying to create communal violence. We have specific information on this and the whole police force is on high alert. Police are constantly watching the social media, to identify objectionable messages, which can lead to breach of peace,’’ DGP Mahendar Reddy said. When reporters brought to his notice about controversial statements like BJP state president Sanjay’s surgical strike statement and MIM leader Akbaruddin Owaisi’s about demolition of PV Ghat and NTR Ghat, the DGP said: “All statements are being examined and legal opinion is being taken. If any of them are found provocative, action will be taken as per law.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/all-provocative-speeches-under-scanner-says-dgp/articleshow/79435788.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Post weekend curfew, mask violation rose fivefold||Ahmedabad: After the weekend curfew in Ahmedabad was lifted, mask rule violation cases rose fivefold with people giving petty excuses to avoid wearing masks. On November 23, when the two-day-long curfew was lifted, Ahmedabad city reported 239 cases of mask rule violations where cops collected total fines of Rs 23,900. The cases grew rapidly as the city reported 1,328 cases on Thursday. An officer of city police said that the people have begun taking wearing of masks very lightly and give weak excuses to avoid wearing masks. “We come across people who know that not wearing a mask may prove harmful to them or others but they do not wear it thinking that the novel coronavirus will not affect them,” said a police officer. People start giving frivolous reasons when they are asked to pay a fine of Rs 1,000. “Rather than coughing up Rs 1,000 as fine, people should spend Rs 20 to Rs 100 to get a good mask. Even if they do not have a mask, they can at least wrap some cloth over their mouth and nostrils,” said the officer. Police said people have stopped wearing masks even during festival season, which may have fuelled the surge in cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/post-weekend-curfew-mask-violation-rose-fivefold/articleshow/79435796.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: BJP's Tejasvi Surya booked for ruckus on Osmania University campus||HYDERABAD: Police have registered a case against Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) member of parliament (MP) from Bengaluru, Tejasvi Surya, on charges of criminal trespass. Tejasvi, who is also the national president of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), was booked after a complaint was lodged by the university’s administration.  The MP had visited Hyderabad to campaign for BJP in the upcoming GHMC polls. He had accused OU police of stopping him from entering the campus. Director general of police M Mahendar Reddy said that a case has been registered against Tejasvi based on the complaint filed by OU authorities. “The university authorities said that there was no permit to conduct such an event in the campus premises,’’ OU inspector S Rajasekhar Reddy said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ou-meeting-trespass-case-on-tejasvi/articleshow/79435790.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Industry representatives seek dissolution of PSERC||LUDHIANA: A section of industry representatives in a meeting with industry minister Sunder Sham Arora have demanded dissolution of the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) with immediate effect. The issue of the PSERC not addressing the grievances of industrialists was raked up in a meeting with the minister on Wednesday here. During the meeting it was alleged by businessmen that the commission did not pay heed to the suggestions and demands of the businessmen and it always favours Punjab State Power Corporation Limited by recommending hike in industrial tariffs. Criticising the PSERC, Jaswinder Singh Thukral, president of Janta Nagar Small Scale Manufacturers Association, said, “The PSERC is an anti-industry body and ever since its formation it has always been taking decisions against the industry. Whenever the process of deciding power rates starts, the PSERC calls for a meeting of industry associations and inspite of all industrialists suggesting that the rates of power should not be hiked, it never rules in our favour. The example of commission’s attitude towards the industry sector is evident from the fact that a few months back chief minister Amarinder Singh ordered that industry would not pay fixed charges for two months of lockdown period. The PSPCL too agreed to the decision taken by the CM but to our utter shock the PSERC overturned the decision and ordered us to pay the fixed charges.” Thukral, who is a Congress leader too, also added, “This will be a rare instance in India, where a body which is under the CM did not comply with the decision of the CM. Even after doing nothing, except for targeting industrialists, the PSERC has got a lavish office and its officers are drawing handsome salary and are getting other benefits. Therefore, it is our request to the state government and CM to immediately order dissolution of the PSERC. This will not only save crores of rupees worth expenditure of the government but will also end the harassment and trauma being faced by the businessmen.” Meanwhile, the industry minister patiently listened to the points put forward by Thukral.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/industry-representatives-seek-dissolution-of-pserc/articleshow/79434584.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Aurangabad||VBA’s Latur dist chief among 4 killed in accident||AURANGABAD: Four people, including the Latur district president of Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi (VBA), were killed on the spot while another person sustained serious injuries after the car in which they were travelling rammed into an oil tanker that was coming from the opposite direction. The accident took place at the Gevrai junction of Beed district on the Solapur-Dhule national highway. According to police, the situation could have been worse if the fully loaded oil tanker had caught fire. The driver and cleaner of the tanker have escaped with minor injuries. Gevrai police have registered a case of negligent and rash driving. Latur district president of VBA Sadashiv Bhinge and his relatives — Vyankati Gurde, Mahadev Sakte, Subhash Bhinge and Ram Bhinge — were heading towards Aurangabad when the accident took place on Thursday morning. Citing the version of villagers who were first to reach the accident spot, police said the accident took place when the driver of the car tried to overtake a vehicle without gauging the space between the divider and the vehicle he was trying to overtake. “The car inadvertently bumped into the divider and ended up on the other side of the highway and rammed into an oil tanker. Soon after being informed about the accident, a team from Gevrai police station rushed to the spot. Policemen had to struggle for several minutes to remove the bodies. Autopsies were performed at the civil hospital, before the bodies were handed over to relatives,” a police officer said. Ram Bhinge has survived the accident but his condition is extremely critical. He has been shifted to a hospital in Latur. VBA Marathwada secretary Santosh Suryawanshi said, “All of them in the car were close relatives and were going to Aurangabad to attend a family function.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/vbas-latur-dist-chief-among-4-killed-in-accident/articleshow/79433612.cms||Mohammed Akhef
November 27, 2020||Jaipur||More tests conducted on minor rape survivor||Jaipur: The 12-year-old girl who was raped five months ago again underwent a medical examination on Thursday. The survivor who is five months pregnant got her sonography done and cops claimed that she was raped at least twice and officials are looking for the accused in Uttar Pradesh. When the child complained of stomach ache, her mother took her to the hospital where it was found that she was pregnant. According to the complainant, the girl was raped by an uncle when they were staying in a rented accommodation in Jhotwara around five months back. “Earlier the child was supposed to get her sonography done at a government hospital but two doctors tested positive there following which she was taken to another hospital but due to lack of adequate facilities, the test could not be done there but finally it was done on Thursday,” said an official of Jhotwara police station. While the accused is on the run, sources close to the complainant said that the girl did not realise that she was pregnant and had kept quiet because of being threatened by him. Sources also claimed that they would approach the court to get the pregnancy terminated. A case under the Pocso Act and the SC/ST Act along with rape charge, has been registered. Elaborating further on the investigation, the official said, “A month back the accused left town and we have found that he is from UP. A team has been sent there to find the accused and arrest him. The girl in her statement said that the accused had raped her multiple times and threatened to harm her as well as her family if she reported the matter to anyone. Seeing the gravity of the crime, we are taking all steps to find the accused and he will be arrested soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/more-tests-conducted-on-minor-rape-survivor/articleshow/79435792.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘More mask rule breaches in west city’||Ahmedabad: Amdavadis coughed up Rs 38.9 lakh for not wearing masks in the last six days. A total of 3,896 cases of not wearing masks were registered in Ahmedabad between November 20 and November 25. Interestingly, Sector -1 which covers about 70% of the western city registered 2,367 cases and collected a fine of Rs 23.67 lakh while Sector-2 which covers most of the eastern part of the city registered 1,529 cases and collected a fine of Rs 15.29 lakh. The highest number of cases, 214, was registered in Sabarmati Riverfront East area in Sector-1 where as Dariapur area of Sector-2 registered 130 cases for violating mask norms. The lowest figure of 29 cases was registered in Gaekwad Haveli area of Sector-1, whereas only 17 cases of mask violation were registered in Bapunagar area of Sector-2. Mostcases in the city were registered after the weekend curfew was lifted and only night curfew remained in place. Figures suggests that the most mask violations, that is 2,916, were registered between November 23 and November 25 in the city. Additional commissioner of police Rajendra Asari said that people should take wearing of masks very seriously. “There is no alternative at present other than wearing masks for protection from Covid-19. Why should people pay a fine of Rs 1,000 rather than wearing a mask which costs Rs 50? We will act strictly in mask rule violations. The drive will get more strict,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/more-mask-rule-breaches-in-west-city/articleshow/79435812.cms||Sarfarazuddin Shaikh
November 27, 2020||Jaipur||Liquor worth Rs 60L seized||Ajmer: The excise department on Thursday seized 950 cartons of liquor worth Rs 60 lakh from a truck illegally transporting them from Chandigarh to Gujarat and arrested its driver. Police came to know that the stock was to be delivered at places in Gujarat on occasion of New Year. Acting on a tip off that a truck carrying liquor cartons is moving from Punjab to Gujarat, the officials put barricades near Ladpura crossing. They searched the truck and found liquor cartons in it. Driver Bishan Singh (38) during interrogation said that the truck was loaded at Chandigarh and was going to Gujarat. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/liquor-worth-rs-60l-seized/articleshow/79435805.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Jaipur||Covid +ve health min meets corona patients, stirs row||Jaipur: Health minister Raghu Sharma, who is suffering from Covid, has stirred up a controversy by meeting corona patients at the dedicated Covid RUHS Hospital two days ago. The opposition alleged that the minister flouted Covid protocol and demanded action against the minister under the epidemic Act. Sharma tested positive on Monday when he was in Ajmer. On the same day, he reached RUHS Hospital in Jaipur and got admitted. The next day, Sharma went out of his room with doctors and took a round of the hospital where he interacted with patients to get the feedback on the facilities and treatment provided to patients. He had inspected the new 70-ICU beds being constructed at the hospital. Sawai Man Singh Medical College Principal Dr Sudhir Bhandari, RUHS superintendent Dr Ajeet Singh and other doctors and officers accompanied the health minister during the inspection of the facilities. “The health minister has flouted Covid protocol. Despite testing positive, he took a round of the hospital and openly flouted the guidelines, sending a wrong message to the people. Action should be taken against him under the epidemic Act,” Kalicharan Saraf, former health minister and BJP leader, told TOI. Sharma claimed that he had followed all protocols while inspecting RUHS Hospital’s different facilities and while interacting with patients. “RUHS is a dedicated Covid-19 hosptial, where each patient is already affected. I visited the hospital on the request of doctors . It’s a malafide campaign, which has no logical reason,” Sharma said. At present, Sharma is under home isolation at his residence in Civil Lines. RUHS Hospital administration claimed that Sharma’s meeti ng with patients was not at all against the norms. “Visit of a Covid patient to other Covid patients taking full safety measures wearing mask and face shield is not a violation of the protocol. Visit of a Covid patient to a Covid negative patient without any safety and precautionary measures is a violation of guidelines,” said Dr Ajit Singh, medical superintendent, RUHS Hospital. He said there was no chance of spread of the virus. Director health (state) Dr KK Sharma said, “He (health minister) was wearing mask, face shield, following social distancing when he met Covid patients. Also, he reviewed the facilities and preparation for future at RUHS Hospital at a time when cases are increasing daily. He followed all the protocols.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-ve-health-min-meets-corona-patients-stirs-row/articleshow/79435804.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid patients should avoid going to booth: Telangana health department||HYDERABAD: Anticipating a surge in cases post the GHMC elections, the state health authorities are discouraging Covid-19 patients and people with symptoms from visiting the polling booths. Though the state election commission (SEC) has allowed Covid positive patients to vote through postal ballot and between 5pm and 6pm on the polling day (December 1), the health officials are against voting at the booths. “Though the cases are in control and the numbers have come down drastically, we need to be careful during the elections. We are advising political parties to ensure all Covid precautions. Covid-19 patients can use the postal ballot option. They are also allowed to vote in person by adhering to all norms, but it is best to avoid going to the booths. People having fever, cough, breathlessness etc, should stay away from campaigning, voting and even poll duty,” said Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director of public health, Telangana. It may be recalled despite taking all precautionary measures during campaigning and polling, the recent Bihar elections have left behind a train of positive cases. Taking a cue from the experience, health authorities are advising political parties to distribute masks and ensure availability of sanitisers as well as social distancing to avoid a huge surge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-patients-should-avoid-going-to-booth-health-dept/articleshow/79435807.cms||Amrita Didyala
November 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Disqualify BJP, MIM from election: Uttam Kumar Reddy||HYDERABAD: Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) chief N Uttam Kumar Reddy on Thursday demanded that the State Election Commission (SEC) disqualify BJP and AIMIM from contesting the GHMC elections for allegedly inciting communal hatred among the people. Addressing a press conference after releasing two brochures and a pamphlet on the contribution of the earlier Congress governments in the development of Hyderabad and failures of the TRS government, he said, “I’m surprised as to how the State Election Commission and the state government are not intervening to stop this provocative campaign.” He also demanded that both parties be barred from participating in the GHMC elections. Uttam alleged that AIMIM’s West Bengal unit president Anwar Pasha has resigned from the party and gave a clear statement that AIMIM president Asaduddin Owaisi was helping the BJP win West Bengal polls in the same way as it helped the BJP come to power in Bihar.” He added that Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has also said that the Owaisi brothers had a secret meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/disqualify-bjp-mim-from-election-uttam/articleshow/79435799.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhaina: Weddings cancelled after night curfew announced||LUDHIANA: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh’s decision to impose night curfew in the state from December 1 to 15 has come as a big blow for the hospitality industry of Ludhiana, which after months of remaining closed due to lockdown had started getting back to business. On Wednesday, as soon as the decision was announced to close hotels, banquets, marriage palaces at 09.30pm from December 1, panic gripped the customers who had booked their functions during the said duration. According to hotel, banquet and marriage palace owners they have been flooded with calls either to cancel their functions slotted to take place in the evening or change function to the morning time. The situation is troublesome for the industry as majority of them already have booked functions during the day time and it is not possible for them to accommodate two functions at the same time and same day. In another setback some functions in which the bride or groom’s families had to come from other states like Delhi, Haryana have also been cancelled due to the kisan andolan. According to businessmen, hospitality industry should be given relaxation in the timings and additional one to two hours should be given to them for closure as it is not possible to organise functions like marriage within the stipulated timings as they need time wind up their operations after every function and prepare for the next day. Moreover, due to the early closing timings, people will postpone the marriage and other functions and hospitality industry once again will be without business. Rakesh Sharma, general manager of a city-based hotel said, “We have cancelled four bookings which were scheduled to take place between December 1 and 15. Two of these bookings were for sangeet and cocktail and two were for marriage ceremony. Two customers wanted us to change their programmes to day time. Since there is no fault of the customer and it’s the timings which are to be blamed for the cancellations, we have decided to refund the entire advance to the customers.” Prakash Chander, a resident of Janta Nagar who had booked a hotel for a ceremony of his daughter for December 8, said, “As per our family’s tradition, we organise such events during evening timings only and it is not possible for us to change the function to morning time. But if we go ahead with the function and organise it during evening, then we have time till 9.30pm. We will have to end it within two hours only as we cannot start it before 7.30pm as it is a working day. So, we have decided to cancel the function and after consultation with the groom’s side we have decided to organise a private ceremony of only about 20 close members of both families at our home only.” Amarveer Singh, president of the Hotel and Restaurant Association, Ludhiana, said, “We understand that necessary actions are needed to curb the rising cases of coronavirus in Punjab and the entire business community is with the government on this. But early closure timing will choke the hospitality industry, which was just trying to slowly head towards revival after months of facing traumatic period lasting months when we could not even earn a single penny due to the lockdown. We have started receiving calls from our clients who have bookings of night functions on these dates. Already several of them have asked us to cancel these because they won’t be able to cope up with the early closure timings while others want to organise their function during the day. But it is not possible to accommodate everyone as we already have bookings for the morning and afternoon time slots. Our sector was the first to go into complete closure and last to restart and that is why we have suffered the maximum losses. Now, with the timings changed again, things will be again the same for us as it is impossible to organise functions within this time limit.” According to Shiv Shankar Rai, general secretary of Punjab Tent Dealers and Welfare Association, “We have been badly hit by the decision of the government to curtail our operation timing to 9.30pm as already guests have started approaching us to hold their bookings instead of confirming these as they will not be able to organise the functions due to such timings. The main issue with the 9.30pm deadline is that in case of functions like marriage, reception, ring ceremony, etc. we need at least one-two hours to wind up our operations like billing, cleaning, dismantling the decorative stuff, etc. so as to prepare for the next day. So, for complying with the deadline we will have to end the function by 7.30-8pm, which is not possible as this is the time at which guests start arriving for attending the functions in the city. So, it is our humble request to the chief minister to re-consider his decision and allow us to operate till 10.30pm, so that we can end the function at 10pm and we can utilise half hour to wind up.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/night-curfew-leads-to-cancellation-of-wedding-functions-hospitality-industry-in-a-quandary/articleshow/79434616.cms||Mohit Behl
November 27, 2020||Kolkata||Railways to blame for Majerhat delay: West Bengal CM||KOLKATA: With the Majerhat bridge reopening coming up, a BJP-led protest against the “delay in reopening” prompted chief minister Mamata Banerjee to lash out against the railways on Thursday, blaming them for delaying the project by nine months. “The bridge was completed nine months ago. They sat over the permissions... and it will take seven-eight more days,” she told reporters at Nabanna. An Eastern Railway spokesperson said, “We are working in tandem with the state for the speedy completion of the project.” TOI had on Thursday reported that the bridge is likely to be reopened in the first week of December. On Thursday afternoon, trouble erupted after BJP workers demanding immediate commissioning of the bridge took out a rally at Taratala. Sensing a large-scale traffic dislocation, police put up barricades to stop the BJP workers trying to approach the bridge. Some of them allegedly pelted stones and hurled the barricades at cops. Police retaliated with mild lathi-charge. Some BJP workers were detained and put on a bus. It was then that BJP leader Kailash Vijayvargiya reached the spot and tried to board the bus, saying he would get off only when the workers were released. “They resorted to lathi-charge even on women. This was a democratic protest and they are trying to silence every dissenting voice,” Vijayvargiya said. The CM said, “He (Vijayvargiya) was never arrested. He kept beseeching the police to arrest him so he could be photographed. This is a funny party. This is all drama. Where were they when people in Behala and south Kolkata were struggling? We kept pleading, but permissions were delayed. During Gangasagar Mela, the pilgrims had to face enormous difficulties. There are some pending permissions still. The Railways need to give permission because of the railway lines below the bridge. There are still potholes.” In a statement, the state BJP said a party worker who was at the protest meeting was brutally assaulted by cops. BJP claimed Asish Poddar, the party’s Barisha unit booth president, fractured his right arm and was admitted to SSKM Hospital. BJP leader Shamik Bhattacharya claimed cops lathi-charged at random, leaving many supporters bleeding and Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar tweeted, asking the state to “protect human values and rights of people”. Kolkata Police did not comment on the charges. A source said 80 people were detained for questioning, which included no leaders. The New Alipore police are drawing up the prosecutions, sources said. In the evening, Trinamool led a counter rally to protest against the “BJP drama”. “Elections seem to have nudged them out of slumber. For the last two-and-a-half years, the Mamata Banerjee-led government had been fighting against time to get the bridge ready. Even during lockdown, not a day was wasted. Why did they not help with the permissions?” said Partha Chatterjee, senior state minister and a Behala (West) MLA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rlys-to-blame-for-majerhat-delay-cm/articleshow/79437233.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur's RUHS Hospital needs more nursing staff||JAIPUR: RUHS Hospital is facing a shortage of nursing staff following a spurt in number of patients in the wake of increasing Covid cases. SMS Medical College has already deployed 350 nursing staff in the hospital. Before the pandemic, the newly constructed RUHS Hospital was just limited to out-patient department and its indoor facilities had not been started at that time. After it was declared a dedicated Covid hospital, nursing and paramedical staff was arranged from other government-run hospitals and health centres in the periphery. “We have deployed 350 nursing staff from SMS Medical College in RUHS hospital,” said a SMS Hospital official. Now, more staff is required. The health directorate issued orders of deploying 25 nursing staff from JK Lon Hospital to RUHS Hospital, 15 from Zanana hospital, 15 from Mahila Chikitsalaya, 20 from psychiatric centre, 10 from institute of respiratory diseases, five each from satellite hospitals Bani Park, Sethi Colony and Kanwatia hospital. An RUHS Hospital administration official said the number of beds in RUHS will be increased to 1,200 soon. A 70-bed ICU is also coming up at the hospital for Covid patients. Since RUHS management came under SMS Medical College for Covid care and treatment, the facilities at RUHS has increased manifold, needing more staff. The hospital has installed 30 oxygen points with wheelchairs and fowler bed in emergency of RUHS to oxygenate every patient within a minute, increase in ICUs oxygen points beds and 150 ventilated beds in addition to and 70-bed ICU soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ruhs-hosp-needs-more-nursing-staff/articleshow/79435814.cms||---
November 27, 2020||India||Covid-positive Rajasthan health minister goes on hospital jaywalk||JAIPUR: Rajasthan health minister Raghu Sharma has given the phrase “going viral” a new definition by choosing to go about inspecting and interacting with patients at the hospital where he had been admitted for Covid treatment last Monday. Sharma’s tour of Jaipur’s RUHS Hospital, a day after he tested positive and opted for hospitalisation, on Thursday triggered demands from the opposition that he be booked under the Epidemic Act for allegedly violating Covid protocol. “Despite testing positive, he took a round of the hospital and flouted the guidelines, sending out the wrong message to the people,” BJP’s Kalicharan Saraf, a former health minister, told TOI. Sharma has since moved into home isolation. The next day, Sharma allegedly stepped out of his room — doctors in tow – and took a round of the hospital. He had inspected the new 70-bed ICU being built in the hospital and interacted with patients to get feedback on the facilities and treatment provided to them, officials said. Sawai Man Singh Medical College principal Dr Sudhir Bhandari, RUHS superintendent Dr Ajit Singh and several other doctors and officials accompanied the health minister during the inspection. He claimed to have adhered to safety protocol while going about the inspection. The hospital administration said the health minister’s meeting with patients wasn’t against norms. Director of health Dr KK Sharma said, "He (health minister) was wearing a mask and a face shield, besides following social distancing while meeting other Covid patients."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-positive-rajasthan-health-minister-goes-on-hospital-jaywalk/articleshow/79437536.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||43% of contained persons in NW Zone||Ahmedabad: The North West Zone of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) — comprising the Bodakdev, Thaltej and Gota areas — now accounts for more than 43% of 8,170 people at 63 different locations who have been micro-contained in the city. According to the list of micro-contained societies released by the AMC late on Wednesday, another 25% of contained persons in the city are in the Odhav, Vastral, Ramol and Amraiwadi areas. The North West Zone and the East Zone have dominated the micro-containment list for the past few days. Of the 63 residential colonies that have been micro-contained in the city, 30 are in the western part of the city and 33 in the eastern part. In the South West Zone, 34 families living at Sharnam V in Jodhpur, with 92 persons, have been micro-contained. Officials said that on Thursday, Goyal Complex in Bodakdev with 220 residents, Shayona Green in Gota (250), Goyal Intercity in Thaltej (250) were notified as micro-contained. On Wednesday, 220 families with 800 people, residents of Indraprasth Towers, were micro-contained. Another 160 families comprising 650 people at Surel Apartments in Bodakdev and 100 families (400 people) at Unique Ashiyana in Gota were micro-contained. In the West Zone, 190 families (793 people) of Anal Towers in Navrangpura was among colonies where more than 500 people have been contained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/43-of-contained-persons-in-nw-zone/articleshow/79435886.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
November 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘No plans to put state in lockdown’||Gandhinagar: Chief minister Vijay Rupani stated on Thursday that the state government has no plans of reintroduction of lockdown and night curfew across the entire state and that all such talks are rumours. He however added that in the eventuality of a worst-case scenario, the state government will take suitable decisions keeping in mind public safety. The state government, at present, is moving ahead with its pre-designed action plan to provide medical treatment and facilities to people affected with Covid-19, he said. The CM said, “The state government is ensuring timely provision of medical facilities and treatment to affected patients in addition to making necessary arrangements for sufficient beds, medicines and other equipment in hospitals so that patients can head back to their homes as soon as possible.” “It is the government’s topmost priority to ensure the safety and welfare of people. All those who claim about the reintroduction of lockdown and night curfew are merely spreading rumours. Night curfew will continue in Ahmedabad, Rajkot, Surat and Vadodara until further notice,” the CM said. The CM urged the people to follow SOPs for curbing spread of the pandemic. He insisted that people should wear masks at all points of time, practice social distancing and avoid over-crowding. The government is on its toes to control the outbreak and the situation, at present, is under control, the CM said. The third phase of human trials of Covid vaccine are under way in Gujarat and around 1,000 people will be a part of the activity. The government of India is working to ensure early provision of the vaccine and is also devising various ways for distribution of the same in a transparent and hassle-free manner, he said. The CM added, “It is likely that the vaccine will be distributed in a four-stage process.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-plans-to-put-state-in-lockdown/articleshow/79435823.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||1,178 booked for curfew violations||Ahmedabad: From November 20 to November 25, some 1,178 persons were booked for curfew violations in the city in 1,094 discrete cases. For violating the night curfew, which became applicable from 9pm to 6am since November 23, a total of 398 persons have been booked. According to police data, Sector 1, which covers most of the western parts of the city, 414 cases were registered and 434 persons were booked under Section 188 of the CrPC and the Disaster Management Act. In Sector 2, 744 persons were booked in 680 cases. On Wednesday, DGP Ashish Bhatia instructed police to strictly implement the night curfew. In Sector 1, the most cases, 62, were registered at Sarkhej police station, 32 in Shaherkotda , 30 in Sabarmati 30 and 24 in Sola. In Sector 2, 66 persons were booked in Krishnanagar, 56 in Ramol, 53 in Gomtipur and 47 in Vatva.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/1178-booked-for-curfew-violations/articleshow/79435831.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Medical College plasma bank hits a century||KOLKATA: The plasma bank at Medical College Hospital Kolkata (MCHK) hit a century by receiving the 100th plasma unit on Thursday. Even as the pace of plasma donation has slowed down a bit, people like central Kolkata resident Hamza Malkani are trickling into the state’s only plasma bank at MCHK. In fact, this was the second plasma donation by Malkani who got infected in June. Belonging to the rare AB-negative group, the businessman has also donated blood 78 times so far. During this pandemic he first donated plasma at Apollo Hospital at the behest of Project Life Force, a voluntary organisation, for the father of a doctor. “This time, doctor Fuad Halim helped me get in touch with the bank at MCHK. I am glad that my plasma could come handy for someone with this rare blood group. If required, I can donate again,” said Malkani, who is also associated with Kolkata Swasthya Sankalpa, an organisation that organises dialysis at subsidised cost for poor patients. In fact, Halim, who is a physician himself, had been infected and he has donated plasma at least four times at MCHK plasma bank. Other repeat donors here include the department’s own medical technologist Ramesh Adak and blood bank counsellor Sreyasi Basu. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee in July first week had announced setting up state’s only plasma bank at MCHK. Prior to the announcement, the immunohaematology and blood transfusion department had started collecting plasma from recovered Covid patients for the clinical trial at ID Hospital Beliaghata. “In addition to the plasma units being used for the clinical trial we have also supplied plasma units to about 13 hospitals in the city, including private units after following all protocols,” said transfusion medicine specialist Prasun Bhattacharya also the head of the plasma bank. In addition to the 100 units of plasma, the bank had also collected 20 more units from the whole blood donation outdoor camps in association with Project Life Force. So far, more than 160 potential donors have been screened at the bank but some could not donate as they failed at the eligibility screening. Major chunk of the pool has come from Covid recovered healthcare workers and cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/plasma-bank-at-medical-college-hits-a-100/articleshow/79437235.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
November 27, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM to inaugurate organ donors’ memorial today||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot will inaugurate the country’s first organ donors memorial through virual platform on Friday noon. The event will be live on: Facebook linkYoutube linkOn the eve of the National Organ Donation Day (November 27), all the prominent historical buildings were illuminated with green, a symbol of organ donation. Since section 144 of CrPC for containing spread of Covid has been imposed in the city, the inauguration of the memorial will be done through virtual platform. In the evening, candles at the memorial will be lit. The memorial has been built near Central Park on SMS Hospital Road. The sculpure, which has been inspired by Jaipur’s iconic Jantar Mantar, portrays life looking towards the cosmic heavens in gratitude, compassion and love. The donors’ memorial will highlight the precious gift of life given by donors to patients suffering from organ failures such as kidney, heart and liver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cm-to-inaugurate-organ-donors-memorial-today/articleshow/79435825.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhaina civic body announces results for swachhta rankings for govt and private institutions||LUDHIANA: Municipal corporation officials have announced the results for swachhta ranking programme under which they judged cleanliness in various government and private institutions. The results were announced on Thursday and next week the certificates would be distributed among the winners. The officials claimed that such types of programmes help in encouraging people to join hands in making swachhta programme successful. As many as 72 participants took part in this programme and maximum entries were received from schools. The 22 schools, 12 hotels, 12 RWAs, 11 government departments and 15 hospitals took part in it. The MC officials had uploaded a form on the website of the MC and people had to register till September 30. After this, the ranking was supposed to take place. But the officials had received only 37 entries by that time, so the rankings got delayed. It was finally done on November 16 and now results had been announced. This ranking programme was being organised under Swachhta Survekshan-2021 and it carried 70 marks. It will help the civic body get good ranking in the survekshan. Last year too, it had 72 participants. While giving more information, nodal officer Maheshwar Singh said they checked the premises and on the basis of various steps, which these institutions took for managing their solid waste or other measures for improving the sanitation condition in their premises. He said they would organise a small function next week, where they would give away the participation certificates. In the rankings the MC officials checked hygienic conditions in and around the premises, availability of dustbins, composting pits for making manure from wet waste, segregation of wet and dry waste, proper disposal of biomedical waste, availability of park or green belt, dustbins in each shop in a market, swachhta slogans or graffiti and any other efforts towards Swachh Bharat Mission. box: The winners in various categories In educational institutions Sacred Heart Convent School got first place while Satpal Mittal School and BCM Senior Secondary School were at second and third position. In hospitals’ category, the CMCH, Fortis and civil hospital remained at first, second and third place. While district defence welfare office, central post office and EPF organisation remained at first, second and third place. In residents welfare association Manav Jeevan Adarsh Sewa Society, Guru Ramdas Cooperative Society and Silver Kunj Development Society are the winners. Last in the hotels’ category Hotel Park Plaza, Hotel Regal Blu and Hotel Maharaja Regency were the winners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-announces-results-for-swachhta-rankings-for-govt-and-pvt-institutions/articleshow/79434632.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Kolkata||Fans recall moments of magic with Diego Armando Maradona||KOLKATA: From accomplished businessmen to paltry tea sellers, from elderly professors to school students, fans of Diego Armando Maradona of varied age and from contrasting walks of life were all united in grief on Thursday. They were shocked and heartbroken at the early demise of their favourite sporting icon, who had made them overnight fans of Argentina and inspired them to continue cheering for a country 16,000kms away. “I was always a sports fan but in 1986, with the advent of television in India, for the first time we were watching live football and there I saw a little man from Argentina jersey dribbling past one footballer after another and taking his team to victory almost all by himself. I became an instant fan of him and the country he played for — a passion that I have been able to pass on to my two children as well. On Friday, it was my daughter who broke the news to me and it seems as if someone from my own family had died. I couldn’t hold my tears,” said Sukanya Sanyal, a 58-year-old professor of English literature. Sanyal considers herself lucky to have seen Maradona in person during his visits to Kolkata in 2008 and 2017. Maradona’s popularity in Bengal is evident with the fact that back in 2008, when the soccer legend had first come to Kolkata on a chilly December night, over 50,000 people of different age, gender and social status were outside the airport and had lined up along VIP Road to have a glimpse of the footballer – then in his late 40s – well past midnight. The reception had left the legend in awe and he spoke about it openly at all public gatherings in the next two days where he gleefully distributed hundreds of autographs and signed souvenirs to almost whoever managed to get closer to him. “He signed two albums featuring his photographs and wished to keep both of them as souvenirs himself. I gave him one but preserved the other one for myself. It was a dream come true to meet him at the hotel lobby in 2008. I have also visited his house during my visit to Argentina a few years ago. In his death, we have been left with a void that can never be filled,” said Uttam Saha, a businessman and founder of Argentina fan club in Baghajatin that took out a candle light march in his memory on Thursday. Saha also has a car painted in Argentine colours. Equally heartbroken was Maradona fan and Ichapore tea seller Shib Shankar Patra, who had painted his entire house in Argentina colours in 2018 to support the team. On Thursday, he didn’t open his shop and hasn’t been responding to calls. Salt Lake resident and Class XII student Aritra Mukherjee, who trains in professional football, said he had reservations about acknowledging Maradona being the ‘God’ of football. “But every time old match videos of 1986 and 1990 world cups were being aired on TV, I saw how my entire family used to gather around the TV and slowly I became his fan due to his sheer brilliance on the field. I wish I had attended the 2017 event in Lake Town when he was in the city inaugurating his statue,” said Mukherjee, throwing flowers at the statue near Lake Town during a memorial organised by Sreebhumi Sporting Club. (With inputs from Sanjib Chakraborty)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fans-recall-moments-of-magic-with-maradona/articleshow/79434618.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
November 27, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC polls: MIM fields 5 Hindus based on ‘local conditions’||HYDERABAD: All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM), which is dubbed as the Old City and Muslim party, has fielded five Hindu candidates in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections. Of the 51 seats it is contesting this election, 10% of the candidates will be Hindus, who will compete in the municipal divisions where the Hindu-Muslim population is nearly 50% each and also assembly constituencies where AIMIM MLAs are being represented. The party has fielded Sunnam Raj Mohan from Puranapul, K Thara Bhai from Falaknuma, Mandagiri Swamy Yadav from Karwan, Jadala Ravindra from Jambagh and Etiyala Rajesh Goud from Rangareddy Nagar (Quthbullapur). AIMIM leaders said in the previous GHMC 2016 council, the party had four corporators from Hindu community. Interestingly, of the four, the party replaced two corporators — Rajender Yadav from Karwan and D Mohan from Jambagh, with two fresh persons, reportedly based on their performance. “In Karwan, BC community population is equal to the Muslim population. Since other parties fielded Hindu candidates, AIMIM also fielded a Hindu candidate where it has a chance of getting both Muslim and Hindu votes. This strategy worked out in the earlier civic body elections too,” a party leader said. Since Falaknuma division has been reserved for ST women, the party has no choice but to pick a ST woman candidate from the party. This division has both Muslim and Hindu population. A four-time corporator and AIMIM leader, Sunnam Raj Mohan, said Puranapul was developed with about Rs 26 crore in the past five years. Sources said the party had initially planned to contest in about 70 to 75 seats as against the 60 seats in 2016 GHMC elections. But it had dropped the idea as in some divisions, it got less than 25% of total polled votes. “Due to paucity of time, we could not identify new divisions where the party can expand its presence,” a senior Majlis leader said. AIMIM MLC Syed Aminul Hasan Jafri said this is not the first time the party has fielded Hindu candidates. It is based on the local conditions, winning chances and other aspects. “Our party had given mayor chances to three Hindus — Prakash Rao, A Satyanarayana and A Pochaiah. An ST person was given chance as deputy mayor also,” the MLC said. Watch GHMC polls: AIMIM fields 5 Hindus based on ‘local conditions’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mim-fields-5-hindus-based-on-local-conditions/articleshow/79435815.cms||Koride Mahesh
November 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Include residents as ward committee members: RWAs||HYDERABAD: Ahead of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections, the United Federation of Resident Welfare Associations (UFERWAS), the apex body of resident welfare associations in Hyderabad that has around 4,300 members, vowed to increase polling percent and stated that ward committee members should consist of residents instead of corporators’ aides and relatives. According to UFERWAS, Hyderabad has more than 8,000 colony resident welfare associations (RWAs) and over 40,000 flat RWAs. The representatives of the federation said that the new generation of urban citizens are very busy but at the same time keen to participate in public affairs. However, there is a feeling that local politicians and municipal officials do not involve them and that, according to the federation, is one of the reasons for the disappointing voter turnout every election. “This is an opportunity for those contesting and coming to power as well as for residents to have a fruitful agenda that can be implemented for better living. Some of the demands put forward by welfare associations have been implemented by the respective local corporators but many still remain unfulfilled,” said BT Srinivas, General Secretary of UFERWAS. UFERWAS has submitted the list of demands to the representatives from each political party and is also mailing and using WhatsApp groups to let all the residents of member welfare associations know about what the local corporator had promised and how much of it has been delivered. “We never influence the voters or tell them which party to vote. The residents are free to decide who deserves their valuable vote,” Srinivas added. In a wishlist submitted to the political representatives, UFERWAS put together 27 demands. Another meeting was also held in the eastern part of the city and Federation of North Eastern Colonies decided that they will take signatures on bond papers from candidates about promises made.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/include-residents-as-ward-committee-members-rwas/articleshow/79435820.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra exempts transit flyers from RT-PCR on arrival||PUNE: People reaching Maharashtra in flights connecting Delhi, Rajasthan, Goa and Gujarat will not have to carry with them the RT-PCR negative reports or undergo the test at the airports on arrival. A representative of the city-based diagnostic centre conducting the tests on the arriving flyers at the airport told TOI that the decision was conveyed to them following a meeting between officials of the airport and various airline. People boarding direct flights from these four states to Maharashtra will, however, have to undergo the test. In response to a WhatsApp message TOI sent to Pune airport director Kuldeep Singh on whether the state government had kept passengers reaching the city connecting the four states out of the RT-PCR test purview, he said, “Yes.” The Centre on Wednesday requested the Maharashtra government not to introduce Covid tests for travellers from Delhi, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Goa at airports and railway stations in the state before December 1. The government had on Monday stated that passengers flying in from the four states needed to carry a negative RT-PCR test report or get tested at the airports on arrival with effect from Wednesday. A Pune airport official said it was pointless to conduct the tests on passengers reaching the state via connecting flights. “Consider a passenger has boarded a flight in Jammu, stops over in Delhi and comes to Pune. There are chances of the passenger coming in contact with a Covid-19 flyer at the Delhi airport. Now, even if the flyer from Jammu is tested for Covid-19 on arrival in Pune, the report will be negative because the symptoms of the infection will be manifested only after four to five days,” he said. A large number of flyers reaching the city in connecting flights was seen seeking information on the Pune airport’s official Twitter page. “Do I need to carry a Covid negative report if I am travelling from Chandigarh to Pune and there is a halt of around 40 minutes at the Ahmadabad airport?” tweeted Sunny Sharma. The airport authorities answered to the queries stating that no report was required. Avinash Kumar, another flyer, asked, “Will a report be required if travelling from Kolkata to Pune with a 75-minute layover in Delhi?” The airport authorities answered in the negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/maharashtra-exempts-transit-flyers-from-rt-pcr-on-arrival/articleshow/79435835.cms||Joy Sengupta
November 27, 2020||Kolkata||Palms wither in front of Bypass shopping arcade||KOLKATA: Around 15 withered palm trees right in front of a shopping centre flanked by a line of healthy trees on either side along the Eastern Metropolitan Bypass has raised suspicion of foul play. Environment action group Public has written to the Kolkata Municipal Corporation commissioner and the Kolkata Police commissioner and called for an investigation into the vandalism and bring the perpetrators to book. “We have seen similar destruction of greenery in the past to prevent a hoarding or a signboard being camouflaged by foliage. But never have we witnessed destruction on a scale as the one before the shopping arcade on the Bypass. They were in an area that has already been severely denuded of green cover,” Bonanni Kakkar of Public wrote to KMC commissioner Binod Kumar and CP Anuj Sharma. Speaking to TOI, Kakkar said the manner in which palms had withered just before the shopping centre while they continued to thrive on either side of this affected line suggested something other than the hand of nature. “The line of palms — a slow-growing variety — would have taken a couple of decades to reach maturity.” In the past, trees have been destroyed by hoarding contractors looking for a clear line of vision; retailers looking for their signage and showrooms to be more visible and residents looking for more sunlight in their balconies/flats. “We have requested both the KMC and police to make an example of this vandalism by investigating and bringing the perpetrators to book. We cannot allow such destruction of public property to go unpunished,” said Kakkar. The KMC commissioner has asked director general (parks) to look into the matter. The latter said an inspection will be carried out with the forest department. The police are also checking CCTV footage from a month ago to see what led to the destruction of the trees. “We had earlier probed an attempt to poisoning palm trees on a stretch of road a little ahead. We will also investigate this case,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/withered-palms-in-front-of-bypass-shopping-arcade-raise-suspicion/articleshow/79437240.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Meerut||School principal found dead under suspicious circumstances in Saharanpur||MEERUT: The principal of a private school in UP’s Saharanpur district was found dead under mysterious circumstances on Thursday morning. Ahmed Hasan (42) had gone missing on Wednesday evening. Police have begun a probe and the cause of death is yet to be ascertained. According to police, the body was recovered close to a mosque in the district's Nanauta area with no clear sign of any fatal injury, except bruises on head which may have been caused due to the impact of fall on the ground. Hasan was a resident of Chhata locality of Saharanpur. The body has been sent for post-mortem examination. Police said that the cause of the death is likely to come out in the post-mortem report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/school-principal-42-found-dead-under-suspicious-circumstances-in-saharanpur/articleshow/79433640.cms||Piyush Rai
November 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Fee regulation excluded from manifesto: Parents slam TRS||HYDERABAD: After the Indian National Congress included monitoring and regulating fee in private and corporate schools and assured to work with Hyderabad Schools Parents’ Association (HSPA) on the subject in their manifesto, parents took a dig at the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) party for excluding fee regulation from its manifesto. They said that while the TRS party assured them it will regulate fee in 2016, the same has not been done. Worse, it is even missing from the manifesto this year, they added. “Nothing has been done by the state government to regulate fees in the last four-five years. Even during the pandemic, schools were found openly violating government norms by collecting fees under different heads,” said Venkata Sainath, joint secretary, HSPA adding that parents are surprised and shocked that the TRS party is taking the side of managements. “The INC has mentioned in its manifesto that it will work in collaboration with HSPA and civic society to monitor and regulate fee loot by corporate schools and colleges. BJP also made fee regulation part of their manifesto. TRS did not even mention about regulating fee,” he added. Parents also questioned the ruling party for organising a meeting with managements of private institutes ahead of elections. “School parents are unhappy with the TRS and will be voting against them in the GHMC elections. During the pandemic, we have met officials time and again and complained against managements with proofs for looting parents. No action has been initiated against them. Instead, the state had organized a meeting and providing relief. Except for parents, who are spending lakhs on their wards’ education, relief is provided to everyone else,” said Vineeta Singh, a parent. They said the state should at least hold a meeting with parents as well and address their issues. “Why is the state silent on school fee loot? Parents are hurt with the way TRS is neglecting and dealing with school fee issue. The least they can do now is organise a meeting with parents, hear us out and address our issues,” said Seema Agarwal, working president, HSPA adding they may campaign against TRS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fee-regulation-excluded-from-manifesto-parents-slam-trs/articleshow/79435833.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
November 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Vendors of poll items rue poor response||HYDERABAD: Vendors who wanted to make a fast buck during the civic polls are upset as less campaigning days mean little returns for them. Those who sell campaign items like flags, badges, key chains, scarves, wristbands, caps, stickers, T-shirts and masks with party symbols rue the timing of the election. “As the campaigning days are less we have received very few orders from the political parties and independent candidates this year. The election announcement was also sudden. During the 2016 civic polls, I used to earn Rs 1 lakh to Rs 2 lakh per day, but now it has come down to just Rs 50,000,” said Osman, a shopkeeper at Chatta Bazar. “Though many candidates are preferring masks, we are unable to supply it to them as there is a shortage. The cost of the mask has doubled to Rs 20 now due to printing charges. However, the sale of flags, badges, caps and wristbands is not so encouraging this time,” said Osman, who is in the business for the last two decades. Another shopkeeper, Ravi, who sells only Telugu Desam Party material is unhappy with the sales.”Now I hardly earn Rs 50,000 per day. I used to earn Rs 2 lakh to Rs 3 lakh during the assembly and Parliament elections. But the sudden announcement of polls dampened our hopes,” Ravi said. Another leading poll material seller, A Nandu, said, “There is poor response from the candidates this time. I used to make Rs 50,000 to Rs 1 lakh per day but now it is only Rs 15,000. Though many are buying masks, the demand for other items is quite less.” A few independent candidates alleged that shopkeepers are charging exorbitant prices for printing badges, flags and banners. Based on bulk orders, flags and banners are being sold for Rs 300 to Rs 800, badges for Rs 6 to Rs 10 each masks for Rs 10 to Rs 30 each, T-shirts for Rs 90 to Rs 150 each and caps for Rs 10 to Rs 15 each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vendors-of-poll-items-rue-poor-response/articleshow/79435838.cms||Sunil Mungara
November 27, 2020||Kolkata||Death before derby unites fans||KOLKATA: Hours before the much-awaited season’s first derby between SC East Bengal and ATK Mohun Bagan, fans from both sides were expected to be at their hyper best — both on social media and beyond. Instead of the usual banters and the competitive analysis about team formations and coach strategies, the occasion has turned solemn. The sudden death of football legend Diego Maradona has come as a shock to fans cutting across two clubs, uniting them in their grief. Even as both clubs used their social media handles to mourn the loss, it was the dozen fan club pages that decided to pay their homage online. While many recalled the legend’s visits to the city, others gushed how their “living God” helped them love the game. According to fans, Friday’s clash will be a proof that football is an emotion above everything else — just like there cannot be an all-time great team without the Argentine number 10 or an all-time great goal without the one he scored against England at the 1986 World Cup, there cannot be a competition in Indian football that does not feature the big two from Kolkata. On the SC East Bengal official page, the homage to Maradona had garnered 267 comments. Similarly, a post on the ATK Mohun Bagan official page commanded 427 comments on the Argentine great. Even as Biday Bhagaban (adieu God) and Biday Yuvaraj (adieu Prince) filled up the comment boxes with photographs of his magical skills, East Bengal fan Arijit Sengupta even requested EB (the host of this match) to not wear their red-and-gold jersey that gives them their identity. “Let’s play our first match wearing the third kit (black) to show respect and solidarity to Diego and his Family #EastBengal,” he wrote. An aged Jitendranath Mondal remembered the legend: “Whatever I witnessed in the 1986 World Cup is still vivid in my memory. The football prince will be in my heart forever.” Rabishankar Datta, a die-hard Mohun Bagan fan, too, spoke on the same lines. “Maradona is not only a name of a man, it is a name of an art. His demise is really shocking to us. Rest in peace our beloved prince,” wrote Datta. Tarun Nandy, another ATK-MB fan, was more blunt: “Number 10 should not appear in any other shirt. That belongs to him,” he stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/death-before-derby-unites-fans/articleshow/79434635.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 27, 2020||Meerut||Interfaith couple ‘elope’, youth’s dad & brother arrested, 3 other siblings booked in UP||MEERUT: A 20-year-old girl “eloped” with a youth, 22, from a different faith triggering an angry reaction from her family which filed a case of kidnapping in UP’s Bulandshahr. The youth’s father, two brothers and two sisters were booked on Wednesday. By Thursday evening police had arrested the accused’s father and a brother. District police, which said that the couple was in a relationship, had registered an FIR under section 366 (kidnapping woman to compel her marriage) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian penal code (IPC) at Syana police station against the youth and the family. “The girl was in a relationship with the youth, who is from a different community. She left home in the morning. And when she did not return by evening, her family members started searching for her. When they found that the youth was also missing, they approached police and registered a case against him and his family,” Bulandshahr’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) Santosh Kumar said. Another senior police officer said that action will be taken based on the statement of the girl, once she is found. According to the complaint of the girl’s father, his neighbour and his five children “abducted” his daughter. He alleged, “On November 24, two daughters of my neighbour came and took my daughter with them in the morning. When she did not return by the evening, I started looking for her. Later, one of my friends told me that my daughter was seen in a van with three sons of my neighbour heading out of the city.” It all comes against the backdrop of the raging debate surrounding “love jihad”. After Madhya Pradesh, the UP government on Tuesday passed an ordinance making religious conversion a non-bailable offence if it is done for the marriage or through “misrepresentation, force, undue influence, coercion, allurement or other fraudulent means”. But the high courts’ of Allahabad and that of the national capital have held this week that an adult woman is free to choose her life partner. “A person’s right to live with people of their choice, irrespective of religion, is intrinsic to their right to life and personal liberty guaranteed by the Constitution,” the Allahabad high court has said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/interfaith-couple-elope-youths-dad-brother-arrested-3-other-siblings-booked/articleshow/79433638.cms||Piyush Rai
November 27, 2020||Nagpur||MPCB issues closure notice to bamboo units in Gorewada||Nagpur: In a major action, the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) has issued closure notice to bamboo treatment units set up by the Maharashtra Bamboo Development Board (MBDB) inside Gorewada reserve forest. The order (copy with TOI) was issued on November 23 by the regional officer AM Kare after approval from the Maharashtra environment ministry. The action has been approved by the member-secretary of the MPCB, its technical and law officers. Even as MPCB was quick to act, the PCCF (HoFF) and state’s nodal officer are silent on the issue. The MBDB managing director is retiring next month. HoFF N Rambabu said, “The issues need to be discussed in the executive committee meeting of the bamboo board.” On any action against MBDB, nodal officer Sanjeev Gaur said, “The file is pending with the PCCF. The board says there is no Forest Conservation Act (FCA) 1980 violations.” It is surprising that senior forest officials are beating about the bush and have failed to come straight even 45 days after the blast that occurred in one of the bamboo treatment units where workers had a miraculous escape on October 13. The MPCB’s closure direction is under Section 33A of Water (Prevention & Control of Pollution) Act, 1974, Air (Prevention & Control of Pollution Act, 1981, and Hazardous & Other Wastes (Management & Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2018. The MPCB grants consent to operate before operating any units. MBDB failed to obtain consent to establish and consent to operate from MPCB for research & development of strengthening bamboo unit. It also failed to provide a pollution control system for the treatment of effluent generated, says the MPCB notice. Copy of the notice has also been forwarded to the superintending engineer of MSEDCL to disconnect power supply to the said units immediately. The water works department has also been asked to disconnect the supply. In a belated clarification issued to TOI, MBDB MD TSK Reddy admits the board installed a vacuum pressure impregnation plant which uses chromium, copper, and borax to treat bamboo. “This doesn’t cause effluents and pollution. We also installed one fast pyrolysis plant which produces coal from bamboo,” he says. However, the notice was issued to MBDB only after site inspection by MPCB official on October 15. “Had we not observed violations, why would have the ministry ordered closure?” said MPCB officials. The MBDB was allotted 31.5 hectares of reserve forest land in compartment number 795 on December 12, 2019, without the approval of the state government. All the activities are being carried out in reserve forest without seeking clearance under the FCA, 1980. When the MoU was signed with FDCM for the transfer of said land there was no mention of setting up of these units. Reddy said research activity doesn’t need FCA clearance. However, nowhere in MoEFCC ‘Handbook on FCA’ issued on March 28, 2019, it is mentioned that such activity is exempted from FCA. The MoU signed between MBDB and FDCM on February 15, 2020, says no pucca construction is allowed in reserve forest but it was done.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mpcb-issues-closure-notice-to-bamboo-units-in-gorewada/articleshow/79435944.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
November 27, 2020||Jaipur||Drugs, doda post seized; four held||Police and district special team recovered 1,34,500 intoxicant tablets from a truck and arrested two persons in Bikaner and 1,270kg doda post and arrested two persons from a truck brought from Jharkhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/drugs-doda-post-seized-four-held/articleshow/79435837.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Kolkata||12 years later, Kolkata suburb stadium plan mired in politics||KOLKATA: The 24-acre land at Maheshtala where football legend Diego Maradona had laid the foundation stone for a sports complex named after him in 2008 is now a grazing ground for cows and buffaloes during the day and a den of anti-social elements and drunks at night. Even local children don’t play there anymore. Off Budge Budge Trunk Road and barely 11kms from the city proper, the Maradona Sports Complex and Indian Football School was slated to be a 20,000-plus capacity stadium where young footballers would be groomed under the guidance of international trainers. But a bitter political blame game between the then Left Front civic body in power and the Trinamool Congress board that took over the next year, the dream project has remained stillborn. “It’s a shame that our city couldn’t preserve the footprint left behind by the football legend 12 years ago. I was present along with thousands of others who wanted to have a glimpse of the God of football. I had dreamed that one day my children would train at this football academy and bring glory to the country. But look at this unkempt place now,” said Samir Chakraborty, a resident of Budge Budge. Equally distraught at the current state of the facility is 30-year-old Pintu Mukesh, who had received a pat from Maradona himself for his football juggling skills, igniting in him a dream of becoming a professional football trainer at the academy. “I was an 18-year-old then and was among a group of footballers selected for a juggling show before the legend. I still get goose bumps recalling his praise in public. I had thought of training at the ground. But the academy never came up and I had to leave the game and take up a job to run my family,” said Mukesh, standing beside the abandoned ground. Maheshtala municipality chairman Dulal Das blamed the current state of the plot on political whims of Left leaders. “This is a government-owned plot and doesn’t belong to the municipality. The CPM leaders wanted to make a show of the legendary footballer and never followed the requisite norms to allot the land for the sports complex,” said Das. Former CPM Diamond Harbour MP Shamik Lahiri, under whose constituency the project was conceived, said the Left government had set aside land for the project and the municipality had to pay to the land department. “Immediately after Maradona’s visit, the model code of conduct kicked in and then we lost the election. When Trinamool formed the board, they didn’t proceed with the project. If the municipality and the current government is ready, we can still make the sports complex over there. That would be a fitting homage to the legend,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/12-years-later-city-suburb-stadium-plan-mired-in-politics/articleshow/79434628.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
November 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||People paying between Rs 500 and Rs 1,400 for pulse oximeters||Ahmedabad: With Covid-19 raging across the state and country, there has been a marked increase in sales of pulse oximeters, which measure oxygen saturation in the blood (SpO2) – a key indicator of the severity of coronavirus infection. However, people are having to pay anywhere between Rs 500 and Rs 1,400 for pulse oximeters at chemist shops. And while unscrupulous retailers are looking to make a quick buck by capitalizing on the frantic demand for pulse oximeters, the huge variation in prices of oximeters is happening because this medical equipment has not been brought under the Drug Price Control Order (DPCO) by the government. Pulse oximeters of 10 to 12 companies are available in the market, with their printed MRP ranging anywhere between Rs 2,500 and 4,000. Only a couple of Indian made pulse oximeters are available in the market. According to conservative estimates of the association of state wide chemists and druggists, more than six lakh pulse oximeters have been sold in Gujarat since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. There are 40,000 registered retail chemist outlets in Gujarat. “Oximeters are surgical items and not covered under DPCO. While it is the moral duty of retailers not to charge more than 20% profit and we have issued guidelines to this effect as well, it is the duty of the government to ensure that oximeters are brought under the price control mechanism,” said Alpesh Patel, president of Federation of Gujarat State Chemists and Druggists Association (FGSCDA). He added that the association has made an attempt to get Indian-made pulse oximeters priced uniformly at Rs 500 in different parts of the state. “We have been requesting the government to fix the price of such items. Why should companies be allowed to print any exorbitant price on the covers of oximeters?” he asked. Citing the example of the blood pressure monitor, Patel said that the government recently brought it under the controlled category, after which its price has stabilized at around Rs 1,500. “Earlier, retailers charged anywhere between Rs 2,000 to 3,000 for the product,” Patel said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/people-paying-between-rs-500-and-rs-1400-for-pulse-oximeters/articleshow/79435880.cms||Meghdoot Sharon
November 27, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: Daily tally drops marginally to 966 in Pune metropolitan region, 25 more dead||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Thursday added 966 Covid-19 cases, taking its caseload above 3.39 lakh. The Thursday’s tally was marginally lower than Wednesday’s when 1,025 people had tested positive for Covid-19, PMR’s highest in over a month. PMR’s daily discharges, however, climbed from Wednesday’s tally of 652 to 725 on Thursday. As many as 382 patients recovered in the PMC limits in the last 24 hours, 85 in the PCMC limits and 258 patients in the rural areas. With this, the region’s total discharges jumped above 3.20 lakh. For last three consecutive days, the region has reported more infections than recoveries. A rise in cases has pushed up active cases in PMR to 10,945, including 6,858 patients in home isolation and 4,087 undergoing treatment at various hospitals. The data released by the district health office, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that 25 patients succumbed to the infection on Thursday. The region has conducted 15.95 lakh tests so far. Health officials said they had pushed up testing in both Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits and the rural areas after the festive season for early detection. 500 PMPML employees deployed on Covid duty The civic administration on Thursday issued order directing 500 PMPML staffers to report on Covid-19 duty at civic wards, control rooms and health department. Some will also help in contact tracing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/daily-tally-drops-marginally-to-966-in-pmr-25-more-dead/articleshow/79435882.cms||Sarang Dastane
November 27, 2020||Pune||Over 5 lakh in Maharashtra are in home quarantine; GPs key||PUNE: Scores of people with very mild or suspected Covid have opted for home-based care instead of seeking hospitalisation or institutional quarantine. Data shows there are over five lakh people (5,29,344) currently home-quarantined in the state. Most are low-risk asymptomatic contacts of confirmed cases or have shown flu-like symptoms. Some are also people with travel history to high-incidence regions. Others are awaiting test results. In comparison, there are only 6,980 people in institutional quarantine — placed across hospitals or dedicated Covid units in the state. For many at home, general practitioners and family physicians have now become the primary source of expert advice. “We are back to the stage where the neighbourhood general practitioner is first point of care. Many prefer their neighbourhood GPs and family doctors,” said senior family physician Prakash Mahajan. Sanjeev Wavare, the assistant medical officer of health with the PMC, said, “GPs have been empowered to monitor these people. And even confirmed patients prefer to approach them and seek care from home.” Both home isolation and quarantine have had their benefits. “Home isolation for Covid patients is effective in resource-strapped settings. Adapting it for asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic patients with judicious use of resources can reduce strain on hospitals,” Jitendra Oswal, the deputy medical director of Bharati hospital and medical college, said. But experts studying the spread said transmission from homes was a key factor. The virus arrived in the country via people returning from abroad. It then spread within households and reached surrounding areas mostly through close contacts of families — in this case, domestic helps. It’s believed these workers became the “bridge population” between residential zones and congested tenements, where the virus found plenty of fodder. Many slums in PMC and PCMC limits have shown seroprevalence of 75% to 80%. Epidemiologist Amitav Banerjee said, “We are probably at this stage where the spread among people in slums and tenements has stabilized. It’s now the more affluent who may be contributing to intermittent spikes. These are also the people who can, and will, opt for home isolation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-5-lakh-in-state-are-in-home-quarantine-gps-key/articleshow/79435858.cms||Umesh Isalkar
November 27, 2020||Kolkata||Special Sunday service for icon at Kolkata churches||KOLKATA: The emotional outburst among Kolkatans following Maradona’s demise has also touched the clergy. The heads of the two principal church orders in the city — Roman Catholic Church and the Church of North India — have decided to read special prayers during Sunday’s service in the memory of the legend. Archbishop Thomas D Souza, who heads the archdiocese of Kolkata (Catholic church), and Bishop Paritosh Canning, who heads the Kolkata diocese of the CNI, have decided to speak in memory of Maradona and his contribution to football. “I join the rest of the world in saying that this is a loss that cannot be fathomed. Maradona was more than just a football icon. He inspired millions across the world and that in itself is incomparable service to mankind,” said Archbishop Thomas D’Souza. The archbishop will read the special Sunday mass from his chapel at the Archbishop House and it will be live-streamed.  Bishop Paritosh Canning will be reading his special prayers from the Barrackpore Cathedral, which will be live-streamed. “Maradona cannot be described by any adjective. Through football he served God and what greater service can there be?” asked Bishop Canning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/special-sunday-service-for-icon-at-city-churches/articleshow/79434637.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
November 27, 2020||Jaipur||26-year-old allegedly killed over dowry in Rajasthan||ALWAR: A 26-year-old woman was killed allegedly over dowry following which her in-laws tried to cremate her without informing anyone but were stopped in time. The incident happened in Dholpur’s Sepau. The deceased has been identified as Bhuro Devi who had gotten married just a year back. When the victim’s parents came to know about the incident, they immediately reached her’s in-laws village where they found that all preparations were in place and took the body from the pyre. “The victim’s father has registered a case that the woman was murdered by her in-laws and we have started an investigation into the matter. The body was sent for post-mortem and the report will tell the cause of death following which we will arrest the accused if the allegations are confirmed,” said an official of Sepau police station. According to the complainant, at the time of his daughter’s wedding, he had given dowry as demanded by the in-laws but the latter kept harassing her for the same on a regular basis. He claimed that he was not financially well enough to meet their constant demands due to which they would behave badly with his daughters. A case of domestic violence and dowry death has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/26-yr-old-allegedly-killed-over-dowry/articleshow/79435862.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Pune||Pune: PM Modi set to visit Serum Institute tomorrow||PUNE: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit the Serum Institute of India here on Saturday, as a part of a three-city tour to take stock of the development of the Covid-19 vaccine. The Prime Minister will also visit vaccine maker Bharat Biotech’s facilities in Hyderabad, where work on the development of India’s first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, is under way, and the facilities of Zydus Cadila in Ahmedabad, where ZyCoV-D is under development. Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao confirmed the Pune leg of the tour. “It will be an hour-long visit. We are yet to get the complete schedule,” he said. The Prime Minister’s visit will be followed by a December 4 tour of two Pune vaccine facilities by ambassadors and high commissioners of an estimated 100 countries. They are set to tour the SII facility at Hadapsar and Gennova Biopharmaceuticals in Hinjewadi. Rao said the envoys’ tour — described as a day-long ‘familiarization visit’ — has been confirmed by the Ministry of External Affairs. SII has partnered with pharma giant AstraZeneca and Oxford University to make the Covid-19 vaccine. Gennova is developing an m(RNA) vaccine similar to Pfizer’s. The company is set to start phase 1 trials after tests in animals showed encouraging results.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pm-set-to-visit-serum-institute-tomorrow/articleshow/79435841.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Jaipur||Cycle expedition flagged off||To commemorate Golden Jubilee Victory Celebrations and to pay homage to soldiers of 1971 war, a 1,971km ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh Cyclothon’ was flagged off on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cycle-expedition-flagged-off/articleshow/79435842.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Protecting water bodies, removing cell towers are poll promises of independents||HYDERABAD: While candidates from the major political parties are wooing voters with popular promises like water, sanitation, free power and roads, independent candidates are trying to attract attention by focusing on issues like protecting water bodies, widening nalas and removing mobile phone towers from residential areas. For instance, T Upendra Yadav, an independent candidate from the Mansoorabad division in Hayathnagar is claiming that he would ensure the removal of encroachments on the Mansoorabad Cheruvu. “Half of the Cheruvu had been encroached by realtors to build high-rise buildings. Recently, due to heavy rain, sewage water inundated the entire region. If the voters give me a chance I will protect this water body,” Upendra Yadav told TOI. Another independent candidate, P Sandhya, contesting from Nagole, says that slums are facing drinking water stress. “The TRS government claims that they are supplying potable water on alternate days. If that is true, then why several slum areas are facing severe water stress?,” said Sandhya, who is a housewife. Thirteen independents, the highest for any ward in the city, are contesting from Jangammet. V Gopi, an independent from this ward, is assuring the voters that he would solve the water problem. Another independent, Chandra Prakash, who is fighting for the rights and reservation for the fisherman community, is also contesting from Jangammmet. “Apart from the water and drainage problems, I am committed to fight for the rights of my community. All the governments, including the present TRS government have neglected my community,” said Prakash. P Vaishnavi, a business administration graduate, has raised the issue of installation of mobile phone towers in residential colonies. “These towers cause serious health problems due to radiation. I assure my voters that once elected, I would earmark separate locations for installing these cell towers. I also want to change the nature of politics. I feel youth should become active in politics,” Vaishnavi said. A few independent candidates are promising to widen open nalas, strengthening storm water drains etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/protecting-water-bodies-removing-cell-towers-are-poll-promises-of-independents/articleshow/79435884.cms||Sunil Mungara
November 27, 2020||Pune||40% of all hospitalised patients in district are from Pune rural limits||PUNE: As many as 1,772 of the 4,382 hospitalised Covid patients in the district are from Pune rural, a report from the district health office has said. The report added that the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad areas have a higher number of patients recovering at home, compared to rural areas where scores have been hospitalised. Pune Zilla Parishad CEO Ayush Prasad said they have not relieved or diverted staff from hospitals and are prepared for a rise in cases. “In fact, we have extended service contracts of many healthcare workers. Some are sitting idle, but we have not shut down any Covid care centre in Pune rural areas,” he said. Prasad said many had shrugged off precautionary measures during the recent lull in Covid cases. He added that when asked to wear masks and maintain physical distancing, citizens were now arguing with police. “But in periurban areas of Wagholi and Manjari we are continuing to be extremely strict about masks and physical distancing,” he said. He, however, added that enforcement of precautions in many other parts of Pune rural had become a challenge. Pune divisional commissioner, Saurabh Rao, said, “The situation in Pune rural is not surprising. We saw a similar problem after the Ganesh festival. The geographical area of rural Pune is pretty big, with heavy inflow of people into the city. Also, when we say patients in Pune rural, we should understand that there are hospitalised cases from other districts too.” Rao said the administration will use the next phase of the “My Family, My Responsibility” survey to spread more awareness. Healthcare activist Abhijit More said that in June and July, when the Covid cases were on the rise, urban areas had recorded more patients. “But after August, the number of cases started to increase in the rural areas. One reason could be that more sectors were ‘unlocked’ from August,” he said. More added, “The administration needs to plan a serosurvey in these parts to determine true spread. It could give us an idea of the situation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/40-of-all-hospitalised-patients-in-district-are-from-pune-rural-limits/articleshow/79435893.cms||Piyush Bhusari
November 27, 2020||Pune||Pune: Firms share dress code guidelines with staffers for WFH meetings||By: Anjali Jhangiani PUNE: While it is important to dress for the job, there is a lot of confusion about looking the part while working from home. To encourage employees to dress appropriately for online meetings, some organizations have shared guidelines to be followed. “At the office, we have a strict formal dress code from Monday through Thursday and smart casuals on Friday and Saturday. But this is disrupted as employees work from home (WFH). While employees are encouraged to be comfortable and focus on their productivity, it is also important to have a formal look while attending these meetings from home. We have sent out a circular advising employees against attending meetings in their nightwear,” said Joshua O’Brian, human resources representative at an multinational company (MNC). The official dress code policy for many companies includes trousers, shirts and closed shoes for men, while women can wear trousers, shirt or Indian formal wear. The rules are relaxed for WFH. However, employees are expected to adhere to the rules as much as possible while on official video calls. Piyush Chougule, human resources representative at a health care solutions company, said, “We work with US projects which means that we have meetings according to their time. Though we don’t have a dress code policy, we encourage employees to wear business casuals. There have been some instances where employees have not been presentable while attending a meeting. We want our employees on WFH to also implement the same rules as they would if they had to come to office. The WFH dress code isn’t tough to follow, you just have to appear to wear a presentable smart casual shirt, tshirt, kurta or top while communicating on video with our teams abroad.” Suresh Chandan, customer service manager at a multinational eCommerce portal, said, “You can wear comfortable clothes and still be ready for online meetings. I wear a clean and ironed formal shirt for my meetings, but I pair it with track pants at home, which is acceptable. Working from home is a first-time experience for many and we are all still learning how to do it efficiently. The trick is to find a balance between comfort and professionalism.” Seema Gupta, who works with a multinational company, said, “It is a good idea to dress for work while you sit down on your computer for your shift. You can pull out all the workwear that you haven’t worn from March, mix and match it with comfortable bottomwear and you’re good to go online for a meeting.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/firms-share-dress-code-guidelines-with-staffers-for-wfh-meetings/articleshow/79435920.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Occupancy at hotels plunges to 20-30% despite upcoming break||PUNE: Hotel occupancy has hit a new low across Maharashtra after a flurry of curbs in parts of the country. Night curfew in various districts in the country as well as the requirement of a negative RT-PCR test report to enter Maharashtra are cited as the chief reasons for the significant drop. Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India (HRAWI) president Sherry Bhatia told TOI that there has been almost 50% drop in room bookings and occupancy at hotels in Maharashtra currently, as compared to the same period last year. “November and December are generally peak season time for hotels, due to an increase in international tourist arrivals and business travel. This segment has been affected drastically not only due to the Covid-19 situation, but also because of various curbs in place. Since the RT-PCR testing norm to enter the state was introduced, various hotels and resorts in Maharashtra have reported about 30% cancellations or rescheduling of room bookings. Occupancy for Christmas and New Year period is also likely to be 50% lower than last year. People are wary of travelling because of another surge in Covid-19 cases,” Bhatia said. Poona Hoteliers Association (PHA) president Sharan Shetty added, “Hotel occupancy in Pune is currently at about 20-30% as compared to 80%-plus occupancy at this time usually. Occupancy is expected to drop further after the mandatory Covid-19 negative test requirement as it may deter leisure travellers.” Shetty added, “We get a lot of guests from places like Delhi and Ahmedabad at the end of the year. We have already started receiving cancellations or requests to reschedule bookings now.” Hotels in Mahabaleshwar, which get a lot of tourists from locations like Gujarat and Punjab during this time, have been affected by the recent night curfew announcements. Dhiren Nagpal, secretary of Giristhan Hotel Owners’ Association in Mahabaleshwar, said, “Guests cut short their trip in a hurry after the night curfew announcement in some states, fearing the possibility of a day-time curfew as well. The Covid-19 situation has already caused a drop in occupancy and bookings by 50%. The recent mandatory negative test requirement for travellers has also led to cancellation and rescheduling of 30% bookings at hotels in Mahabaleshwar”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/occupancy-at-hotels-plunges-to-20-30-despite-upcoming-break/articleshow/79435932.cms||Neha Madaan
November 27, 2020||Lucknow||Don’t harass in garb of Covid protocols: UP CM to cops||LUCKNOW: The state government on Thursday, clarified on its order on organising weddings in time of pandemic, saying no special permission was required from the administration or police to hold an event. If there are complaints of harassment, strict action would be taken against officials, said chief minister Yogi Adityanath. The CM said, one needs to inform the nearest police station about a wedding programme and follow pandemic protocols. “No special permission is required to hold marriage functions as long as organisers keep concerned authorities in the loop and stick to Covid protocol. Please do not fall to rumours on social media. The government’s stand is clear and the chief minister will take a strict view if officials or policemen are found harassing citizens,” said Navneet Sehgal, additional chief secretary (information). He also said, staff deployed at an event, including waiters, cleaners and band members won’t be counted among guests. Earlier, the government had capped the guest list to 100 in enclosed spaces to prevent a second Covid wave. Also, only 50% of an enclosed space can be occupied and 40% of an open-air space for social functions. “There is no prohibition on wedding processions and DJs if protocols are followed,” Sehgal said, putting at rest rumours about a ban on wedding paraphernalia. For more effective surveillance, the government announced, if one person is found infected, an area of 50m around the patient would be declared a containment zone. If there are more than one confirmed Covid case, then an area of 100m in the vicinity would be declared a containment zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-to-cops-dont-harassin-garb-of-covid-protocols/articleshow/79436857.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Jaipur||Woman immolates self in Jhunjhunu over harassment by in-laws, three held||JAIPUR: A woman set herself on fire in Jhunjhunu on November 20 and she succumbed to her injuries on two days later following which her video went viral. The reason appears to be harassment by in-laws and a video of the incident showed the woman pouring fuel over herself but instead of stopping her, her in-laws made a recording of the same in which one person can also be heard saying that fuel is expensive and she shouldn’t pour it over herself. The FIR has named the husband along with Manisha’s in-laws and three persons, including her spouse, were arrested. The deceased has been identified as Manisha Kumari who was in her 30s and gotten married eight years back to Anil Kumar in Jhunjhunu’s Gudha. The deceased woman’s brother lodged a case against her husband and in-laws on November 24. The video of the incident surfaced on Thursday. According to sources, the woman’s husband had himself sent the video to cops. “The woman had gotten married in 2012 and in 2019 she had lodged a complaint of domestic violence against her husband and in-laws. After this the in-laws had confessed to the crime following which the complainant and the accused had reached a compromise. On November 20, she poured inflammable substance on herself and lit on fire,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-immolates-self-over-harassment-by-in-laws-3-held/articleshow/79435988.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
November 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||1,100 ‘bonded’ medicos to be called||Ahmedabad: After summoning 925 graduated MBBS students who are on bonds for Covid-19 duty through a notification of the state health and family welfare department, top sources in the department said a list of some 1,100 students from previous years who have not paid their bond or completed the required length of service, was also prepared. “Like the last notification, they will also be summoned for Covid-19 duty in various capacities. These are students of the past five academic years. The official notification is likely to be issued soon,” said an official privy to the development. Meanwhile, the ‘majority’ of the 925 students who were summoned for Covid-19 duties reported to their respective officers, said Jai Prakash Shivahare, state health commissioner. “Others are being approached and they are also likely to join soon,” he said. “They know they are needed for the massive health operations against this viral infection.” Healthcare experts said there may currently be 5,000-6,000 medical college staffers and students on Covid-19 duty. “The proposed number of 2,000 new doctors will account for about a third of the new staffers. I doubt that the services of these many former students can be availed of. Many of them could be PG students who could not complete their duty due to admission to new courses. In all likelihood, they may well be serving at Covid-19 hospitals already,” said a professor at a government medical college in the city. Other experts termed the move ‘scrapping the barrel.’ “The pandemic has exposed the vacancies in the government healthcare sector. The move shows that we need more hands in the field – not only on hospital duty, but also for surveys, testing and preventive action. Nonetheless, the current staff are already exhausted and any breather would be welcome,” said a medical officer at a government hospital. Earlier, students summoned on duty tried to approach senior government officers, health department officers and medical associations for support. Given the current scenario, they were advised to follow the rules, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/1100-bonded-medicos-to-be-called/articleshow/79435989.cms||Parth Shastri
November 27, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Teenager abducted, raped for nine days||JAIPUR: A 19-year-old was abducted, held captive for nine days and raped at different locations in Hanumangarh’s Bhirani, lodged a case at a local police station on Wednesday. The girl was taken to the police station by one of the accused’s sister. According to the complainant, the girl had went out to relieve herself around 11pm on November 15 when the main accused stopped his SUV near her. “The accused stopped near her to ask an address which the woman told him. When she turned back to get inside her house, the accused got out of the vehicle and forced her into the car,” said an official of Bhirani police station. After forcing the girl into the vehicle, the accused threatened her with a pistol and also hit her so that she did not make any attempt to try to get out of the car or yell for help. Officials are also looking into the aspect that it was a pre-planned crime. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/teenager-abducted-raped-for-nine-days/articleshow/79435982.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Bareilly||UP cop sent to jail for threatening rape survivor to withdraw complaint||Bareilly: A constable in Uttar Pradesh was arrested and sent to jail for allegedly threatening a minor rape survivor to withdraw her complaint against a local youth.The 16-year-old girl’s family had lodged the complaint in Moradabad’s Bilari police station earlier this month. Sub-inspector Prabhakar Sharma was investigating the case.On November 20, the accused constable, identified as Mohammed Yusuf, arrived at the girl's house and allegedly threatened her and the family against pursuing the complaint. Yusuf also reportedly took away a SIM card to destroy evidence.The issue was brought to the notice of Moradabad SSP. After initial probe, an FIR was registered against Yusuf under IPC sections 166 (public servant disobeying law, with intent to cause injury to any person), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of trust), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 452 (house trespass with intent after preparation for wrongful restraint).Bilari SHO Prabhakar Sharma said, “Yusuf was posted at Bilari police station. He was found threatening the rape survivor and her kin to withdraw the case. We have collected enough evidence against him. I have also received his suspension order.”Yusuf was arrested near the Police Club by Sharma and his team, and sent to jail on Wednesday.The minor girl lives with her mother who works as a house maid, sources said. The girl was alone when she was allegedly raped by one Adnan. The girl was rescued by her mother who returned home at the time of incident. And the accused fled.Later, the girl told her mother that she was sexually assaulted in the past as well and she remained quiet because she was threatened by the accused. Thereafter, they approached the police and registered an FIR against Adnan. The rape accused is currently in jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-cop-sent-to-jail-for-threatening-rape-survivor-to-withdraw-complaint/articleshow/79432809.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Round One: 7,763 secure admission in medical courses||Ahmedabad: The Admission Committee for Professional Undergraduate & Postgraduate Medical Educational Courses (ACPUGMEC) on Thursday announced that 7,763 candidates were given admission for medical, dental, Ayurveda and homoeopathy courses in the first round of admission. The candidates include 5,298 in medical colleges, 1,219 in dental colleges, 432 in Ayurveda colleges and 814 in homoeopathy colleges. The provisional merit list declared by the committee included 21,641 students who had participated in the choice filling exercise. This year, the candidates were in for a tough competition with the cut-off marks going much higher than the last year. In the case of government run B J Medical College, Ahmedabad, considered as the topmost medical institute of the state, the cut-off for NEET score is 650 marks (out of 720). This is higher by 40 marks as compared to last year. Similarly in the case of Medical College-Baroda, the cut off was 625 marks, Surat Municipal Medical College was 610 marks followed by MP Shah Government Medical College, Jamnagar and Pandit Deendayal Medical College, Rajkot with 606 and 591 marks respectively as cut-off for admission. In the case of Government Medical College, Bhavnagar, the NEET cut-off score was 589 marks, higher by 53 marks compared to last year. This year due to Covid-19 crisis, many candidates seem to have preferred to take admission closer to their homes, said sources in the admission committee. In the case of NHL Municipal College, Ahmedabad, the cut-off was 499 marks last year. This has gone up to 527 marks this year. Similar is the case of city-based GMERS Medical College, Sola, where the cut-off has gone up to 588 marks this year as compared to 526 marks last year. The National Testing Agency (NTA) announced the results of National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) on October 16 in which 36,398 or 56.16% candidates qualified from Gujarat. In all, 64,719 candidates took the medical entrance exam. The candidates from Gujarat fared better than last year when 46.35% qualified of the total 75,889 students who had taken the exam. The candidates who are shortlisted will have to pay the fees online between November 26 and December 4. Document verification will be done at the help centres between November 27 and December 5. Keeping in view the ongoing Covid-19 situation, the committee has advised the candidates against visiting the help centres in person unless essential.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/round-one-7763-secure-admission-in-medical-courses/articleshow/79436057.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Jaipur||Legislator’s gunman ‘manhandles’ toll booth staff||Jaipur: An MLA from Sriganganagar and his gunman allegedly got into a brawl with an employee of Hanumangarh toll plaza on Thursday morning. According to the initial investigation, the two parties got into an altercation though the reason for the same is yet to be ascertained. The incident happened when Sadulshahar MLA Jagdish Jangir was in the vehicle while his gunman allegedly manhandled the toll plaza staff. Two counter FIRs have been lodged in the matter after the incident was reported to Sriganganagar control room and an official claimed that that the investigation has been referred to Jaipur though he did not specify the reason for the same. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/legislators-gunman-manhandles-toll-booth-staff/articleshow/79436064.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Rajkot||Abhayam rescues Mozambique nationals stuck in night curfew||Rajkot: The 181 Abhayam Helpline came to the rescue of two African women who got stranded at Madhapar Chowkadi in Rajkot late on Wednesday night. The women first sought help of cops deployed at Madhapar Chowkadi. However, personnel posted there couldn’t understand English these two nationals of the Republic of Mozambique spoke and asked them to contact 181 Abhyam Helpline. “One of the women told us that they could speak English only and that nobody at the police station could understand their language. Then we sent a van to Madhapar Chowkadi,” said Chandrika Makwana, the counsellor with the helpline. “The women said that they had come from Ahmedabad to Rajkot to study in Bachelor of Commerce college but were left stranded after a state transport bus dropped them at Madhapar Chowkadi. Their acquaintance expressed his inability to pick them up as curfew was imposed,” said Makwana. The helpline used its van to drop the women at their destination in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/abhayam-rescues-mozambique-nationals-stuck-in-night-curfew/articleshow/79433697.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Pune||Delhi-Pune travellers seek detour to dodge Covid test||PUNE: Travel agents are flooded with requests from passengers to reschedule their flights to Pune through other destinations, rather than directly flying from Delhi, to avoid the hassle of going through the RT-PCR test on arrival. “We have two clients with direct flights from Delhi to Pune. Both have requested us to reschedule the flights. They want to fly to another airport from Delhi, stay a day there and then take another flight from the new destination to Pune,” the representative of a travel agency said. “Another client told us to book him a Delhi-Bengaluru flight. He would spend a day in Bengaluru before flying to Pune the next day. Many passengers, mainly those travelling on business, want to avoid the hassle of going through an RT-PCR test on arrival in Pune,” he said. Nilesh Bhansali, director of the Travel Agents Association of Pune, said, “There have been some queries pertaining to rescheduling flights from passengers, as they are reluctant to take the RT-PCR tests. But we are advising them not to complicate things and incur so much additional costs (see graphic).” Bhansali said those travelling out of the city did not have much problems. “But those flying into Pune, especially from the four states, have reservations. The RT-PCR test norm might affect local tourism as well. People planning short visits to places such as Lonavla, Khandala or Shirdi might give them a second thought,” he told TOI. Businessman Karnjeet Behl, who is set for a three-day trip to Delhi later this month, said. “I will have a problem if I test positive on my return to Pune. I have discussed the issue with my travel agent and plan to have a return ticket from Hyderabad to Pune. I want to fly from Delhi to Hyderabad, wait for a day there at a friend’s place and then come to Pune. I can spend some extra money, but I don’t want to get into this hassle of getting a test,” he said. Travel agents said the business flyers didn’t want to get stuck for any reason. “Until a test report comes, the flyers have to be in home quarantine after reaching Pune. And if the test report is positive, then the Pune Municipal Corporation will contact the passenger and can shift him or her to a Covid care centre,” a representative of another travel company said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/delhi-pune-travellers-seek-detour-to-dodge-covid-test/articleshow/79436037.cms||Joy Sengupta
November 27, 2020||Lucknow||1 in 5 persons in 11 high-load UP districts has Covid antibodies||LUCKNOW: A sero-surveillance survey undertaken by the state government in September has revealed that Covid-19 antibodies were found in 22.1% of the persons investigated across 11 high burden districts, including Lucknow, Ghaziabad, Meerut and Varanasi. This means nearly 78% of the population in the state could still be vulnerable to the novel coronavirus, believe experts. Additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad shared the findings of the survey which revealed that at least one out of five persons in these 11 districts may have been infected with the coronavirus. A sero-survey involves testing of blood serum of a group of individuals. In case of Covid-19, sero-surveys look for the presence of antibodies against the pandemic virus. They aid in improvising existing containment strategy to further curb the spread and save lives.Public health researchers and epidemiologist Dr Vishwajeet and Aarti Kumar told TOI that the outcomes underscore the need for ‘extra caution during the winter season’ against the coronavirus which thrives on low temperature and low humidity. “Assuming that the findings are based on scientifically robust sampling and testing methods, the biggest take away from the survey is that nearly 78% of the people are still vulnerable to the infection,” he said, adding, “though only 11 districts were covered in the survey, majority of these districts are the high burden districts of UP.” Both ACS Prasad and Dr Kumar cautioned against the virus over the next few weeks. “A surge in cases is expected over the winter months and prevention is the only tool we have in our hands,” said Prasad. The two repeated what Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath have been reiterating almost every day. “Trends from the US and Europe have indicated that the virus thrives on low temperature and low humidity levels which are characteristic of the winters in UP too. The human tendency to live in confined and closed places will aid the viral spread, the risk of which is furthered by factors like air pollution and lack of sunlight. The fact that the human respiratory system is more vulnerable to infections during winter months makes it also a contributing factor,” Dr Kumar said. Earlier, Prasad had said that samples of more than 16,000 healthy persons were collected in the survey conducted in Kanpur, Varanasi, Gorakhpur, Agra, Prayagraj, Kaushambi, Baghpat, Moradabad, Ghaziabad, Lucknow and Meerut. All the samples were tested by a team of microbiology departments at King George’s Medical University. Meanwhile, 2,237 fresh cases took the state's Covid-19 tally to 5.35 lakh on Thursday. The number of recoveries reached 5.02 lakh with 1,518 new entries. The state also recorded the death of 30 persons which took the total Covid-19 casualties to 7674. Health officials also noted that the number of active infections in the state also crossed 25,000 mark to reach 25,422.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/1-in-5-persons-in-11-high-load-up-dists-has-covid-antibodies/articleshow/79436863.cms||Shailvee Sharda
November 27, 2020||Jodhpur||Two minors raped in Pali, Churu; one held||JAIPUR/JODHPUR: Two minors were raped in separate incidents this week. While a 4-year-old girl was raped in Pali on Tuesday, a 6-year-old was violated in Churu on Wednesday. The accused in the Pali case has been arrested, while the accused in the Churu case is yet to be nabbed. Police have registered the cases and started investigation. The 6-year-old girl was playing alone on the road in Churu’s Sardarshaher when the accused, who is a minor, took the girl to an abandoned house, where he sexually assaulted her. “According to the complainant, the minor girl was playing on the road while her mother was bathing inside the house. The rape survivor’s grandmother was also at home. Around 2pm, the accused, seeing the girl alone, took her to a nearby house. When the mother found the girl missing, she started looking for her and on hearing her crying, she found the accused assaulting her,” said a police official. The accused fled from the spot and is yet to be found. When the child’s father came home from work, his wife narrated the incident following which the case was lodged. Meanwhile, police arrested a father of three children for raping the 4-year-old girl in Pali district on Tuesday night, when the families of both, accused and the victim, had gone to attend a wedding function. The accused picked up the girl during the function and took her to a nearby agriculture field tempting her with a packet of chips. According to the police, the accused, identified as Omaram (26), and the family of the survivor were known to each other and it was for this reason that none objected to the accused taking the girl with him while she was playing with three children of the accused. “When none of them returned for long, they rang up the accused, but he did not return the call. After that they informed the police,” said a police official. “We found the girl crying near her home late night, where the accused left her after raping her,” said the official adding that the girl was rushed to the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/2-minors-raped-in-pali-churu-1-held/articleshow/79439480.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
November 27, 2020||Jaipur||Two minors raped in Pali, Churu; one held||JAIPUR/JODHPUR: Two minors were raped in separate incidents this week. While a 4-year-old girl was raped in Pali on Tuesday, a 6-year-old was violated in Churu on Wednesday. The accused in the Pali case has been arrested, while the accused in the Churu case is yet to be nabbed. Police have registered the cases and started investigation. The 6-year-old girl was playing alone on the road in Churu’s Sardarshaher when the accused, who is a minor, took the girl to an abandoned house, where he sexually assaulted her. “According to the complainant, the minor girl was playing on the road while her mother was bathing inside the house. The rape survivor’s grandmother was also at home. Around 2pm, the accused, seeing the girl alone, took her to a nearby house. When the mother found the girl missing, she started looking for her and on hearing her crying, she found the accused assaulting her,” said a police official. The accused fled from the spot and is yet to be found. When the child’s father came home from work, his wife narrated the incident following which the case was lodged. Meanwhile, police arrested a father of three children for raping the 4-year-old girl in Pali district on Tuesday night, when the families of both, accused and the victim, had gone to attend a wedding function. The accused picked up the girl during the function and took her to a nearby agriculture field tempting her with a packet of chips. According to the police, the accused, identified as Omaram (26), and the family of the survivor were known to each other and it was for this reason that none objected to the accused taking the girl with him while she was playing with three children of the accused. “When none of them returned for long, they rang up the accused, but he did not return the call. After that they informed the police,” said a police official. “We found the girl crying near her home late night, where the accused left her after raping her,” said the official adding that the girl was rushed to the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-minors-raped-in-pali-churu-1-held/articleshow/79436015.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
November 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana not using guillotine power against errant hospitals: HC||HYDERABAD: Wondering whether the state was adopting a discriminatory approach against errant private hospitals by punishing small health facilities and letting corporate ones go scot-free, the high court on Thursday directed the state to furnish within two weeks action it took against Yashoda Hospitals (Somajiguda & Secunderabad; 33 complaints), Kims Hospital (13) Sunshine Hospitals and Care Hospitals (10 each). A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy gave this direction while hearing a batch of PILs that sought better management of Covid-19 pandemic in the state. The bench went through the affidavit filed by state public health and family welfare director Dr G Srinivas Rao and said the contents were grossly inadequate and were giving an incomplete picture of the state effort. It removed Covid treatment permission for two hospitals, which had less number of complaints against them. “We do not know whether the state is doing this shoddy job purposefully,” the bench said. Dr Srinivas Rao, who was present before the court, said they received 276 complaints against private hospitals and, of this, they had resolved 154 complaints and 122 were still pending. His affidavit was silent on the kind of resolution made and was clueless on how and when they would resolve the remaining 122 complaints. Pointing out a fleecing method mentioned in the state’s affidavit itself, Pujitha Gorantla, counsel for one of the petitioners, told the court how one private hospital had demanded Rs 12 lakh from a patient and took Rs 5 lakh as advance. The bench said these were exorbitant rates and the state was not doing its job properly though it was authorised by the Centre to act against the errant hospitals, the bench said and asked the counsel to file an affidavit signed by the aggrieved patient or his kin. “That will be useful for us to set the process in motion,” the bench said, expressing disapproval over the replies of the health director. “We heard of instances where the hospitals were insisting on payment of huge charges even after failing to save the lives of the patients,” the bench warned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-not-using-guillotine-power-against-errant-hosps-hc/articleshow/79436040.cms||---
November 27, 2020||India||Haryana sets up panel to frame law on love jihad||Ambala: Haryana home minister Anil Vij on Thursday tweeted that a three-member drafting committee has been set up to frame a law on "love jihad" in Haryana. “A three member Drafting Committee formed to frame law on Love Jihad in Haryana comprising TL Satyaprakash IAS secretary home, Navdeep Sing Virk IPS ADGP and Deepak Manchanda additional advocate general Haryana. The committee will study the love jihad legislations formed in other states also,” Vij tweeted.Later, the Haryana minister also released a video, in which he said the committee would come up with a foolproof law on love jihad, so that nobody traps anyone else in Haryana in the name of love for religious conversion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/haryana-sets-up-panel-to-frame-law-on-love-jihad/articleshow/79437554.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Rajkot||Head constable hacked to death on row over spitting||Rajkot: A head constable with Bhuj police (Kutch west) was hacked to death over a trivial issue of spitting in Anjar of Kutch district on Wednesday. Police detained the accused on Thursday.The police said the accused, Sunil Maheshweri, allegedly hacked head constable Vijay Chauhan (47) with an axe on Wednesday evening. “Maheshweri had been nursing a grudge against Vijay ever since the latter had objected to him spitting on him, four days ago. When Maheshweri spat, his spit fell on Vijay, triggering an altercation between the two,” said M A Jadeja, inspector with Anjar police station. Maheshweri was rounded up on the complaint of Vijay’s younger brother Ashok Kumar, also a head constable with Bhachau police station. In his complaint, Kumar alleged that Maheshweri had picked up a fight with Vijay four months ago, about which Chauhan had told Kumar. “After Maheshweri allegedly spat on my brother and had a fight with him four days ago, my brother had told me that Maheshweri had allegedly threatened him with dire consequences,” said Kumar in his FIR. “On the fateful day, I was told that my brother (Vijay) was lying in an injured condition near his residence in Vijaynagar locality of Anjar. When I went to the spot, I saw Vijay lying in a pool of blood. There were deep cuts inflicted on the back of his head and thighs. Vijay’s daughter Nirali told me that she had seen Maheshweri with an axe and that Maheshweri’s mother was dragging him to his home,” narrated Kumar in his FIR. Vijay was taken to Anjar Civil Hospital where he was declared dead on arrival. “At present, we have detained Maheshweri. He will be formally arrested once he undergoes the mandatory Covid-19 test,” said Jadeja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/head-constable-hacked-to-death-on-row-over-spitting/articleshow/79433710.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Lucknow||Now, UP traders don’t need to renew licences annually||LUCKNOW: In a fresh traction to ease of doing business in UP, the urban development department has decided to raise the time limit of trade licences from 12 months to 3-5 years. Principal secretary (urban development), Deepak Kumar, in a directive to heads of municipal bodies, said, municipal bodies may issue licences for a period of three to five years on condition traders deposit fee annually throughout the period. In case the trader fails to deposit the fee, the licence would be cancelled. The department has also developed an e-nagar sewa portal for issuing trade licences. Now, municipal bodies would be using the portal for online issuance of licences to traders. The department said, the portal also has the auto-renewal module which would help in re-issuance of licences on expiry. The department stated local bodies should issue licenses for various trade activities and fee would be determined by the municipal commissioner or executive officer of local bodies. The clause for issuing or suspending licenses are mentioned in Section 451 of UP Municipal Corporation Act, 1950. And the fee would be decided as per Section 452. Currently, licences are renewed annually, which causes hassles for traders, who are required to submit applications personally. The Business Reforms Action Plan-2020 mooted under Centre’s ease of doing business, however, lays thrust on issuing long-term trade licences with an easy renewal process so that the applicant does not need to apply repeatedly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/now-traders-dont-need-to-renew-licences-annually/articleshow/79436867.cms||Pankaj Shah
November 27, 2020||Delhi||High ammonia to impact water supply in Delhi||NEW DELHI: After a respite of four weeks, the ammonia levels in the Yamuna have once again started rising, prompting Delhi Jal Board (DJB) to issue an advisory that the supply may be affected in large parts of the city from Friday. The levels of the pollutant in the Wazirabad pond are high and on an increasing trend, DJB said on Thursday. “The production at Wazirabad, Chandrawal and Okhla water treatment plants is likely to be affected and water may be available at low pressure in the morning and evening of Friday and so on, till the ammonia level in the Yamuna reduces to the treatable limit,” it added. The areas likely to be affected include Civil Lines, Hindu Rao Hospital and adjoining areas, Kamla Nagar, Shakti Nagar and adjoining areas, Karol Bagh, Paharganj and NDMC areas, Rajendra Nagar, Patel Nagar, Baljeet Nagar, Prem Nagar, and Inderpuri and adjoining areas. A senior DJB official said various parts of south Delhi like Kalkaji, Govindpuri, Tuglaqabad, Sangam Vihar, Ambedkar Nagar, Prahladpur and adjoining areas could also be impacted. The list of vulnerable areas includes areas near Ramlila Maidan, Delhi Gate and Subhash Park, Model Town, Gulabi Bagh, Punjabi Bagh, Jahangirpuri, Moolchand, South Extension, Greater Kailash, Burari and adjoining areas, and parts of Cantonment. “Adequate number of water tankers are being deployed. We are working relentlessly, in collaboration with Haryana, to restore normal water supply,” DJB vice-chairman Raghav Chadha. Water tankers will be available through DJB’s helplines. The city had faced a similar problem on October 30-31. DJB has the capacity to treat ammonia levels up to 0.9ppm, beyond which toxic byproducts make the treated water unfit for human consumption. Some parts of the city will also witness a low-pressure supply on Saturday evening and Sunday morning due to a scheduled interconnection work for the Pragati Maidan integrated transit corridor development project. These areas include Daryaganj, places around Pragati Maidan, Kaka Nagar, CGO Complex, Lodhi Road, Nizamuddin, NDSE and GK-South. To facilitate the construction of a tunnel, the work is on to shift 900mm main supply line from T-junction of Bhairon Marg to the abandoned railway line near Indian Oil Petrol Pump on Ring Road opposite Pragati Power Station, said an official. DJB has advised residents in all affected areas to store water in advance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/high-ammonia-to-impact-water-supply/articleshow/79436866.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan local bodies' elections: Fate of 3,472 candidates to be decided in second phase||JAIPUR: The fate of 3,472 candidates will be decided on Friday as the second phase of elections to posts of panchayat samiti and zila parishad members will be held in 21 districts. In all, elections will be held to the posts of 1,137 members in 59 panchayat samitis as 59.86 lakh voters will exercise their franchise at 8,403 polling stations. State election commissioner P S Mehra said in the second phase, elections will be held from 7.30 am to 5 pm. He informed that 21,000 EVMs will be used and more than 42,000 officials will be deployed. Of the total voters (59.86 lakh), 30.89 lakh are male, 28.96 lakh female and 17 belong to the third gender. Polls will be held in Ajmer, Banswara, Barmer, Bhilwara, Bikaner, Bundi, Chittorgarh, Churu, Dungarpur, Hanumangarh, Jaisalmer, Jalore, Jhalawar, Jhunjhunu, Nagaur, Pali, Pratapgarh, Rajsamand, Sikar, Tonk, and Udaipur. Meanwhile, on the complaint of Congress party, Todaraisingh police in Tonk seized a Bolero car in which 5 cartons (240 bottles) of liquor was found. However, nobody was arrested as the driver escaped, said SHO of the police station Amar Singh. It is believed the liquor was meant for distribution ahead of the polls. Mehra directed that Covid guidelines issued by the Centre, state, medical, local administration and state election commission should be strictly followed. He said the district collectors and police officers should keep a constant watch on law and order situation on polling day. Civic polls: 3,054 candidates file nominations on Day 4: On the fourth day of filing nominations for elections to 50 urban local bodies in 12 districts, 3054 candidates filed 3973 nominations for the posts of ward members. In all, 5000 candidates have filed 6476 nomination papers so far. The elections will be held on December 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fate-of-3472-candidates-to-be-decided-in-2nd-phase/articleshow/79436095.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Hyderabad||IRDAI notifies rules for records to be maintained by insurers||HYDERABAD: The Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India notified ‘Minimum Information Required for Investigation and Inspection Regulations, 2020’ specifying the minimum information that an insurer and intermediary must maintain so as to enable investigating officers to discharge their functions satisfactorily. These regulations will come into force after six months from date of its publication in the official gazette of the government. All insurers have been directed to maintain records such as proposals for insurance received stating the proposal number, date when proposal was signed by proposer, date of receipt of proposal, name and code of insurance agent or insurance intermediary or staff of insurer, date and amount of receipt of proposal deposit and mode of payment of proposal deposit, among others. Every insurer has been directed to retain documents relating to claims settled, including copies of any survey, investigation or loss assessment reports in respect of every loss or damage on which a claim of less than Rs 1 lakh has been made for a period of three years. Similarly, these records have to be maintained for a period of five years in respect of loss or damage on which a claim of Rs 1 lakh or more but less than Rs 10 lakh has been made. Insurers and intermediaries have been told to put in place an appropriate policy on maintenance of records and destruction of old records, both in physical and electronic form, considering nature, importance, business needs and other applicable legal requirements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/irdai-notifies-rules-for-records-to-be-maintained-by-insurers/articleshow/79436079.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Blast victims likely to get compensation||Ahmedabad: The six-member justice BC Patel committee constituted by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) to enquire into the blast at a godown, Sahil Enterprises, on Piplaj-Pirana Road, said in a press release on Thursday that a public hearing would be held at the circuit house in Shahibaugh on December 7 for paying compensation to the affected victims. The committee in a press release stated that the NGT had earlier ordered a total compensation of Rs 5 crore to the kin of the 13 people who had died in the incident. The committee also visited the site along with area police and district officials including the collector. Justice Patel heard residents from nearby areas who were affected by the incident. They also inspected follow up action taken by the administration after the blast. A high-level committee constituted at the state level in the matter has recommended that factory units that store or manufacture hazardous and inflammable substances should make them public, especially to citizens staying near such factories. This was reiterated by the justice Patel committee. The factories will now be required to take NOCs from the respective fire department, district level nodal bodies and only then can electricity connections be provided to them. The committee has also recommended to urban local bodies to not allow any such units to come up in the periphery of residential areas. All production processes related to chemicals are now recommended to be banned in godowns. The committee realized that none of the state agencies including the department of labour, pollution control board nor the district collectorate had an inventory of chemicals which were being either stored or manufactured in these units. “Some companies had even changed the chemical processes without informing the state agencies,” admitted a senior labour department official. Some 266 units were sealed by the Ahmedabad municipal corporation (AMC) alone. The state level committee was headed by additional chief secretary (Labour and Employment) Vipul Mittra and Sanjiv Kumar (IAS), chairman of the Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/blast-victims-likely-to-get-compensation/articleshow/79436136.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Lucknow||UP govt fast tracks Rs 36,000 crore Ganga expressway project||LUCKNOW: With UP cabinet giving nod to the launch of the Ganga expressway, the project is set to be put on the fast track mode by the Uttar Pradesh Expressway and Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA). Chief minister Yogi Adityanath will lay the foundation stone for the Rs 36,400 crore Ganga expressway in June next year. According to a government order issued by the industry department on Thursday evening, of the total 36,400 crores, an estimated Rs 9255 crores would be spent on land acquisition, while the construction would be carried out at an estimated cost of over Rs 22100 crore.. Likewise, over Rs 5000 crore would be spent on shifting of utilities, emergency spending, labour cess and maintenance for a period of five years. UPEIDA chief executive officer Awanish Awasthi told TOI that the clearance given by the state cabinet on Wednesday has paved the way for execution of the project at the ground level. This would include land acquisition and arranging funds for it. He said land acquisition is proposed to be completed in the next six months. Fixing the annual budget for it and procurement of loan from the Housing and Urban Development Corporation (HUDCO) will also be initiated. The 594-km long expressway, proposed to be the longest in the country, will start from Meerut and end in Prayagraj. As per the final alignment of the expressway, which was also cleared by the cabinet, it would pass through Hapur, Bulandshahr, Amroha, Sambhal, Shahjahanpur, Hardoi, Unnao and Rae Bareli. A total of 529 villages are expected to come in the ambit of expressway. The cabinet also green flagged the proposal to monetise the Agra-Lucknow expressway for funding the Ganga expressway project. Accordingly, a high-power committee is proposed to be set up to take procedural and operational decisions to monetise — process of earning revenue from an asset — the Lucknow-Agra expressway. Under this, the authority would be following the toll, operate and transfer (TOT) mechanism. The authority would also be appointing a technical consultant and accordingly float a request for proposal (RFP). It has been decided that funds from the state treasury would be withdrawn after the money raised from monetisation of Lucknow-Agra expressway is deposited. UPEIDA, too, has been asked to complete the preparatory operations for the project on time and approval was given to it by the cabinet. The SBI Capital Market Limited has been nominated as the financial advisor for the Ganga expressway.. The draft proposal for inviting investors on public-private partnership (PPP) model will be readied, the order said. Conceptualised during the Mayawati regime in 2008, the Ganga expressway project remained a non-starter until BJP came to power in 2017. Once ready, it will give boost to state economy and better transportation services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-govt-fast-tracks-rs-36000cr-ganga-expressway-project/articleshow/79436869.cms||Pankaj Shah
November 27, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Ahmed Patel’s passing may delay Ashok Gehlot-Sachin Pilot ‘power sharing’||JAIPUR: The passing away of senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel may delay the power sharing between Ashok Gehlot and Sachin Pilot camps in the state party organization and the government. Patel was part of the three-member AICC committee constituted by the Congress high command to consider the grievances of former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot after he raised a banner of revolt in July-August bringing the Congress government in the state on the verge of collapse. The other committee members are AICC general secretaries K C Venugopal and Ajay Maken. Though the committee had held a few meetings, no decisions could be arrived at as initially the general secretary in-charge Ajay Maken fell sick followed by Ahmed Patel. Now, the party had to find a replacement for Patel. In the absence of a decision by the committee, the reorganization of the state party and government is pending. Pilot who was holding the post of state party president and deputy chief minister was removed from the posts along with two ministers of his camp, Vishvendra Singh and Ramesh Meena after the revolt. Pilot was also replaced by Govind Singh Dotasra to the post of party state president and the state and district Congress committees were dissolved. The state council of ministers which could have a strength of 30 now left with only 21, including chief minister Gehlot. A Congress leader on condition of anonymity said, “The reorganization of the party and government would happen simultaneously as part of a composite package to accommodate the competing aspirations of two factions and the committee had to suggest a power sharing formula.” But with the committee decisions likely to further delay, the wait of the Congress MLAs and leaders aspiring for positions in government and party in the state are unending.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/patels-passing-may-delay-cm-pilot-power-sharing/articleshow/79436154.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Jaipur||Alwar: Two of three accused held in gangrape case||ALWAR: Cops have arrested two persons in the gangrape of a 17-year-old girl in Alwar’s Tijara while one person is still on the run. The girl was allegedly gang-raped in Alwar’s Tijara over ten days back and her family lodged a case on Sunday at the local police station claiming that three persons of the village had sexually assaulted the girl. The girl family claimed that on November 11, the girl had gone to her school and one of the accused reached the institute where she studied and said that her father was calling her due to some emergency. The girl came out of the school and the accused along with his two accomplices abducted her and took her on a bike to an isolated location where they took turns to rape her. After the assault, the girl was dropped back home near a petrol pump in the village and started to keep unwell. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-of-3-accused-held-in-gangrape-case/articleshow/79436126.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Hyderabad||35-year-old rapes minor niece, arrested||HYDERABAD: A 35-year-old man has been taken into custody for raping his 13-year-old niece in Mahbubabad. The victim is from a hamlet in Kurivi mandal. She is a class 7 student. Since the lockdown, she has been staying at home. The accused lives in the same hamlet. “He was sexually exploiting the victim for the past five to six months,” Mahbubabad rural police said. “Family members took the girl to a closeby local government hospital a few days ago and it was confirmed there that she was five months pregnant,” said SI J Shankar. The accused has been booked under section 376 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/35-year-old-rapes-minor-niece-arrested/articleshow/79436148.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||57 secure admission in colleges outside Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: Dhyani Patel did not participate in the choice filling round carried out by the Admission Committee for Professional Undergraduate & Postgraduate Medical Educational Courses (ACPUGMEC) for securing admission in medical colleges of Gujarat. For Patel, who scored 685 marks out of 720 in the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) – 2020, has an All India Ranking (AIR) of 479. Instead of any college in Gujarat, he has chosen to take admission at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Jodhpur, one of the most premier medical colleges in the country. “I was getting admission at B J Medical College in Ahmedabad but then I decided to visit the AIIMS Jodhpur campus. I liked the campus and infrastructure facilities there and after speaking to some of the professors there, I made up my mind to study there,” said Patel. There are about 56 other candidates like Patel, who have sought admission in some of the premier medical colleges outside Gujarat due to their solid performance in the NEET exams. “There are 57 candidates from Gujarat who made it to the top 500 AIRs in NEET and have not participated in the choice filling exercise for the colleges in Gujarat. This is much higher than last year when 35 candidates did not participate in the admission process,” said an official of the ACPUGMEC. These 57 candidates have sought admission in some of the top colleges of the country including AIIMS Delhi, AIIMS Bhopal, AIIMS Patna, Maulana Azad Medical College (MAMC), Delhi and King Edward Memorial (KME) College, Mumbai, among others. Karma Patel, who scored 700 marks with an AIR of 83, said he was in a position to secure admission in any medical college of the country except AIIMS Delhi considered as the number one medical college of the country. Patel has opted for MAMC, Delhi. “I selected the college keeping in mind my post graduate studies. I will be the first in my family to become a doctor,” said Patel. Prince Prajapati, who scored 691 marks with AIR of 218, saw his dream of securing admission in the country’s top college of AIIMS Delhi being fulfilled. He said the facilities and the academic exposure at this college is believed to be much higher and wider than other medical colleges in the country. Maurya Patel could not get admission in Delhi so he opted for KME, Mumbai in the second round of admission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/57-secure-admission-in-colleges-outside-gujarat/articleshow/79436192.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Hyderabad||TSCHE organises special drive to fill up vacant degree seats||HYDERABAD: The Telangana State Council of Higher Education (TSCHE) will be organising a special drive from November 27 to December 2 to fill vacant seats in degree colleges across the state. While there are over 4 lakh degree seats in the state, only 1.87 lakh students self-reported to the colleges after the third phase of Degree Online Services, Telangana (DOST 2020) counselling. As per the notification issued by the TSCHE, fresh registrations for DOST 2020 will be accepted from Friday. Verification of Special Category Certificates will be done at the respective university helpline centres on December 2, 2020. Seat allotment of those students who registered for the special drive will be carried out on December 4. The candidates, who are allotted a seat in the special drive will have to report online first, and later to the respective colleges between December 4 and December 7 by submitting Confirmation OTP (CCOTP), provisional allotment letter, and other necessary documents. The officials said that candidates who have already confirmed their seats in the colleges are not eligible to participate in the special drive. The candidates who have not yet registered on DOST website can register and exercise web-options. Likewise, the candidates who have already registered and could not secure a seat, candidates who have registered but did not exercise web-options, candidates who were allotted seats but did not confirm with college, are eligible to take part in the special drive. Fresh registrations for DOST 2020 will be accepted from Friday. Verification of special category certificates will be done at respective university’s helpline centres on December 2||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tsche-organises-special-drive-to-fill-up-vacant-degree-seats/articleshow/79436182.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana reports 860 new Covid-19 cases, three deaths||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Thursday recorded 862 new cases of Covid-19 and three deaths as active cases continued to decline.  The total number of cases have now crossed 2,66,904, while the toll rose to 1,444.  So far, 2,54,676 patients have recovered from the virus infection and the number of active cases in the state is currently 10,784. With 41,101 samples tested on Thursday, the state has crossed 52.9 lakh samples testing now.  According to the state health department, out of the 2.66 lakh patients who have tested positive so far in the state, 1.86 lakh are asymptomatic patients, being mildly affected by the virus, while the remaining are moderate to severely-affected patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-reports-860-new-cases-three-deaths/articleshow/79436114.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Rajkot||Parents of 21-yr-old suicide victim donate his eyes||Rajkot: It was the worst decision that as parents Girish Bhatelia and his wife Poonam had to take for their son, 21-year-old Bhavik — and they didn’t have time to waste. Every second mattered and amid their grief, the duo let life win over their son’s pyre. As soon as they said yes, doctors harvested his eyes in the crematorium.But darkness descended on the shell-shocked Bhatelia family soon after their son took away his life in a drastic move on Wednesday evening by jumping off 12 floors in Rajkot after he had gone to see a doctor. The father of the deceased said that his son was under psychiatric treatment and his depression worsened during the lockdown period because of continued engagement in mobile.An inconsolable father, Girishbhai told TOI, “We got the body late in the evening after completion of post mortem and decided to complete the final rites the same evening. During some ritual we noticed his eyes open and as if he was looking at us to say something. We then decided to to keep his eyes alive. But it had to be done soon before curfew hours set in and also had to be done with the cremation.” The relatives contacted an organ donation foundation and a team of doctors reached Mota Mauva crematorium.Eye surgeon Dr Hemal Kansagara told TOI, “We have pre-steriled instruments and we are therefore ready on the go. We take about 20 minutes to reach a call for eye donation and have trained technicians and medical officers who can harvest eyes within 15-odd minutes. We also go to crematorium for harvesting eyes and this is the third eye in recent time we have acquired in crematorium.”Rajkot generally gets 150 to 200 eye donations in a year. Bhavna Mandli engaged with organ donation foundation said, “We got a call at 5:30pm and did not waste a single minute and prepared ourselves to harvest the eyes. They had started for crematorium and we sent a team there as it is crucial to harvest eyes within seven-eight hours of death.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/parents-of-21-yr-old-suicide-victim-donate-his-eyes/articleshow/79433739.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
November 27, 2020||Jaipur||Guv Mishra lays foundation stone of Constitution Park in Udaipur||Udaipur: Governor Kalraj Mishra laid the foundation stone of a Constitution Park at Mohanlal Sukhadia University here on Thursday. The park to be built at a cost of Rs 90 lakh will have the Preamble of the Constitution, Fundamental Rights and Duties, Directive Principles of State policy on display. “The park will help create awareness among students as well as the common man of their rights and duties towards society and country,” Mishra said while inuagurating it online. He said an equilibrium should be maintained between rights and duties, if rights are exercised beyond control, anarchy will prevail in society. He said the Constitution has a unique identity in the entire world and it is an universal document on human rights. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/guv-mishra-lays-foundation-stone-of-constitution-park-in-udaipur/articleshow/79436206.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Jaipur||Cyclone Nivar brings rain in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Mild to moderate showers continued for the second consecutive day at several parts in the state due to the effect of cyclone Nivar. Bundi received 17mm rain, the highest in the state on Thursday. Early morning rain guided the mercury to take a dip at some places in the state. Mount Abu in the hills and Vanasthali (Tonk) in the plains remained coldest with 5°C and 8°C, respectively. Jaipur Met office said similar conditions will prevail in the state for the next couple of days. People in Jaipur woke up to overnight rainfall. Light thunderstorms were witnessed in the early hours. However, due to cloudy conditions, the a minimum temperature of 15°C was recorded in the city. It was followed by a cloudy and breezy afternoon. In the evening people were confined to their homes. Mild to moderate showers were also witnessed Hanumangarh, Bikaner, Churu, Sriganganagar, Sikar, Sawai Madhopur, Bundi, Jaipur, Ajmer, Kota, Alwar, Bharatpur and Bhilwara districts. Officials said rainfall in the last week of November is quite unusual for Rajasthan. “It is mainly because of the cyclone Nivar and prevailing western disturbances. Some days ago, many places witnessed hailstorms,” said an officer with Jaipur Met office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cyclone-nivar-brings-rain/articleshow/79436239.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Jail inmates to manage cow shelters in 8 districts||LUCKNOW: Jail inmates in eight districts including Sitapur, Kheri, Shahjahanpur, Orai, Barabanki, Lalitpur, Varanasi, and Farrukhabad will now look after cow shelters in their respective districts. Director general (prisons) Anand Kumar said it is a part of a pilot project which will be replicated by inmates of prisons across the state later. “Under the scheme, jail inmates, particularly undertrials, will be engaged to look after the upkeep of ‘gaushalas’ and animal shelter homes as part of their daily routine. The plan has been formulated by UP prisons and animal husbandry departments. The prisons department will also pay the inmates for the services rendered by them,” he said. The officer also said that with such an endeavour, effort has been made to make undertrials feel self-reliant and also divert them to something useful. Explaining the operational details, the officer said that as of now, police and jail authorities will provide security for ferrying of inmates to the destination and back to the prison. “We had first asked all jail superintendents to conduct a survey in their respective districts to identify government animal shelter homes. Inmates with a clean record and not notorious ones or history-sheeters were encouraged. Those showing willingness to look after animals were also taken into account to work there,” he said. Currently, five central jails and six district jails in the state have animal shelter homes on their campuses. The inmates also manufacture various products from animal residue, while a vast quantity of milk is also produced from these prisons, said jail authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/jail-inmates-to-manage-cow-shelters-in-8-dists/articleshow/79436890.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Dasari Balaiah appointed RPO||HYDERABAD: Dasari Balaiah has been appointed as the new regional passport officer (RPO). Prior to this appointment, Balaiah was the joint commissioner in the Rourkela GST commissionerate, Bhubaneswar Zone. The ministry of external affairs has appointed him as RPO, Telangana, for a period of three years on deputation, says an official release issued on Thursday by Hyderabad deputy passport officer, Ravi Kosuri. The newly-appointed RPO is a 2008 Indian Revenue Service (IRS) officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dasari-balaiah-appointed-rpo/articleshow/79436215.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Offence lodged against man for writing mails in name of PMO||AHMEDABAD: Cybercrime cell of the city police late on Thursday registered a complaint against one Vijaykumar Parikh of Amreli for writing mails in the name of Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) to senior officials of Gujarat Government directing them to take action in a property dispute case with one doctor. The accused was found to be sending mails from forged email IDs and forged stationery of the PMO. According to a complaint lodged by police inspector R J Chaudhary of the cyber cell, the accused is allegedly having a dispute with a doctor who owns an office near Parimal Garden in the city. “The accused has shot mails in the name of PMO to senior police officials and senior officials of Government of Gujarat requesting them to take quick action against the doctor,” said a cyber cell official. Police have obtained the IP log of the device and the details of the mail ID from which the mails were shot. “We obtained the information that the mail ID from which the mails were shot was made in 2019 using a mobile number which belonged to the accused Vijaykumar Parikh,” said a cyber cell official. Police have registered an offence under sections 170, 465, 466, 471 of IPC and section 66 (c) of IT Act against the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/offence-lodged-against-man-for-writing-mails-in-name-of-pmo/articleshow/79436233.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Pune||Kapur talks about filmmaking in first lecture as FTII chairman||Pune: Filmmaker Shekhar Kapur, the new chairman of the Film and Television Institute of India (FTII), addressed his first lecture over the weekend, officials said. He has not been able to visit the campus after his appointment due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The session was attended by students across batches, with some staff and faculty joining in as well. According to a press release from the FTII, Kapur’s lecture was about filmmaking as an art, and he drew often on his own experiences in making films, including Masoom and Bandit Queen.A part of his lecture was also about the dilemmas of an actor in films, the concepts of form versus the use of technology, and how the editor interprets the vision of the film’s director, something that often makes or breaks a film.“It was Kapur’s first lecture since his appointment as the chairman of FTII. He spoke about filmmaking. Students and faculty of the institute were part of this online lecture,” FTII director Bhupendra Kainthola said.The filmmaker was appointed the chairman of the governing council and president of the FTII Society in September by the Union ministry of information and broadcasting. He regularly posts about the institute on his social media channels, including his plans to start a producing and film appreciation course for executives at film studios and various OTT platforms.Some officials had already met the filmmaker at his Mumbai residence in October, with sources at the institute adding that he is expected to visit the campus and take charge in late December.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/kapur-talks-about-filmmaking-in-first-lecture-as-ftii-chairman/articleshow/79436251.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Pune||Baby girl found dead in water tank in Maharashtra||PUNE: A one-and-a-half-month old girl was found dead on Wednesday evening in a water tank at Malegaon village near Baramati, about 100km from the city. “We have registered a case of murder under Section 302 (murder) against an unknown person. The infant’s mother is our prime suspect, though,” inspector Mahesh Dhawan of the Baramati Taluka police said. The infant’s grandmother lodged an FIR with the police, stating that her daughter delivered the baby girl about one-and-a-half-month ago. He said, “The baby was sleeping in a cradle when the complainant went to a neighbour’s house around 1pm on Wednesday. Around 4pm, the complainant’s daughter came to the neighbour’s house and asked her if the baby was with her.” Around 6pm, someone found the baby in a water tank near the complainant’s house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/baby-girl-found-dead-in-water-tank/articleshow/79436323.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Custody battle for stepdaughter lands Pakistani woman in jail||AHMEDABAD: It was a brief custody battle for her stepdaughter that has now landed a 38-year-old woman behind bars with charges of forging her Indian identity and for unauthorized living in India while she is allegedly a Pakistani national. The woman’s insistence to keep her 13-year-old stepdaughter’s custody and the latter’s consent sent the relatives of the child in a tizzy and they reported to the authorities that the woman does not hold a valid Indian citizenship. Last week, the anti-terrorist squad (ATS) lodged an FIR against the woman for violation of the Foreigners Act and the Passport Act by forging documents to establish Indian citizenship. She was arrested on Tuesday leaving behind her stepdaughter as well as two more children from her first marriage fending for themselves. The trouble began after her husband passed away on September 21 due to Covid-19. While the woman was living with her two kids from her first marriage, her husband’s daughter from his earlier marriage too joined her. The child’s maternal uncle insisted that the woman should hand over the child’s custody to the family, but she resisted. This resulted in a litigation in the high court. The family apprehended that her sway over the child was actually aimed at grabbing the properties that her father and bureaucrat mother had left behind. They expressed apprehension before the high court that the woman would flee India for Dubai after disposing of the properties. Last month, she gave an undertaking in the high court that she did not intend to leave India without her stepdaughter and she would look after her well being like her two kids from her first marriage. Before the high court, the child too refused to join her maternal uncle and preferred her stepmother; he approached the police alleging the woman’s citizenship credentials were fake. The police delayed registering an FIR and another petition was filed in the HC.  On November 20, ATS inspector M C Nayak filed an FIR against the woman for forging documents like birth certificate, election card etc. to show she is an Indian citizen. The FIR claims that police recovered all documents and seized records that prove that she was born in Pakistan and is a Pakistani citizen. She was married and her two children were born in Pakistan. She fraudulently entered India through Nepal border. While she was born in Pakistan, she mentioned Kutch as her birthplace while registering her marriage with the Indian citizen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/custody-battle-for-stepdaughter-lands-pakistani-woman-in-jail/articleshow/79436313.cms||Saeed Khan
November 27, 2020||Delhi||North Delhi civic body cracks down on stray cattle||NEW DELHI: North Delhi Municipal Corporation will introduce a new regime of hefty fines on illegal dairy owners in order to tackle the menace of stray cattle. Yogesh Verma, leader of the House in civic body, said that releasing the cattle to graze is leading to several accidents of motorists and cows are also suffering by consuming plastic bags. Fines ranging in lakhs will be issued to create deterrent by considering it as a polluting activity, he said. Verma said that the civic body suffers from shortage of resources but will use other means to solve the problem. The functionary said that the veterinary department has been directed to cite the judgment of National Green Tribunal on cattle dung being released in sewers, leading to pollution in Yamuna. “Cattle dung from these units are being flushed into the sewer lines. A fine of Rs 5,000 for each day of operation of illegal dairies and the DPCC Act should be imposed,” Verma said. “When fines worth several lakh rupees are imposed, the financial incentive to continue to illegal dairies will be over and violators will have to shift to the assigned colonies.” He added that an update on action taken on such violators will now be taken in every standing committee meeting. The leader of the House said that veterinary department officials will also be reshuffled in zones to break the nexus. North corporation claims to have captured 2,344 stray cattle this year, compared with 4,266 last year. The civic body had lifted 1,074 cattle in 2018 and 2,457 in 2017. The issue was also raised by the members of the standing committee of South Delhi Municipal Corporation. SDMC has captured 2,073 cattle in 2020-21 while 5,796 were impounded in 2019-20, 4,403 were captured in 2018-19 and 3,655 in 2017-18. A senior SDMC veterinary department official said that this year, 11 illegal dairy premises have been sealed, 7 illegal dairies were removed and 133 illegal dairy owners have been challaned. Watch North DMC plans hefty fines for owners allowing cattle on road||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/corpn-cracks-down-on-stray-cattle/articleshow/79436921.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Goa||Centre gives Goa Rs 244 crore to meet GST shortfall||PANAJI: The Centre has disbursed Rs 244.4 crore to Goa in four instalments since October 23 to meet the state’s revenue shortfall due to the drop in Goods and Services Tax (GST) collection. The funds, borrowed by the Centre through a special window for states, are being disbursed to states that opted for the first option offered by the Union finance ministry to meet the shortfall due to GST implementation. The funds — the latest tranche of which was deposited in the state government’s account on November 23 — have provided the Pramod Sawant government a cushion and prompted the state administration to ease up on the expenditure curbs imposed on June 10 this year, said officials. Sawant, while speaking to reporters after Wednesday’s cabinet meeting, said that the state’s financial situation has improved by 60% to 70%. With the state’s economy picking up, GST collections have also improved. The improvement, aided by the department of expenditure’s decision to grant states with additional borrowing limit of up to 2% of gross state domestic product has given the state additional relief. “The final instalment of 0.5% out of this 2% limit was linked to carrying out at least three out of four reforms, but for states like Goa who exercised option-1, the condition of carrying out reforms has been waived. Thus, Goa, which has exercised option-1, is eligible to raise an additional amount of Rs 446 crore through open market borrowings,” said a finance department official. A total of 25 states, including states governed by non-BJP parties, have opted for option 1. The government of India has borrowed an amount of Rs 24,000 crore on behalf of the states and disbursed the monies on October 23, November 2, November 9, and November 23 to the different states. Since the Union government is borrowing the funds, the interest rate is much lower at 5.19% than what states would have had to pay. While the loan term is in the range of three to five years, repayment will be done from the compensation cess collected by the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/centre-gives-goa-rs-244cr-to-meet-gst-shortfall/articleshow/79436295.cms||Newton Sequeira
November 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Bank staff strike in Gujarat: Transactions of Rs 10,000 crore hampered||AHMEDABAD: Cheque clearances, deposits and withdrawals are among the various bank transactions at public sector banks that came to a grinding halt across Gujarat on Thursday as some 25,000 bank employees from across public sector bank branches of Gujarat, except State Bank of India, remained on a day’s strike. Estimates by Maha Gujarat Bank Employees’ Association (MGBEA) suggest that transactions to the tune of Rs 10,000 crore were hampered amidst employees going on strike for a day. Bank employees were protesting the privatisation of banks and the shrinking recruitment and employment opportunities in the sector. “With increased privatisation and merger of public sector banks, a number of branches are being rationalised as a consequence of which, many employees are either transferred or they lose their jobs. Moreover, fresh recruitments across these banks have also been halted thus shrinking the employment opportunities in the banking sector,” said Janak Rawal, general secretary, MGBEA. Most clerical staffers in addition to class-IV staff members across the public sector banks except SBI and a few small private banks were part of the nationwide strike by banks, as a result of which banking operations were hampered. Most banks had only bank managers present. While online transactions were not impacted, several physical transactions such as issuance of letters of credit, demand drafts, etc was impacted due to the closure of banks. Bankers have demanded that pension be provided to all by restoring the earlier pension scheme while scrapping the National Pension Scheme. That apart, MGBEA members have also sought to withdraw the circular on forced premature retirement of Government & PSU Employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/transactions-of-rs-10k-cr-hampered/articleshow/79436270.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Rajkot||Relaxation for day marriages in Rajkot||Rajkot: Rajkot police gave relaxation from seeking permission for marriage functions to be held during the day time. The decision was taken after scores of people thronged various police stations in Rajkot leading to complete chaos. The city police in a statement issued said that from Thursday evening now onwards no permission will be needed marriages conducted during the day time. There was no need to inform the local police station, it added. However, the police stated that there should not be more than 100 attending the marriage including guests, and hosts. The police also advised people attending marriages to reach home before 9pm to avoid police action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/relaxation-for-day-marriages-in-rajkot/articleshow/79433766.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Goa||Calangute panchayat aims to sterilise all stray dogs in tourist belt||CALANGUTE: Around 500 stray dogs have been sterilised in Calangute over the last two months following a drive by the Calangute panchayat since October 5. The government, through the animal husbandry department, sanctioned Rs28lakh to the panchayat and the sterilisation was being implemented by Calangute-based NGO, Noah’s Ark. Agostinho Proenca, head of the NGO told TOI that the sterilisation will go for five months targeting 250 dogs every month. The drive aims to sterilise all dogs in the tourist belt so that their numbers reduce over the next few years, a panchayat member said. The strays are considered a problem as they can turn aggressive and attack people at times. The problem became acute during the recent lockdown when the strays, who survive on food provided by beach shacks, restaurants and the likes, were left with no food. Many cases of dog bites were reported during that period. Minister for ports and Calangute MLA Michael Lobo said similar drives will also be held in Candolim and Arpora-Nagoa which are part of the Calangute constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/calangute-panchayat-aims-to-sterilise-all-stray-dogs-in-tourist-belt/articleshow/79436340.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Goa||Iron ore exported from Mormugao Port Trust was e-auctioned: Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday refuted allegations by Congress that iron ore was fraudulently sold to a private party, and clarified that the ore which was exported from Mormugao Port Trust (MPT) was infact e-auctioned ore. Speaking to mediapersons, Sawant said he has verified from the directorate of mines and geology (DMG) that iron ore was auctioned. Hitting out at Congress, he said that people have a tendency to stop every activity. “As they themselves indulge in corruption activities, they see corruption everywhere,” he said. Congress vice-president Sankalp Amonkar had said that a company, which had permission to export 1,965 metric tonnes of iron ore of below 55% grade, collected 58% grade iron ore lying at MPT’s plot and loaded it onto the vessel M V Aviona. “Even if the ore has been lying on the plot and it has been identified now, MPT has to bring it to the notice of DMG first, who will then e-auction the cargo and sell it to the highest bidder,” Amonkar had said. Amonkar said that the ore was loaded onto the vessel without being weighed, which according to him is evidence of misappropriation. Regarding the Nu Shi Nalini naphtha vessel issue, the chief minister said that he has written to the Centre seeking action against the MPT chairman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-iron-ore-exported-from-mpt-was-e-auctioned/articleshow/79436330.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Lucknow||Constitution inspires us to overcome any situation: UP CM||LUCKNOW: During his address on the occasion of Constitution Day, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Thursday that the service to country should be our biggest priority. He said that people often talk of rights but run away from their duties. The Constitution of the world’s biggest democracy has shown how, even in the most adverse circumstances, India has been able to work as one united country, he said. The CM said that that the Constitution was such a powerful instrument that it had become the ideal for the world’s largest democracy. “It has continued to inspire us in every kind of situation. Despite multiple castes, communities, cultures and languages, it has kept the country together, fulfilling the dream of a united India,” the CM said, adding that justice, independence, balance and brotherhood are special aspects of India and keeping these in mind, the government is implementing its programmes. The CM paid his respects to those who gave their lives for the Constitution. He also thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for celebrating this day since 2015. He said that the Constitution talks about not just rights but also duties. It is important to make one aware of their basic duties towards the country, which is crucial for a sovereign state. The Constitution mentions 11 basic duties which each citizen should follow, the CM said. Deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya said that the Central and state governments are working to help everyone without any bias. Its schemes are reaching every section of society, he said. Deputy CM Dinesh Sharma added that India is the world’s largest democracy and the Constitution is rajdharma for all its citizens. The people of the country are responsible for protecting it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-constitution-inspires-us-to-overcome-any-situation/articleshow/79436912.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Rajkot||Leopard mauls 2-year-old boy to death||Rajkot: A two-year-old boy was mauled to death by a leopard on Thursday morning in Luhari Mauli village of Gir Gadhda taluka in Gir Somnath district. According to the forest department, the leopard grabbed Dhaval Joriya while he was playing nearby a farm where his parents were working. This village falls in Jasadhar range of Gir east division of forest department. When the parents started screaming, the wild cat left the child and ran away into the jungle. The boy received injuries on his shoulder and back and was taken to a hospital in Una town where he succumbed to his injuries within a couple of hours. The forest department has set up cages to capture the man-eater.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/leopard-mauls-2-year-old-boy-to-death/articleshow/79433752.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Goa||Goa seeks more time to complete coal block process||PANAJI: Goa Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC) has asked the Union coal ministry for additional time to appoint a mine developer-cum-operator and pay the performance guarantee for the Dongri Tal II coal block at Singrauli in Madhya Pradesh. GIDC has also informed the Centre that the state government has appointed Nagpur-based firm, a’XYKno Capital Services Private Limited as the consultant and work has begun on the viability report, market study and Request for Proposal (RFP). This information was also presented to GIDC’s board members on Thursday at the 370th board meeting. “The coal block RFP has to be floated now. The consultant will give us the draft RFP within a week and once approved, we will issue the RFP,” said GIDC managing director Derrick P Neto. “GIDC has asked for yet another extension and subject to the extension we can go ahead.” The Dongri Tal II coal block at Singrauli in Madhya Pradesh was allocated to Goa as part of the fifth tranche of the allotment by the coal ministry and the state was supposed to ink the agreement by October 30, 2019. However, due to paucity of funds, GIDC could not pay the instalments upfront and decided to instead select the MDO who would pay the performance and bank guarantee for the coal block on behalf of the state. Goa’s finance department refused to grant Rs 196 crore to pay the performance guarantee for a coal block in November 2019. Due to the delay in completing the formalities, the Centre has granted multiple extensions to GIDC, the latest deadline being November 27. GIDC is counting on another extension to ensure that it does not lose out on the coal block. “We have shown the progress made so the extension should come,” said Neto. The GIDC board was informed about the appointment of a’XYKno Capital Services for a consultancy fee of Rs 10 lakh. Since this is the first meeting since the GIDC board was reconstituted, members were confirmed for GIDC’s screening committee and planning and development committee, which grants approvals under Section 37B of the Goa Industrial Development Corporation Act. Meanwhile, the bids for appointment of a consultant for the SEZ land will be opened on November 30, GIDC sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-seeks-more-time-to-complete-coal-block-process/articleshow/79436374.cms||Newton Sequeira
November 27, 2020||Lucknow||Govt sanctions Rs 15 crore for Lord Ram’s grand statue in Prayagraj||LUCKNOW: Close on heels of the proposed 251m tall statue of Lord Ram in Ayodhya, the BJP government has embarked upon a plan to install another grand statue of Ram and Nishad Raj in Shringverpur area of Prayagraj. The state government has sanctioned Rs 15 crore for the mega project, which is expected to roll out soon. Principal secretary, culture, Mukesh Meshram, told TOI a bronze statue of Ram embracing Nishad Raj would be erected close to the ghat in Shringverpur area along Ganga. He said, funds would also be used for renovation of the ghat, construction of Nishad Raj park, tourist guest house and a parking lot in the area, which will also host the annual Ramayan Mela. The project was first proposed in 2018, in what was perceived as BJP’s attempt to lend a Hindutva push ahead of 2019 Lok Sabha elections amid a clamour for construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya. The proposal also came ahead of VHP dharam sabha, which was attended by scores of seers who wanted to pressurize the government to table a Bill to pave way for construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya. Meshram, however, did not reveal dimensions of the statue, saying it would be decided soon. It’s believed Lord Ram during his exile in Shringverpur met Nishad Raj (fishermen king), who offered to sail him through Ganga and the area became associated with social harmony. The move is also seen as BJP’s attempt to woo Nishads, who belong to the most backward caste (MBC) in run-up to assembly elections in 2022. During 2018 by-elections in Gorakhpur, home turf of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, BJP faced defeat after SP and BSP joined hands to field Pravin Nishad, who later switched over to BJP and contested 2019 Lok Sabha elections on a BJP ticket from Sant Kabir Nagar and won.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-sanctions-rs-15cr-for-lord-rams-grand-statue-in-prayagraj/articleshow/79436936.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Rajkot||App helps Rajkot police ‘pocket’ two vehicle thieves||Rajkot: Mobile applications have been working wonders for Gujarat police in tracking criminals or curbing crime within the state. In a recent case, Rajkot cops utilized the services of Pocket Cop which helped them nab two vehicle thieves on Thursday having a criminal past. The police arrested Vipul Mer (24) and Dinesh Dabhi (30) and seized as many as 13 stolen motorcycles from their possession. Pocket Cop app like the Suraksha Kavach App and the Eye Way Project, has been designed such that it maintains a complete data of history-sheeter criminals of all cities in the state with their crime records. Developed on the instructions of the state director general of police in Gandhinagar, it is meant to help cops posted across different cities of Gujarat. “The app’s search engine came up with the criminal records of both Mer and Dabhi showing that they were involved in several cases of vehicle thefts even earlier. The app also helped us trace the original owners of the stolen two-wheelers,” said V K Gadhvi, inspector with Rajkot detection of crime branch. Gadhvi said that Rajkot police have utilized these police-friendly apps to the maximum in detecting major crimes in the past. “Rajkot Suraksha Kavach App records and maintains the data of history sheeters while the Eye Way Project installed CCTV cameras in different parts of the city including entry and exit points of the city which keep an eye on criminal activities,” Gadhvi added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/app-helps-rajkot-police-pocket-two-vehicle-thieves/articleshow/79433787.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Nagpur||More cases, less recoveries in Vidarbha for 9th time in last 10 days||Nagpur: For the ninth time in last 10 days, Vidarbha reported more number of new cases than recoveries on Thursday, leading to increase in the number of patients under treatment. The recovery rate is declining consistently. The region reported 1,243 new cases from 11 districts while 813 patients recovered on Thursday. The recovery rate which was above 93% on November 17 is now down to 92%. For the first time in last many days, the recovery rate is lower than average recovery rate of state which is now 92.57%. The number of patients under treatment which was under 9,000 on November 17 has reached 11,822. Gradual but consistent decrease in recovery rate and increase in number of under-treatment patients are prominent indicators of fresh spike or second wave. The only relief comes from the fact that fatalities are reducing. On Thursday, 17 deaths were reported in the region. Nagpur reported 8, followed by Wardha (4), Chandrapur (2), Washim (2), and Gondia (1), taking the toll to 5,955 while six districts reported no deaths. The case fatality rate of Vidarbha has reduced to 2.67%, which is a good sign. The highest 452 cases came from Nagpur, followed by Chandrapur (155), Bhandara (125), Gondia (107), Yavatmal (95), Wardha (80), Gadchiroli (65), Amravati (64), Buldhana (43), Akola (36), and Washim (21). Total 843 patients recovered in a day. Nagpur reported 150 recoveries, Chandrapur (252), Bhandara (110), Yavatmal (73), Amravati (66), Gadchiroli (54), Wardha (44), Gondia (26), Buldhana (18), Akola (11), Washim (9). Now, of the 2,22,650 cases, 2,04,873 have recovered. Wardha: Two men (76 and 78) from Wardha, a 44-year-old man from Deoli and a 70-year-old man from Samudrapur died on Thursday. The district also reported 80 new cases and 44 recoveries, taking the count to 7,672 and 6924, respectively. Now, 507 patients are undergoing treatment. Chandrapur: The district reported 155 new cases, taking the count to 19,358 on Thursday. Two deaths reported during the day increased the toll to 289. With discharge to 252 patients, the recoveries have now climbed to 17,373. Now, there are 1,696 patients undergoing treatment. Amravati: The recovery rate of district improved to 95.21% as 67 recoveries were reported as against 64 new cases on Thursday. No death was reported on Thursday. The caseload increased to 17,554 while total recoveries reached 16,713, leaving 467 active cases. Yavatmal: A 55-year-old man from Darwha died due to Covid-19 on Thursday. The caseload reached 11,330 after detection of 95 new patients. The day saw 73 patients getting discharge, taking the recoveries to 10,515. Now, there are 446 patients undergoing treatment in the district. Washim: Number of active cases in the district surpassed the 200-mark after more than two weeks. With 21 new patients testing positive on Thursday, and nine getting discharged, the caseload and recoveries reached 6,049 and 5,683, respectively. Two patients from Washim who died in other districts were added to the district count on Thursday, taking the toll to 148, including one suicide. Buldhana: The district reported 43 new patients, taking the caseload to 10,974. With 18 patients discharged on Thursday, recoveries reached 10,511. No death was reported and the toll remained at 134. Now, 329 patients are under treatment. Akola: Covid-19 count of Akola reached 9,244 with addition of 36 patients on Thursday. With 11 patients getting discharge, recoveries reached 8,353. No death was reported on Thursday and the toll remained at 289. Now, 602 patients are under treatment. Gadchiroli: While 65 new cases were detected in a day, 54 patients recovered on Thursday. The caseload and recoveries reached 7,745 and 6,889 respectively. Recovery rate is 89%. No death was reported on Thursday and the toll is 78. Now, 778 patients are under treatment. Bhandara: A spike of 125 new cases took the caseload to 1,03,76. With 110 patients getting discharge on Thursday, recoveries reached 9,261. No death was reported on Thursday. The toll is 248 and 867 patients are under treatment. Gondia: The district crossed the 12,000-mark of Covid-19 cases after 107 new patients took the tally to 12,016. The district has added 1,000 new cases in a span of eight days. With 26 patients getting discharge on Thursday, recoveries increased to 10,762.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/more-cases-less-recoveries-in-vidarbha-for-9th-time-in-last-10-days/articleshow/79436387.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 27, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Rare collections from Mughal, British eras draw students to special exhibition||LUCKNOW: A spectacle of antique coins, stamps and rare documents of historical significance exhibited by the department of medieval and modern history of Lucknow University was a huge draw among students and faculty during the centenary celebrations. One of the most valuable exhibits wasthe only original manuscript of the medieval Indian chronicle ‘Tarikh-i-Firoz Shahi’ composed by court thinker of the Delhi Sultanate Ziauddin Barni. Among the other treasured documents is the original facsimile of ‘Diwan-i-Babur’, ‘Razmnama’, the Persian translation of the Mahabharata and a copy of the Magna Carta, the royal charter of rights. “The exhibition was a one-of-a-kind learning experience for our budding historians and students at large,” said Prof Shama Mahmood, head of the department. A section which caught attention of the visitors was the exclusive coin collection which included coins from medieval period including some very unique mints from British India. The array of stamps from the freedom movement and a collection from the East India Company archives owned by Bijoy Charterjee was equally appreciated at the exhibition. One section was dedicated specifically to the revolt of 1857 and how the Residency and many other parts of the university had played a role in the uprising had the students completely engrossed. An illustration of the Padshahnama was equally awe inspiring. “For me, the most interesting part of the exhibition was the demonstration of the evolution of Lucknow University from its time in Aminabad to what it is today. I hope that the efforts of our faculty members would encourage the students towards authenticity in learning,” said Prof SA Rizvi, former head of the department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rare-collections-from-mughal-british-eras-draw-students-to-spl-exhibition/articleshow/79436950.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Lucknow||UP Board to allot exam centres to girls in 5-km radius of school||LUCKNOW: Girl students appearing in UP Board class X and XII examinations next year have some news to cheer about. The state government has made it mandatory to allot examination centre to girls within a radius of five kilometre from their school, if not in their own school. In another first, boys will not allowed to appear in an all girls’ school which is made examination centre. Additional chief secretary (secondary education) Aradhana Shukla said, “At a time when the government has launched Mission Shakti for security of women, we too decided to help our girls appearing in the exam by allotting them a centre closest from their original institution.” Even differently-abled students (with over 40% disability) will be allotted self-centres or centres within five kilometre radius. Releasing the guidelines for allotment of centres for UP Board’s class X and XII exams to be held in 2021, the secondary education department has also put a cap on the number of students appearing at an examination centre as per Covid-19 protocol. Now, a minimum of 150 students (in both shifts) will be allowed to appear in exam on a day at one examination centre, instead of 300 in pre-Covid times. Similarly, maximum 800 students can appear in exam (in two shifts) at a centre in a day, against 1,200 earlier. Considering social distancing norms owing to Covid-19 pandemic, examination halls would now have to ensure a minimum of 36 square feet space, instead of 20 square feet earlier, for each student. Also, this time, physical verification of institutions applying for UP Board exam centre will be done by a committee constituted by the district magistrate. The committee headed by additional district magistrate will have an engineer as member for physical verification of information uploaded by institutions applying for exam centre. The DM with the help of district inspector of schools (DIOS) will upload the report with remarks of the committee on the UP Board’s website. A software will then generate a merit point index on the basis of information provided by the schools and the physical verification report and fix examination centres. For the first time this year, points will be awarded for seating capacity of the institution. In another change in the centre allotment policy this time, institutions will be able to make changes or add new information rather than filling up the details all over again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-board-to-allot-exam-centres-to-girls-in-5-km-radius-of-school/articleshow/79436963.cms||Isha Jain
November 27, 2020||Rajkot||Special prosecutors appointed for GujCTOC cases||Rajkot: The state government has appointed five special public prosecutors (SPP) to conduct the cases lodged under Gujarat Control of Terrorism and Organized Crime Act (GujCTOC). All those booked under this law will be prosecuted in special courts. Through a notification, the state government appointed Kalpesh Goswami who is also the district government pleader of Kutch. Goswami also prosecuted the cases filed by central agencies and CID crime. In Rajkot, Tushar Gokani was appointed as SPP for GujCTOC for Saurashtra region. Gokani will handle the cases against Saurashtra’s notorious Jayesh Patel gang, Sonu Dangar and Nikhil Donga gangs. Brijesh Limbachiya was appointed in Ahmedabad, Raghuvir Pandya for Vadodara and Nayan Sukhadwala in Surat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/special-prosecutors-appointed-for-gujctoc-cases/articleshow/79433822.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Goa||Cops summon activists in Chandor night protest||MARGAO: Two of the several anti-coal protesters who had been booked by Maina Curtorim police, have been issued notices to appear before the investigating officer at the Maina Curtorim police station on Friday for interrogation.  Maina Curtorim police had charged the protesters for forming unlawful assembly and rioting during the midnight protest held at the Chandor railway crossing during the night of November 1 and 2. Those leading the anti-coal protesters have appealed to the people to gather outside the Maina Curtorim police station at 10.15am on Friday to express their solidarity with those who have been summoned by the police. Large number of protesters squatted on the railway tracks just before midnight (November 1-2) and refused to budge from there despite repeated pleas by senior police officials. Thousands of protesters from across the state who converged at Chandor late Sunday night to participate in the midnight protest against South Western Railway’s (SWR) track doubling project sniffed first signs of victory when the Railways, in what is seen as a strategic move, made no attempt to start the scheduled work. The South Goa collector had given permission to the SWR to close the level crossing from 12 midnight to 5am on November 2 to facilitate the work. Tension rent the air on several occasions when tempers frayed, but the law enforcing authorities observed remarkable restraint and prevented any flare-up of the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cops-summon-activists-in-chandor-night-protest/articleshow/79436393.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh govt assessing safety option of reopening class 6-8||LUCKNOW: The UP government appears to tread carefully on reopening of schools for classes VI to VIII, as is evident from a letter from the Uttar Pradesh Secondary Education Board (UPSEB). The letter by UPSEB secretary Divyakant Shukla has asked all district inspectors of schools (DIOS) to assess the situation in their respective districts owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. Recommendations from DIOSs on reopening schools too have been sought. “The situation is scary. There is a surge in Covid-19 cases. Online classes are going on. Considering the situation, we have recommended not to reopen the schools for safety of students,” said a DIOS. Talking to TOI, additional chief secretary (secondary education) Aradhana Shukla said, “Of course we are mulling to reopen the schools, but not immediately. Any decision will come only after approval from the chief minister.” She added, “The spike in coronavirus infection cases and the sudden chill is forcing us to rethink on reopening schools. We are not in any hurry.” Earlier, the schools for classes VI to VIII were to be opened post Diwali. UP government reopened schools for classes IX to XII on October 19. Students were allowed to come to the schools with parental consent. Morning assembly, lunch breaks, chatting with friends during library hours and any sports activities though are not allowed in the schools. On November 23, the government reopened universities and colleges with 50% attendance on roaster basis. Masks were made mandatory for students and teachers to enter the campus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/state-govt-assessing-safety-option-of-reopening-class-6-8/articleshow/79436967.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi takes out shield, farmers can’t get in||NEW DELHI: Delhi remained fortified on Thursday to prevent farmer groups from entering the city after having called for a ‘Dilli Chalo’ march for two-day protest against the recently enacted agriculture laws. Around 100 farmers were detained after they sneaked in and tried to stage the protest. Police commissioner S N Shrivastava patrolled the border points and took stock of the security arrangements, having asked officers in charge of law and order and the deputy CPs to persuade farmers not to try and enter Delhi because permission for their protest had been denied. On Wednesday, farmers in Punjab and Haryana gave a call for the Dilli Chalo march, declaring they would reach the capital on Thursday. Delhi Police turned down all requests by farmer groups and organisations to be allowed to stage the protests in Delhi on the ground that gatherings could not be legally permitted due to the prevailing anti-Covid protocols. Singhu border was blocked by barbed wires and cement barriers and sand-laden trucks stationed across the road to halt protestors. Water cannons were also kept nearby. Chilla border too had a heavy deployment of police and paramilitary personnel. Every vehicle crossing the border into Delhi was asked to slow down and the occupants questioned. Jasmeet Singh, DCP (East) said, “These arrangements will be in place even on Friday since the protest call was for two days. We have been in touch with police heads of different districts for better management, especially keeping the pandemic in mind.” Security was tightened also at Jantar Mantar, where 70 farmers belonging to the Sanyukt Kisan Manch were detained for violating anti-Covid guidelines on public gatherings. Police also detained protestors in north Delhi’s Majnu Ka Tila. They had taken to the road near the Gurudwara to stage the protest and caused traffic jams. The elaborate police arrangements at the borders caused inconvenience to many commuters. People wanting to drive into Delhi were stopped and questioned, leading to traffic snarls in the border areas. On the request of Delhi Police, Delhi Metro also restricted metro services on the corridors catering to the neighbouring states. Delhi Police used social media throughout the day to alert commuters about route diversions and other traffic bottlenecks. Vishal Kishan, travelling from Gurgaon to Delhi Cantonment, grumbled about being stuck at the Delhi-Gurgaon border for a couple of hours before being able to cross the barricades. “I was unaware of the traffic situation there and so took my usual route to work. I got late by three hours due to the closed border,” said the Gurgaon resident. A traffic police official said traffic arrangements had been made at the border areas to prevent congestion and jams. But the roads approaching Singhu border and Delhi-Gurgaon border were heavily packed with vehicles from the morning. The DCP of Outer North district said local police stopped traffic on both sides of the border. Traffic police personnel diverted traffic from Mukarba Chowk, asking motorists to avoid Outer Ring Road, Mukarba Chowk, GT Karnal Road, NH 44 and Singhu border.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-takes-out-shield-farmers-cant-get-in/articleshow/79436984.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Nagpur||Cong protests against centre’s policies on labour, farmers||Chandrapur: Congress leaders and activists under the banner of District Majdoor Congress staged daylong sit-in agitation at Gandhi Square here on Thursday and charged the central government with framing anti-labour and anti-farmer policies. Senior Congress leader and ex-MP Naresh Puglia, who led the protests, said the government in the name of Covid-19 crisis scrapped worker-friendly labour laws to replace it with provisions favouring corporates and industrialists. Puglia also said the three farm laws favoured the corporate companies and lead to black marketing of grains and essential commodities. A 17-point charter of demands related to labourers and farmers was also raised through the agitation. Later a delegation led by youth leader Rahul Puglia and veteran Gajanan Gawande submitted memorandum to district collector. Congress leaders at the sit-in pandal also welcomed the grand OBC rally as it passed through Gandhi Square.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cong-protests-against-centres-policies-on-labour-farmers/articleshow/79436403.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Ranchi||GM inspects route to increase train speed||SINDRI: While the Centre is working on plans to introduce high speed bullet trains on certain routes, the Indian Railways is looking to increase the speed of the existing trains on important routes to reduce the travel time. On Wednesday, general manager of East Central Railways L C Trivedi inspected rail tracks between Dhanbad and Deen Dayal Upadhyay (Mugalsarai) stations with an aim to increase the speed of trains from the existing 130kmph to 160kmph. Senior divisional commercial manager (sr. DCM) of Dhanbad rail division A K Pandey said the railways are working on plans to increase the speed of trains on this section by 2022. “The GM inspected the rail tracks between Pradhan Khanta and Bandhua under Dhanbad rail division and up to Mugalsarai under different rail divisions to study the need of improvement in the tracks, overhead electrification system, rail bridges and signalling system,” said Pandey. Vulnerable areas where fencing is needed to stop animals from venturing on to the tracks and places where earth filling is required to smoothen the movement have already been identified and work on introducing standard European Train Control System, electronic interlocking besides remodelling of railway yards are also to be undertaken under this project, he said. Pandey said up-gradation of all existing equipment to ensure utmost passenger safety is also on the cards. Chief engineer K D Ralh, chief signal and telecom engineer Rajesh Kumar and Dhanbd DRM Ashish Bansal were prominent among others who accompanied the GM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/gm-inspects-route-to-increase-train-speed/articleshow/79434748.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 27, 2020||Ranchi||Hazaribag farmers sell crop at throwaway rates||HAZARIBAG: Even as the state government is gearing up to start paddy procurement to offer minimum support price (MSP) to farmers for their produce, many farmers in Hazaribag are selling their harvest at throwaway prices to middlemen citing delays in procurement and problems of storing their produce due to non-availability of storage points. Shankar, a farmer in Sadar block, said, “Good monsoon ensured better khariff produce this year, but we are forced to sell it at Rs 1,280 - Rs 1,325 to traders to ensure we don’t have to incur losses.” Another farmer, Deo Narayan, rued that the government was yet to pay the farmers for 70,000 metric tonnes of paddy sold at procurement centres. “Even though middlemen and traders pay us less than the MSP, they give us money in hand, unlike government procurement centres,” he said. Sources said several traders and middlemen from as far as Telangana are visiting Hazaribag to directly purchase paddy from farmers at rates much below the government-prescribed MSP. A trader from the southern state, unwilling to be named, said, “We have already loaded 800 metric tonnes of paddy at the reserved rakes from the railways to take them to rice mills in Hyderabad. We are buying directly from farmers at negotiable rates.” District agriculture officer Rajendra Kishore said paddy was produced on 82,884 hectares this year against the target of 84,000 hectares in the district. In terms of tonnage, 2.8 lakh metric tonne paddy has been produced. Agriculture officials appealed farmers to hold on to their yield for a few weeks to avoid being duped. Deputy commissioner Aditya Kumar Anand said, “We are in the process of finalizing procurement centres which will become operational soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hazaribag-farmers-sell-crop-at-throwaway-rates/articleshow/79434695.cms||Abhijit Sen
November 27, 2020||Ranchi||Furqan Ansari ignores JPCC notice, says he hasn’t received any||RANCHI: Congress veteran and former MP Furkan Ansari avoided replying to the showcause served by the party’s state unit over his remarks on former AICC president Rahul Gandhi and other central leaders till the end of the deadline on Thursday. He said he didn’t receive any letter demanding an explanation. Speaking to reporters in Bokaro last week after Congress’s debacle in the Bihar assembly polls, Ansari (71) had advised Rahul to change his advisors and called them novice in the field of politics. He also snubbed other central leaders and accused them of keeping the top brass in the dark, leading to the party’s downfall. Taking cognizance of his statements, state party’s co-working president Keshav Mahto Kamlesh last Thursday sent him a showcause asking for a reply within seven days. “So far, I have not received any reply. I don’t know if it was sent to our state party president (Rameshwar Oraon),” Kamlesh said. Speaking to TOI over phone, Furkan said that he never received any showcause letter. “What do I reply and to whom? I haven’t got any showcause letter,” he said, adding, that whatever he had said wasn’t wrong and was in good intention being a Congressman. Furkan added that he first became a lawmaker in the 1980s when former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi was at the helm. “I have worked with Indiraji and since then have been with this party as a committed party worker. For anyone who has served the party for so long, it is natural to feel bad to see the present condition of Congress, which is on a steady downfall. It is high time the party regains its strength and composure nationally once again. The need of the hour is to strengthen the party units at the state, district and block levels,” he said. “How can you expect a strong building if the foundation is weak?,” he remarked adding, that for the last four years, the state party unit doesn’t have a working committee. “Working committee is an integral part of any party for its democratic functioning, but in Jharkhand, those at the helm are busy running the party like they wish. Any dedicated Congressman will feel bad if things aren’t right. My statements are an expression of the pain and wasn’t intended to hurt anyone’s sentiments,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/furqan-ignores-jpcc-notice-says-he-hasnt-received-any/articleshow/79434728.cms||ASRP Mukesh
November 27, 2020||Ranchi||Paddy procurement to begin in 2 weeks with 50% on-spot payment||RANCHI: Paddy procurement in the state is expected to begin on the first week of December as ground work for setting up of procurement centres are in the final stages, state food and civil supplies department said on Thursday. Expecting a bumper khariff harvest this year, courtesy timely monsoon and good sowing coverage, the state government has fixed a target of procuring paddy produce to the tune of 4.5 lakh metric ton from 1.6 lakh farmers in Jharkhand. For the first time, the state has also decided to provide 50% payment to farmers on the spot to encourage a good turnout at procurement centres. Talking to TOI, state food director Vineet Tirkey said 20% more procurement centres are being set up across all the districts for the convenience of the famers. He said, “Last year, there were 213 procurement centres in the state. This time, we are setting up at least 40 more centres. We have asked all the districts to send us the final list of procurement centres by November 30 so that the process could begin in the first week of December.” Usually, paddy procurement in Jharkhand begins after December 15. However, timely monsoon led to timely sowing and harvesting of khariff crops. As a result, despite the raging pandemic, Jharkhand is now expecting over 50 lakh tones of paddy this time compared to 37 lakh tones last year. Tirkey hoped that the minimum support price (MSP) of Rs 1,868 per quintal as minimum support price for normal paddy and Rs 1,888 per quintal for Grade A quality along with an additional bonus of Rs 182 per quintal will encourage farmers to sell their produce at government centres. “We have also changed the policy by deciding to provide on-spot payment of 50% for the purchase to farmers this year to help them tide the crisis,” he said. As per the arrangement, while the Food Corporation of India (FCI) will run procurement centres in Latehar, Chatra and Garhwa districts rest will be handled by the state food corporation this time. Meanwhile, many farmers on the other hand have already started selling their produce in below MSP citing delays in procurement process and lack of enough storage facilities. This week, farmers in Hazaribag started selling their produce to traders and middlemen from Telangana. Tirkey appealed farmers to be patient for a few more days. “The department is trying to speed up the setting up of procurement centres in the interest of the farmers and we appeal to them to not sell their produce at throwaway prices and go for the MSP fixed at government centres,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/paddy-procurement-to-begin-in-2-weeks-with-50-on-spot-payment/articleshow/79434760.cms||ASRP Mukesh
November 27, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Online sex racket kingpin raped women he employed||VADODARA: Nilesh Gupta’s perversion and avarice knew no bounds as he not only pushed women for online sex chats for money but also raped and molested them to satiate his own lust. At least 10 women have come forward to record their statements against Gupta (44) of whom one has alleged that he blackmailed and raped her several times between April 2019 and January 2020 and also used to shoot videos of rape. Late on Wednesday night, an offence of rape, sexual harassment and criminal intimidation was registered against Gupta at JP Road police station. Police have learnt that Gupta used to hire women for his architecture and designing firm but asked these female staffers to record videos for his acting school’s channel on YouTube. During the recording of one such video when a woman was changing her dress, Gupta secretly shot her video and took some photos on his mobile phone and started blackmailing her. He threatened to share these photos and video on the internet if she would not meet his demands. Gupta raped the woman several times over the course of seven months and even shot videos of rape for his personal use, the victim told the police. Other women too alleged that Gupta molested them on several occasions by blackmailing them. While the women used to reveal their bodies during the video calls on European adult website ‘Chaturbate’, Gupta used to take their photos. “He would then blackmail them saying that if they will not listen to him, he will share the photos with their parents or family members. Since all the women worked for him by hiding details from their family members, he could easily exploit them,” said a police official. The cop added that more women are expected to come forward with complaints against him. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/kingpin-gupta-raped-his-female-staff/articleshow/79434254.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Ranchi||Veggies rot, broken stretch in Simaria shatters farmers’ hopes||CHATRA: A broken 5-km stretch of road connecting Dadhi and Tetar More of Simaria block in Chatra district has shattered dreams of farmers who are finding it hard to sell their produce as businessmen refuse to use the road because of its condition. Repeated requests to the administration and lawmakers have also not helped and eventually led to around 50 quintal vegetable to rot. Simaria block is the highest producer of vegetables in the entire district. The contentious stretch of road is a lifeline for the people of Aidla and Dadhi panchyat with more than four dozen villages falling on its sides. Around 10,000 people, including farmers, businessmen and students, avail this road filled with potholes and craters daily. Social worker Jageshwar Prasad Kushwaha said the road was constructed in 2007. He said, “Not a single penny was spent by the government since then to even repair the road. Due to this negligence, the road has turned bad to worse with craters and potholes all over. Many bikers fall here and get injured.” Former representative of the district board, Rohini Devi said, “Simaria is known for its high productivity of green vegetables in the state. Due to lack of proper connectivity, farmers working in their fields are not able to sell the produce. None come here to buy the vegetables and this is the reason why around 50 quintal vegetable got rotten, rendering huge losses to the farmers.” Some farmers said that they have been are running from pillar-to-post for the last three years to get the road constructed. “We have even given it in writing to the MP, MLAs and block officials, but in vain,” said a farmer. Simaria MLA Kishun Kumar Das said, “I met the chief secretary and spoke about this issue, but the fact is that the state government is not releasing funds for construction and repairing of roads. I will take up the issue again to sort out the problem of the farmers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/veggies-rot-broken-stretch-in-simaria-shatters-farmers-hopes/articleshow/79434845.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Mumbai||At 252, Mumbai's air quality is poor, may dip further till tomorrow||MUMBAI: The city's overall air quality index (AQI) was 252 on Thursday-the worst this year since 272 recorded on March 17. The System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) has stated that the city's AQI is likely to deteriorate more in the next two days. Track the pollution level in your cityAn AQI between 201 and 300 is considered poor and people with heart or lung diseases and the elderly must reduce heavy or longer exertion and outdoor activity. Healthy people may start to experience slight discomfort too. An AQI is determined by the highest concentration of pollutants in the air. Researchers at SAFAR said the poor air quality is a result of weather conditions. "The winds are calmer and blowing from the land. Additionally, there is a dip in temperature, which results in the air mass getting accumulated," said Gufran Beig, project director, SAFAR. On Friday, the minimum temperature at Santacruz and Colaba was 20.8 degree Celsius and 22, respectively, down around 1 degree from the previous day. On Thursday, the AQI deteriorated to 252 from 201 on Wednesday. The AQI forecast for Friday is 235.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/at-252-mumbais-air-quality-is-poor-may-dip-further-till-tomorrow/articleshow/79437585.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
November 27, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Stan Swamy files fresh plea requesting sipper & straw along with bail petition||MUMBAI: In plea seeking bail, 83-year-old Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist, father Stan Swamy, arrested in the Elgar Parishad case, has told the special NIA court that working for undertrials who could or couldn't have been Maoists, does not make him a Maoist. The plea said that the Persecuted Political Prisoners Solidarity Committee, which the NIA had alleged was a frontal organisation of CPI (M), was one of the prominent human rights organisations in Jharkhand providing legal aid. "Nowhere has it been stated that providing legal aid to the Maoist is a crime. Nowhere does the constitution state that an alleged Maoist is not to be allowed an opportunity to defend themselves," the plea said. The court has sought replies on the bail plea and another made by Swamy's advocate. After the NIA informed the court during the hearing that a sipper and straw were not part of the items seized during his arrest, the defence made a fr-esh application seeking winter clothes, a straw and a sipper for the octogenarian who is suffering from Parkinson's disease. Swamy's bail plea submitted by advocate Sharif Shaikh said that by arresting him, the prosecution was trying to criminalise organisations and activists working to provide robust legal defense as envisaged in the constitution. It said that the prosecution could not establish that Swamy was involved in terror activities. He was targeted for his writings, the plea said. Citing his ailments, the plea said he was in the prison hospital where he was taken care of by inmates. The plea said it was not illegal to possess documents on encryption and an FM trance receiver manual printed in 2000 wh-ich the prosecution had relied upon to make Swamy look guilty. "In his system, the prosecution also found documents like how to pay bills etc showing that the applicant is not a very technologically sound person." The plea said that letters allegedly recovered from Swam-y's hard drive, which the prosecution had used to build a nexus between CPI (M) and him, did not prove anything. "The letters are not even intercepted emails where there is a record of who sent an email to whom and wh-en...they are in formats, like pdf, that can be easily created, manipulated and planted on an insecure digital device." Defence said there were no allegations connecting Swamy with Elgar Parishad or Bhima Koregaon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-stan-swamy-files-fresh-plea-requesting-sipper-straw-along-with-bail-petition/articleshow/79437592.cms||Rebecca Samervel
November 27, 2020||Mumbai||Crimes against women: 90% of trials pending in Mumbai, says Praja||MUMBAI: Falling conviction rates and massive pendency of trials have been found in cases of crimes against women and children, according to a report released by the non-profit Praja Foundation. A lifecycle study of sessions court cases, conducted by the NGO, also revealed that the time taken for trials in courts has doubled in 2013-17 as compared to 2008-12. Times ViewPendency of cases in courts has been an issue since long. The entire criminal justice system needs an overhaul. Vacant positions among prosecutors and judges must be filled up as soon as possible. Trials of serious crimes like under POCSO must be completed within a year. Justice delayed is justice denied.The conviction rates in 2019 in cases of crimes against women (31%) and crimes against children (38%) have been the lowest since 2017. Of the cases which were to be tried in court last year, trials are pending in more than 90% of crimes against women and children. "Merely bringing in special laws to tackle pendency would not help. The entire process needs to be reviewed," said Jennifer Spencer, project coordinator, Praja. For instance, the Pocso Act requires that cases be tried by a special Pocso court and that the judgment be given within a year of cognizance of offence. "But we found that half of the total Pocso cases tried in 2019 did not go to special courts. Not just that, only 20% of the 222 cases tried in special Pocso courts in 2019 got judgments within a year," said Spencer. Pendency of investigation and trials is linked to shortage of manpower in enforcement departments and courts. Praja found a 14% shortage as compared to sanctioned strength among sessions court judges, 18% shortage in the police department, 28% shortage among public prosecutors in sessions court and a 42% shortage in forensic laboratories this year. "It's not just manpower shortage, but improper living conditions and working conditions that affect a policeman's job. In Mumbai, only 38% policemen live in houses allotted by the state. In the past three years, before Covid struck, more than 100 policemen have succumbed annually to various ailments, the most common being heart disease, cancer, liver or kidney disorders," said Nitai Mehta, trustee of Praja. The lifecycle study of all sessions court cases showed that on an average only 24% of IPC crimes got a conviction between 2013 and 2017. The least convictions in this period (12%) were given out for dacoities and the highest (33%) for murders. The most common reason for acquittals was failure to prove guilt due to a lack of evidence. The study also showed that it took 3.4 years on an average for cases to reach from the FIR stage to the judgment stage, the highest being 5.8 years for dacoity cases. "One of the police reforms announced was implementation of Police Complaints Authority (PCA) at the state and divisional levels. A divisional PCA, which handles complaints against cops of or below senior inspector rank, is yet to be set up for Mumbai," said Spencer, adding that 170 complaints had been lodged with the state PCA last year..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/crimes-against-women-90-of-trials-pending-in-mumbai-says-praja/articleshow/79437600.cms||Nitasha Natu
November 27, 2020||Amaravati||AP: MLA Chevireddy Bhaskara Reddy saves lives of three farmers||AMARAVATI: In a heroic act, Chandragiri MLA Chevireddy Bhaskara Reddy saved the lives of three farmers who were struggling to swim through ravaging floodwaters when he had gone to oversee rescue operations along with National Disaster Relief Force (NDRF) personnel. Upon receiving an alert from the chief minister’s office, the MLA rushed to the spot. He alerted district collector Bharath Gupta and SP Senthil Kumar and requested them to deploy a helicopter. But the chopper could not take off due to bad weather. Chevireddy immediately got hold of a speed boat and went into the water along with NDRF personnel and returned with the three farmers. The farmers, who had spent nearly three anxious hours in the middle of water, were provided food and water. Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy spoke to Chevireddy over the phone and complimented his efforts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/mla-chevireddy-saves-lives-of-three-farmers/articleshow/79434298.cms||Samdani MN
November 27, 2020||Vijayawada||Bank heist: AP cops identify suspects, recover Rs 72 lakh||VIJAYAWADA: Police on Thursday identified the two suspects who allegedly carried out a heist at a State Bank of India (SBI) branch at Nadikudi town of Dachepalli mandal in Guntur district on November 21. Cops informed that the suspects are currently absconding and will be arrested soon. On November 21, two miscreants broke into a bank branch by cutting down the window grill and stole Rs 89 lakh. They carefully covered their tracks by turning the CCTV cameras in another direction. Finally, local CCTV footage helped the police identify the suspects. Police further informed that Rs 72 lakh has been recovered from the total Rs 89 lakh stolen from the bank locker. The money was found at various places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/bank-heist-cops-identify-suspects-recover-rs-72-lakh/articleshow/79434302.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Nagpur||Gorewada turns hotspot for birders as winged guests fly in||Nagpur: With the winter chill setting in, bird watchers are keenly awaiting migratory birds that travel thousands of kilometres to reach lakes in the region.Though many lakes are still filled to its brim and birds have been avoiding these water bodies, Gorewada Lake and biopark in the city has been attracting many bird watchers as the winter migrants have already started arriving here.Though the most sought-after bar-headed geese (BHGs) from Mongolia are yet to arrive in sizeable numbers, a flock of eight was recorded by bird watcher Viplab Saha at Gorewada on November 20. Bird watchers say, some forest, bush and grassland birds have also arrived.“The BHGs were also sighted at Khapri Lake on Umred Road, but are now not seen there and at their regular water body Paradgaon and Haladgaon lakes. Winter migrants are yet to arrive at Vena, Chargaon, Zilpi, and Mihan lakes. Birders, therefore, are flocking Gorewada as there is a lot of bird activity there,” says senior bird watcher Nitin Marathe.Gorewada RFO Pandurang Pakhale says, “BHGs were recorded for a day only as they vanished the next day. They arrive here for a stopover. But the lake is playing host to migratory red-crested pochards, ruddy shelduck, northern pintails, and shovellers, blue-tailed bee-eaters, lesser whistling ducks, Gadwalls, and other waders.”Central India Bird Academy (CIBA) founder and expert Dr Anil Pimplapure says, “During my recent visits to various lakes, I found only 30% birds have arrived. Due to good rains, lakes are full of water. In the next 15 days, we expect the numbers to increase when the water recedes and some marsh is created at shores.”“January is the peak time when a lot of bird activity is witnessed and this is the time when we conduct the Asian Waterbird Census,” said Dr Pimplapure.However, hundreds of winter migrants have started arriving in Gondia and Bhandara districts. Sawan Bahekar of Sustaining Environment & Wildlife Assemblage (SEWA) informed that flocks of greylag geese, larger among the waterfowl family, have been recorded at Bazartola and Paraswada lakes.“Several water bodies in Bhandara and Gondia districts are already playing host to several winter migrants like pintails, shovellers, common pochards, Gadwalls. A rare red-headed lapwing has also been recorded at one of the lakes. Bird watchers are awaiting common cranes, which are yet to arrive,” said Bahekar.However, even as bird watchers are keenly awaiting more number of migrants and species, Marathe says, “Every year the number of birds is shrinking due to change in crop pattern, illegal brick kilns near water bodies, huge construction activity like road works, illegal fishing, and rampant use of pesticides.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gorewada-turns-hotspot-for-birders-as-winged-guests-fly-in/articleshow/79434307.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
November 27, 2020||Nagpur||Tardy pace of Pardi flyover killed seven, injured three in 10 months||Nagpur: The construction of the five-arm Pardi flyover has made the roads around it accident prone spots. The dangerous roads include busy patches from Gomti Hotel Square to Kalamna Market, Lakadganj to Pardi, and the road moving towards Inner Ring Road at Swami Narayan temple, all of which are full of craters. In the last 10 months, this busy traffic junction and nearby roads have witnessed many accidents, and so far claimed seven lives and injured three this year. This was revealed by DCP (traffic) Sarang Awad in a show cause notice served to NHAI and two private firms constructing the flyover. ‘Commuters risk their lives during every drive, as the surrounding roads have turned into death traps’, was the general opinion of motorists when TOI visited the area on Thursday. Despite repeated reminders, neither National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) nor the firms engaged in construction work are ensuring safety of motorists using the under construction flyover. This negligence is causing immense hardship for all motorists, forcing Awad to issue the show cause notice to NHAI and Mumbai-based Gannon Dunkerley & Company Limited (GDCL) — the firm engaged in constructing the flyover. The notice served to GDCL and NHAI by DCP (traffic) also mentions local firm SMS Infrastructure Limited, which is working in association with GDCL. The notice says these firms have failed to provide pothole-free road to motorists travelling between Prajapati Railway Crossing and Old Pardi Naka. Raw material and even heavy machineries involved in the flyover construction are dumped by the roadside, narrowing the busy carriageway, the notice reads. One specific location mentioned is near Hanuman Mandir, Pardi, where work of constructing pillars for the flyover has been completed but barricades are still there, causing traffic jams. Due to this chaotic condition, minor accidents have become a common feature, stated the notice. The notice also asked NHAI to ensure temporary barricading on the median of the two-way road between New Pardi Naka and Old Pardi Naka. As construction of flyover pillar has been completed, motorists quite often drive on the wrong side, taking advantage of the openings between the pillars. Traffic cops have also drawn attention of NHAI to its failure to remove barricades from Nag river bridge, though work of flyover there has been completed long time ago. The DCP has also expressed anguish over closure of road patches and diversion of vehicular traffic without taking permission from the traffic police. No safety measures are being taken on this stretch too, stated the letter. The DCP also expressed concern over slow progress of flyover work, as it is not only causing inconvenience but also posing danger to motorists, especially two-wheeler riders. He also warned the no objection certificate granted for carrying out the work may be revoked. If any accident takes place due to bad condition of the road, legal action will be initiated, the letter warned. Motorists who use this patch told TOI that NHAI, the firm carrying out the work, and traffic police have taken the road users for granted. Pramod Guje, a motorist who works in an industrial area in Pardi area, said accidents are a routine affair on the road, but the authorities have failed to take the issue seriously.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tardy-pace-of-pardi-flyover-killed-seven-injured-three-in-10-months/articleshow/79434331.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
November 27, 2020||Vijayawada||Telangana: Private school principal commits suicide||VIJAYAWADA: A private school principal from Jaggaiahpet committed suicide by jumping into water from Pulichintala Dam at Suryapet district in Telangana on Thursday. The deceased was identified as M Joseph Babu, principal and co-founder of Bright Angel School in Jaggaiahpet town. According to Jaggaiahpet circle inspector P Chandrasekhar, Joseph Babu was missing over the last one week. A missing complaint was registered initially. Later, police traced his body which had washed away near Pulichintala Dam. Police said that Joseph Babu and his wife were having disputes as both of them doubted each other’s fidelity. Following the confrontation, Joseph left home. Upon discovering that his phone was switched off, his wife lodged a police complaint. The body has been sent for post mortem. A case under Section 174 of CrPC (unnatural death) was registered at Jaggaiahpet police station. Further investigation is on. Police informed that Babu and his wife founded the school and were running it successfully for a decade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/pvt-school-principal-commits-suicide/articleshow/79434317.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Vijayawada||Governmentt extends scope of SEB||VIJAYAWADA: The state government handed over additional responsibility of curbing online gambling and red sandalwood smuggling to the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) on Thursday. A government order (GO) was issued in this regard, announcing the decision to enlarge the scope of SEB by including handling of gambling and games of all kinds including online betting. SEB will also look after cases under the NDPS Act. The GO signed by ex-officio principal secretary D Gautam Sawang states that SEB will focus on curbing manufacture and sale of banned products like gutka etc., and smuggling of red sanders as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-extends-scope-of-seb/articleshow/79434335.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Nagpur||Central govt’s biogas plants to boost bamboo farming||Nagpur: The Central government’s decision to set up 5,000 compressed biogas (CBG) plants in the country will come as a good opportunity for farmers in the state to grow bamboo, which is the biggest source of biomass required to produce CBG.Last week, oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan announced that by 2023-24, India will see an investment of Rs 2 lakh crore in setting up 5,000 CBG plants. “This path-breaking policy initiative has the potential to provide a much-needed impetus to the bamboo industry,” feel experts.Sanjeev Karpe, Indian Bamboo Forum (IBF) founder, explained that one CNG plant with a capacity of 5 tonne per day requires 60 tonne of semi-dry biomass. A bamboo plantation of one acre can yield 30 tonne bamboo annually in just three years of plantation. Bamboo harvested from two acres could service the raw material needs of the CNG plant for one day. This provides a sustained market for bamboo farmers.“This also provides a sustained market to bamboo farmers besides providing them environmental services like controlling soil erosion, raising water table, improving soil fertility among others,” Karpe adds.However, despite potential, farmers are reluctant to grow bamboo as there is no sustained market. Leading practitioners in the bamboo industry have been striving to motivate farmers to grow bamboo as a cash crop to ensure supply of high quality commercially viable raw material for bamboo-based industries.Bamboo farmer from Umred Ramesh Dumbhre says, “There is no government promotion and subsidy. As bamboo is not an agriculture crop, farmers are reluctant to grow it because it doesn’t reflect in the 7/12 extract like other crops and also the grower doesn’t get any financial help from banks.”This is despite the fact that in April 2017, state government has removed transit pass (TP) restrictions. In Maharashtra, bamboo cultivation is going on in 3,315 hectare private land only. Of this, Marathwada alone accounts for 1,400 hectare area.The decision to set up 5,000 CBG plants can create a sustainable market for over 35 lakh acre bamboo plantation. To boost availability of affordable and clean transport fuel, an agreement was signed for setting up 900 compressed biogas plants by various companies.Talking to TOI, MP Suresh Prabhu, chairman of IBF, welcomed this policy initiative and said, “IBF will work to ensure that all stakeholders across the bamboo value chain — farmers, harvesters, entrepreneurs, artisans — etc are provided support to access the benefits of this policy.”“We plan to launch a massive bamboo plantation drive in the country to ensure that farming community gets its rightful share of this market. This initiative will be piloted in Maharashtra. I’ve already established a high-tech bamboo tissue culture lab and will be shortly starting bamboo-based product skill training centre in Latur to ensure availability of quality material and locally trained youth for fostering bamboo industry,” said Pasha Patel, senior farmer leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/central-govts-biogas-plants-to-boost-bamboo-farming/articleshow/79434357.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
November 27, 2020||Nagpur||Burglar flees with valuables worth Rs 20L in 5 minutes||Nagpur: An unidentified burglar covering his face with a scarf sneaked away with valuables worth more than Rs 20 lakh, including Rs 17 lakh cash, within five minutes from the residence of Nitnaware family at Akash Nagar in Manewada on Wednesday. Much of the cash and valuables were saved as these were inside the locked vault in an almirah, which the burglar failed to lay his hands upon.A CCTV footage shows the burglar entering the premises at 3.02pm and leaving by 3.07 pm. The house owner, Sandeep Nitnaware, had left the house for salon and other works at 2.30pm and returned at 4pm. He was stunned to see the valuables missing from the almirah but there were no signs of any rummage inside the rooms. Police are now suspecting an insider’s involvement in the case.Nitnaware, a real estate agent, got the cash after a sale deed. He was supposed to purchase some property in coming days for which the surplus cash had been kept.Police said the burglar may have prior information about the substantial cash and valuables. “Had the burglar knew about the cash and valuables available in substantial quantity, he could have brought a bag but he sneaked away with the valuables tucked away in his pockets as shown in the CCTV footage,” said a cop.The CCTV footage were procured from the first floor of the apartment where Nitnaware owned a gymnasium. Police are now checking the movements of patrons at the gymnasium. Sources said a car washer had come to his residence where Sandeep was staying alone since November 11 when his wife and rest of the family left for Hingna.Police said the burglar broke the front door lock but did not had to toil to open the almirah whose keys were kept inside the room.An offence has been registered at Hudkeshwar police station. Zonal DCP Akshay Shinde said police are trying to the nab the accused and put a stop to incidents of burglaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/burglar-flees-with-valuables-worth-rs-20l-in-5-minutes/articleshow/79434374.cms||Soumitra Bose
November 27, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Shiv Sena MLA got Rs 6 lakh in cash per month as kickbacks, says ED||MUMBAI: Shiv Sena MLA and spokesperson Pratap Sarnaik has been receiving Rs 6 lakh in cash every month as "kickbacks" from Tops Grup (a private security firm) since 2014 through his associate Amit Chandole, the Enforcement Directorate has alleged. This amount forms part of the illegal profits earned by Tops Grup by cheating MMRDA by not providing the security agreed as per the contract but charging for it. In the Tops Grup account books, these cash entries initially were shown as expenses towards business promotion and then as wages. The ED recorded the statement of three senior executives of Tops Grup, who said Chandole would mostly collect cash from their office on behalf of Sarnaik. They stated that since 2014, Rs 7 crore has been shared with Sarnaik as profit out of the MMRDA deal. In his statement to the ED, Chandole said he had come in contact with Nanda through Sarnaik, who is a close friend. Chandole told the ED that he was collecting money from Tops Grup for household expenses. The company's chairman Rahul Nanda had told TOI that he and Sarnaik were friends but denied any business transactions. The ED arrested Chandole in the case and produced him before the court on Thursday. The court remanded him into ED custody till November 29. In its remand application, the ED alleged that MMRDA entered into a contract with Tops Grup to provide 350 to 500 security guards and traffic marshals for foot-over-brigades in the city in 2014. Tops Grup would supply only 70% of the agreed guards but was charging MMRDA for 100% of the guards mentioned in the agreement. The remand application said that Chandole would collect the money from Tops Grup office mostly in cash. Former chairman of the Tops Grup and complainant in the case, Ramesh Iyer, told the ED officials in his statement that Chandole was a close confidant of Sarnaik and Tops Grup was sharing the money with Sarnaik through Chandole. Iyer and Amar Panghal, ex-finance director of Tops Grup, told ED officials that the company was providing only 70% of the total guards but billed MMRDA for the total number, said the remand application. Neeraj Bilani, ex-CEO of Tops Grup, said in his statement to ED that Chandole used to coordinate with the finance department of his company to collect the shared profit on behalf of Sarnaik, mostly in cash, said the remand application. Bilani also told ED that Nanda acquired a UK company, Shield Guarding, in 2014 for Rs 250 crore, and to meet expenses of the overseas company, Nanda siphoned off money from the Indian company. He said the money was used by Nanda and his family for personal expenses. ED had called Sarnaik's son Vihang for questioning on Wednesday, but he didn't turn up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-shiv-sena-mla-got-rs-6-lakh-in-cash-per-month-as-kickbacks-says-ed/articleshow/79437617.cms||Vijay V Singh
November 27, 2020||Nagpur||Map detailing biodiversity wealth of city unveiled||Nagpur: Bhubaneswari S, chief executive officer of Nagpur Smart and Sustainable Development Corporation Limited (NSSDCL), unveiled the illustrated urban biodiversity map of Nagpur city. ICLEI South Asia (ICLEI-SA) has developed the map as part of the assignment on the development of a People’s Biodiversity Register (PBR) for the city with support from Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and Nagpur Smart City environment division. The aim of PBR is to create awareness among people about the condition of plants and animals and their conservation as well as sustainable utilization. Under the programme, recording of the local knowledge with validation, perception and attitude of people about natural resources, plants and animals, their utilization and conservation is being carried out for the city. As part of PBR, ICLEI-SA has developed a detailed inventory of biodiversity wealth of the city. The biodiversity map conveys the same in a very user-friendly manner along with important monuments, public spaces, bird watching hotspots, water bodies etc. The map depicts the city’s biodiversity to impart the significance of urban biodiversity to the citizens of Nagpur. The map also brings forth the fact that the city is known for tigers as well as oranges. The compass has been depicted as an orange. NSSCDCL general manager (environment) Pranita Umredkar presented a copy of a coffee table book on biodiversity information of the city to the CEO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/map-detailing-biodiversity-wealth-of-city-unveiled/articleshow/79434382.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Vadodara||Commuter’s quick response foils infant’s abduction bid||Vadodara: Quick action by a commuter saved a labourer’s infant daughter from being abducted in broad daylight near Kaladarshan crossroads on Waghodiya Road.The commuter Sandeep Rawal stopped the auto-rickshaw in which the alleged kidnapper Bismillahbanu Pathan was trying to flee with the Kalpana Rajput’s daughter on Wednesday afternoon.Pathan and Rajput had not known each other, yet the former walked into the latter’s house in slums in Somatalav area on Wednesday noon. Pathan claimed that she and Rajput had shared an auto-rickshaw while leaving from SSG Hospital a day before and she helps needy mothers. Although Rajput was not interested, Pathan forcefully took her and her mother Shyama to Mangal Bazaar to make purchases for the new-born and the mother. After purchasing a saree for Rajput and some clothes for the infant, they were returning to Somatalav in an auto-rickshaw. On the way, Pathan stopped the auto near Kaladarshan crossroads and handed over a note of Rs 500 to Rajput to go and purchase soap and talcum powder from a medical store nearby. Rajput handed over her daughter to Shyama and went to the store. Pathan sent Rajput’s mother too to help her and took the baby girl from her.While the mother-daughter duo was busy at the store, Pathan asked the auto-rickshaw driver Satish Gavde to start the vehicle and leave. On seeing the auto leave, Shyama ran after it and dashed with Rawal. She pleaded Rawal to chase the auto-rickshaw as Pathan was fleeing with her granddaughter. Rawal immediately sped towards the auto-rickshaw and told Gavde to turn around saying Pathan was a kidnapper.Gavde turned around the vehicle and called the police control room.A while later, a PCR van came to take away Pathan to Panigate police station where Rajput lodged a complaint of kidnapping.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/commuters-quick-response-foils-infants-abduction-bid/articleshow/79434275.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh government moots new port at Rambilli village||VIJAYAWADA: The state government has made the first move to build a new port at Rambilli village in Visakhapatnam district. The mandal headquarters town, Rambilli, is located 75 km from Visakhapatnam and has a beach too, which is very popular with the locals. Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy, who held a review with the officials at his Tadepalli camp office on Thursday on industrial clusters, corridors and ports development, directed the officials to study the possibilities of constructing a major port in Rambilli. He directed the officials to prepare feasibility report on this proposed port. He emphasised the need to reduce pressure on Visakhapatnam port and reduce pollution. The chief minister also told the officials to speed up the work on Bhavanapadu, Machilipatnam and Ramayapatnam ports. All the three ports are to be ready for commercial operation in the next two-and-a-half years, the chief minister told the officials and asked them to speed up the work. The chief minister also reviewed industrial parks and clusters proposed at Srikalahasti, Yerpedu, Orvakal, Atchyutapuram and Nakkapalli and told them to ensure quality of works and early completion. Minister Mekapati Gowtham Reddy, chief secretary Nilam Sahwney, industries special chief secretary K Karikala Valavan, industries director J V N Subrahmanyam, APIIC vice-chairman K Raveen Kumar Reddy, and others were present at the review meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/state-govt-moots-new-port-at-rambilli-village/articleshow/79434290.cms||Gopi Dara
November 27, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Maharashtra exempts transit flyers from testing||MUMBAI: While the state government is yet to take a decision on the Centre's request to defer till December 1 implementation of its new rules making a negative RT-PCR report mandatory for air, road and rail passengers from Rajasthan, Goa, Gujarat and Delhi, it has decided to grant exemption to transit passengers as well as defence personnel and their families. A senior bureaucrat said it was a proposal and the centre was not insisting on deferment. "BMC has taken the view that since the decision has already been implemented, it will be unwise to make changes. Passengers are carrying the RT-PCR negative report as per our guidelines," the bureaucrat said. The rule will not be applicable to layover passengers, though. "If a passenger is travelling from New Delhi to Bhopal via Mumbai and if he is not alighting in Mumbai, then he is not required to carry RT-PCR negative test report," the bureaucrat said. Explaining the exemption to defence personnel, the officer said, "It was brought to our notice that since they are following their own protocol, there was no need for a fresh RT-PCR negative test report." Meanwhile, over 200 domestic arrival passengers have undergone RT-PCR tests at Mumbai airport since Wednesday. No one has tested positive so far, said officials. "About 120 passengers took the test on Wednesday," said a spokesperson from MIAL, adding all tested negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-19-maharashtra-exempts-transit-flyers-from-testing/articleshow/79437638.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
November 27, 2020||Goa||Goa: Veggie prices drop as weather improves||PANAJI: Prices of most greens in the retail market have dropped slightly with the onset of favourable weather. However, a key cooking ingredient, the onion, still continues to be in short supply. Selling at Rs 90-100 per kg until a few weeks ago, the bulbs are now going at Rs 70 per kg. Vegetable suppliers said that it may take another month or so for the rates to stabilise. “After the recent harvest was destroyed due to torrential rain in Maharashtra, we are relying on the fresh winter crop to hit the market. Only then can we expect onion prices to lower. We are in touch with farmers and winter crops are growing well we have been informed. After they are harvested in December-January, we can expect an increase in quantity and subsequently lower prices,” a vegetable supplier from Belagavi, Ramesh Pawale, said. He said that the prices of onions in the Belagavi markets is also Rs 70 per kg. Potato prices are slowly increasing, but the quantity of chilli is beginning to thin, Pawale said. In the Panaji municipal market, potatoes are going at Rs 50 per kg, while chillies are priced at Rs 80 per kg. Rising vegetable prices have been pinching the common man’s pocket. While some have started purchasing fewer quantities of greens compared to before the price rise, others who have been hit hard due to the pandemic have been selling vegetables on credit. Vegetable vendor Hyder Ali said that he has no choice but to comply with his buyers. “Nearly everyone is facing a financial crunch these days. Faced with this situation, when our regular customers insist on taking vegetables home with the promise of paying later, we don’t discourage them,” he said. Some buyers, however, continue to remain optimistic in the face of fluctuating prices that the rates will eventually lower. “We moved from a fish and meat diet to a vegetarian one due to the pandemic. The prices are only increasing with each passing day, but one can only hope that the prices will lower soon,” a senior citizen from Panaji, Francisco Fernandes, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/veggie-prices-drop-as-weather-improves/articleshow/79435830.cms||Nida Sayed
November 27, 2020||Goa||Illegal teakwood seized in Kalem, one arrested||PONDA: The Mollem wildlife forest team seized a stack of teakwood hidden in a property at Kalem in Sanguem taluka. Suspect Inacio Mascarenhas, 38, from Kamdar-Kalem on Wednesday has been arrested for smuggling the illegal wood. The wood is believed to have been sourced from the Bhagwan Mahaveer Wildlife Sanctuary, Mollem. Forest officials suspect the involvement of a gang and expect that there could be some more arrests in the case. An official said that they were tipped off by a source about a large quantity of teakwood stacked in the backyard of Mascarenhas’ house at Kalem. Around 4.25cum of teakwood was seized. The approximate worth of the wood is over Rs 4 lakh, the official said. The Mollem wildlife forest team had received information last Friday that teak trees had been cut in the sanctuary, the official said. Investigation to locate the wood was on when they received the tip off on Wednesday, the official said. On December 30, 2019, forest officials had found some logs of teakwood in the wildlife sanctuary and an offence was registered against unknown accused. Similarly, attempts to smuggle teakwood were seen during the pandemic-related lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/illegal-teakwood-seized-in-kalem-one-arrested/articleshow/79435875.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: At jumbo facilities, focus shifts to post-Covid care||MUMBAI: The BKC jumbo Covid hospital that was the first field hospital to start a dedicated post-Covid OPD has received nearly 400 patients in the past 50 days, underlining the need for affordable Coronavirus aftercare. Realising the need for such a facility, the jumbo hospital at Nesco Goregaon, too, has now decided to start a post-Covid OPD from Monday. In Mumbai, the civic-run KEM and BYL Nair hospitals and privately-run Fortis were among the first to recognise the need for post-Covid care and start OPDs in August. In October, the BKC jumbo hospital started its post-Covid OPD with standard operating protocols that included clinical and psychological assessment as well as rehabilitation of patients who were treated there. Dean Dr Rajesh Dere said 396 patients have come to these OPDs that run between 9am and 4pm daily. Of these, 322 had hypertension and diabetes that required tweaking in management. About 286 patients also came with complaints of general weakness, body pain and joint pain. About 60 patients had Covid psychosis, where a person has heightened anxiety of catching the infection, dying of it or from medications. "People have been known to grapple with breathlessness to lung fibrosis and mental health issues. Hence, we decided to follow up with patients for a minimum six months by creating a system where patients can fix an appointment online and visit the centre as per their convenience," said Dere. Nearly 12,500 patients have undergone treatment at BKC. After discharge, a patient gets a message from the centre asking about symptoms such as weakness, insomnia, breathlessness. "The message comes with a link allowing them to make an appointment," he said, adding the centre has categorised patients based on age and comorbidities. "Those at higher risk are encouraged to see the team of post-Covid specialists even if they had mild or moderate Covid," he said. Dr Neelam Andrade, dean of Nesco field hospital, which treated 9,500 patients, said their post-Covid OPD will function out of Hall A in Nesco on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. Dr Pradeep Angre, who heads the jumbo facility at Mulund's Richardson and Cruddas, said they are awaiting the BMC's nod to their proposal for a post-Covid OPD. For patients treated at the jumbo facility in Byculla, dean Dr Rahul Chakor said they continue to refer patients to Nair Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-at-jumbo-facilities-focus-shifts-to-post-covid-care/articleshow/79437669.cms||Sumitra Debroy
November 27, 2020||Goa||Dalit rights activist Dadu Mandrekar passes away at 63||Dadu Mandrekar, who championed the cause of dalits, died after a brief illness, on Thursday. He was 63 He has done pioneering work in spreading humanitarian values, scientific temperament and the thoughts of B R Ambedkar. To free the community from the shackles of untouchability, he asked the dalit youths to stop playing drums at temples. He also asked them to give up the traditional bamboo craft that they were involved with. “Dadu was a staunch supporter of equality, liberty, justice and fraternity, the principles enshrined in the constitution of India. It was a coincidence that he died on the Constitution Day of India (November 26),” said president of Daskshinayan Abhiyan-Goa, Damodar Mauzo. He used to publish a magazine titled ‘Prajasattak’ to highlight the principles of the Constitution. Condoling Mandrekar’s death, Union Ayush minister Shripad Naik said Mandrekar devoted his entire life to the Dalit movement. Ganesh Parwar, a dalit leader from Pilgaon said, “Dadu made us understand Dr Ambedkar’s ideas and instilled in us courage and determination to fight against the untouchability prevalent in Goan society since ages. His demise is a great loss for our movement.” While studying at the Mandre High School, Mandrekar was influenced by ‘Amrutvel’, a Marathi novel by V S Khandekar, and Ambedkar’s biography. He worked in the government sector for a while, before leaving it to work full time on social issues. He launched a crusade against casteism and untouchability. His collection of poems ‘Shapit Surya’ and collection of articles ‘Bahishkrut Gomantak’ focus on the pain and agonies of the dalit community in the state. After embracing Buddhism, he wrote about Buddhism and worked to spread modern education among dalit youths. For a short period, he worked as a journalist and was also a part of the green brigade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dalit-rights-activist-dadu-mandrekar-passes-away-at-63/articleshow/79435922.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
November 27, 2020||Goa||Authorities gear up to implement new standard operating procedure at Konkan Railway station||MARAGO: The South Goa district administration and the Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd have geared up to put in place the new standard operating procedure (SOP) at the Konkan Railway station, Margao, for passenger arrivals. Preparation for setting up facilities for thermal screening of passengers was under way at the Margao railway station on Thursday. Sources said three teams of South Goa district administration have been formed, which have been tasked with monitoring arrivals at the Margao railway station round the clock. As per the new SOP, passengers found with a body temperature above permissible range will be sent for a Covid test on payment of Rs 2,000. Further course of action will be as per the prescribed protocol of the state’s health department. Passengers who willingly opt for RT-PCR test on arrival can do so on payment of Rs 2,000 as per the new protocol. Meanwhile, Konkan Railway has extended the service of 02741/02742 Vasco-Patna-Vasco weekly Superfast Festival Special (fully reserved) in coordination with South Western Railway until January 2, a press note stated. The 02741 Vasco-Patna train will leave from Vasco at 7.05pm every Wednesday from December 2 to 30 and reach Patna at 12.10pm the third day. In the reverse direction, The 02742 Patna-Vasco train will leave from Patna at 2pm every Saturday from December 5 to January 2 and reach Vasco at 8.55am the third day. The train will halt at Margao, Thivim, Sawantwadi Road, Ratnagiri, Chiplun, Panvel, Kalyan Jn, Igatpuri, Nasik Road, Manmad Jn, Bhusawal Jn, Khandwa, Itarsi Jn, Jabalpur Jn, Katni Jn, Satna Jn, Prayagraj Chheoki, Pt. Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Jn, Buxar and Ara Jn stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/authorities-gear-up-to-implement-new-sop-at-konkan-railway-station/articleshow/79435973.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Mumbai||FYJC open seats swell to 73,000 as 16,000 Maratha vacancies added to pool||MUMBAI: On offer for the second round of first-year junior college admissions are 2.4 lakh seats in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. With the government not implementing Maratha quota this academic year, open category seats in non-minority junior colleges have increased from 57,449 to 73,432. The education department published the revised seat vacancies for the second merit list on Thursday. The admissions portal also reopened for students who wish to make changes in their application forms or apply afresh after almost a two-and-a-half-month break, during which time the state had waited to decide on the Supreme Court's interim order that stayed the Maratha quota in education. Only the first round of admissions were completed then. In round one of admissions, as only 1,876 students had secured admissions under the socially and educationally backward classes (SEBC) quota, the remainder of seats- 15,968-have been added to the pool of open category seats for the second merit list scheduled to be announced on December 5. With a few more junior colleges getting permission during this period, the total number of open category seats are up 15,983. Students who had applied under the SEBC quota but not secured a seat will compete in the open category now. Principals said additional seats in the open category could come as good news to students in non-minority colleges. "The competition among students in the general category is very fierce as seats are few and applicants are a lot more. The extra seats, even if a few, could marginally bring down cut-offs in the category in the next merit list," said a junior college head. Usually, vacant SEBC seats like other quotas would be added to the open category pool after the three regular rounds of admission. In round one, 3,267 students applied for the 17,844 SEBC quota seats. Meanwhile, college principals want the education department to allow them to start classes after the second merit list admissions conclude on December 9. "We usually wait until the three regular rounds of admissions even if we fill up 75% of our seats because students change colleges and there is no way we can bridge the gap for the new students. However, in these circumstances, as we have already lost time, the department must permit colleges to start the academic year as soon as possible," said the vice-principal of a junior college.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/fyjc-open-seats-swell-to-73000-as-16000-maratha-vacancies-added-to-pool/articleshow/79437677.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
November 27, 2020||Goa||Goa to crack down on illegal hotels, guesthouses||PANAJI: Tourism minister Manohar Ajgaonkar said that in a few days, his ministry would begin cracking down on hotels, guesthouses and accommodations that have been taking bookings illegally. The tourism department had recently drafted rules after amending the Goa Registration of Tourist Trade Act, mandating that all tourist trades need to register with the department. Also, the fee structure for various trades have been rationalised. “We have made the law and it will be implemented in a few days. The tourism department will start acting no sooner a report is received against hotels taking bookings illegally,” Ajgaonkar told TOI on Thursday. Since the pandemic, registered hotels and accommodations are required to take permissions from the tourism department and agree to comply with standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued it. Ajgaonkar also said that although hotels have been clearly instructed about SOPs, problems arise with those accepting bookings illegally. “We don’t have records of hotels operating illegally and hence after the inquiry, action will be initiated against them,” he said. Since June, over 1,000 hotels have obtained permission from the tourism department to operate. The department has also simplified the procedure for registrations of small accommodations that are rented out to tourists. A provision has also been made to issue them permission to operate pending inspection, provided the relevant documents are submitted. A tourism stakeholder said the culprits are the small operators that have mushroomed in the coastal belt over the years and who rent their flats, villas and houses to tourists without permission. “Some even rent their own houses while they stay in smaller houses. Mostly budget foreign tourists are their target as they choose to stay in Goa for longer. Now, even Indians visiting Goa for a month or two choose to stay in rented accommodation rather than at a hotel,” the stakeholder said, adding that the department will have to crack down on illegal operators rather than waiting for complaints to act upon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-to-crack-down-on-illegal-hotels-guesthouses/articleshow/79436044.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Goa||Goa logs two more Covid-19 deaths, 148 fresh cases||MARGAO: Two people died of Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the total Covid-related fatalities to 685. Both the deaths occurred at Goa Medical College and Hospital (GMC), Bambolim. As per the daily bulletin released by the health department, of the two deceased, one is a 67-year-old man whose place of residence is yet to be established. He was referred to the GMC from Hospicio, Margao, on October 24 and was undergoing treatment at the GMC since then. While acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) was stated to be the immediate cause of his death, he was suffering from bilateral Covid pneumonia and had diabetes. The second case of death was of a 64-year-old woman from Sakhali who was undergoing treatment in the GMC since November 5. Sepsis with septic encephalopathy and shock was stated to be the immediate cause of her death in the medical bulletin. She had developed Covid pneumonia and was also suffering from myotic aneurysm. She also had diabetes. Meanwhile, 111 recoveries and 148 new cases were reported on Thursday, and a recovery rate of 95.7% was registered. The total number of active cases stood at 1,316. Forty-six patients were admitted to hospital on Thursday while 129 preferred home isolation, as per the medical bulletin. Goa’s positivity rate stood at 7.8% with 1,892 samples tested on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-logs-2-more-covid-deaths-148-fresh-cases/articleshow/79436119.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Goa||Goa: Astronomy body awaits nod to open||PANAJI: Stargazers and amateur astronomers may have to wait a little longer to restart their sky gazing from the observatory. The Association of the Friends of Astronomy (AFA) is still awaiting the government’s green signal to reopen the public space. The AFA was earlier eyeing a December 1 opening date. So far, the AFA has kept the doors to all of its observatories closed owing to the pandemic and has been conducting celestial events that can be “viewed from home”. Members watch events from their terrace or with the help of apps. “The government has not given permission to fully open owing to which we cannot start operations. Right now, only members can come to the observatory one at a time on prior appointment only,” AFA said. In the coming months, there are a few celestial events that are expected to be visible from Goa. However, AFA said that the risk of having public observations is too much since multiple people using the same telescope “would be disastrous”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/astronomy-body-awaits-nod-to-open/articleshow/79436186.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Goa||Goa: Six-month tax relief for bus operators||PANAJI: Public transport operators on Thursday welcomed the government’s decision on the six-month relaxation on passenger and road tax, as well as a waiver on the penalty on either of the taxes. “After multiple representations to the directorate of transport by bus owners since May to waive penalties and taxes, the state government has decided to grant a relaxation for six months,” said president of the all Goa private bus owners’ association, Sudeep Tamhankar. Various other public transport associations like motorcycle pilots, taxis, etc had also approached the transport department over the past few months seeking a waiver on the taxes. Bus owners had also gheraoed the deputy director of transport on two occasions and had even approached the court against the non-waiver of taxes during the lockdown months. “Our petition was heard and the relaxation was given on November 24,” Tamhankar said. Members of the taxi association also expressed their gratitude about the government’s decision to implement the six-month relaxation on passenger and road tax. “After months of struggling, we will finally get relief,” the association stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/6-month-tax-relief-for-bus-operators/articleshow/79436264.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Goa||Goa: New curator to take over central library||PANAJI: Goa state central library will get a new head from December 1. Current curator, Carlos Fernandes is being transferred to the department of library sciences at the Goa University. Senior librarian at the library Sulaksha Kolmule, will hold charge as acting librarian. After completing a course in library sciences at the Shivaji University, Kolhapur, Fernandes joined the Gomant Vidya Niketan library in Margao in 1989. He then had a few stints at GU and the Saraswati College of Management, Mapusa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/new-curator-to-take-over-central-library/articleshow/79436329.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: BJP bid to oust MLC K Prathapchandra Shetty as council chair||BENGALURU: BJP and JD(S) have reportedly joined hands to oust MLC K Prathapchandra Shetty from the position of the legislative council chairman. Eleven BJP MLCs submitted a notice to move a no-confidence motion against Shetty to council secretary KR Mahalakshmi on Wednesday. Mahalakshmi confirmed the development. It is mandatory to give two weeks’ notice to move a no-confidence motion against the presiding officer. The winter session of the legislature will begin from December 7. JD(S) is thought to be backing the bid against Shetty as part of a silent understanding with BJP, which is eyeing control of both houses of the legislature. Though BJP is the largest party in the council, Congress and JD(S), with their combined strength, currently have the upper hand. Under the opposition’s deal, JD(S) got the deputy chairman’s post. JD(S) is reportedly leaning towards BJP now, viewing Congress as a common rival. According to party insiders, JD(S) will retain the deputy chairman’s post in its new understanding with BJP and in exchange, it will support the move against Shetty and help BJP gain control of the council. BJP is already comfortably placed in the assembly. According to some BJP functionaries, freeing up of the council chairman’s position will ease chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s cabinet headache. There is a crowded field of cabinet hopefuls, but only seven vacancies. Yediyurappa is likely to ask muzrai minister Kota Srinivas Poojary to take up the role of the council chairman, which will open up a place in the cabinet. After BJP’s DH Shankarmurthy, Shetty will be the second chairman of the legislative council to face a noconfidence motion in recent memory. Shankarmurthy survived the 2017 motion, which was moved by Congress, as BJP got support from JD(S). “We have submitted the notice against the chairman over his ad hoc decisions in curtailing the freedom of members and his partisan approach,” said BJP MLC Mahantesh Kavatgimath. Senior JD(S) MLC Basavaraj Horrati said that his party members would meet on November 28 to discuss the issue. “We will decide at the meeting whether to support the no-confidence motion or not,” he added. Shetty said that he was not aware of the BJP attempt as he was in his hometown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-bjp-bid-to-oust-mlc-k-prathapchandra-shetty-as-council-chair/articleshow/79437682.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Goa||Goan in Belagavi wills 4,5000 books to South Goa library||PANAJI: The South Goa district library in Navelim found its shelves filled up overnight after Shankar Chaphadkar, a Goan settled in Belagavi, Karnataka, left it 4,500 books from his personal collection following his demise. “Chaphadkar’s collection covers a wide range of topics. He held a unique collection of books on defence, sociology, economy, history, etc. His effort at building his personal library is so diverse that it is difficult to find a collection in Goa to match its standards. What is interesting to note that he has left bookmarks in every book on pages that have subjects of interest,” said librarian Mohandas Naik. Naik further said that although two other libraries from Belagavi and one in Kolhapur had requested for his collection, it was donated to the South Goa district library instead. Owing to his military background — he had worked in the Border Security Force — Chaphadkar had travelled and lived in various parts of India. Following his retirement, he chose to settle down in Goodshed road, Belagavi. His cousin, Vaijayanti Garge, said that it was only after his retirement that he began collecting books and managed to build a personal library. Chaphadkar died in July 2017 at the age of 78 years after suffering a cardiac arrest. Following his death, his family in Goa travelled to Belagavi and brought his books to Goa to be donated to the library.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goan-in-belagavi-wills-4-5k-books-to-s-goa-library/articleshow/79436378.cms||Nida Sayed
November 27, 2020||Mumbai||ED arrests Cox & Kings promoter Peter Kerkar||MUMBAI: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday arrested Peter Kerkar, promoter of Cox & Kings group companies, in a money laundering case connected to the Yes Bank fraud. The ED will produce him before the special court on Friday. ED officials had questioned Kerkar on five different occasions about Rs 3,642 crore his group companies had taken in loans from Yes Bank and other banks. The money had allegedly been misused. The ED said he had provided misleading information. Kerkar was called for questioning again on Thursday and subsequently arrested. It is alleged that of the total loan taken in the name of the Cox & Kings group companies, around Rs 800 crore was diverted into Kerkar's individual companies and trusts, including one in Mauritius. Earlier the ED had arrested Cox & Kings CFO Anil Khandelwal and internal auditor Naresh Jain in the case. It is alleged that Cox & Kings group companies submitted forged papers to take loans from Yes Bank and laundered the money through companies in the country and abroad. The company defaulted on the payment. The loans were sanctioned when Yes Bank was headed by its promoter, Rana Kapoor. The ED said that the bank transactions of Cox & Kings did not match with the books of accounts and that there were disparities between the books of accounts and the bank statements to camouflage the fraud. It is alleged that around Rs 150 crore of loan money was transferred to a company promoted by families of Khandelwal and Jain. Lenders of the Cox & Kings group, including Yes Bank, appointed PwC to conduct a forensic audit after they found a non-performing asset on their hands. The audit found falsification of accounts, overstating of sales figures, understating of debt figures, and fictitious transactions. It reported that from 2015 to 2019, sales of Rs 3,908 crore were made to 15 fictitious customers. Another 147 set of customers was also found to be suspicious. The report said Khandelwal diverted Rs 1,100 crore to Alok Industries without any approval of the board. Officials stated that the Cox & Kings group sold its subsidiary company in the UK, Holiday Break Education, for Rs 4,387 crore, and instead of discharging the liability of the banks it siphoned off most of the money. It includes a transfer of $15.3 million to Kuber Investment Mauritius Pvt Ltd, which was controlled by Cox & Kings group promoter Kerkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ed-arrests-cox-kings-promoter-peter-kerkar/articleshow/79437705.cms||Vijay V Singh
November 27, 2020||Chandigarh||New normal | Air travel in Covid-19 times||Flying is less risky than trips to the shopping mall or office. Learn the new way of flying. Frequent flyers, especially, are beginning to adjust. The flights are staggered to avoid crowding the airports. It is better to book the ticket online. Flyers will have to fill a declaration of quarantine, where needed. Carry face shield and mask along with the luggage. Get used to waiting. Bring your patience along. The guidelines are based on instructions received from the World Health Organisation and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/new-normal-air-travel-in-covid-19-times/articleshow/79437286.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Money issue: Chandigarh MC looks for new NGO to run cattle pound||CHANDIGARH: The municipal corporation will call an expression of interest (EOI) for the operation and maintenance of Maloya's cattle pound. Since the terms and conditions for running the gaushala are ready, the civic body's finance and contract committee (F&CC) has passed the agenda item. Local voluntary organisation Sai Shirdi Samaj, which runs this facility, has asked the MC for more money to survive the financial crunch brought on by the Covid-19 pandemic. This forced the MC to call an EOI to see if any other organisation can run the gaushala without adding to the civic body's financial burden. An MC official said: “We pay Rs 30 a day to the NGO for the maintenance of each cow but it demands Rs 60. Therefore, the F&CC decided to call an EOI. The selected organisation will have to follow the rules of feeding, upkeep, treatment, management, and cow care.” The civic body also pays the gaushala's water and electricity bills. The source in the MC said: “No doubt, the Sai Shirdi Samaj has run the gaushala well and taken good care of the cows within the rules as monitored, but paying it extra money is beyond our means.” The Maloya pound has 600-odd cows. Besides the management, the devotees also feed the cattle on a regular basis. The civic authority maintains the related record on a regular basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/money-issue-chandigarh-mc-looks-for-new-ngo-to-run-cattle-pound/articleshow/79437269.cms||Deepak Yadav
November 27, 2020||Kolkata||TMC Cooch Behar MLA signals exit||Cooch Behar: Cooch Behar Dakshin’s Trinamool MLA Mihir Goswami is on the way out of the party. Speaking his mind well over a month after he gave up all party posts on October 3, Goswami said he wouldn’t mind putting in his papers as MLA if the Trinamool chief wanted it. His Facebook post went viral in local political circles, drawing a prompt welcome from BJP district president Malati Rava. “Wait for some time. Everything will be clear within a few days,” Rava said. But Trinamool district president and MP Partha Pratim Roy refused to heed the speculation. “Goswami was elected on a Trinamool ticket and is the MLA still. He is with Trinamool as long as he is a Trinamool MLA,” Roy said, putting tacit pressure on the defiant MLA to give up his assembly membership before switching sides. In his Facebook post on Thursday evening, Goswami said: “I gave up my party posts on October 3. I am ready to resign from MLA (post) if the Trinamool chief wants me to do so. I feel that I am a burden to the party and am willing to sever ties with Trinamool. During my stay I have been let down in the organization from time to time with tacit indulgence from the state leadership. The situation didn’t change for the better even after informing the party chief.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tmc-cooch-behar-mla-signals-exit/articleshow/79437049.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Kolkata||Trinamool MP, guv in war of words over social media posts||Kolkata: Questioning governor Jagdeep Dhankhar’s social media posts referring to arrests by Kolkata and Bidhannagar police of persons implicated by central agencies — CBI and ED — Trinamool Congress MP and senior lawyer Kalyan Banerjee on Thursday said the governor should face penal action for “interfering in probe and intimidating police officers”. According to the governor, “the reflections are wide off the mark, betraying ignorance of elementary constitutional and legal aspects and factually untenable”. Banerjee said: “The governor is speaking on behalf of the accused and obstructing investigation. The central agencies have implicated the persons who have been arrested. One based on an ED complaint. One among these persons is involved in various criminal activities. He made fake documents in the name of ED.” He continued: “In addition to Rose Valley, two other cases involving his name have been registered by the central agency under PMLA Act. They are both cheaters, the central agency says so. Why is the governor speaking on behalf of these main accused? He is obstructing the work of police, using his influence to save them.” The governor said: “It is part of a vituperative campaign to cover up monumental lapses and constitutional indiscretions. I cannot help if some can even not read and understand the tweet language. I rubbish any assertion made that indicates otherwise than my commitment for accountability and transparency. I would continue to discharge my duties vigorously of my constitutional obligations, undeterred by any diversionary strategic moves.” He added that “the governance in the state is getting distanced from constitutional prescriptions and rule of law”. Legal experts did not read much into the prosecution claims. Former Bombay High Court chief justice, Justice Chittatosh Mookerjee, said no complaint against a governor can stand till he holds the post. Former Supreme Court judge Justice Ashok Kumar Ganguly said: “No criminal proceeding in any court can be instituted against the governor during his term of office under Art 361(2) and thus enjoys immunity.” Banerjee said action could be initiated after he was no longer governor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/trinamool-mp-guv-in-war-of-words-over-social-media-posts/articleshow/79437086.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Kolkata||Suvendu resigns as HRBC chairman, Kalyan gets charge||Kolkata/Mahishadal: Trinamool Congress minister Suvendu Adhikari has put in his papers as chairman of the Hooghly River Bridge Commissioners (HRBC). The state government has accepted his resignation and appointed TMC MP Kalyan Bandyopadhyay to the post. HRBC looks after a couple of vital bridges, including the country’s longest cable-stayed bridge Vidyasagar Setu that links Kolkata with Howrah and comes on the CM’s route to Nabanna. MPs Bandyopadhyay and Dinesh Trivedi held the chairman’s post before Adhikari. The minister remains chairman of the Haldia Development Authority till date apart from managing the two ministerial portfolios of transport and irrigation. Adhikari’s resignation fuelled speculation about his future roadmap. The development comes at a time Trinamool senior Saugata Roy is having a dialogue with the rebel leader. Adhikari loyalists were losing hope on the outcome of the talks after Trinamool chief Mamata Banerjee took Bandyopadhyay along with her to Bankura when the latter had been shooting off his mouth against Adhikari. Their apprehension came true when Bandyopadhyay was made the HRBC chairman on Thursday. The rebel leader’s associates also took note of the CM saying that she was the “sole observer” of the party and no one else, months after TMC did away with the party observer’s post that Adhikari and others held. The chief minister also sent out the signal that she was keeping a tab on “who was meeting whom”. All eyes are now set on Adhikari’s meeting at Purba Midnapore’s Mahishadal on Sunday in memory of freedom fighter Ranjit Kumar Boyal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/suvendu-resigns-as-hrbc-chairman-kalyan-gets-charge/articleshow/79436966.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal BJP huddle to facilitate poll manifesto||Kolkata: The BJP in Bengal has started drawing up a list of issues plaguing its five organization zones before deciding on the party manifesto for the 2021 assembly elections. Bengal BJP in-charge Kailash Vijayvargiya went into a huddle with the state leadership and 14 of the 18 party MPs at a Rajarhat hotel here on Thursday. The meeting was a follow-up on the primary discussions national leaders had with party organizers in the five zones between November 18 and 20. “The need for better law and order and corruption-free administration is common to all the zones. However, priority issues are different. Issues in Hooghly’s Singur do not match with those in Bongaon, North 24 Parganas, or in the Hills and foothills of north Bengal. We are thus identifying the core problems to have a grasp on ground realities while drawing up the party manifesto,” a BJP leader said. Union home minister Amit Shah had laid emphasis on building movements over local issues, apart from shoring up booth-level organization, during his Bengal visit on November 5. He had also engaged private agencies to feel the popular pulse. Shah wants BJP workers to not bank on the anti-incumbency factor alone, but try to win voters by initiating steps to address issues close to their heart.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-bjp-huddle-to-facilitate-poll-manifesto/articleshow/79437046.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Mentally ill Malda youth found dead||MALDA: The body of a mentally disabled youth was found in a drain here on Thursday morning. Amol Pramanik (31) had been missing from his Sahapur home since Monday. Elder brother Bimal Pramanik said: “Amol always stayed home because he needs extra care. A few days ago, he accidentally broke his hand, which called for a surgery. On Monday, he somehow left home without us noticing it.” Apart from lodging a missing diary with police, the family had made public announcements across English Bazaar and asked around with Amol’s photograph in hand. But, he had not been found until sweepers spotted a body floating in a high drain at Krishnapally. Later, family members identified it as Amol’s.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mentally-ill-malda-youth-found-dead/articleshow/79437109.cms||Subhro Maitra
November 27, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal’s not the land of riots like Gujarat: CM Mamata Banerjee||KOLKATA: “Banglar mati sonar mati, eta Gujarat er dangar mati noy (The golden land of Bengal is not like the riotous lands of Gujarat)” chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Thursday, even taking a dig at Union home minister Amit Shah saying “desher sorashtro mantri desh chalabe na municipal elections korabe (Will the Union home minister run the country or conduct municipal polls)”. Referring to Shah, Banerjee said: “He should instead look at the borders and resuscitate the economy.” “Outsiders who foment violence and riots” have no place in Bengal, the chief minister added. The CM’s sharp statements came as she unveiled an ambitious health scheme aimed to bring in an estimated 10 crore people in Bengal under a health insurance coverage. The scheme — Sasthya Sathi — comes with a Rs 5-lakh health coverage for households and the smart card is issued to the female head of the family. Banerjee said the smart card not only gives entitlement to members of the family in which women are married, but also to their parents. She said the scheme, which is linked to 1,500 private health facilities in the state apart from AIIMS, Delhi and CMC, Vellore, will now be provided during the two-month-long camps under the “government at your doorstep” campaign beginning December 1. The additional financial burden will be an estimated Rs 2,000 crore a year, Banerjee said, adding, “we want to bring everyone under its ambit”. Banerjee also announced that Bengal will observe year-long Netaji’s 125th birth anniversary celebrations and announced a committee that will be chaired by her and include Nobel laureates Amartya Sen and Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee. The committee, which will decide the manner in which Netaji celebrations can be held befittingly in Bengal, will include Harvard professor Sugata Basu and state finance minister Amit Mitra, both related to Netaji. “We are also speaking to members of the INA and hope they can also join this committee,” she said. Banerjee, who had earlier written to the Prime Minister on this, hoped that other states, too, will “take the cue”. Blaming BJP for trying to rewrite history by portraying leaders who “compromised” with the British government “in a different colour”, she questioned why the Centre didn’t keep its promise to release all classified documents related to Netaji’s disappearance. The CM accused Shah of doing politics when the economy was in ruins. “They are lecturing on everything. They have been giving lectures on vaccines for the last one year. The country’s home minister is conducting municipal elections. I have not seen anything like this. The home minister is supposed to run the country. He is coming to municipalities, going to homes for lunch when the economy of the country is in a shambles. Even a student of economics will understand that there is no direction,” she said. Attacking BJP’s suggestion of replicating the Gujarat model in Bengal, Banerjee said, “They always say we will turn Bengal into Gujarat. Why? The soil of Gujarat is not like Bengal’s. You don’t have riots and disturbances like Gujarat in Bengal. This is the golden soil of Rabindra, Nazrul and not the land of riots like Gujarat.” “There is no place for outsiders. Those who stay in Bengal and consider this to be their home are people of Bengal. People who come from outside to create disturbance and riots have no place in the state,” the CM added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mamata-bengals-not-the-land-of-riots-like-gujarat/articleshow/79436942.cms||Saibal Gupta
November 27, 2020||Ranchi||Light to moderate showers likely on Friday||RANCHI: The northern and central districts of Jharkhand are likely to experience light to moderate showers on Friday. The light rains are a result of the clouds that have been pushed into Jharkhand’s atmosphere by severe cyclonic storm Nivar, which made landfall in Tamil Nadu and left a trail of destruction in its wake. As the cyclone is moving towards north-west, southerly winds are blowing into Jharkhand. In addition to that, a cyclonic circulation, which has formed over eastern Rajasthan, is also causing winds to blow in from the west. “The impact of two wind patterns over Jharkhand has caused cloudy conditions and it is likely to cause rain,” Abhishek Anand, a senior scientist at Ranchi IMD, said. While light rains are expected in isolated parts of Jharkhand overnight, the cloud cover is expected to recede by Saturday morning. “With skies clearing, the minimum temperature is expected to dip three notches below normal,” he added. Ranchi’s night-time mercury stood at 11 degree Celsius on Wednesday. Jamshedpur recorded 14 degree Celsius while Daltonganj recorded 11.8 degree Celsius. The maximum temperature in Ranchi and Daltonganj hovered around 25 degree Celsius on Thursday, while Jamshedpur recorded 27 degree Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/light-to-moderate-showers-likely-on-friday/articleshow/79434495.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Ranchi||Coal sector unruffled by trade union strike||RANCHI/RAMGARH: Coal companies under Coal India Limited (CIL) claimed their production was marginally affected by the day-long strike called by trade unions on Thursday. Ranchi-based Central Coalfields Limited (CCL) said the operation of their Jharkhand open cast mine in Hazaribag was partially affected on Thursday morning. There were disruptions created by landowners and trade union members in four mines of CCL’s North Karanpura coal project. “Production, overburden removal and dispatch were normal. There was close to 100% attendance at the company’s headquarters in Darbhanga House and office work went on as usual,” a senior CCL official said in Ranchi on the condition of anonymity. The CCL, which is CIL’s largest subsidiary in Jharkhand, is producing 2 lakh tonnes of coal every day at present. “Around 60% of the production work is handled by private companies. None of the workers under these companies participated in the strike. The strike also lost its sheen as the Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (RSS-backed trade union) abstained from the strike,” the official added. Dhanbad-based Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL) also claimed there was work as usual. “Barring the West Jharia coalfields where work was affected, production was normal. The Chanch/Victoria coalfields, which partially falls in West Bengal, also reported production as usual,” BCCL’s public relations office said. The BCCL is producing 70,000 tonnes of coal each day in the post-monsoon season. While coal companies claimed there was no adverse effect, trade unions hailed the strike as a success. In a joint statement, they said: “The strike was successful with production and transportation of coal from Central Coalfields Limited (CCL) and Eastern Coalfields Limited being affected. Workers abstained at the Central Mine Planning and Design Institute, while the strike call had a partial response in the Bharat Coking Coal Limited.” The strike did not affect power generation either. Vishwanath Chandan, the chief public relations officer of NTPC’s eastern region, said: “It was a token strike for a few hours and employees returned to work after staging demonstrations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/coal-sector-unruffled-by-trade-union-strike/articleshow/79434488.cms||Dhritiman Ray
November 27, 2020||Jamshedpur||Environment regulations biggest challenge in achieving 300 MT steel: Tata Steel MD||JAMSHEDPUR: Tata Steel MD T V Narendran on Thursday said that regulations related to environment were the biggest challenges in achieving 300 million tonnes (MT) of steel production by 2030. The MD was speaking on the subject, Creating an Ecosystem for Innovation in Materials and Manufacturing, at the 71st Foundation Day of CSIR-National Metallurgical Laboratory (NML), Jamshedpur, on Thursday. In his address to the delegates on a virtual platform, the MD talked about the Chinese approach of having a dedicated university to do deep research and come out with the solutions specific to steel, magnesium and titanium materials. Narendran said focused approach was required to achieve the milestones. Earlier, the vice-chancellor of BIT Mesra, Indranil Manna, said during his speech that additive manufacturing was becoming relevant to many industries due to its effectiveness in reducing the production cost and generating minimum waste. “By 2025, additive industry is likely to rise to $120 billion,” Manna said. In his welcome address, the director of CSIR-NML, Indranil Chattoraj, talked about the contribution of the NML in the development of the country. Presiding over the programme, the secretary of the department of scientific and industrial research and the director general of CSIR, S C Mande, released two issues of the Materials Science and Metallurgy journal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/environment-regulations-biggest-challenge-in-achieving-300-mt-steel-tata-steel-md/articleshow/79434421.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Festive season gone, but stalls stay in Panchkula||PANCHKULA: Despite clear orders from the deputy commissioner and weeks of festive-season campaign, the city spaces remain under encroachment, with no sign of social distancing outside the shops. The citizen welfare association (CWA) continues to report more and more land grabs. The booth owners and shopkeepers have occupied the market corridors, shrinking the space meant for the walkers. When the CWA confronted the shopkeepers, they said they had to place a few items outside for the sake of social distancing, while they had temporary festive-season licence for the corridor stalls. CWA president S K Nayar said: “These are just excuses to encroach upon the government land. It shouldn't save them from strict action. The festive season is over.” It was on November 9 that the Panchkula deputy commissioner had ordered Huda (Haryana Urban Development Authority) and the municipal corporation to rid the city of encroachment. A fortnight later, the pedestrian corridors of the markets remain occupied. Senior citizens and children are discomforted the most during heat, cold, and rain, since the corridors that shielded them from these weather elements aren't free anymore. The CWA has appealed to Haryana assembly speaker and local legislator Gian Chand Gupta, deputy commissioner M K Ahuja, municipal commissioner R K Singh, and the Huda authorities to get the walkways and corridors cleared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/festive-season-gone-but-stalls-stay-in-panchkula/articleshow/79437251.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Chandigarh||New normal | Habits to keep inside the house||A second wave of Covid-19 is feared to be on its way to the Tricity. Already, a partial lockdown is proposed for many cities. TOI has some advice on how to reduce vulnerability. It includes tips about diet, fitness, socialisation, disinfecting articles. The infographic will teach you how to reduce infection and contact, and boost recovery, all while sitting at home. The guidelines are based on instructions received from the World Health Organisation and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/new-normal-habits-to-keep-inside-the-house/articleshow/79437254.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Vadodara||Cops seize 500 bogus marksheets||Vadodara: Investigations into the bogus marksheet racket that surfaced in the city have revealed that the gang had a country-wide network. The prevention of crime branch (PCB) made three more arrests in the racket after the kingpin Dilip Mohite was nabbed by the Gotri police a few days ago. The police suspect that many more persons may be involved in the racket. The PCB had arrested Mohite on November 6 in connection with a fake degree racket. During his interrogation, Mohite revealed the names of other three accused identified as Rehan Siddique, resident of Tandalja, Kabir Badshah, resident of Wadi and Siraj Saiyad, resident of Bharuch. “We then raided the office of Rehan in Blue Diamond Complex in Fatehgunj on November 21. Our team found hundreds of fake duplicate certificates and marksheet there,” said R C Kanamiya, police inspector, PCB. From duplicate degree certificates of educational institutes and universities in Rajasthan, Class 10 and 12 marksheet of Council of School and Technology Education, Madhya Pradesh to degree certificates of Karnataka State Open University and marksheet as well as certificates of colleges in Ahmedabad, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Sikkim and Meghalaya were seized by the PCB from the spot. “We seized about 500 certificates and sent them for verification. All the certificates were bogus. So another offence was registered against, Rehan, Kabir and Siraj at Fatehgunj police station and all the three have been arrested,” Kanamiya told TOI. The police said that the Mohite and the three other accused had been running this fake marksheet racket in the city since years. The accused used to get customers through their agents in Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan in the past. They sold the bogus certificates and marksheet at Rs 40,000 to Rs 50,000 apiece. “When questioned about the fake marksheet, they claim that they got blank sheets through their contacts in the colleges and universities. But we suspect that they have been printing these marksheet locally,” Kanamiya added. The PCB will soon visit Bharuch and try to track down the other accused as well as the customers who bought these bogus certificates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cops-seize-500-bogus-marksheets/articleshow/79434296.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra revenues fall 21% over 2019 , deficit Rs 35,000 crore||MUMBAI: As the MVA government nears completion of one year in office, overcoming the financial hit of Covid-19 remains one of its major challenges. Before the pandemic, the state was already cashstrapped, with a debt projection of Rs 5.2 lakh crore. In the 8 months between April and November, state’s revenues are almost 21% lower than in 2019 at 1.27 lakh crore. Revenue deficit has reached Rs 35,000 crore. And borrowings are up by Rs 58,000 crore. December data may show if tide is turning, say officials Latest available data from Maharashtra shows revenues mobilised by the state this financial year till November 23 were Rs 33,436 crore lower than in the year-ago period. In 2019, the state had collected Rs 1.6 lakh crore till end of November. This year, it has collected 1.27 lakh crore with a week to go before the month ends. The state took its largest revenue hit at the height of the lockdown in April-May when economic activity was at a standstill. Revenue in April was 41% lower and in May it was 49.5% lower than in 2019. In June, when the lockdown was lifted, pent-up demand resulted in a rise in revenues. But collections slid once again until October when consumption rose with the festive season. Revenues were down again in November with collections till the 23rd of the month only Rs 10,165 crore. Officials say December figures will reveal the trends of whether there is an upswing in the state economy. “It’s still too early to call. Festival shopping must have peaked in October,” said an official, explaining the dip in the November figures. While agricultural growth was the silver lining in the state’s economy, heavy rains and flooding wrecked the kharif crop, resulting in the state taking on the additional financial burden of a package worth Rs 10,000 crore. Tax collections have improved since June, mainly owing to Goods and Services Tax (GST) which is a consumption-based tax and Stamp Duty and Registration fees. However, collection of major taxes till November 23, was 29% lower than in 2019. Delay in GST compensation from the Centre remains a major concern. Till now the state is owed compensation worth Rs 28,698 crore from the Centre. So far, the state has taken loans amounting to Rs 2,658 crore in lieu of GST compensation. In September, the state finance department had projected a sharp contraction in economic growth for the rest of the financial year. It has forecast that the state’s Gross Value Added (GVA) will decline 7.4% in October-December compared to 2019. It predicted a much steeper plunge of 16.4% in January-March 2021. GVA is the value of goods and services supplied in the economy after deducting the cost of inputs. The forecast had also said that unemployment and job losses will remain a major constraint in the revival of Maharashtra’s economy and that the industry and services sector will continue to remain under pressure due to demand contraction. Officials are hopeful that reversal of budget cuts will help provide an economic stimulus. The government had imposed a 67% cut on the budgetary provision for the year in May. It was partially lifted in November to stimulate the economy and make an estimated Rs 30,000 crore available for developmental work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-revenues-fall-21-over-2019-deficit-rs-35000-crore/articleshow/79437726.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
November 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi government tells HC it will take a call on night curfew soon||NEW DELHI: The Delhi high court on Thursday asked the AAP government to “take a call without losing time” if a night curfew was needed to be imposed in the capital to contain the spread of Covid-19. The HC’s order came after the Delhi government, replying to a query by the court, said it was “actively considering” some kind of curfew but no decision had been taken. The government assured a bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad that it may take a decision in three to four days. While scrutinising the testing being carried out by the government, standing counsel Satyakam informed the court that for the first time 40,000 RT-PCR tests had been carried out by the administration, surpassing the number of RAT tests. Involve RWAs in Covid fight, HC tells govtIt is now for the Delhi government to take a call as to whether a night curfew is required to be imposed in Delhi or some parts of Delhi and/or other measures need to be adopted. The Delhi government shall take a decision on this aspect and implement the same without losing further time,” the bench observed, after taking note of senior advocate Sandeep Sethi’s stand on behalf of the AAP government. Imposition of a night curfew has been permitted in the latest guidelines issued by the Centre on November 25. The Centre told the court that these guidelines allow states and Union territories to impose local restrictions, including night curfews, based on their assessment of the situation on the ground, especially in containment zones. Acknowledging the increase in testing for which the HC has been pushing the AAP government for months, the bench underlined that "6,562 lives in Delhi were lost to Covid-19 infection up to 01.11.2020, which, if divided over eight months, would come to an average of 800 deaths per month whereas in the month of November 2020 alone, that has still a few days left, the deaths have crossed 2,000, which itself is alarming. Even if the mortality rate in Delhi due to the infection is lower than some other cities in India, that can hardly be solace to those who have lost a near and dear one." In a status report, the AAP government also informed the high court that chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had held a meeting with the market welfare associations, along with all deputy commissioners, to invite suggestions to contain the virus. "To our mind, this meeting was only to set the ball rolling. It is for the Delhi government to take concrete and tangible steps to involve RWAs and MWAs for contributing to control the situation at the ground level," said the bench. "As of now, it is not even known as to how many RWAs and MWAs exist in Delhi. Each district must be called upon to focus on the said welfare associations and involve them so that a message can be spread to all concerned about maintaining social distancing, wearing a mask and taking all measures necessary." The HC also sought details of the fines collected under various heads related to the violation of Covid-19 norms by the government and the police. It asked them to list the steps taken to utilise these funds for fighting the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-government-tells-hc-it-will-take-a-call-on-night-curfew-soon/articleshow/79437703.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Delhi||Farmers' march: 'You cannot board metro from NCR towards Delhi'||NEW DELHI: With Metro services from NCR to the capital stopped just before the state borders because of the farmers’ march, many Delhiites found it tough to reach office and instead worked from home on Thursday. Friday won’t be any better. While services within Delhi will be normal, as it was Thursday, trains in NCR cities will be regulated. Commuters from Delhi will be able to reach all NCR stations, but wouldn’t be able to return using the Metro. “I was unable to find even a cab during the peak hour. Most of my colleagues also worked from home,” said Kamal Malhotra, a Noida resident, whose office is in south Delhi. You cannot board Metro from NCR towards DelhiThere will be no movement of passengers allowed from NCR stations to Delhi till such a time as advised by police authorities,” a DMRC spokesperson said. On ground, this would mean that while some trains will terminate at the last stations near Delhi’s borders, some will enter NCR but only reach the terminal stations, opening doors on the way. But on the way back to Delhi, the doors will remain closed and no passenger will be able to board the train from NCR towards Delhi. However, separate trains will run on loop for those travelling within NCR cities. While Magenta Line’s (Janakpuri West-Botanical Garden) services wouldn’t be available in NCR, trains would operate between Noida City Centre to Noida Electronic City stations on Blue Line. On the Red Line, trains will run in a loop between Major Mohit Sharma Rajendra Nagar and Shaheed Sthal New Bus Adda stations in Ghaziabad. In Gururgram, some trains on Yellow Line would run between Guru Dronacharya and HUDA City Centre stations and the Rapid Metro would have normal service. On the Violet Line, which connects Delhi to Faridabad and Ballabhgarh, trains would run on a loop between Mewala Maharajpur and Raja Nahar Singh stations. There will be no NCR service on the Green Line which connects Delhi to Bahadurgarh. “This arrangement is being done on the directions of Police authorities owing to security reasons in the wake of the ongoing Kisan Rally,” the spokesperson said. Watch Farmers' protest: Passengers not allowed to board metro from NCR towards Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/metro-stalled-ncr-virtually-cut-off-from-delhi/articleshow/79437725.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Hyderabad||PM Narendra Modi set to visit Bharat Biotech in Hyderabad on Saturday||HYDERABAD: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be flying into Hyderabad on Saturday to visit vaccine maker Bharat Biotech’s facilities as part of his whirlwind three-city tour. He will take stock of the ongoing Covid-19 vaccine development work in the country during the trip. Prior to arriving in Hyderabad, Modi will be visiting the facilities of Zydus Cadila in Ahmedabad where ZyCoV-D is under development and the Serum Institute of India facilities in Pune where the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine will be manufactured. All the three vaccine candidates are currently undergoing Phase III clinical trials. Modi will be arriving in the city at Hakimpet air force station on Saturday afternoon. PM to head straight to Bharat Biotech facilityThe PM will head straight to Bharat Biotech facility at Genome Valley where work on Covaxin, is under way. Telangana government sources confirmed that PM will spend an hour at the plant to understand vaccine development process and preparedness for its rollout once ready. He will then directly fly back to Delhi around 5.30pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pm-narendra-modi-set-to-visit-bharat-biotech-in-hyderabad-on-saturday/articleshow/79437652.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Maharashtra's caseload crosses 18 lakh, latest 1 lakhtook the most time||MUMBAI: For the second day in a row, Maharashtra reported over 6,000 new Covid-19 cases and the city added over 1,000, while the fatalities continued to remain the same. Significantly, Mumbai's doubling rate dropped under 200 days after reaching more than 320 days on November 18. The state added 6,406 fresh cases and 65 fatalities on Thursday, taking its total caseload to 18,02,365, thus breaching the 18 lakh mark, and the total fatalities stood at 46,813. It took the state 22 days to add the last one lakh cases, the maximum time taken so far for new one lakh cases to be added to the tally. The state had over 17 lakh cases on November 2. The time taken to go from 16 lakh cases to 17 lakh cases was 18 days. Mumbai reported nearly 1,200 cases for the second day in a row (1,147), taking its caseload to 2,79,744. From a daily average of 600-800 cases in the first two weeks of this month, cases have risen to 1,000 in the last seven days. The city's doubling rate dropped to 196 days owing to the rise in daily detections. The only positive news was that deaths for the state and city didn't show any significant change. On Thursday, the state saw 65 deaths, same as the deaths registered on Wednesday. Of the total 65 deaths, 43 occurred within the last 48 hours while 22 occurred last week. Deaths in Mumbai too remained under 20. On Thursday, 15 deaths took the toll to 10,740. A senior civic doctor said most city ICUs are no longer seeing Covid deaths daily. Dr V Ravishankar, CEO of Lilavati Hospital said there were several days last week when the hospital didn't register any Covid death in a 24-hour window. After a drop in tests being conducted in the state during Diwali week, the state has regained some lost ground in the past few days. A total of 90,371 tests were conducted in the state in the last 24 hours, and with a total of 6,406 cases, it has a daily positivity rate of 7%. "In the meeting with eight states with PM Modi earlier this week, it was said that testing in the state has dropped and there is a need to increase it to pre-Diwali numbers. It was also said that in many districts, antigen tests were more than RT-PCR tests. We have ensured that testing is increased across the state," said an official. He said with passengers being tested at airports, railway stations and even entry points, testing numbers are bound to go up. The Mumbai region reported 2,181 fresh cases and 20 deaths, taking its total cases to 6.2 lakh and fatalities to 18,580. Pune circle reported 1,410 cases and 17 deaths. The surge in cases has slowed down daily recoveries in the state and led to an increase in active cases. On Thursday, 4,815 people recovered, taking total recoveries to 16.7 lakh, and there were 85,963 active cases in the state, of which 14,185 were in Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-19-maharashtras-caseload-crosses-18-lakh-latest-1-lakhtook-the-most-time/articleshow/79437781.cms||Bhavika Jain
November 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: To reboot citizens’ lives, techies step out to crack political code||HYDERABAD: Leaving their high-paying IT jobs behind, several techies in the city have forayed into politics in the ensuing Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections to try and resolve civic issues. Engineers contesting for the civic polls intend to strike a chord with the educated lot of the IT corridor of Hyderabad, which otherwise stands at the bottom of the chart in terms of voting percentage. Data shows in the last few elections the voting percentage in the IT stronghold areas of Madhapur, Hi-Tec City, Gachibowli and Kondapur has never been more than 40%. With an aim to change the way people in the IT corridor voted in the past, a Birla Institute of Technology-Pilani alumni Srinivas Velaga is contesting on a BJP ticket from Hydernagar division. After a successful career in the IT industry in Singapore for almost nine years, he returned to India in 2009 and took up another job. In 2017, he quit his IT job and dedicated his time to various civic issues. “I realised that unless the political system is cleansed, the root issues cannot be resolved. I can file RTIs and court cases but someone has to implement the change at the ground level,” said Velaga, who has constituted volunteering groups for every apartment and colony in his division to ensure that people come out in large numbers to vote on December 1. Many techies filed papers, but withdrew at last minuteSoftware employee Jeswanth Reddy, who is contesting the elections from BN Reddy division as an independent, is also targeting the educated mass. Reddy returned from the US and worked on civic issues in 2013, but decided to contest elections only now. “When an IITian like Arvind Kejriwal could be the chief minister then why can’t I be a corporator and bring a change at the local level? I have volunteered with the Aam Aadmi Party for the last six-seven years, but decided to contest elections only now,” said Reddy. Members of Telangana Information Technology Association (TITA) believe that techies contesting in the polls will indeed change the mindset among people residing in the IT corridor. “It’s time techies stop being spectators and come out and vote. Considering people are working from home, we hope this time the awareness would be much higher and we witness an increase of 10-15% in voting percentage without any hiccups,” said Venkat Vanam, spokesperson, TITA. There were many other techies who filed their nominations but withdrew them at the last minute. “I had filed my nomination from BJP from Gachibowli division. But as the party gave form B to a different candidate, I withdrew my nomination,” said Suresh Matta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyderabad-to-reboot-citizens-lives-techies-step-out-to-crack-political-code/articleshow/79437663.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Vadodara||Transgenders get a home where they can hone skills||Vadodara: After being left in a lurch dejected by their own for identity crisis, transgenders can now look forward to a place which they can call their home in more ways than one. Here they will not have shelter, but also a place to hone skills to help them live independently. While members of this community are commonly associated with begging or seeking alms as eunuchs not all trans gender persons find it comfortable to be part of these dubious groups. However, not accepted in mainstream society, these few find their going really tough. As part of a programme funded by the union ministry for social justice and empowerment, the first-ever shelter home for trans gender persons, ‘Garima Greh’, is set to come up in the city’s Mujmahuda area. Sylvester Merchant, founder member and trustee of Lakshya Trust which has set up the facility said, “The facility is the first to take off in the country. We were selected on the basis of the work we have done so far. This facility will be like a pilot for the project.” Merchant added that this was the first project of its kind that the trust had taken up in association with the union ministry. “The project is amongst various efforts to work for the vulnerable sections of the society,” he said. The facility can house 25 inmates where they will only get shelter and food, but will be trained in various skills too. “We want to make them independent and ensure that they get gainful employment,” said Merchant, adding that the centre will also help the inmates with various government schemes. The online inauguration of the facility was performed on Wednesday by union minister for social justice and empowerment Thaawarchand Gehlot along with the inauguration of the national portal for transgender persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/transgenders-get-a-home-where-they-can-hone-skills/articleshow/79434320.cms||Sachin Sharma
November 27, 2020||World||Trump says he will leave office if Biden victory confirmed||WASHINGTON: President Donald Trump said Thursday that he would leave the White House if Joe Biden is officially confirmed the winner of the US election, making a further concession of defeat even as he railed against the "rigged" vote. Trump has made an unprecedented attempt to defy the results of the election by refusing to concede, spreading wild theories about stolen ballots and launching baseless legal challenges that have been thrown out by courts across the country. Answering his first questions from reporters since the November 3 vote, the president moved closer to accepting that he would serve only one term in office before Biden is inaugurated on January 20. When asked if he would leave the White House if the Electoral College confirmed Biden's victory, Trump said, "Certainly I will. And you know that." But "if they do, they made a mistake," he said, adding, "It's going to be a very hard thing to concede." The Electoral College, which determines the White House winner, will meet on December 14 to certify Biden's victory, with Biden receiving 306 votes to Trump's 232. "This was a massive fraud," Trump said about the result, again without providing any evidence during his remarks to reporters on Thursday, the Thanksgiving holiday. He described the US voting infrastructure as "like a third-world country." Earlier in the day he tweeted that "this was a 100% RIGGED ELECTION," while on Wednesday he called on his Republican supporters "to turn the election over." President-elect Biden has said that Americans "won't stand" for attempts to derail the outcome, and called for Americans to unite to fight the worsening Covid-19 pandemic. Trump, who tore up countless norms during his four years in power, has carved out new territory with his refusal to concede to Biden. Supporters suggest he is already eyeing an announcement of running for president again in 2024. Trump, 74, is alleging -- among other conspiracy theories -- that voting machines deliberately deleted millions of his votes, though the government election security agency declared it "the most secure" election in US history. After coming under pressure from a slowly building trickle of senior Republicans, Trump this week ended his blockade of government assistance to ease Biden's preparation for assuming the presidency. Biden this week also introduced a slate of veteran diplomats and policy-makers who will make up his national security and foreign policy team, saying: "America is back, ready to lead the world." "These public servants will restore America's global leadership and moral leadership," Biden, 78, said as the six men and women stood behind him wearing face-masks. Biden said that in his first 100 days in office he will tackle the Covid crisis, scrap Trump policies "damaging" the environment and push legislation offering millions of undocumented residents a route to citizenship.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-says-he-will-leave-office-if-biden-victory-confirmed/articleshow/79437816.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Mumbai||Drugs case: Kshitij Prasad granted bail||MUMBAI: Film executive producer Kshitij Prasad was granted bail on Thursday in the drugs case that the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) is probing in connection with actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. “Prasad will not walk out of the jail today as he’s been implicated in the second case which will be heard next week, on December 3,” his advocate Satish Maneshinde said. Prasad (30) was first arrested on September 26. He is a former employee of filmmaker Karan Johar’s Dharmatic Entertainment, a sister concern of Dharma Productions. Another accused, alleged drug peddler Dwayne Fernandes too was granted bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/drugs-case-kshitij-prasad-granted-bail/articleshow/79437812.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Thane||Thane: Taxi driver held for aiding MNS man's killers||THANE: Crime branch arrested a taxi driver for the murder of an MNS functionary in broad daylight on Monday. Police are still to find out the motive. They said the shooting of Jamil Shaikh was well-planned, with a single round fired by other assailants on bikes. Shahid Shaikh (31), a resident of Kranit Nagar, Rabodi, earlier worked with an online cab aggregator but due to the pandemic and lockdown, was operating as a private driver. "Prima facie, he provided logistical support," said an officer. He added that they pieced together clues and found that Shaikh tagged Jamil's daily movement. DCP (crime) Laxmikant Patil said, "He provided a bike for the recce and a car to help the assailants flee." Police said that he used the number plate of a truck on the bike used in the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/thane-taxi-driver-held-for-aiding-mns-mans-killers/articleshow/79437829.cms||Nishikant Karlikar
November 27, 2020||Business||Bengal scores big in optimising mkt borrowing||Kolkata: Despite a huge outflow for debt repayments and low revenue generation due to the Covid-19 pandemic, fresh market borrowing by the West Bengal government witnessed a marginal 5.1% rise this fiscal so far till November 24. All states taken together, there has been a 48% rise in the borrowing from the market during the same period this fiscal. The state finance department has argued that this is because of its better financial management in difficult times and prioritising expenses and relatively better position on the revenue front in the third quarter of this fiscal. However,some experts felt that it may have deferred the expenses for last quarter and looked for borrowing at better terms. CAG had appreciated the state finance department in September this year for 99.6% expenditure reconciliation and 100% revenue reconciliation. West Bengal and Kerala were among the last states which have finally opted for Union finance ministry relaxation for borrowing on Wednesday. Following the receipt of choice, the Central government has granted an additional borrowing permission of Rs 4,522 crore to Kerala and Rs 6,787 crore to West Bengal. As per figures received from ICRA, Bengal has borrowed Rs 28,000 crore from April to November 24 of 2019-20 through state development loan (SDL) platform of RBI, while during the same period of this year, the figure is Rs 29,500 crore. During the same period, 28 state governments and two UTs have raised Rs 4.90 lakh crore. Nearly 61% of the increase in SDL issuance has been led by Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu (TN) and Andhra Pradesh (AP), with YoY jumps of 188.9%, 110.3%, 55.1% and 37.9%, respectively, during this period. State Development Loans (SDL) are debt issues by the state governments to fund their fiscal deficit. The issue of SDL is managed by the RBI. It also takes up the responsibility of ensuring that the SDLs are serviced by monitoring escrow accounts for payment of interest and principal. SDLs encourage the states to have a better fiscal strength, since the higher the fiscal strength of a state, the lesser the interest rate/yield that it has to pay. Currently, most of the borrowings of states are done through SDL. A state can borrow up to 3% of gross state domestic product as per FRBM Act (Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act, 2003). An analyst of ICRA told TOI that surprisingly Bengal has limited its borrowing in the ongoing quarter (Q3). “Initially, the state has not intimated about the borrowing but later it uses the window. Most of the states are borrowing heavily. They must have cut down expenses and reduced some developmental work also,” the analyst pointed out. As per ICRA figure, Bengal had borrowed Rs 10,000 crore in the first quarter and Rs 12,000 crore in the second quarter while in the third quarter, it is Rs 7,500 crore as of now. This has assumed significance because the state has a repayment liability of Rs 47,000 crore in this fiscal taken together with interest and principal amount. An official of the finance department said that it has stopped expenses on less priority projects. “Our department (finance) has got 21 Skoch awards in the last few years from the Centre, which shows our integrated network is working well to plague the loophole,” the official claimed Scoring High # West Bengal has raised Rs 29,500 crore from Apr-Nov 24, 2020 # During the same period last year, it borrowed Rs 28,000cr via SDL # From April -Nov 24, other 28 states and 2 UTs raised Rs 4.90 Lcr # In Q3, the state has borrowed only Rs 7,500 cr # Bengal has a repayment liability of Rs 47,000cr this fiscal # The state posts 99.6% expenditure & 100% revenue reconciliation # In Sept this year, CAG had lauded Bengal govt for this feat||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bengal-scores-big-in-optimising-mkt-borrowing/articleshow/79436347.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Nivar leaves Bengaluru drizzly; two more days of rain likely||BENGALURU: Overcast sky, nip in the air and a long drizzly day — Bengaluru on Thursday appeared to have escaped all the havoc that cyclone Nivar wreaked in neighbouring Tamil Nadu after its late-Wednesday landfall. With an early alert from authorities about likely flash floods in the city, Bengalureans woke up to a drenched morning. Hoodies, brollies and raincoats were out to match up to the rain-soaked day. While the city received 6.5mm of rain, HAL got 13.8mm and KIA 14.4mm until 5:30pm. The maximum temperature was 22.4 degrees Celsius and minimum, 19.6. The mizzle was accompanied by thunder and gusty wind in some parts of the city, the average wind speed being 29kmph. CS Patil, director of IMD, said, “The temperature was the same even yesterday (Wednesday). The reason why it feels more cold is because of the ‘wind-chill effect’— a combined effect of temperature and wind. One doesn’t feel the chill unless it’s windy, even if the temperature is low.” According to Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC), Bengaluru is likely to see a generally cloudy sky with widespread light to moderate rain over the next two days. Widespread light to moderate rain with isolated heavy rain is predicted over Kolar and Chikkaballapura districts, while scattered light to moderate rain likely over Mysuru and Chamarajanagar. The remaining districts are likely to experience isolated very light to light rain. Though not heavy, the rain brought down a massive branch on 4th Main, BEML Layout. BBMP officials said no one was hurt and the branch was cleared immediately. Officials at the control room claimed there were no complaints of waterlogging from any part of the city. BOX: Thoughts & words in virtual space Social media was abuzz with recollections of the cyclone days Bengaluru witnessed every time the sea turned rough off neighbouring Tamil Nadu. “It is raining continuously in Bangalore. Somehow today’s weather reminds me of rainy days during my school days,” Prachi Pareekh tweeted. “Mornings like this make a day perfect,” wrote Rahul Hoysal. Anant Kumar posted on social media: “When Chennai catches a cold, Bengaluru catches a running nose, nonstop dripping since morning.” And Satya Nambirajan wondered: “Is Cyclone Nivar taking the SRS Travels route from Chennai to Bengaluru?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/nivar-leaves-bengaluru-drizzly-two-more-days-of-rain-likely/articleshow/79437824.cms||Mrinalini Bhat
November 27, 2020||Mumbai||Reintroduce drinking water fountains, NGO urges BMC||MUMBAI: Lack of access to clean drinking water was one of the biggest setbacks during the lockdown. Paani Haq Samiti (PHS), an advocacy group for access to clean drinking water, is now demanding that the BMC reintroduce drinking water fountains in public spaces. The cost of securing water went up significantly not just during the lockdown, but post-lockdown too, according to a survey by PHS. It surveyed 292 households across 33 informal settlements in the city to understand the difficulties faced in accessing water supply. The 292 households have applied for water connections through PHS. According to the report, the average water availability from March 23 to June 3 was 34 litres per capita per day. Around 24% of those surveyed did not receive daily water supply and 19% could not access safe drinking water during the entire lockdown. The average monthly expense for water increased from Rs 667 pre-lockdown to Rs 705 during lockdown and Rs 711 post-lockdown amounting to over 8% of the average income. The survey also found 93% awareness among respondents about wearing a mask to prevent spread of Covid-19, but only 76% awareness about the need to wash hands for the same. Around 84% of respondents reported needing more access to water and sanitation facilities to be able to maintain personal hygiene, said the report. According to the PHS, there are around 3.7 lakh households (19 lakh people) who do not have legal water access in the city. There are over 150 informal settlements (not recognised slums) across Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/reintroduce-drinking-water-fountains-ngo-urges-bmc/articleshow/79437857.cms||Clara Lewis
November 27, 2020||Mumbai||Irregularities in contract with MMRDA: EOW||The city economic offences wing (EOW), which took over the probe into a cheating case lodged by office-bearers of TopsGrup, said in the period 2008 to 2020, the directors used bogus documents, took bank loans, committed irregularities in the security contract with MMRDA and siphoned off Rs 175 crore from the company. The FIR speaks of 13 allegations. One of them said, “The accused purchased 51% equity shares in a Londonbased company worth Rs 130 crore and it was funded by a private equity investors firm in India.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/irregularities-in-contract-with-mmrda-eow/articleshow/79437851.cms||Mateen Hafeez
November 27, 2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC dismisses PIL on Disha Salian death, says petitioner didn't go to cops for FIR||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Thursday dismissed a PIL seeking orders to the police for an investigation report into the death of Disha Salian. The petitioner, Puneet Dhanda, called Salian's death unnatural. The high court said that if anyone had information of a cognisable offence regarding the death, he or she may submit it to the police under the provisions contained in Section 38 and Section 39 of the Criminal Procedure Code. The bench heard the counsel for the petitioner, Vineet Dhanda, who said Salian died on June 8 and a few days later on June 14 actor Sushant Singh Rajput too died. He said both were unnatural deaths and cited media reports that raised questions over the cause of her death. Public prosecutor Deepak Thakre objected to the petitioner's locus standi. The Supreme Court on October 26 had refused to entertain a plea for a court-monitored CBI inquiry into the death of Salian in a petition filed by Puneet Dhanda. It had given Dhanda liberty to approach the high court. "There is no information given to the police for registration of an FIR in an unnatural death case," the high court said, dismissing the petition. The high court said that if any person had any information of a cognisable offence regarding the death of Salian, he or she may submit it to the police. Dhanda said the police only registered an accidental death report. The bench asked him if he had complied with the provisions of the law and gone to the police to submit any information regarding the death after the police issued a press note seeking information from the public. Dhanda said he had not, but said "the petition is with them". The bench said that would not do. The bench orally observed: "You do not comply with Section 39 CrPC, you go to the SC and come to the HC." Dhanda said that media reports could be used to seek a detailed investigation from the police. At this the bench asked him for locus standi. The bench said: "If there is any foul play, family members can approach authorities." Advocate Dhanda said: "Families can be threatened too." The bench in its order said after perusing the petition it showed that "he is himself not sure of his locus standi, given such circumstances we see no reason to entertain this PIL petition".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bombay-hc-dismisses-pil-on-disha-salian-death-says-petitioner-didnt-go-to-cops-for-fir/articleshow/79437858.cms||Swati Deshpande
November 27, 2020||Mumbai||Four Mumbai students bag top Cambridge International awards for highest score in a subject||MUMBAI: More than 120 students from schools affiliated to Cambridge International across the country have received the outstanding Cambridge learner awards for their performance in Class X and XII examinations held in November and March. Of the 14 students who received the 'Top in the World' award for the highest score in a subject, four are from Mumbai schools. This year, 127 students received 152 awards from Cambridge International to acknowledge their outstanding performances in the November 2019 and March 2020 exams series. In all, 80 students across India won 'Top in the Country' awards, 33 of whom were from schools in Mumbai. Fourteen students across the country, out of whom two are from Dhirubhai Ambani International School, BKC, one each from Billabong High International School, Malad, and JBCN International School, Borivli, were awarded 'Top in the World' awards. Thirty-two students in the country won 'High Achievement' awards. Of the total awards bagged by students in the country, 13 were from Podar International School, Santacruz, and five SVKM International School, Vile Parle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/four-mumbai-students-bag-top-cambridge-international-awards-for-highest-score-in-a-subject/articleshow/79437890.cms||---
November 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: R Sampath Raj’s bail plea to be heard today||BENGALURU: A local court on Thursday adjourned to Friday hearing of the bail petition of former mayor R Sampath Raj, arrested in connection with the east Bengaluru violence. Sleuths from Central Crime Branch had on November 16 arrested Raj on charges of plotting a conspiracy to set Congress MLA Akhanda Srinivasamurthy’s DJ Halli house on fire. On Thursday, Balan, counsel for Raj, argued the former mayor was innocent and had no role to play in the violence. However, public prosecutor Prasanna Kumar sought time to file objections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-r-sampath-rajs-bail-plea-to-be-heard-today/articleshow/79437889.cms||---
