November 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka CM's political secretary N R Santosh attempts suicide||BENGALURU: N R Santosh, the political secretary to chief minister BS Yediyurappa, is said to have attempted suicide at his Dollars Colony residence in Bengaluru on Friday. Santosh was found unconscious by his family members in the evening in his reading room. He was rushed to MS Ramaiah hospital nearby. While police said he was critical, the hospital did not respond to queries. According to police sources, Santosh is suspected to have consumed sleeping pills, the quantity of which is not known. The CM visited Santosh in the hospital later in the night. "I had met him in the morning. We went out for a walk. I have no idea why he did this. I hope he recovers," Yediyurappa told journalists near the hospital. A relative of Yediyurappa, Santosh's political fortunes were going through a stormy phase as questions were being raised about his clout with the CM and his family. He was appointed political secretary to the CM in May this year. He had played a key role in ensuring the fall of the JD(S)-Congress government last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-cms-political-secretary-attempts-suicide/articleshow/79453849.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
November 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Every district to get forensic lab, Karnataka govt to up staff strength||BENGALURU: Home minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday said a forensic science laboratory will be set up in every district and the existing ones will be upgraded with latest technology. He was speaking at the inauguration of a technical centre at FSL Madiwala. The state is home to six FSLs at present — while the head office is in Bengaluru, regional facilities are located in Mysuru, Mangaluru, Davanagere, Kalaburagi and Belagavi. “Since there is a sharp increase in cybercrime cases, we are facilitating lodging of such complaints by dialling 100,” he said, adding, “When one makes a complaint by dialling 100, bank accounts of the victim as well as the suspect (provided by the victim) will be frozen immediately.” “Till now, FSL Madiwala was dealing with issues like extraction of DNA and biometrics. From now on, the lab will also handle digital narcotic detection cases. It is equipped with the latest cyber-related technologies,” the minister added. More technical staff will be appointed at FSLs across the state soon. Chief minister Yediyurappa said he will allocate Rs 100 crore towards police betterment schemes in the next budget. “Our fight against drugs and cybercrime will be a milestone in state policing,” he said. Director general and inspector general of police Praveen Sood said visits by FSL personnel to crime scenes will help in cracking cases. A senior IPS officer said it’s becoming a challenge to solve cybercrimes, which are increasing by the day. “Online monetary transactions involve risk. Though it’s known that the user must be careful, we come across different and new methods adopted by conmen. Recently, our CID team arrested a few suspects from Rajasthan for cheating people on the pretext of buying/selling goods online. None of them had an engineering degree or was a computer expert. But the techniques they employed shocked us. We should have an expert force to crack such cases,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/every-dist-to-get-forensic-lab-govt-to-up-staff-strength/articleshow/79454056.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Missing woman found dead in hotel||BENGALURU: A 32-year-old anganwadi worker who went missing on Tuesday was found dead in a hotel room in Kalasipalya on Friday morning. Police have booked a case of murder against the woman’s neighbour based on her husband’s complaint. Kamala M was a resident of Lalbagh Siddapura and worked at an anganwadi in Cement Colony. Her body was found hanging and was in a partially decomposed state. The death came to light when foul smell emanating from the room left the JC Road hotel staff worried. They checked the guest register and learnt the room had been booked in the name of Kamala around 11.30am on Tuesday. “The hotel staff contacted her family members over phone and opened the door in their presence. They alerted Kalasipalya police who rushed to the spot,” a senior police officer said. Sanjeev M Patil, deputy commissioner of police (west), said Kamala’s husband Obalesh L had filed a missing person’s complaint with Siddapura police on Thursday, two days after his efforts to trace her went in vain. The DCP said Kamala entered the hotel room with her neighbour Dileep Kumar, a tailor who also went missing on Tuesday, around 11.30am. CCTV footage shows Kumar leaving the hotel around 2.30pm. Obalesh suspects Kamala had a relationship with Kumar and has accused the latter of killing her. “Kalasipalya police booked a case of murder against Kumar and probe is on,” Patil said. Police said Kamala was a mother of five girls. She was employed as an anganwadi worker for the past eight months. Kumar too is married and has two children. BOX: Police: Kumar locked room from outside before leavingPolice believe Kamala was murdered and the needle of suspicion points towards Kumar. “We don’t know what happened between them. Going by circumstantial evidence, she seems to have been strangled before her body was hung from the ceiling fan. Kumar locked the hotel room from outside and left. He switched off his mobile around 2.30pm. We are trying to trace him. The motive behind the murder will be known once we nab him,” a police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/missing-woman-found-dead-in-hotel/articleshow/79454054.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Ex-mayor’s bail petition adjourned to Monday||BENGALURU: A local court adjourned to Monday the hearing of former mayor R Sampath Raj’s bail petition who was arrested in connection with the east Bengaluru violence. The hearing was postponed in the absence of public prosecutor Prasanna Kumar, who was supposed to file objections. Central Crime Branch sleuths had on November 16 arrested Raj on charges of plotting a conspiracy to set Congress MLA Akhanda Srinivasamurthy’s DJ Halli house on fire. On Thursday, Balan, counsel for Raj, argued the former mayor was innocent and had no role to play in the violence. However, Prasanna Kumar sought time to file objections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ex-mayors-bail-petition-adjourned-to-monday/articleshow/79454057.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Goldsmith robbed of two diamond bangles||BENGALURU: Two men and a woman robbed a goldsmith of diamond-studded bangles worth Rs 10 lakh at gate number 5 of Manyata Tech Park last week. Police registered a case against Aisha, Senthil, Imran and others based on a complaint filed by N Balaji, 39. Balaji said Senthil asked him for two gold bangles, saying a woman named Aisha was keen on buying them. Accordingly, Balaji sent photos of the bangles and she agreed to buy them, worth Rs 10 lakh. Balaji asked his employee M Sathish to deliver them to the address shared by Aisha. Sathish reached the tech park’s gate no. 5 on November 19 where Senthil was waiting. Aisha called Sathish to say her friend Imran would collect the bangles. When Sathish gave him the bangles, Imran and Senthil fled without paying cash. Balaji tried calling Aisha and Senthil ; their phones were switched off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/goldsmith-robbed-of-two-diamond-bangles/articleshow/79454058.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: As interest rates drop, the young want to buy property||BENGALURU: The young are once again showing keenness to buy property. Analysts say the number of enquiries from youngsters on buying property has risen sharply over the past few months, driven by a steep fall in interest rates and the expectation that employers will offer the option to work from home even after the pandemic. That is a shift from the trend till last year when many were reluctant to invest in property. The affordable options tended to be far from places of work and involved tedious commutes. Also, many youngsters were not sure whether their work would keep them in Bengaluru for long. They worried that the asset might turn into a liability. Property portal NoBroker says the number of millennial homebuyers on its platform is now 66% higher than in the immediate pre-pandemic months. Those in the 25 to 40 age group constituted 49% of the homebuyers before the pandemic. This has shot up to 63% now. Property developer Sobha said it has seen more people enquiring and eventually buying a property as interest rates remain low. “When you are working from home, it is better to own one and improve your life. Our enquiries are higher than pre-Covid levels and sales numbers are also better,” said Sobha managing director JC Sharma. For Sobha, 64% of its buyers are in the 25-40 age group. Puravankara MD Ashish Puravankara said the company is getting serious enquiries from buyers aged 30-35 as interest rates are at an all-time low. Most banks are offering interest rates below 7% for home loans. The Karnataka government has also lowered registration fee significantly for properties below Rs 35 lakh. The most-preferred areas for buying property currently are Hebbal and Yeshwantpur, as per NoBroker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/as-interest-rates-drop-the-young-want-to-buy-property/articleshow/79454068.cms||Avik Das
November 28, 2020||Bengaluru||@19 degrees in Bengaluru, day temperature touches lowest in four years||BENGALURU: On Thursday, mercury dipped to its lowest during daytime in four years, even as Bengalureans scurried for woollens and grabbed piping hot cuppas. The minimum temperature during the day was 19 degrees Celsius, while the maximum was 20.4, Met officials said. The last time the daytime minimum temperature fell to 19 degrees was on December 13, 2016, when the city was under the spell of cyclone Vardah. While the sun did appear a few times, the weather was gloomy for most part of the day, and by evening, there were reports of drizzle from across the city. South-interior Karnataka experienced scattered rain, while north-interior parts saw isolated showers. In coastal districts, the weather remained dry. While Chintamani received 6cm of rain, Kolar got 5cm. Met officials, meanwhile, said another cyclonic formation appeared to be in the offing off Tamil Nadu coast. “A low-pressure system is likely to form over southeast Bay of Bengal in the next 48 hours and is likely to move westwards towards Tamil Nadu and make a landfall over the coast of Puducherry on December 2,” they said. A circulation over south coastal Andhra Pradesh and west central Bay of Bengal extending up to 4.5km above mean sea level is likely to result in Karnataka receiving isolated rain from November 27 to December 1. Bengaluru too is likely to receive scattered rain in some areas, while having a generally cloudy sky. Mornings are likely to see fog or mist, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/19-degrees-day-temp-touches-lowest-in-4-yrs/articleshow/79454070.cms||Mrinalini Bhat
November 28, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Heritage enthusiasts visit Madhusudan Das’s house||Keywords: Madhusudan Das, Deepak Samantray, Madhu Babu, Cuttack Heritage Walks, Madhu Smriti, Barabati fortThe heritage enthusiasts of the twin cities of Cuttack and Bhubaneswar paid a visit to Madhu Smriti — the home of Utkal Gourav Madhusudan Das — as part of the Cuttack Heritage Walk. It was a great opportunity for young participants to know more about Das, one of the founding fathers of modern Odisha. He was popularly called Madhu Babu and his career was studded with many firsts. Around 31 people from various walks of life weathered the morning chill to take part in the walk. The enthusiasm of knowing more about these historical places and monuments of the city had brought them together. As usual, the walk started from the Barabati fort. “We visited Madhu Smriti and watched the Madhusudan Sangrahalaya from outside, as it was closed. Our historians explained everything about Madhu babu to the participants. There were several youngsters who were keenly observing and listening to the speakers,” said organiser Deepak Samantray. Madhusudan Das had created the Utkal Sammilani, which united Odia speaking people spread over a large area and facilitated the formation of Odisha, the first language-based Indian state in 1936. “Many youngsters are unaware of him and such walks are needed for the young generation to know about one of the founding fathers of the state,” said Hitesh Seth, a participant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/heritage-enthusiasts-visit-madhusudan-dass-house/articleshow/79454090.cms||Sandip Bal
November 28, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Babushaan learns new dance moves for his upcoming project||Keywords: Babushaan Mohanty, Akash Das, Bidyaran, Sivani Sangita, Joyte Das,Bollywood The shooting of Babushaan Mohanty’s Bidyaran is yet to resume, but the actor has been working hard on his dancing skills. He is working with Akash Das, a Bollywood dance trainer and choreographer from Odisha. “Since my film’s shoot was halted in March has not resumed yet, I decided to invest my time in fine tuning my dance skills. So, I am training under Akash, who is also a choreographer for my film. I have been working hard on some new steps and few difficult moves under his watchful eyes. I’m open to learning new things and the pandemic gave me the opportunity,” said the actor. He added that all his efforts are dedicated to his fans, who always want something new from him. In last one year, he transformed his physique by hitting the gym and working out harder. He has changed his physical appearance from a chocolate boy look to a stud with six-pack abs and a chiseled face. “I have no releases this year. So, my fans will get to see something new from me in the coming year,” he said. He is cast opposite Sivani Sangita in Bidyaran, which is directed by Joyte Das. Akash, who has worked with several Bollywood stars, has been in the city due to the pandemic and is working with Babushaan. He is all praise for the actor, his enthusiasm and never-say-die attitude.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/babushaan-learns-new-dance-moves-for-his-upcoming-project/articleshow/79454237.cms||Sandip Bal
November 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Researchers discover signalling pathways in wound healing||BENGALURU: Using fruit flies as models, researchers have unravelled specific signalling pathways in blood cells that help understand wound healing better. In a new study, they show hydrogen peroxide produced from a wound activates specific signalling pathways in fruit flies’ blood cells, also called hemocytes. The study was carried out by Sveta Chakrabarti, an India Alliance DBT/Wellcome Trust fellow and Sandhya Visweswariah, professor, department of molecular reproduction, development and genetics at IISc. “Our cells sense invading microbes using specific signatures found in them called microbe-associated molecular patterns. Recognising these signatures activates signalling cascades that trigger specific immune responses. Our body can also detect signatures associated with tissue damage and wounds from its own cells. These signals are called damage-associated molecular patterns,” the researchers said.  Hydrogen peroxide, they say, acts as a DAMP signal to help hemocytes home in on the site of damage and activate wound-healing pathways. Hemocytes help produce more hydrogen peroxide near the wound using an enzyme called DUOX. The researchers found that a water channel called aquaporin helps increase intracellular hydrogen peroxide in blood cells following an injury, which is critical for their activation. “Another immune pathway called toll pathway was found to be activated upon injury, which protects the flies from subsequent infection by bacteria. This points to a role that the injury has in training the immune response to fight a future potential pathogen,” they added. The study shows a change in the transcriptome of hemocytes at site of tissue injury, with pronounced activation of the toll signalling pathway. “We find induction of cytokine upd-3 and toll receptor activation occur in response to injury alone, in absence of a pathogen,” the paper reads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/researchers-discover-signalling-pathways-in-wound-healing/articleshow/79454317.cms||Chethan Kumar
November 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Burrowing frog species named after Bengaluru||BENGALURU: A group of researchers from multiple Indian institutions and one from France has found a new species of burrowing frog and named it Sphaerotheca bengaluru, honouring India’s Silicon City. Research findings of the group’s study have been published in the international journal Zootaxa. Deepak P, assistant professor, Mount Carmel College, KP Dinesh from Zoological Survey of India (ZSI), Pune, Annemarie Ohler from the Institute of Systematic, Evolution, Biodiversity, National Museum of Natural History, France, Prof Kartik Shanker from the Centre for Ecological Sciences (CES), Indian Institute of Science (IISc), BH Channakeshavamurthy from ZSI, Calicut and JS Ashadevi, professor, Yuvaraja’s College, Mysuru, conducted the study. “Amphibian discoveries in India have been rising in the recent past with most findings concentrated on the biodiversity hotspots of the country or at least forested landscapes with green cover. In one of the efforts of documenting ‘Amphibians in the Deccan Plateau parts of Karnataka’, Deepak encountered the new species of frog and published his findings in a collaborative effort with other institutes’ scientists,” a statement issued here read. The new species is described based on the morphological differences and molecular approach with the known species of burrowing frogs (across South Asia, the distribution range). Pointing out how increased urbanisation has resulted in diminishing green cover, making water resources in Bengaluru inhabitable for frogs, the researchers said the new species was named after Bengaluru to highlight the lacunae in documentation of amphibians from non-forested areas and to restore their habitats (freshwater bodies) in the city. Scientist KP Dinesh said they weren’t biased to any specific biogeographic location or ecosystem, taxonomically. “We’re exploring amphibians throughout India,” he said, adding that they are trying to understand the patterns of discoveries of new species in the country and attempting to unravel new ones from the fastest-growing cities, which are witnessing rapid urbanisation. The statement further added that the new species has been reported and described from the peri-urban zones of Bengaluru, which are mainly dominated by agroecosystems mixed with dry deciduous vegetation without any permanent water resources (essential for completing the life cycle of amphibians). “However, more detailed field studies are warranted for the species to understand the distribution range and its natural history studies,” the statement added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/burrowing-frog-speciesnamed-after-bengaluru/articleshow/79454362.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Scouts & Guides get commando training||BENGALURU: Around 25 city-based cadets of Hindustan Scouts and Guides underwent a short-term course in commando training at the Centre for Counter Terrorism in Kudlu, near Parappana Agrahara. The day-long training had 25 activities including wall climbing, walking on a narrow wooden plank, reaching a platform with a swinging rope, high jump and long jump and finally a video presentation on commandos and martyrs. The candidates got a feel of handling firearms. A mock session with police dogs sniffing suspicious objects was carried out. CCT is a unit of the Internal Security Division headed by ADGP Bhaskar Rao. It houses the Garuda Force, specially trained commandos for combating terrorism, which is deployed during elections, riots and bandhs. Rao said he will invite more students to the centre for training. “This was the first batch we trained and it was a success. Youths should learn some basic lessons regarding terrorism and its spreading tentacles. Catching them young is our goal,” he said, inviting interested schools, colleges and other educational institutions to contact the centre. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/scouts-guides-get-commando-training/articleshow/79454364.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Forum to do feasibility study on trolleybus network in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Will a trolleybus similar to a tram be feasible for Bengaluru? A study by India Smart Grid Forum (ISGF), a public-private partnership initiative of the Union ministry of power for accelerated development of smart grids, will reveal that soon. Sources in Bengaluru Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) said ISGF has offered to conduct a feasibility study for implementation of a trolleybus network in the city. A trolleybus or trackless trolley is a combination of bus and tram, but it doesn’t need a dedicated track to run as it can move on rubber tyres. It draws power from overhead cables and is cheaper than Metro. Sources say ISGF had a discussion with BMTC and is expected to submit a report in a few months. “Karnataka is now a power-surplus state. Trolleybuses are feasible on the city’s arterial roads that could provide a dedicated lane for buses. They are better than regular electric buses and have more passenger-carrying capacity, which is useful during peak hours. For instance, a trolleybus could carry more than 120 passengers compared to 65 in a regular bus. Our ridership is mainly during peak hours, so, operating a few trolleybus services makes sense. This concept is not there in India and Bengaluru could take the lead in this. But funding for the project is the main problem,” said a BMTC official. For regular electric buses, battery charging and disposal is an issue. “We need to set up charging infrastructure at depots. Another worry is charge running out en-route. An e-bus will run only around 200km once fully charged. Battery disposal is another concern,” he said, adding these batteries mainly come from China. “There are restrictions on importing Chinese products. For a regular electric bus, battery comprises more than 50% of the overall cost. With trolleybuses, this cost could be reduced as they will mostly draw power from overhead cables, except on flyovers and intersections, and will need small batteries to run,” the official said.  “The feasible corridors could be identified based on the ISGF report,” he added. In fact, trolleybuses are cheaper than rail systems. Trolleybus networks are operational in 43 countries, including Canada and Switzerland. BMTC managing director C Shikha said: “We have not taken any decision so far.” Shikha, who was the former MD of Bescom, has experience in the power sector, which could help BMTC in implementation of a trolleybus network.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/forum-to-do-feasibility-study-on-trolleybus-network-in-city/articleshow/79454367.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
November 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Family lights fire to beat cold, teen asphyxiates to death at Chikkaballapura||ALIPURA (GAURIBIDANUR TALUK): A teenage girl is suspected to have died of asphyxiation in her sleep, while her parents and younger sister were found unconscious in their house in Alipura village of Gauribidanur taluk, Chikkaballapura district, on Friday morning. On Thursday night, the family had lit charcoal briquettes to keep themselves warm and bolted all doors and windows from inside before going to sleep. Police suspect the girl might have died of suffocation after inhaling smoke from the charcoal fire. Veeranjaaneya, 38 and Shanthamma, 35, both brick kiln workers, and their daughters Archana, 15, and Ankitha, 13, were found unconscious in their house at Maratapalya in the morning. As the couple hadn’t reported to work, their employer came home to check on them. Finding the doors and windows locked from inside, he alerted police, who rushed to the spot. Cops broke open the doors to find the entire family unconscious. All four were rushed to Government Hospital, Gauribidanur, where doctors declared Archana brought dead. The other three regained consciousness after preliminary treatment and are under observation. Archana was a class 10 student of a school in the village. Alipura, 80km from Bengaluru, is a village with a predominantly Muslim population, who are into diamond, brick and tiles business. Veeranjaaneya and his family are from Bukkapatna in Tumakuru. The family shifted to Alipura four months ago and both Veeranjaaneya and his wife began working in a kiln in the village. Lakshimarayan, sub-inspector of jurisdictional Manchenahalli police station, told TOI that Veeranjaaneya and his wife worked as labourers and also looked after the factory premises at night. He said when police entered the house, it was full of smoke and the absence of an outlet proved fatal for the girl. Siddaramaiah, panchayat development officer, Alipura, said he will work with police and provide assistance to those recuperating in hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/family-lights-fire-to-beat-cold-teen-asphyxiates-to-death/articleshow/79454881.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: ASI gets potholes filled on 4km stretch||MYSURU: The pothole-laden stretch from Gaddige Circle to Mallara Colony used to witness regular accidents involving vehicles. To prevent more such cases, an assistant sub-inspector from HD Kote police station took up road-repair work by spending money from his pocket. Every day, villagers would curse the civic agency and elected representatives for failing to fix the gaping potholes on the busy stretch. Despite multiple requests to the authorities and elected representatives, there was no action. ASI S Doreswamy then decided to take the lead. Doreswamy told TOI: “The 4km stretch witnesses accidents regularly, with riders trying to dodge potholes. Victims and their family members visited the police station to lodge complaints. They would often blame the craters for the accidents. So, I decided to do something about it.” Doreswamy contacted his friends to arrange for machinery. “I contacted Rajegowda, a villager, who agreed to provide tractors to transport the materials and water. A crusher factory in the taluk supplied crushed stones free of cost. I arranged 12 workers from Taraka village and spent Rs 20,000 to purchased cement and sand dust. I also paid the rent for a cement-mixer machine, and Rs 700 to each worker,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/asi-gets-potholes-filled-on-4km-stretch/articleshow/79454894.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
November 28, 2020||Lucknow||An evening full of melody in Lucknow||A group of medicos regaled everyone with their melodious performance at the 25th anniversary celebrations of Lucknow Times, recently. Doctors Deepak Dikshit, Sudhir Srivastava, Ravi Lele, Alok Dikshit, Archana Dikshit and Astha Mishra sang several songs dedicated to LT at the event which also had other guests in attendance. The evening wrapped up with Navneet Sehgal, Additional Chief Secretary, UP, being presented a memento on the occasion. (L-R) Dr Ravi Lele, Alok Dikshit, Archana Dikshit & Astha Mishra (BCCL)(L-R) Drs Ravi Lele, Alok Dikshit, Archana Dikshit & Astha Mishra (BCCL)\ Chander Prakash (BCCL)Chander Prakash (BCCL) (L) Deepak Dikhsit (R) Dr Sudhir Srivastava (BCCL)(L) Deepak Dikhsit (R) Dr Sudhir Srivastava (BCCL)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/an-evening-full-of-melody-in-lucknow/articleshow/79449163.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Lucknow||To call or not to call: Only 100 guests allowed for an indoor wedding!||Getting married during a pandemic in itself is a challenging task, but making it more difficult for the bride and groom is the recent guideline issued by the UP government where the total number of guests in a wedding have been reduced to 100 from 200 at an indoor venue. However, in case of an outdoor venue, less than 40 per cent of the area will be allowed to be occupied by people. “Since earlier the higher limit to invite to a wedding was 200, keeping that in mind, I had invited 100 guests of mine and 100 guests from my would-be's side. But now we are in a fix!” rues Ravi Arora (name changed on request), a businessman in the city, who is slated to get married in December second week. He further says, “Now, whom should I call up and say ki bhai aapko card toh diya hai, magar aap aaiyega nahi. I think the administration should have made an exception for weddings from the list as they are planned months in advance, or should have come up with an alternative.” However, all set with an alternative is Neha, who will be tying the knot in a gurudwara on November 26. She says, “Since our sagan and wedding is both at an indoor venue, we can only have 100 guests. So what we have done now is that a few guests will attend the sagan and a few the wedding. Plus, we will not be taking the elderly above 60 to the wedding venue and instead will be taking their aashirwad after the wedding. We will have to abide by the new rules as they are for our benefit only.” Aadrit Aghnihotri, who is slated to get married on December 11, at a five star hotel in Gomti Nagar, was already keeping the wedding celebrations a low key affair. “Even when the limit of guests for a wedding was 200 people, we had planned to invite only family members, which comprised around 70 people. We were not sure how the situation would be when the wedding date nears. So we are pretty fine with the latest development,” says Aadrit. However, he plans to have a get-together once things get better. “For those who are not invited now, we might throw a small party once things become better,” he adds. Wedding venue owners too are facing a tough time with the added pressure on them to keep a track on the number of guests. They are also confused as to who will conduct the raids, how and whose responsibility it will be to ensure the number of guests. “Apart from ensuring social distancing and other guidelines, we have personally called up people who have booked with us to tell them to not invite guests beyond 100 for the wedding. But we are not sure how we will implement this check list and what will happen if we are not able to adhere to the guideline. The last minute change has put an extra pressure on us,” says the manager of a wedding venue in Hazratganj, on the basis of anonymity. We will conduct random checkings: Naveen aroraClearing the confusion regarding the guidelines Naveen Arora, Joint Commissioner of Police, Law and Order, Lucknow, says, “We will conduct random checkings to make sure that all the protocols and guidelines are followed at weddings in the city. Of course, we will not be going inside wedding venues for random checks but will be doing that from outside only, like counting the number of vehicles, etc. Anyone flouting the rules, will be booked under the Pandemic Act and be booked under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code.” Guidelines for weddings during pandemic Organisers to arrange for face masks, sanitisers and thermal scanners at the venue Guests to follow social distancing Wedding functions to be held outside the containment zones If a marriage hall’s capacity is less than 100, then the number of guests to be 50 per cent of the capacity  FIR to be registered against those found violating the guidelines Only 100 guests allowed for a wedding at an indoor venue For outdoor venue, less than 40 per cent of the area will be allowed to be occupied by the guests||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/to-call-or-not-to-call-only-100-guests-allowed-for-an-indoor-wedding/articleshow/79448963.cms||Akash Wadhwa
November 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi artists & Finnish embassy join hands to beautify Khan Market walls||For those who frequent Khan Market, it will be a whole new place now. The Delhi Street Art Group collaborated with the Embassy of Finland and recently painted the walls of the areas near the market. With an aim to beautify the neglected areas, the murals are created with a theme of diversity and on some of the murals, the word Hän is written. Hän, the gender-neutral Finnish personal pronoun that treats everyone equally, found its way in some of the muralsYogesh Saini, founder, Delhi Street Art, explains, “Hän is the gender-neutral Finnish personal pronoun that treats everyone equally. In the Finnish language, personal pronouns (words used as substitutes for a person’s name, such as he and she) do not specify whether the person discussed is a woman or a man. One word – hän – refers to women, men and people of other genders alike.” Delhi's Khan Market saw a splash of colours on its wallsHän is a symbol for a better world where people are not defined by their background, gender or appearance. Finnish Ambassador Ritva Koukku-Ronde inaugurated one of the murals and put up a Hän board. She said, “I hope the community likes this and I loved that so many children came to paint together with artists. We’re really proud that we could be a part of this small part of Delhi. Street artists here are doing great work and making various areas beautiful. They’re spreading happiness, and we (Finnish people) like happiness very much.” Finnish Ambassador Ritva Koukku-Ronde picked up the paint brush||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-artists-finnish-embassy-join-hands-to-beautify-khan-market-walls/articleshow/79448280.cms||Niharika Lal
November 28, 2020||Delhi||Thanks to Delhi’s pollution, cases of younger people having respiratory illnesses have gone up: Doctors||It’s no longer people with family history of respiratory illnesses or the older people, but cases of asthma and other breathing problems have gone up among under-30s due to pollutionThe worsening air quality and rising levels of pollutants in Delhi’s air each year have given rise to increasing cases of respiratory illnesses and disorders in the capital. Doctors say they are seeing more patients with asthma and respiratory illnesses, mostly caused due to pollution. But while it is believed that the most vulnerable to the effects of pollution are the very young and old, data released by a healthcare service provider paints a different picture. According to the Practo Health Insights for October-November 2020, out of all queries on the Practo app and website related to respiratory and pulmonary health concerns, the maximum (34%) were from the age group of 21-30. Not more susceptible, but Youngsters more exposed to air pollution as they go out of the house frequently, say DoctorsHealthcare professionals maintain that high reporting does not mean that young people are necessarily more susceptible to respiratory illnesses, it could be caused by the fact that the younger generation is exposed to pollution more. Dr Richa Sareen, Consultant, Pulmonology and Critical Care Medicine, Fortis Hospital Vasant Kunj, tells us, “All are equally susceptible to the effects of air pollution and weather change, including the youth. People who have underlying asthma, COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) or predilection to allergies are more prone to develop respiratory issues at this time. Youngsters are also more exposed to air pollution, as they go out of the house more often than others. Furthermore, they are also more prone to tobacco smoke exposure which worsens their symptoms.” <p>Youngsters are more exposed to pollution so the cases of respiratory illness in the younger generation have gone up, say doctors<span></span></p><p><br></p>Doctors add that there is a definite rise in cases of diseases like asthma in people under 30, which can be directly linked to pollution. “We have seen younger asthmatic patients are coming more in numbers, this is again because of the pollution. And now it is getting worse because the pollution level is becoming so high and the severity of the symptoms has really increased,” says Dr Sandeep Nayar, Senior Director and Head, Centre for Chest and Respiratory Disease, BLK Super Speciality Hospital. Have to travel with an inhaler now: Young DelhiitesThere are many 20-somethings across NCR who share this common story of developing breathing issues and respiratory illnesses over the last few years. Twenty-nine-year-old consultant Richa Shah tells us, “I have to travel with an inhaler now, particularly in the winter months, because I have allergic asthma. As soon as it gets polluted, I can’t breathe and develop a bad cold and cough.” Thirty-year-old Dwarka resident Mohammad Saif adds, “I used to be an athlete in college, so this is a big letdown for me. I used to be one of the fittest in the room and now I can’t even climb a flight of stairs if I am on the phone. It’s a myth that pollution can affect you only if you are old or already prone to respiratory illnesses. I was in a marketing job and hence, had to be outdoors eight-10 hours a day. That is what caused my exposure.” What is alarming is that many of these patients have no family history of respiratory illnesses and are otherwise ‘fit and healthy’. Rachit Arora, a 27-year-old IT professional from Rohini, says, “I have had no history of any illness and my family has none either. So, when I started having difficulty in breathing last year, I assumed it was because of the cold I had. But it just did not go away, after which I was diagnosed with bronchial asthma. At 27, I am not supposed to be worried about my breathing.” And the double whammy is that due to an existing respiratory condition, they now have to be extra careful about a risk of COVID-19 infection as studies have shown that the coronavirus can be especially harmful to those with existing pulmonary and respiratory diseases. Ankita, a 25-year-old from Gurgaon who has had pollution-related breathing issues since she moved to NCR two years ago, says, “My friend is the same age as me and he has asthma. He contracted COVID two months ago and it was hell for him. He barely made it out alive. That scares me because I already have weak lungs. How will I manage COVID, which attacks your lungs?” — With inputs from Riya Sharma||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/thanks-to-delhis-pollution-cases-of-younger-people-having-respiratory-illnesses-have-gone-up-doctors/articleshow/79447478.cms||Abhimanyu Mathur
November 28, 2020||India||MiG-29K pilot missing after crash in Arabian Sea||NEW DELHI: Commander Nishant Singh, a dashing young naval MiG-29K fighter pilot operating from aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya, had sought permission from his commanding officer to drop “a nuclear bomb on himself” and “willingly sacrifice himself in absolute peacetime” to enter the “graveyard spiral of matrimony” just seven months ago. “All good things have to finally come to an end. Welcome to Hell,” responded Captain Mrigank Sheokhand, commanding officer of the “White Tigers” squadron based at naval air station INS Hansa in Goa. Soon after, Nishant tied the knot with his sweetheart Nayaab Randhawa in May. On Thursday evening, the Navy launched a massive hunt with aircraft and warships to trace Nishant after his twin-seat MiG-29K fighter crashed into the Arabian Sea at about 5 pm. The other pilot was successfully rescued, but Nishant is yet to be found. It was the fourth MiG-29K crash since January 2018. India acquired 45 of these supersonic fighters for $2 billion from Russia to operate from INS Vikramaditya, which was inducted in November 2013 under a separate $2.33 billion deal. Capt Sheokhand, who was Nishant’s instructor during his flying training, was himself involved in a MiG-29K crash after a bird-hit at Goa in November 2019. Fortunately, he and his co-pilot had ejected safely. Nishant, in his mid-30s, apparently also managed to eject on Thursday evening. Even as the search and rescue operation for him on the high seas was continuing till late on Friday, the Navy ordered a board of inquiry to ascertain whether a technical snag or something else led to the crash. As per military tradition, young officers have to seek approval of their COs to get married, which is rarely if ever turned down. But Nishant’s demi-official letter on May 9, titled “Permission to Bite the Bullet”, had gone viral in social media earlier this year due to the banter involved. In his letter, Nishant assured his CO that he and Nayaab, a celebrity stylist who he had first met in school, had undertaken three years of “extensive SCTT (survivability and compatibility testing trials)” to preclude the possibility of them killing each other. Nishant said he wanted to follow in the footsteps of Capt Sheokhand and “many other brave men” in getting hitched. He even cheekily referred to his failure to recover from “his trance of spatial disorientation”, a challenge faced by all aviators, especially naval ones. Capt Sheokhand should “forgive this reckless, evidently suicidal and absolutely amateurish blunder of a manoeuvre on my part. I promise never to repeat such a performance in air or teach it to my trainee pilots,” he said, inviting his CO to his wedding to “personally witness the massacre”. Capt Sheokhand promptly gave his approval. The couple tied the knot in a small living room wedding, with their parents blessing them through a Zoom video call in times of the pandemic. Watch MiG-29K aircraft crashes into sea; pilot goes missing||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mig-29k-pilot-missing-after-crash-in-arabian-sea/articleshow/79455533.cms||Rajat Pandit
November 28, 2020||India||Ministries & several states deploying facial recognition tech systems: Study||NEW DELHI: At least 32 Facial Recognition Technology (FRT) systems, estimated at Rs 1,063 crore, are in various stages of deployment by union ministries, central agencies and several state governments, including Telangana and Gujarat, according to an ongoing study by digital rights advocacy group, Internet Freedom Foundation (IFF). IFF sourced the information by filing 31 RTIs with several government departments. The organisation launched a website — panoptic.in — on Friday which graphically details this ongoing development, which digital rights experts say can pose a threat to privacy and freedom of speech. The IFF study is named Project Panoptic. FRT uses algorithms to extract data points from a face to create its digital signature. This signature is compared with an existing database to find possible matches. It is not 100% accurate and there can be “misidentification (false positive) and failure to identify (false negative)”, the website says. “These systems need a huge amount of sensitive personal data and biometric information, and their existence is at odds with a user’s privacy. It’s also important to note that these systems don’t exist because of their success but because they are seen as magical solutions to problems,” said Vidushi Marda, a lawyer and researcher who works on socio-legal implications of emerging technologies. The website lists at least six such projects undertaken by the Centre, out of which one is already functional. According to the website, one of the most expensive FRT projects has been envisioned by The National Crime Records Bureau at Rs 308 crore. It aims to maintain a large database of photos and videos of people’s faces “to swiftly identify criminals by gathering existing data from various other databases”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ministries-several-states-deploying-facial-recognition-tech-systems-study/articleshow/79455779.cms||Anam Ajmal
November 28, 2020||Business||India’s economy contracts 7.5% in Sept quarter, enters recession||NEW DELHI: India’s economy contracted for the second successive quarter but the pace of decline narrowed sharply in the three month period ending September as the farm sector held strong while manufacturing returned to the positive zone. However, the crucial services segments fell for the second quarter in a row. Data released by the National Statistical Office (NSO) on Friday confirmed that the economy plunged into recession with two successive quarters of contraction. This is the first time that the economy posted two successive contractions since the government started publishing quarterly GDP data in 1996. Experts said the worst may be over for the economy, although risks persisted, and cautioned about the impact of the fresh wave of Covid-19 infections and localised lockdowns on demand and growth in the months ahead. For the 2020-21 fiscal year, the economy is estimated to still post a contraction, possibly in double digits, and rebound next year as economic activity gathers momentum and the impact of the string of government measures to help revive growth kicks in. The NSO data showed the economy contracted by 7.5% in the July-September quarter, the second quarter of the country’s 2020-21 fiscal year, narrower than the record 23.9% decline posted in the April-June quarter. India’s economy still remains in the league of large economies which have contracted the most in the second quarter, with only the UK, which declined 9.6% in the September quarter, faring worse. China is the only large economy that posted growth in the September quarter (4.9%). The government’s chief economic adviser KV Subramanian said the data for the second quarter was better than expected and there was a potential for an upside, but urged caution given that fresh wave of infections. The numbers showed that the narrowing of contraction was led by the manufacturing sector, electricity, construction and agriculture. The construction sector, which had slumped to a decline of 50.3% in the June quarter, displayed some recovery declining by 8.3%. Since the government announced the lifting of the strictest lockdown imposed to prevent the spread of the pandemic in June, several indicators have pointed to a recovery and significant narrowing. Read AlsoIndian economy exhibited stronger pick up than expected: RBI governorIndian economy has exhibited stronger pick up in momentum of recovery than expected, said Reserve Bank of India governor Shaktikanta Das on Thursday. Addressing the 4th Annual Day of Foreign Exchange Dealers' Association of India (FEDAI), he cited that a multi-speed normalisation of activity in“Expectedly, the worst for the economy is over. That said, the economy is still not out of the woods and the improvement in activity from here onward would likely be laboured,” said Kunal Kundu, India economist at French investment Bank Societe Generale. “But with signs of emerging fatigue in recent demand uptick and the second wave of infections already impacting economic activity, we would retain our view of FY21 real GDP contracting by 8.6%, given the likelihood of a much weaker third quarter activity,” said Kundu. The manufacturing sector posted a paltry growth of 0.6% in the September quarter compared to the 0.6% contraction in the second quarter of FY20 and experts attributed it to lifting of lockdown restrictions. The trade, hotel and transport segments registered the highest contraction amongst the sectors during July-September period declining by an annual 15.6%. The services sector, which accounts for nearly 60% of gross domestic product, contracted for the second successive month by 11.4%, narrower than the 20.6% in the previous quarter. The sector has borne the brunt of the pandemic as hotels, restaurants, cinemas had been shuttered for the longest time and people stayed away due to the fear of infections. Read AlsoUnder PM Modi, India's economy in recession first-time ever: Rahul GandhiNEW DELHI: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday said that under Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the country's economy is in recession for the first time ever. He said this after India's GDP growth contracted by 7.5 per cent in the July-September quarter. The GDP had contracted by 23.9 per cent inPrivate consumption, a key driver of the economy, contracted 11.3% from an expansion of 6.4% in the year-ago period while government consumption showed sharp decline in growth 22.2% in the September quarter compared to 16.4% growth in the June quarter. Investment growth continued to contract with gross capital formation or investments was 7.5% lower in Q2 FY21 from an year ago, according to an analysis by Care Ratings. Some experts expressed doubt about some of the sectoral numbers. “It is understandable to feel better at lower contraction at 7.5% in Q2. Numbers, however, don’t add up. Low gross fixed capital formation contraction at only 7.3% despite down new projects, ongoing projects on hold, govt capex down is inexplicable. So is manufacturing growth despite demand slowdown,” former finance secretary Subhash Chandra Garg said on micro-blogging site Twitter. Some economists said they expect growth to improve in the remaining two quarters of 2020-21 as economic activity improves across sectors. “The economy however continues to face downward pressure, from the sustained spread of the pandemic in the country and the re-imposition of restrictions in various regions. Consumption demand and investments which are necessary to propel the economy would continue to be tepid and is unlikely to see a noteworthy improvement during the course of the year. We expect the country’s GDP to contract by -7.7% to -7.9% in FY21,” said Madan Sabnavis, chief economist at Care Ratings. Watch GDP contracts 7.5% in July-September, India enters recession||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indias-economy-contracts-7-5-in-sept-quarter-enters-recession/articleshow/79456043.cms||---
November 28, 2020||World||Britain and other nations press on with AstraZeneca vaccine amid trial questions||LONDON/MANILA: Britain asked its regulator on Friday to assess AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine for a possible rollout, while the Philippines and Thailand secured millions of doses, giving the shot a vote of confidence after experts raised questions about trial data. The UK government, which has secured 100 million doses of the vaccine developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University, has targeted a rollout to begin before Christmas. "We have formally asked the regulator to assess the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine, to understand the data and determine whether it meets rigorous safety standards," British Health Secretary Matt Hancock said. "This letter is an important step towards deploying a vaccine as quickly as safely possible." In the global race to develop vaccines against Covid-19, AstraZeneca's candidate is viewed as offering one of the best hopes for many developing countries because of its cheaper price and ability to be transported at normal fridge temperatures. The Thai government signed a deal on Friday to procure 26 million doses of the vaccine to fight the pandemic, which has killed more than 1.4 million people globally. Officials in the Philippines said they would secure 2.6 million shots and were negotiating a possible purchase of a further 1 million doses. The announcements came after some scientists raised doubts about the robustness of results showing the shot was 90% effective in a sub-group of trial participants who, by error initially, received a half dose followed by a full dose. AstraZeneca CEO Pascal Soriot said on Thursday that the drugmaker was likely to run an additional global trial to assess the efficacy of its vaccine using the lower dosage. The company had released trial data on Monday that showed its experimental vaccine prevented on average 70% of Covid-19 cases in late-stage trials in Britain and Brazil. While the success rate was 90% in the sub-group, some experts said the relatively small number of participants made it harder to be confident in the findings. AstraZeneca said the administering of the half dose had been reviewed and approved by independent data safety monitors and the UK regulator, adding the regulator publicly confirmed there was "no concern". CONFUSION 'PROBLEMATIC' When the full dose was given twice, as it was for most trial participants, the success rate was 62% - still above the 50% required by U.S. regulators. Europe's drug regulator has said it will not set a minimum level of efficacy. If a vaccine has an efficacy of 50%, it means that if 100 people who have not been exposed to the virus are immunised with the shot, 50 of them would not get infected, on average. A spokesperson for Oxford University said additional data from international trials would help researchers assess the vaccine's efficacy among a more diverse population. EXPLAINER-Trial efficacy numbers: But Pauline Londeix, co-founder of French drug transparency group OT-Med, said apparent confusion over the trial results was "very problematic for public confidence in vaccines". "It has largely to do with the race drugmakers are engaged in currently, which leads them to present vaccine candidates in the best possible way and not release full protocols and results. It is the opposite of what is needed in our view." Nonetheless, Britain's top science adviser said the interim results showed the AstraZeneca vaccine was successful. "The headline result is the vaccine works and that's very exciting," Patrick Vallance said on Thursday during a news conference with Prime Minister Boris Johnson. AstraZeneca expects 4 million doses to be available in Britain by the end of December. Britain's Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) started an accelerated "rolling review" of the vaccine at the start of this month as data comes in on safety and efficacy. 'A NUMBER OF VARIABLES' The trial sub-group that gave the 90% efficacy read-out comprised 2,741 volunteers, a fraction of the tens of thousands in trials that resulted in the above-90% efficacy data released earlier this month for Pfizer-BioNTech's and Moderna's vaccines. "Sub-group analyses in randomised controlled trials are always fraught with difficulties," said Paul Hunter, a professor of medicine at Britain's University of East Anglia. "In order to have faith in the results," Hunter added, any sub-group analysis have large numbers of volunteers. Shares in AstraZeneca were down 0.9% at around 1310 GMT. They have fallen about 7% since it reported the vaccine data on Monday. Vaccine optimism helped buoy the stock to record peaks this year, making the drugmaker the most valuable listed British company, but its shares have lost over 17% since late July and it has fallen behind Unilever and Shell. Moderna shares have rallied 22% since it released its trial data on Nov. 16, while Pfizer and BioNTech are up 6% and 14% respectively since announcing data on Nov. 9. A peer-reviewed analysis of data from the AstraZeneca-Oxford trial will be published in The Lancet in coming weeks. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), has not commented on the trial results. The European Medicines Agency said on Thursday it would "assess data on the efficacy and safety of the vaccine in the coming weeks". Moncef Slaoui, scientific adviser for the U.S. government's vaccine programme Operation Warp Speed, has noted that no-one in the sub-group that got the initial half dose was older than 55 - suggesting that regimen's efficacy in older people was unproven. "There are a number of variables that we need to understand, and what has been the role of each one of them in achieving the difference in efficacy," Slaoui told a briefing on Tuesday. Watch Covid-19: Britain to stick with AstraZeneca shot amid trial questions||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/britain-and-other-nations-press-on-with-astrazeneca-vaccine-amid-trial-questions/articleshow/79456198.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Business||Core industries fall 2.5% in October on oil woes||NEW DELHI: Core sector output contracted by higher than expected 2.5% during October, due to a sharper fall in refinery output and lower steel production, although coal and electricity reported double-digit rise due to a resumption in economic activity. With the September reading revised to a 0.1% decline, compared to the earlier estimated 0.8% decrease, this is the eighth straight month of falling output. Core sector has a bearing on the overall industrial production data as it carries a weight of 40%. “Despite a low base and improvement in business activities amid unlocking of the economy, the fall in core sector output in October does show some volatility on the production side. Further unlocking of the economy could push this growth into positive territory in the next month. However, certain localised curfews imposed in a few states could weigh on production activity to some extent. IIP growth for this month may be expected to be between -1 to 0%,” CARE Ratings said in a report. While ICRA appeared more optimistic on industrial production, projecting a 4-7% rise due to stocking up across several sectors in anticipation of festival demand, it was cautious going forward. “Growth in many sectors may moderate in November 2020, on the back of some satiation of the pent-up demand, as well as the temporary impact of a larger number of holidays,” it said in a note. From the numbers, fertiliser, coal and electricity seemed to be stabilising, while cement production rose for the first time since February, indicating that construction sector may be buying more of the input. But oil seems to be the big worry, especially refining, where output has been falling since March, along with natural gas and crude production, which have seen lower output for at least 13 straight months now, indicating systemic problems. “The sharp contraction in the output of refinery products in October 2020 was partly on account of production shutdowns, even as fuel consumption recorded a marked improvement, with both diesel and petrol displaying a growth in that month amid an improving economy and rising mobility,” ICRA said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/core-industries-fall-2-5-in-october-on-oil-woes/articleshow/79456306.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Business||Fiscal deficit reaches 120% of annual target||NEW DELHI: The Centre’s fiscal deficit widened to over Rs 9.5 lakh crore at the end of October — almost 120% of the annual target — as the fall in revenue collections could not be offset by the spending squeeze. At the end of October, revenue receipts were estimated at 34% of the annual target, compared to 46% a year ago. But expenditure was around 55% of the budget estimate for 2020-21, as against 59% last year. Capital expenditure, despite the government’s thrust, was at 48% of the annual target, as against nearly 60% during April-October 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/fiscal-deficit-reaches-120-of-annual-target/articleshow/79456335.cms||---
November 28, 2020||India||Supreme Court slams states, says Covid situation has gone bad to worse||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday expressed deep disappointment with state governments for not taking concrete measures against the spread of coronavirus in the country and said “the situation in the last three weeks has gone from bad to worse”. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta said the Union government was constantly monitoring the situation and issuing guidelines regularly to meet the dynamic situation but slackness in implementation of the guidelines, both precautionary and preventive, at the state level had brought about the present situation. He said just 10 states accounted for a vast majority of Covid-19 cases in the country. The Union government in its affidavit said, “Ten states contribute almost 77% of the active Covid-19 caseload for the country. These are Maharashtra (18.9%), Kerala (14.7%), Delhi (8.5%), West Bengal (5.7%), Karnataka (5.6%), Uttar Pradesh (5.4%), Rajasthan (5.5%), Chhattisgarh (5.0%), Haryana (4.7%) and Andhra Pradesh (3.1%).” A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R S Reddy and M R Shah said, “In the last three weeks, states have not taken concrete steps despite the increase in Covid cases. The situation has gone from bad to worse. The states should rise above politics and tighten their belts. The Union government issuing guidelines asking people to mask up and maintain social distancing is fine. But look at what is happening on the ground. People either do not wear masks or wear it improperly. ... More stringent steps are required to be implemented vigorously to prevent gatherings.” The Centre’s affidavit said, “As most countries are observing resurgence of Covid cases, given the size and density of our population, the country has done remarkably well in restricting the spread.” The bench took suo motu cognisance of the fire in Uday Shivanand Hospital in Rajkot in which five Covid-19 patients died. Justice Shah said fire in hospitals was a recurring event and it was strange that no one cared for the safety of patients. "These incidents keep recurring. States institute an inquiry and then the entire episode is brushed under the carpet without any preventive mechanism being put in place. There should be some provision for fire safety in hospitals and staff to constantly monitor the mechanism," he said. Responding to the anguish expressed by the bench, especially Justice Shah, the solicitor general said the Union home secretary will convene a meeting of state officials concerned within 24 hours to put in place fire safety mechanisms in hospitals. The bench asked the Centre and states to file affidavits by Tuesday on this issue. Watch Covid-19: SC slams states, says situation has gone bad to worse||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-slams-states-says-covid-situation-has-gone-bad-to-worse/articleshow/79456364.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
November 28, 2020||India||Set up body for power balance among 3 organs, govt advised||KEVADIA: The two-day All India Presiding Officers’ Conference, which concluded here in Gujarat on Thursday, passed several important resolutions, including one urging the government to set up a body, comprising the President, Lok Sabha Speaker and Chief Justice of India, to oversee the constitutional balance between the legislature, executive and judiciary. “It was unanimously felt that the three organs of the tate should work within their own jurisdiction as laid down in the Constitution, thereby, maintaining the spirit of cooperation, coordination and harmony,” Lok sabha Speaker Om Birla said in his concluding address. Several presiding officers expressed concern about increasing judicial overreach in legislative issues, contradictory judgements in cases related to anti-defection laws and delayed judgements leading to a situation of impasse in the legislative business. Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh emphasised on the need to pass laws expeditiously in the legislatures and said delay in the process had the potential to cause widespread socio-economic losses. Rajasthan Speaker CP Joshi, however, was vocal about judicial overreach in legislative affairs as he referred to recent political crisis in the state. “MLAs are being lured to resign and get away with anti-defection law… I had not taken any action against rebel MLAs but the court stepped in, which was interference in the jurisdiction of the Speaker,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/set-up-body-for-power-balance-among-3-organs-govt-advised/articleshow/79456462.cms||Akhilesh Singh
November 28, 2020||India||For the second day, Punjab farmers march plough through barriers||CHANDIGARH/SONIPAT/AMBALA: For the second consecutive day on Friday, Punjab farmers marched through Haryana, breaking barricades as they faced water cannons and tear gas at various border points in many districts across the state. The Haryana police again sealed the borders with Punjab in Ambala for most of the day at Shambhu on NH-44 and Sadopur on NH-152. Heavy police force was deputed at both the borders and hundreds of protesting farmers started gathering at the barricades demanding a peaceful entry to the state. Police lobbed tear gas shells and used water cannons to disperse the gathering for about two hours, but the farmers managed to breach the barricades on the bridge on Ghaggar river on NH-44 near Shambhu. Protesters also pelted stones at cops and threw some of the barricades into the river. Among the protesters who entered Haryana on Friday were around 50,000 farmers in about 10,000 vehicles from Data Singh Wala border in Patiala district. All Haryana Police barricades at the border with Punjab and along the highway to Delhi were lifted by late Friday afternoon after Delhi Police relented and allowed farmers to enter and assemble at the Nirankari Grounds near Burari in Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/for-the-second-day-punjab-farmers-march-plough-through-barriers/articleshow/79456468.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Kanpur||Ganga Aarti trial held at Atal ghat amid chanting of mantras||Done/ALVI Times News Network Kanpur: As many as 100 devotees, including district officials, attended the Ganga Aarti trial held at Atal Ghat here on Friday evening. The event, which began around 5pm, lasted for one-and-a-half hours. Divisional commissioner Raj Shekhar, mayor Pramila Pandey, local MLA and industry minister Satish Mahana and municipal commissioner Akshay Tripathi first offered prayers amid recitation of mantras. They also offered 2100 lamps in the river. Later, the devotees illuminated the Atal Ghat with 10,000 earthen lamps. The priests also recited Ganga prayer and held the Aarti. The one hour long programme at the Atal Ghat was conducted by Shivakant Maharaj ji and team and one team from Varanasi also participated in the aarti, said the commissioner Raj Shekhar. “All necessary arrangements for following Covid-19 protocol like arrangements of hand sanitiser, masks were ensured by Nagar Nigam and the district administration. Necessary safety checks and other measures like smooth traffic flow, PAC rescue boats, frisking etc were also ensured,” he said further. Looking at the success of this first trial of ‘Ganga Aarti’ , the KMC will set up a “Ganga Aarti organisation Samiti”, said the commissioner said adding that, “The samiti will visit and study the Varanasi and Haridwar aarti and then will plan one Ganga aarti in a month for next 6 months, and then one Aarti every week for next six months. After one year, an everyday Ganga aarti will be arranged on Atal Ghat. This will give a great boost to the tourism of Kanpur along with the awareness about the clean and abundance Ganga." He congratulated the administration, police and KMC team for Friday’s event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/ganga-aarti-trial-held-at-atal-ghat-amid-chanting-of-mantras/articleshow/79453179.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Business||In a 1st, three 10-yr govt bonds in 1 yr||TNN Mumbai: For the first time in the history of the Indian bond market, the government has issued three different 10-year benchmark bonds in a single year, mainly to meet its higher borrowing needs. On Friday, the government issued the third 10-year gilt this year at a yield of 5.85% per annum, maturing in November 2030. Earlier in May, the government had issued the first of the three benchmark 10-year government bonds, while the second one was issued in August. In Friday’s auction, the new government security (G-Sec) worth Rs 8,000 crore was sold, RBI data showed. Bond dealers, however, pointed out that the appetite for gilts is on the wane in the current market situation. “Surprisingly, there were no trades in the ‘when issued’ segment of the G-Sec market,” a bond dealer pointed out. The ‘when issued’ segment is a specialised window in the bond market where investors are allowed to trade a government bond ahead of its issuance with a predictive price (and hence yield). These trades are settled once the bond is priced and issued by the RBI. Traders said that with the economy getting back to normal and Covid vaccines expected to be in the market in a few months, risk-on trades are rising in numbers as people are again showing their appetite for riskier assets. With G-Secs being one of the most low-risk assets, investor appetite is going down again and hence the low demand even for the usually most traded benchmark bonds, they said. As of November 24, total outstanding against the 10-year G-Secs issued in May this year was Rs 1.1 lakh crore, while the corresponding figure against the one issued in August was Rs 1.2 lakh crore, RBI data showed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/in-a-1st-three-10-yr-govt-bonds-in-1-yr/articleshow/79454137.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Patna||Govt to implement development programmes soon: Bihar CM||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Friday said in the state assembly he would soon frame the development programmes for timely implementation in the state and also asked leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav to maintain ‘maryada (dignity)’ of the House if he has to go a long way on his political journey. The CM was giving the government’s reply to the House discussion held on the motion of thanks on the governor’s address to the joint session of the state legislature. The winter session concluded on Friday. “We will soon frame development programmes. The Centre will provide required assistance and the state government will make efforts to take the state to new heights,” Nitish said. Speaking half an hour after his spat with Tejashwi over personal attacks, Nitish also asked the CPI(ML) MLAs to carry themselves responsibly in the House. Fearing that the CPI(ML) might resort to intensified agitational action programmes in the future, Nitish said they, in that situation, might try to “divide society, create disputes and disrupt social harmony”, but it should flinch from such activities. The CM said that the paddy produced by farmers would be procured by Primary Agricultural Credit Societies (PACS) in the state, adding that paddy procurement has been fixed at 30 lakh tonnes for the current season. “Earlier, no such mechanism existed in the state,” he said. As to the control and containment of coronavirus pandemic, Nitish said it was a big problem, so much so that the number of cases had been increasing in the country from which the state was not free. “We had taken steps to combat it and continue to take all required steps to contain the Covid-19 spread. We will not sit complacent,” Nitish said, adding that the Centre has also been concerned about the problem, as PM Narendra Modi held talks with the CMs of all the steps to take stock of the situation. That apart, Nitish dwelt at length on the various developmental activities and milestones achieved in such sectors as health, eduction, road and bridge infrastructure, as well as in the power sector. He said the government has been spending Rs6,760 crore, including Rs5,494 crore on the payment of subsidy to the power consumers and another chunk of Rs1,266 crore against aggregate transmission and commercial losses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-govt-to-implement-devpt-programmes-soon/articleshow/79452751.cms||Abhay Singh
November 28, 2020||Patna||Bihar records 698 new Covid cases, five deaths||PATNA: Altogether 698 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Bihar on Friday, taking the tally to 2,33,840. Besides, five deaths were registered after which the toll reached 1,248. However, with 2,27,046 recoveries, there are 5,544 active cases in the state. According to the health department’s figures, two deaths were registered in Bhagalpur district, followed by one death each in Munger, East Champaran and West Champaran. The All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna (AIIMS-P) reported three deaths. The deceased included a 76-year-old male from Postal Park in Patna, a 74-year-old man from Moharpatti Main Road in Motihari and a 60-year-old from Sirsabira village in Vaishali. AIIMS-P nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, told TOI that 18 patients were admitted to the hospital and seven discharged, including Supaul MLA Anirudh Yadav. “There are altogether 166 corona patients being treated at the hospital. Veteran doctor, Siddheshwar Prasad Sinha, has been put on ventilator and his condition is critical. Former parliamentarian, C P Thakur, on the other hand, is showing improvement. The condition of Patna Medical College and Hospital’s former superintendent Lakhinder Prasad is also stable,” Dr Sanjeev added. A 62-year-old woman from Biharsharif died at the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital on Friday. While no one was admitted, one patient was discharged from the hospital. Of the 698 new Covid-19 cases, 180 were from Patna, taking the city’s tally to 41,511. However, with 39,415 recoveries and 320 deaths, there are 1,776 active cases in the state capital. Fresh cases were also reported from districts like Aurangabad (50), Purnea (41), Madhubani (29), Muzaffarpur (28), Araria (25), Saharsa (25), Vaishali (23), Sitamarhi (22) and Supaul (21). Health minister Mangal Pandey tweeted that 654 people had recovered from corona in 24 hours, taking the state’s recovery rate to 97.09%. During the same time period, 1,36,359 samples were tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-records-698-new-covid-cases-five-deaths/articleshow/79452619.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 28, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Sushil Kumar Modi challenges Rabri Devi’s charges||PATNA: The debate in Bihar Vidhan Parishad on Friday on the governor’s address turned into a political allegations levelled by the ruling and opposition MLCs against each other. JD(U) MLC Neeraj Kumar said the opposition should stop crying over people’s mandate. Without naming anyone, he said the jail manual was being violated. He even took a jibe at the ten lakh job promise made by Mahagathbandhan leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav during the elections. However, former CM Rabri Devi asked Neeraj to have discussion on 55 scams during the Nitish Kumar’s regime. Other RJD MLCs also joined Rabri. On the governor’s speech, MLC Suman Kumar said both the state and central government had stood with the poor during Covid-19 pandemic. “Those who did not have ration card were also given ration. Almost 85 lakh people got free ration and gas cylinders for three months,” Suman said. Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra hit out at the state government over health and education infrastructure. He again raised the issue of Maithili language. He said for the first time in Bihar’s history, the largest party was sitting in the opposition. In the second half of the session, former deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi said people have given mandate to the NDA and 125 seats were more than the majority mark. He said the opposition was first not ready for the election and then they called EVM as Modi Voting machine. He cited the results of those assembly constituencies where NDA candidates had lost by small margins. On the Rabri’s allegations on SuMo that he acquired huge property in Lodipur, the BJP MLC said he will donate it if it was found that he owned even one inch of land there. Acting chairman of the Vidhan Parishad, Awadhesh Narayan Singh adjourned the House sine die.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sumo-challenges-rabris-charges/articleshow/79452813.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 28, 2020||Patna||Bihar CM bursts out at Tejashwi Yadav for personal attacks||PATNA: The state legislative assembly on Friday witnessed uproarious scenes when leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav made personal attacks on CM Nitish Kumar, who lost his cool and demanded action against the son of RJD chief Lalu Prasad. “Jhooth bol raha hai ye (he is telling a lie),” Nitish yelled and sought “action” against Tejashwi, who alleged that the CM was an accused in a murder case during the 1991 parliamentary elections and Rs25,000 fine was paid to the court against charges of plagiarism against him. “He is uttering ‘bakwaas (nonsense)’. What he is telling is a lie. Inquiry should be conducted, action should also be taken, for he is speaking a lie. He (Tejashwi) is the son of a friend (Lalu) of mine who has been like a brother to me. That is why I don’t say anything when he speaks against me. But this cannot be tolerated,” Nitish burst out at Tejashwi. “Who made him (Lalu) the leader of the (Janata Dal) legislature party (in 1990 to become the CM)? Who made you (Tejashwi) deputy CM (in 2015)? He (Tejashwi) has been chargesheeted in a case. I had asked him to explain his position on the matter,” Nitish also said. In 2017, Tejashwi’s name cropped up in a money laundering case but he refused to resign as the deputy CM, resulting in Nitish walking out of the grand alliance and forming government with BJP in the state. Nitish as a leader of the erstwhile Janata Dal had supported Lalu in the election for the legislature party leader in 1990. In the rush of the moments, the ruling JD(U) and BJP MLAs, as well as those from the RJD and other opposition parties, also trooped into the well of the House, when Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha hurriedly adjourned the House for half-an-hour, ostensibly to avert the likely clash and fisticuffs on the floor of the House. However, parliamentary affairs minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary informed the House that the police and the lower court had closed the murder case with the Nalanda SP and DM maintaining that Nitish was at Nalanda and could not have been present at the spot. Later, the Patna high court quashed the case and even the Supreme Court had dismissed the petitions on two occasions, Choudhary said. Earlier, Tejashwi said, “What is that they have not said about me. Even big BJP leader (read PM Narendra Modi) invented various names for me, a 31 years old youth.” Tejashwi said during the election campaigning, Nitish had not only been “counting the children produced by his parents,” but had also remarked that his parents went for so many daughters to fulfil their desire for a son, which reflected their attitude towards girl children. “Nitish has one son, but anyone can say that he (Nitish) was afraid of a daughter, and, therefore, stopped producing children,” Tejashwi said. He also alleged Nitish’s involvement in the Srijan scam. As to the Srijan scam, Choudhary said Nitish, as CM of the state, referred the matter to the CBI for investigation 10 days after the scam surfaced and, therefore, he had nothing to do with it. At this point, Tejashwi rose at his seat and drawing the attention of the Speaker said whatever he had said were facts. Only then Nitish stood up at his seat and burst into that volcanic rage against Tejashwi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-bursts-out-at-tejashwi-for-personal-attacks/articleshow/79452797.cms||Abhay Singh
November 28, 2020||Patna||Cash, valuables stolen form 3 flats in Patna||Thieves took away cash and valuables worth over Rs 6 lakh from three flats, including that of a judicial officer, from Kanak Enclave apartment located on Danapur-Khagaul road under Danapur police station on Thursday night. The judicial officer, S B Niraj, who is posted in Motihari, came to know about the theft in his flat on Friday morning. Later a police team visited the spot and inquired about the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cash-valuables-stolen-form-3-flats-in-city/articleshow/79452609.cms||Ramashankar
November 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Fire NOC mandatory for all factories||GANDHINAGAR: After the fire incident that took place at a chemical unit at Pirana in Ahmedabad on November 4, a high-level committee headed by additional chief secretary (ACS) Vipul Mittra (labour & employment department) and GPCB chairman Sanjiv Kumar recommended not to allow any hazardous chemical units or factories to operate without a fire no objection certificate (NOC). After checking nearly 1,564 chemical units dealing in hazardous chemicals in the state, three IAS officers — ACS Vipul Mitra, ACS, urban development department Mukesh Puri and GPCB chairman Sanjiv Kumar — came to the conclusion to not allow any hazardous chemical units or factories without fire NOC. The committee has also recommended other stringent measures in the report submitted to the government. The urban development department has written to the labour and employment department, making it compulsory for factories to submit a fire NOC before issuing factory licences under the Factories Act, 1948.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fire-noc-mandatory-for-all-factories/articleshow/79454865.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Advertisement hocism is order of the day in many universities||PATNA: The universities in Bihar have learnt to function under ad hoc arrangement. Most of the time statutory posts of senior officials in different universities remain vacant and are filled on an ad hoc basis. Although as many as 13 vice-chancellors (VCs) and pro-VCs were appointed against the existing vacancies in different universities on September 19 after a long-drawn exercise, four have again been put under the control of ad hoc VCs. In most cases, VCs of some other universities have been given additional charges against the vacancies. And the officiating VCs are not empowered to take any policy decision. Governor-cum-chancellor Phagu Chauhan had appointed Neelima Gupta and Ramesh Kumar as the VC and the pro-VC of Tilka Manjhi Bhagalpur University along with others in September. But neither of them has joined the new assignment yet. They are likely to join after three to four months. In the meantime, the university continues to run under ad hoc arrangement. The office of VCs in Aryabhatta Knowledge University (AKU), Nalanda Open University (NOU) and Purnea University have also been lying vacant for the last few months. The office of Bihar Agricultural University (BAU) VC is also likely to fall vacant shortly. While the posts of AKU and Purnea University VC have already been advertised, those of NOU and BAU are yet to be advertised. “Generally, the entire process of appointing a VC in Bihar takes around one year from the date of advertisement. Hence, all these universities will continue to function under an ad hoc arrangement till then,” a senior functionary of AKU told this newspaper. Other administrative posts, including those of registrar, deputy registrar, examination controller, finance officer, budget-cum-accounts officer and inspector of colleges, are supposed to be appointed by the Bihar State University Service Commission, but for the last several years, they are being appointed on an ad hoc basis by the chancellor. For instance, Patna University has not had a regular controller of examinations for the last three decades following the retirement of S A Imam. Senior teachers of the university have been officiating as the controller of examinations all these years. Similarly, no regular appointment of registrar has been made in PU for the last 15 years. Expressing concern over the ad hocism prevailing in almost all the universities in the state, Federation of University Teachers’ Associations of Bihar working president K B Sinha observed that the progress of universities had been badly hampered over the years due to the absence of full-time regularly appointed officials. “The state government must initiate necessary steps for filling up all the vacant posts of officers, teachers and supporting staff in all the institutions of higher education to ensure their smooth functioning,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ad-hocism-is-order-of-the-day-in-many-universities/articleshow/79452667.cms||B K Mishra
November 28, 2020||Business||Professional CEOs see average pay rise by 7% to Rs 13 crore in FY20||MUMBAI: Professional CEOs got a raise in 2019-20 even as average salaries of their promoter counterparts dropped due to the economic slowdown before the pandemic struck. However, promoter CEOs, on an average, took home a 62% higher compensation than their professional counterparts. According to the ‘million-dollar CEO club’ study by EMA Partners, commissioned by TOI, the average salaries of professional CEOs rose 6.5% to Rs 13 crore in 2019-20 and that of their promoter counterparts declined by about 9% to Rs 21 crore. The study is based on a sample of BSE 200 companies and it does not include stock options. Since the study takes into account compensation details in balance sheets of companies for 2019-20, it excludes the trends that may have shaped CXO (including CFO) compensation following the Covid pandemic. The number of CXOs earning a million dollars (Rs 7 crore*) has inched up to 150 from 146 last year. The club is led by the Marans (Kalanithi Maran and Kavery Kalanithi) with a compensation of Rs 87.5 crore, which has remained unchanged (see graphic). Of the total, 81 are professional CEOs and 69 are promoters. Overall professional compensation has increased by 1.5%, while promoter compensation has risen by nearly 3%. EMA Partners India MD K Sudarshan said, “The trend over the last 12 months indicates that promoter CEOs have indeed taken a larger hit on their compensation notwithstanding potential dividend earnings out of their businesses as shareholders. On the other hand, we have seen an increase in the overall compensation for professional CEOs. We believe this anomaly will see a gradual correction as more professionals step up and increase their compensation driven by business performance.” Compensation of promoters like Sajjan Jindal of JSW plunged by nearly 44% to Rs 39 crore in 2019-20. The compensation of Murali Divi of Divi’s Laboratories has dropped by about 12% to Rs 52 crore, while that of H M Bangur of Shree Cement has gone down by about 10% to Rs 42 crore in 2019-20. However, Rajiv Bajaj of Bajaj Auto saw an over 23% jump in his compensation to nearly Rs 40 crore. Among professional CEOs, compensation of Hindalco MD Satish Pai rose 11% during the year to Rs 32 crore. Hindustan Unilever CMD Sanjiv Mehta’s salary rose about 24% to over Rs 16 crore. The remuneration of Rs 48 crore paid to Rohit Philip, who resigned from the post of CFO at IndiGo’s parent InterGlobe Aviation effective from September 15, 2019, however, includes the exit amount under his contract, which is why Philip’s compensation has more than trebled, catapulting him to the top 10 this year. Kansai Nerolac Paints VC & MD H M Bharuka said, “If India has to grow, the number of million-dollar CXOs has to increase considerably, which I am sure will come as corporatisation goes up.” Bharuka, who is also part of the club, said incentives are commensurate with the size, scale, complexities, spread and responsibilities. “The scrutiny, responsibilities and stress which a modern-day CXO faces have been going up. Digitalisation, fast-changing regulations, a number of compliances and new-age social media have put tremendous pressure on the CXO. He/she needs to continuously evaluate the impact of the global economy, climate change & the geopolitical confrontation on his company and accordingly adjust the strategy. While there are teams to handle specific roles, the buck stops at the CXO’s desk. Ultimately, he/she is answerable to stakeholders.” The gap between the average salaries of promoter (Rs 23 crore in FY19) and professional CEOs (Rs 12 crore, also FY19), which was nearly double, has reduced to 62% in FY20. Bharuka said there is no difference in the role of professional and promoter CEOs in terms of responsibilities. Therefore, compensation of a promoter CEO in comparison to a professional CEO should not be very high just because of ownership, he added. “Some of the promoters have a tendency to reward themselves much more, which raises debates in society about CXO compensation. There is a need for proper equilibrium,” said Bharuka. Sudarshan said fixed compensation will have limitations and a large component of CXO compensation will be subject to overall value creation. The quantum of stock-related compensation has been substantial in many cases. “In a growth environment, compensation will continue to go north and be well justified. However, compensation does come under severe scrutiny during such times when business growth is muted. It is hence important for the CXOs to set the right example for the rest of the organisation,” said Sudarshan. For the study, the Indian rupee to US dollar conversion has been taken at Rs 70.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/professional-ceos-see-avg-pay-rise-by-7-to-rs-13-crore-in-fy20/articleshow/79454379.cms||Namrata Singh
November 28, 2020||Pune||HRD ministry urges states to keep schoolbags light||PUNE: The HRD ministry, in a communication on Tuesday, has told education secretaries of all the states and Union Territories to adopt the schoolbag policy 2020 from standards I to XII. The policy recommends following the universally accepted ratio where the weight for schoolbags is 10% of the bodyweight of the students. Joint director of primary education Dinkar Temkar, one of the six members on the experts’ committee that formulated the policy, said a survey of stakeholders helped draw up the recommendations. The policy also suggested ways to mend the timetable and other aspects in a day for a lightweight school bag. The committee was constituted after the Madras high court order in 2018 on framing a policy to reduce the weight of schoolbags. The experts were from CBSE, JNV and NCERT, with a member from Telangana, and Temkar representing Maharashtra. Both states already have a schoolbag policy. Temkar said, “After 2-3 meetings in Delhi, we surveyed parents, students, teachers and principals. We compiled the findings and submitted the report about a year ago. The New Education Policy also mentions bag-less days and vocational courses. The new National Curriculum Framework based on NEP 2020 will have some suggestions which the states and UTs will have to incorporate along with this policy.” The members met four times from October to December 2018 to pool their experiences as administrators, academicians and as parents. They shared guidelines their organisations and states had developed on school bags to formulate a draft policy. The group observed that the school curriculum, which included subjects offered at different stages, homework, and other academics, was linked to the weight of schoolbags. More number of subjects offered in schools means more textbooks to carry, and every day homework too added more books to the bag. Based on the survey data and discussions, the committee recommended the reduction of the weight of schoolbags, less homework and fewer subjects. Animesh More said, “A check on the weight of a school bag has to be a collective effort. Older students carry too many books even if not needed Some carry books of coaching classes in the same bag. Parents must keep a watch and schools need not burden them with extra books.” Principal of Acharya Shree Vijay Vallabh School Manasi Marulkar said they have two periods for one subject in a single day so that students carry fewer books. “We conduct regular checks, and if students are found with extra tuition books, or other preparatory books we write a note to parents,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hrd-ministry-urges-states-to-keep-schoolbags-light/articleshow/79453903.cms||Ardhra Nair
November 28, 2020||Patna||Eviction drive begins today||PATNA: In a bid to regulate traffic and encroachments, the district administration will begin a four-day mega drive in Patna from Saturday. A special drive to ensure the implementation of Covid-19 norms is already going on in the state capital. According to Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal, nearly 400 employees, including magistrate-rank officers, cops and Patna Municipal Corporation workers will be involved in the mega drive which will continue till December 2. The state home department had issued a fresh order on Thursday in the wake of a spurt in coronavirus cases. Only 100 people will now be allowed at marriage functions in Bihar instead of 200 and buses to and from Patna will ply with 50% capacity. Agarwal told TOI, “A special team has been formed to check that these new guidelines are not violated. It will hold meetings with the owners of banquet halls and hotels and ensure that the instructions are followed. Another team is keeping an eye on the bus and auto stands to make sure that the guidelines are not flouted.” Rs 1.94 lakh realised as fine: During the last four days, a sum of Rs 1.94 lakh has been collected as fine from different people for violation of Covid-19 norms in Patna. Several shops where customers or employees were seen without masks have also been sealed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/eviction-drive-begins-today/articleshow/79452713.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 28, 2020||Kanpur||Farmers hold protest in Rama Devi highway area||Kanpur:Farmers in the Rama Devi highway area on Friday held protest to support their Haryana and Punjab counterparts who are marching towards Delhi in response to a “Delhi Chalo” call against the three central farm laws. Another protest was staged by Samajwadi Yuva Sikh Morcha near Gumti Gurdwara area of the city. However, there was no report of violence anywhere in the district. The protesting farmers, under the banner of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) Tikait, said they are protesting in support of their counterparts who are marching to Delhi from Haryana and Punjab in response to a call to protest against the three central farm laws. On a Bharatiya Kisan Union Tikait call to support their marching counterparts, the farmers hailing from various parts of the district reached the Rama Devi highway in Chakeri and staged a sit-in dharna on Friday afternoon. District President Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) Tikait, Ravi Pratap Singh said the farmers were forced to march to Delhi as the Central government was not paying heed to the demands of the community. He asked authorities to convey their message to Centre that their counterparts marching from Haryana and Punjab face no problems during protest. Police on coming to know about the farmers protest at the highway reached the Rama Devi and held talks with the agitated farmers, who after a peaceful demonstration called off the dharna. In Gumti Gurdwara area, activists of Samajwadi Yuva Sikh Morcha asked authorities to exercise restraint while dealing with the farmers. Kawaljeet Singh Manu, city president Samajwadi Yuva Sikh Morcha said these protesting farmers are people’s ‘anna data’ and they should be dealt with “patience” and not by using water cannon or by applying force. Uzma Solanki, a local Samajwadi Party leader said the farmers’ issue relates to the overall national interest. She appealed the masses to join the agitation against the farm bills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/farmers-hold-protest-in-rama-devi-highway-area/articleshow/79453082.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Kanpur||17 injured in accident onKanpur-Lucknow e-way||Kanpur:Nearly 17 passengers including driver of a Lucknow-bound SRTC bus were injured when it rammed into a truck near Nawabganj Toll Plaza in Unnao on Kanpur-Lucknow highway on Friday morning. Police said the SRTC bus was carrying around 20 passengers from Kanpur to Lucknow. The injured have been rushed to a nearby community health centre, from where two critically injured passengers identified as Dheeraj of Pratapgarh and Shahbaz, a resident of Lucknow, besides bus driver Gopi Gupta of Dahilamau village, Pratapgarh were referred to the district hospital. According to additional superintendent of police (ASP) Vinod Kumar Pandey, the passengers who escaped unhurt or had sustained minor wounds were sent to their destination in another vehicle. He further said that the accident took place when the driver apparently dozed off and lost control of the bus. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/17-injured-in-accident-onkanpur-lucknow-e-way/articleshow/79453194.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Almost all Covid-19 hospitals in Ahmedabad now have fire safety consultants, audits’||AHMEDABAD: After the Shrey Hospital fire, officials of the Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA) had formed a committee to make all members fire-safety compliant. Dr Bharat Gadhvi, president of AHNA, said it was a hard lesson. “After the tragedy, almost all staff members, especially on Covid-19 duty, were provided training on fire safety and fire drills by experts. Almost all hospitals have appointed fire safety consultants and have structural audits,” he said, adding that electricity audits were also conducted by the majority of hospitals. He added that in view of the Rajkot tragedy, hospitals have again been asked to review their safety protocol. A hospital administrator said hospitals are now more vulnerable due to the oxygen factor. “Oxygen is a large part of the Covid-19 treatment protocol. Some hospitals have newly-installed lines which are retrofitted to the existing structure. The electricity load remained the same, but many added medical equipment. We have requested members to review both these factors to prevent any future accidents,” said a senior doctor with a private hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/almost-all-covid-19-hospitals-now-have-fire-safety-consultants-audits/articleshow/79454820.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Patna||16 Bihar govt departments attend training programme on child budget||PATNA: A training programme on ‘Child Budget Preparation’ by the state’s finance department, in collaboration with UNICEF and Asian Development Research Institute (ADRI), concluded on Friday. The objective of the training programme was to strengthen the child budgeting of the state government. Presently, 16 departments are reporting their budget and expenditure in the ‘child budget’ document. Dr Barna Ganguli, assistant professor, CEPPF (ADRI), shared the main findings of a study done by UNICEF, Department of Finance and ADRI. She said the child budgeting process still has some loopholes, which need to be addressed to come up with a robust document. She said the training programme will provide guidelines to the budget officers in compiling data for the Child Budgeting document. In the technical sessions, Sanjeev Mittal, deputy secretary, Department of Finance, discussed the basic points of budget preparation. He emphasized that the child budget is a part of main budget and the need was to focus upon its expenditure through head of accounts. Ajay Thakur, deputy secretary, Department of Finance, focused on the types of programmes included in the Child Budget document. He said both plan and non-plan expenditures should be included to show the total expenditure. The training was imparted to 16 different departments of state government. As per Covid-19 precautions, the training programme was scheduled in four batches with four different departments each so that the social distancing could be maintained. The first day of the training programme on November 23 was attended by the departments of health, panchayati raj, labour and PHED. Social welfare, art, culture and youth, forest, environment and climate change and home department officials attended the second day programme. The third day programme was attended by education, SC and ST welfare, minority welfare and BC and MBC welfare departments. Finance, planning and development, rural development, Bihar Education Project and disaster management departments attended the last day training programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/16-govt-depts-attend-training-programme-on-child-budget/articleshow/79453394.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Patna||ECR GM inspects Grand Chord route to run trains at 160 kmph||PATNA: With the railways planning to run semi-high speed passenger trains on various routes, East Central Railway (ECR) GM L C Trivedi inspected one of the oldest Grand Chord (GC) sections on the Pradhankhuta-Gaya-Pt Deen Dayal Upadhaya Junction on Wednesday. Trivedi took stock of the ongoing work on the 417km-long route and directed the officials concerned to complete the work in time to benefit passengers the most. According to ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar, railways has started work to further strengthen track condition on the GC route in particular so that passenger trains could run at the maximum 160 kmph speed on the route. At present, passenger trains are running at the speed limit of 130 kmph on the GC section falling under Dhanbad and Pt Deen Dayal Upadhaya Junction divisions of the ECR, he said. The ECR GM inspected the condition of rail bridges, signalling system and overhead electric (OHE) wire position on the route. Though work related to improving present condition of rail bridges, signalling system and other track safety measures have been going on in full swing, the GM, however, stressed on the need of strengthening soil condition of the tracks as well as carrying out electronic interlocking of the track joints to ensure foolproof safety to passengers during journey by semi high-speed trains, he said. Railways has decided to complete the 417km-long route as per the safety parameter under the European Train Center System (ETCS), which has become mandatory to run semi high-speed passenger trains. The GC route has many rail bridges which, however, required immediate strengthening of the track condition and replacement of old rail tracks, the CPRO said, adding that railways has thus proposed to complete the entire GC route from Dhanabad to Pt Deen Dayal Upadhaya Junction with much advanced signalling system and track condition. Railways has recently increased the speed limit of passenger trains up to 130 kmph on the Jhajha-Patna-Pt Deen Dayal Upadhaya Junction mainline route, shortening journey hours from Patna to New Delhi by at least 30 40 minutes by Rajdhani Express and Sampoorna Kranti Express, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ecr-gm-inspects-grand-chord-route-to-run-trains-at-160-kmph/articleshow/79452656.cms||Kumod Verma
November 28, 2020||Patna||Tejashwi Prasad Yadav crossed all limits: JD(U)||PATNA: After the turmoil created in the legislative assembly over personal attacks made on CM Nitish Kumar, ruling JD(U) state president Bashishtha Narain Singh criticized leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and said he had crossed all the limits in the House on Friday. “Even after election results, they are not able to accept their defeat and hence are crossing all limits. RJD has always created anarchy. This is the reason their regime was called Jungle Raj,” Singh said and added that the kind of language which Tejashwi was using could make anyone lose his temper. However, former CM Rabri Devi supported her younger son and hit out at Nitish for his outburst in the House. “Who knew him (Nitish) in the country? We got 75 seats and he got 43. People have kicked him. We got the power, but it was snatched,” she said in reply to Nitish’s statement that the latter had made RJD chief Lalu Prasad the legislature party leader in 1990 and Tejashwi as deputy CM in 2015. RJD national spokesperson Manoj Jha said he (Nitish) got irked because the opposition leader has been raising the issues related to unemployment, migration, health and education. Congress state spokesperson Rajesh Rathorre said the CM never lost his cool earlier and used to maintain the dignity of his position. “But now, he is losing control because he is just a puppet in the hands of BJP and is living under a complex,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejashwi-crossed-all-limits-jdu/articleshow/79452772.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 28, 2020||Rajkot||Uday Shivanand fire: We don’t play with fire, we save lives in infernos’||RAJKOT: It was just another cold winter night that the firemen had settled into, not expecting much disaster to happen with the curfew clamped for added protection. But they were to be rudley surprised when at 12.45 am the phone rang informing that about the fire in Uday Shivanand hospital. This was a hospital that had been closed for many years till Gokul Hospital took it on rent ion September 15, 2020 to run their Covid facility on the premises. Station officer Firoz Luvani, 53, sprang into action and rushed with his young team, all under 35 years of age, to the spot within five minutes. But what they saw there filled everybody with horror. Thick black smoke was billowing from the hospital and visibility was highly reduced in the haze. Not caring about injury or risks, the firefighters rushed in to break window panes to let the smoke out so that they could assess the situation inside. “Our first priority was to rescue the patients amid the smoke. We first broke the window panes of the ICU to reduce suffocation. It was horrible...we could only see licks of fire thorugh the smoke and blood curdling screams of agony of the patients,” recalled Luvani, talking to TOI. “We rushed in unmindful of the hazardous smoke and as far as possible physically lifted the patients on our shoulders outside to safety. We then called for hydraulic platforms, more firefighters and ambulance,” he said, adding that the first response team comprised six firemen, one van driver and an ambulance driver. According to fire staffers, the hospital staff was trying handle the patients who were hysteric with fear and were screaming. “There was only one gate for entry and exit. We knew we were entering a Covid hospital without any added protection, but were even forced to take off our normal masks because of the thick smoke. The hospital staff was wearing PPE kits, but we didn’t stop to worry about infection. We simply wanted to save as many lives we could and my boys started carrying patients on their shoulders,” Luvani said, adding that while he had in so many years of service faced many difficult calls, this was the most hazardous of all. Thanking Mubarak Zuneja, Sanjay Babariya, Sanjay Mangela, Mahesh Hebha, Anil Solanki and drivers Kisansinh Jadeja and Yogesh Jani for rising up to the occasion valiantly, he said he was proud of his team for rescuing every possible patient that night from the three floors of the ill-fated hospital. Talking to TOI, Luvani said that while it is mandatory to stay in isolation after coming in contact with Covid patients, none of his team members who physically assisted all Covid patients out of the burning hospital at night wanted to waste precious time by staying off duty and have rejoined office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/we-dont-play-with-fire-we-save-lives-in-infernos/articleshow/79455086.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Business||NSE turnover hits record Rs 1.5L cr on MSCI’s rejig||TNN Mumbai: Cash segment turnover on the NSE touched a record high of Rs 1.5 lakh crore on Friday, driven by foreign fund buying after MSCI (Morgan Stanley Capital Investment) rebalanced some of its indices. As a result of the rejig in the indices, which are used for benchmarking by several foreign funds investing in India, those investors had to buy the stocks, which were included, and subsequently also sell the ones that were excluded, on Friday. Such trades by foreign fund managers led to a substantial spurt in total turnover on the exchanges, BSE data showed. The delivery percentage — the ratio of shares marked for delivery to total turnover — also jumped to a high of 53%, the highest since March 23. The day’s turnover on the NSE was 50% more than the previous high of almost Rs 99,000 crore, recorded on August 31 this year. Gross buying by foreign funds on Friday was Rs 74,752 crore, while gross selling was Rs 67,029 crore, combined exchange data showed. As a result, the net FPI buying figure was Rs 7,713 crore, one of the highest in recent times. On Friday, Kotak Mahindra Bank was the most traded stock on the NSE with the turnover close to Rs 15,000 crore, followed by Bajaj Finance at nearly Rs 6,050 crore and Adani Green Energy at about Rs 5,150 crore, NSE data showed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nse-turnover-hits-record-rs-1-5l-cr-on-mscis-rejig/articleshow/79454210.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Lucknow||Poor show by basic MDM task force, inspects just 4% schools||Lucknow: The task force meant for supervision of academic activities and health related schemes in primary schools carried out inspections in 387 schools as against the target of 32,930 schools, in October, shows a report accessed by TOI. In its report, the MDM authority highlights that the district-level task force headed by the district magistrate and 11 members excluding the basic shiksha adhikari (BSA) inspected only 3% schools — 116 out of 4,125 (fixed by the education department) in October. And the block-level task force headed by the deputy district magistrate and seven members excluding the block education officer (BEO) could inspect only 1% schools — 271 out of 28,805 (fixed by education department). Individually, BSAs carried out inspection in 58% schools. In figures, BSAs inspected 877 schools against the target of 1,500. Similarly, BEOs set out for inspection in 21,260 schools against the target of 32,920 schools. The district coordinators for mid-day meal carried out inspection in 77% schools, while district coordinators for Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) visited 57% schools to monitor activities. In all, the report shows inspection in only 37% schools, which is 27,940 schools as against the target of 76,350 schools, fixed by the MDM authority. The report shows, Agra and Auraiya district have least inspections — 5% and 9% -- respectively. Set up at district and block level, the task force, otherwise aimed at constant surveillance of MDM scheme, was mandated with inspecting activities such as distribution of textbooks, bags, uniforms and to ensure MDM food security allowance reaches children in times of Covid-19 pandemic. The education department may not have been serving the mid-day meal due to school closure, but children, on directives of the central government, are being given MDM food security allowance since the lockdown. “Inspections were to ensure that allowance reaches the families and other activities are carried out properly,” said an official. Post the analysis, director, MDM authority, Vijay Kiran Anand has written to DMs to enhance participation in inspection of schools so that quality of activities is not compromised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/poor-show-by-basic-mdm-task-force-inspects-just-4-schools/articleshow/79455938.cms||Isha Jain
November 28, 2020||Business||Burger King’s Rs 810cr IPO to open on Dec 2||TNN Mumbai: The Rs 810-crore initial public offering (IPO) for Burger King India will open on December 2 and close on December 4. The price band for the domestic franchise of the global fast food chain’s IPO has been set at Rs 59-60 per share. Of the total issue size, Rs 450 crore will accrue to the company, while the balance Rs 360 crore will go to one of the shareholders, QSR Asia, which is offloading part of its stake in the offer. Kotak Mahindra Capital, CLSA India, Edelweiss Financial Services and JM Financial are managing the IPO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/burger-kings-rs-810cr-ipo-to-open-on-dec-2/articleshow/79454227.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Patna||Thieves escape with money meant for priest’s ‘samadhi’ in Bihar||PATNA: Ramji Das, an elderly priest of a temple in Siwan district, lost the money, which he had collected for years together for his ‘samadhi’ (last rites) as per Hindu rituals. To his utter surprise, Das, who is in his late 70s and not keeping well, found Rs.50,000 missing from the almirah of the Bhootnath temple located on the premises of Guthani block headquarters in Siwan district early on Friday morning. Das immediately called some local residents and showed the broken almirah in which he had safely kept the cash earlier. The residents, in turn, informed the Guthani police station, which sent a team for investigation into the theft of the cash. “Everything was fine when I went to bed after having my meal at night. When I woke up early in the morning for prayers, I found the almirah broken,” he told the investigating officials. The priest said that he had never dreamt that the thieves would take away the money he had saved for his ‘samadhi’ (last rites). “I am not keeping well for the last few months. So I decided to keep the cash on the shelf of the almirah,” he revealed. The SHO of Guthani police station Manoranjan Kumar said that raids were on to nab the miscreants involved in the incident. A forensic team also visited the spot and collected samples of fingerprints from there, he added. The police have, however, failed to make any breakthrough in the case so far. The locals, on the other hand, suspected the involvement of some drug addicts who used to assemble near Matikorwa roundabout every day in the evening. “It may be the handiwork of some drug addicts, who were aware of the priest's last wishes,” a local resident Satyendra Pathak said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/thieves-escape-with-money-meant-for-priests-samadhi/articleshow/79452633.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Patna||Bihar's Bhagalpur Covid care centres on alert||BHAGALPUR: With a spurt in Covid-19 cases, the state health department has directed the district health officials to put the Covid care centres (CCCs) and dedicated Covid health centres (DCHCs) on high alert. It has also instructed the civil surgeons to ensure that high risk Covid patients are admitted to CCCs or DCHCs instead of being under home isolation. Bhagalpur civil surgeon Dr Vijay Kumar Singh told this newspaper on Friday, “In view of the rise in Covid cases and probability of other infections due to the onset of the winter season, we have made all necessary arrangements and put the CCCs and DCHCs on high alert.” There are two CCCs and four DCHCs in Bhagalpur district. The civil surgeon added, “We have been directed to increase the number of RT-PCR tests being done for detection of Covid-19 by 20%. Nearly 500 samples are being collected each day.” At the CCCs and DCHCs, doctors and paramedical staff have been provided with medical equipment for monitoring oxygen saturation, blood pressure and pulse rate of patients at frequent intervals. Talking about the state health department’s stress on hospitalization of elderly people and high risk Covid-19 patients, the Singh said, “We have been told to monitor such patients at CCCs or DCHCs instead of allowing them to stay at home under isolation.” Altogether 72 corona positive people have died in the district so far. The number of patients has already crossed the 8,874-mark.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bhagalpur-covid-care-centres-on-alert/articleshow/79452646.cms||Kumar Rajesh
November 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Contempt notice to Gujarat govt over aid to rickshaw drivers||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Friday issued notice to the state government asking why action for contempt of the court should not be taken against those responsible for not heeding a court order to help auto rickshaw drivers who have been reeling from financial troubles due to the Covid-19 lockdown. On September 16, the bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala asked the state government to rise to the occasion and render meaningful help to citizens during this pandemic. In response to the PIL filed by auto drivers for financial assistance, the court said that it cannot direct the government to emulate other states, who have extended financial support to auto and taxi drivers. But the court observed, “We may only say that we should not shy away from the fact that the people hailing from the poor strata of society are suffering the most during this period of pandemic…It is no doubt true that in such circumstances the state government should consider rendering financial assistance in a more meaningful manner. In other words, rendering actual financial help and, while at the same time, ensuring that an undeserving or non-eligible person is not successful in getting such benefit.” The HC asked the government to work out a solution in a month’s time by simplifying the process of extending loans. When the HC insisted on simplifying the process to extend Atmanirbhar loans to auto drivers, the state government too promised that it would do the needful in this regard. More than two months have passed and the auto drivers’ associations have moved the HC again through advocate K R Koshti and complained that the government has not responded to their demands and this is a violation of the court order. They have sought action under contempt of court laws. The bench headed by Justice R M Chhaya sought an explanation from the government on the contempt petition by December 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-issues-contempt-notice-to-govt-over-aid-to-auto-drivers/articleshow/79454873.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Fire safety gear installation only half done at Sola Civil Hospital||AHMEDABAD: As fire safety measures at hospitals have became a cause of concern after the Shrey Hospital fire in Ahmedabad, Sola Civil Hospital remains ill-equipped with the state government informing the Gujarat high court on Friday that only 51% of equipment installation work has been completed so far. On October 9, the high court sought information from the state government on how equipped government hospitals are for firefighting, after advocate Amit Panchal drew the court’s attention to the fact that Sola Civil Hospital also did not have a fire NOC. In response, health and family welfare department secretary Jayanti Ravi filed an affidavit and told the HC that soon after the court order, incomplete work relating to installation of firefighting equipment in Sola Civil Hospital had resumed. Ravi stated, “As of today, 51% of the installation work is complete. The full installation came to be delayed and the earlier timeline could not be achieved because of the pandemic situation coupled with the intervening Diwali holidays.” The secretary assured the high court that the hosptial will be fully equipped with firefighting equipment by December 31. “In the meantime, sufficient safeguards have been taken to meet with any emergent situation till the whole system becomes fully functional,” the court was informed. After the high court took up the issue of fire safety measures following the fire at the Covid hospital in the city in August, the state government included all municipal corporations under the purview of the state’s Fire Safety Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fire-safety-gear-installation-only-half-done-at-sola-civil-hospital/articleshow/79454843.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Ludhiana||DGGI arrests Rs 1,600cr bogus billing kingpin from MansaRs 1,600-crore bogus billing kingpin arrested||Ludhiana: The directorate general of GST Intelligence (DGGI), Ludhiana, has arrested a leading businessman of Mansa for allegedly fleecing the government of about Rs 80 crores by doing bogus billing of Rs 1,600 crores. Through this modus operandi, the businessman is also believed to have fooled a nationalised bank by availing loans to the tune of several hundred crores. The arrested accused is a director in a spinning mill and had created web of dozens of fictitious companies in and around Mansa, which were run in the name of his relatives, friends, staff members and were involved only in circular trading worth thousands of crores. There was no actual transfer of goods taking place between them. A big operation was launched by the Ludhiana DGGI zonal office, in which teams of officers under directions of additional director general (IRS) Arvind Madhavan searched multiple premises to establish the chain of this unprecedented fraud in a small city like Mansa. It was found that some of these firms, which were shown as registered, were either non-existent or small time shops dealing in kirana or just one-room settlements. Speaking to TOI, a source said, “The accused used to issue invoices without any accompanying goods (cotton yarn in this case). In the guise of bogus business transactions, his company has taken loans of hundreds of crores from a nationalised bank.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/dggi-arrests-rs-1600cr-bogus-billing-kingpin-from-mansars-1600-crore-bogus-billing-kingpin-arrested/articleshow/79455109.cms||Mohit Behl
November 28, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad: Schools not ready to open for classes VI-VIII||PRAYAGRAJ: Principals of several schools affiliated to UP Board have refused to open the institutions for class VI to class VIII students from December 15. The principals have sent a report in this regard to the district inspector of schools (DIOS) informing that already classes IX to XII are functioning. Still, the strength of students is reasonably low. At the same time, government-run primary and upper primary schools have not opened. The principals said that since the count of positive corona cases has once again started to rise in the district, opening the schools for class VI to VIII students is not advisable. In such a situation, schools should not be opened from December 15 for them, reasoned the education department officials. UP Board Secretary Divyakant Shukla had issued a letter to all DIOS on November 24 asking district-level officials to seek feedback regarding the opening of the schools from principals of the institutions. In the same sequence, all the schools were contacted by DS-Prayagraj. Given the growing case of Covid-19 infections, the principals of most of the schools have submitted their reports to DIOS with the opinion that schools should not be opened further, officials added. The DIOS has, in turn, submitted his report to the UP board Secretary who has sent the same to the state government. If officials are to be believed, it is very much unlikely that the schools for class VI to VIII students would open from December 15. DIOS, Prayagraj, RN Vishwakarma said, “Following the guidelines of Unlock 5.0, schools for classes IX to XII have been opened, and teaching work is being done physically by the teachers concerned for students coming in staggered batches. Principals of schools were also contacted to get the feedback for opening the school for students from class VI to VIII. Still, around 70% of the principals are of the opinion that schools should not be opened from December 15 for these students. Information about this has been sent to the UP board Secretary.” Meanwhile, on the same lines, there seems a remote possibility of the opening of Kendriya Vidyalayas for classes VI to VIII in the present Covid-19 pandemic. “Presently we have opened the schools for students from class IX to XII, but few students are coming to school, and till date, KV Sangathan has not issued any guidelines in respect to opening schools for lower classes. Opening schools for classes VI to VIII is not feasible in the present crisis because they are not as mature as are students of higher classes”, said principal KV, Jhalwa, Vijeyesh Pandey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/schools-not-ready-to-open-for-classes-vi-viii/articleshow/79451966.cms||Rajeev Mani
November 28, 2020||Pune||B Architecture admissions extended till December 15||PUNE: The last date for admission to the bachelor of architecture course has been extended by one month till December 15. Earlier, the course was set to begin from mid-December, but the Maratha reservation issue had stalled the admission process. The state education department has resumed admissions and the date of starting the new academic year would be announced consequently. The state directorate of technical education (DTE) postponed the admissions due to the lockdown and the coronavirus pandemic and when admissions resumed, the last date was fixed for November 15. Director of DTE, Abhay Wagh, said, “We are ensuring that no student is left out of any opportunity and every student gets an equal chance. So we have decided to extend dates so those who could not apply will be able to fill the admission forms in this extended period.” The students have taken the National Aptitude Test in Architecture and the results were announced. There are 115 architecture colleges in Maharashtra with close to 40 seats in each. The admissions in all these colleges will go on till December 15 as per the revised dates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/b-arch-admissions-extended-till-december-15/articleshow/79453912.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Pune||PMC to start merger process of 23 villages||PUNE: The civic body is set to start the merger process of 23 villages in its jurisdiction with the state government seeking a report on the area expansion and its impact. In 2014, the erstwhile state government had issued a notification to extend the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits by merging 34 villages. As many as 11 villages were brought into the PMC limits in September-October 2017 following court intervention. The state, through an affidavit submitted in the Bombay High Court after a citizens’ action committee approached the HC over the delay, had then stated that the remaining 23 villages would be merged by the end of 2020. “As the deadline for the merger nears, it is imminent that the administration studies the details about the process and its impact. The report will have these details. The state authorities have given directives to the district collectorate regarding the report,” a senior PMC official said. According to the PMC officials, the administration will carry out a need assessment for providing infrastructures like roads, water supply and garbage disposal, among others, in these villages. “The funds required for building these facilities would be raised, following which the sources for raising the amount would be announced," the official said. The PMC, one of the biggest municipal corporations in the state, has around 332sqkm area under its jurisdiction. It is likely to increase by around 100sqkm with the addition of these 23 villages. The merger of 11 villages in 2017 had increased the population in the PMC limits by 2 lakh. The election for these areas was held in 2018, and two corporators were added in the PMC. “The next municipal elections are due in a year and a half’s time, and the merger needs to be over before the polling process begins. The election would be held in accordance with the new jurisdiction of the civic body,” the official said. The population is likely to increase by another six lakh after the merger of the remaining villages. One lakh citizens will be represented by one corporator. The PMC has 164 corporators. Nearly six more elected representatives will be added once the remaining 23 villages are included. “The steps to complete the merger process are welcome. The authorities may decide to form a separate municipal corporation for the merged villages,” Shrirang Chavan of the Haveli Taluka Nagari Kruti Samiti — a citizens’ committee, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-to-start-merger-process-of-23-villages/articleshow/79453918.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Lady Shri Ram suicide prompts funding plans||NEW DELHI: Following the suicide of a mathematics student of LSR, several colleges and alumni associations are coming out with plans to help students facing financial difficultiess during Covid-19. While Janki Devi Memorial College (JDMC) is using unutilised funds from collected fees and contributions from teachers to help at least 70 students, the alumni of Hindu College has decided to set up a fund to provide monetary assistance of up to Rs 20,000 to certain students. JDMC principal Swati Pal told TOI that the college “has always been proactive in assisting students with financial issues. A group of teachers has, over the past few years, contributed to assist students”. During the pandemic, the number of such students has gone up as the income of many parents has got affected, she said. “While earlier we used to get 30-40 applications, this time the count is over 70. We asked the students to fill up a form and provide an income certificate, and also held an online meeting with them” to clarify certain matters, Pal added. While teachers have contributed more, the governing body has allowed the college to utilise around Rs 3 lakh of the fee amount that could not be used after the Covid lockdown was declared in March, the principal said. The funds collected from students, Pal pointed out, are to be used during that academic session for various activities. Old Students Association of Hindu College will give up to Rs 20,000 each as a one-time study grant to cover annual college fees of the needy students whose family annual income is below Rs 5 lakh. “As a long-term move, we are planning to set up an ‘OSA — Principal P C Verma Study Grant Fund’ to pay the annual fees every year. Students will be selected on a need-cum-merit basis,” said its president Ravi Burman. Former students can send a cheque in favour of “Old Students Association, Hindu College” or make online donation through the alumni portal, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lsr-suicide-prompts-funding-plans/articleshow/79455113.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Man who died in Feb gets paid for rural work in months after lockdown||Patiala: Bhim Singh of a village in Nabha died in February this year, but on papers, he raised a work demand and then worked for 26 days after Covid-19 lockdown was over. Even a payment has been made for the work done by the deceased in May, June, October and November this year. Bhim Singh, according to government data, has worked on the renovation of pond in Dakaunda village after his death. He has been paid Rs 1,578 for six days of work in October and Rs 1,315 for five days of work in November. He also worked for six days for a plantation in October and was paid Rs 1,518. In 2019, Bhim was paid wages for 75 days of work. This uear, he was paid for 73 days of work. The family of late Bhim Singh claimed that a few years ago, Bhim had received MGNREGA job card, but officials and village panchayat took the card. Satnam Singh, son of late Bhim Singh, said, “My father, who died on February 7 this year, never got work under MGNREGA. My wife Sukhdeep Kaur is also MGNREGA job card holder, but had got only 18 days of work this year. We are not given work despite demands. We feel cheated and now feel the money had been taken away in name of my father.” MGNREGA officials blamed an error that had taken place and said the payment was made to another villager having the same name. “There is another Bhim Singh in the village who has been working as MGNREGA labourer and the payment has been made to him. He worked using the job card of Bhim Singh who died this year. We will check how this error occurred,” said gram rozgar sahayak (GRS) Gurdeep Singh. Nabha block development officer Surinder Singh Dhaliwal said he recently learnt about the incident and action would be taken against those found guilty. “This is a clear case of corruption being done by the officials in connivance with village sarpanches. Workers are not getting their dues,” said Gurmeet Singh Thuhi, state president of Internationalist Democratic Platform. In July this year, workers in Thuhi village protested against authorities for allotting work to dead persons on papers, but no payment was given to those who had worked as labourers for number of days. “Balvir Singh of Thuhi village died in 2018, but the same person got work in July 2020. On learning about the fraud, MGNREGA workers protested, following which the dead person was marked absent,” said Gurmeet Singh Thuhi. In a separate case, the wage payment of MGNREGA worker Tehal Singh was deposited in the account of his village panchayat, instead of his own account. Tehal Singh said he had not got wages of four weeks he had worked in August this year in Sadhnauli village. Officials said they would look into this matter also.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/man-who-died-in-feb-gets-paid-for-rural-work-in-months-after-lockdown/articleshow/79455112.cms||Bharat Khanna
November 28, 2020||Pune||Convert waste to energy, urges Pradhan||Pune: Union Minister of Petroleum and Natural Gas, Dharmendra Pradhan has urged urban local bodies, districts, and other authorities to maximise use of municipal, farm, forest, and other waste for conversion to energy, such as power and biogas, to tackle climate change. Pradhan was speaking at a virtual foundation stone-laying ceremony of a sugar pressmud-to-biogas plant set up by firm Leafniti at Karnataka’s Bagalkot district, using technology provided by Pune-based Praj Industries. The plant, capable of generating 10 tonnes per day (TPD) of compressed biogas (CBG), will use 200 tonnes of sugar pressmud from an adjacent sugar processing plant. The process will also generate natural manure as a by-product. The plant’s developers have signed a deal with the Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL) to supply generated biogas in future, expected in the second quarter of 2021. IOCL will buy the generated biogas under the Centre’s Sustainable Alternative Towards Affordable Transportation (SATAT) strategy, to use cleaner, alternative fuels. “There is an abundance of biomass all over the country, be it municipal waste, farm waste, or forest waste. But there is a lack of strategy to deal with the waste. We should try to monetise this waste and convert it into wealth in the form of energy, such as this model with sugar mud,” Pradhan said in his address. He also cited a recent deal between the North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC) and the IOCL to convert waste to energy. “The agreement between the NDMC and the IOCL, signed yesterday, provides a model for urban local bodies as to how to manage urban waste. There will be a provision for processing 2,500 tonnes of waste per day at the plant,” Pradhan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/convert-waste-to-energy-urges-pradhan/articleshow/79453927.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Chandigarh||BSF nabs drug smuggler, seizes 8kg heroin, pistol||Ferozepur: In two different operations, the Border Security Force (BSF) claimed to have seized 8 kg heroin, along with one pistol, and arrested one person from area under 29 Battalion of the force. On Thursday, Border Security Force troops seized 1.27 kg heroin and again on Friday seized 6.75 kg of heroin and one pistol near border operation post DT Mall in its Ferozepur sector. In both the cases, the vigilant troops thwarted the attempt of anti-national elements to push the consignment of contraband items into India, leading to the recovery of 13 packets of heroin. The details of the person arrested were not shared as investigation was still on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bsf-nabs-drug-smuggler-seizes-8kg-heroin-pistol/articleshow/79455119.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Pune||Pune: Mandai Metro work on hold over vendors’ relocation||PUNE: Work on the Metro project in the Mandai area has once again been bogged down in logistical problems. On October 11, Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MahaMetro) officials said work in the area would begin “in a few days” once 70-odd shops and residents of the area were relocated. Forty-seven days later, the situation remains unchanged as PMC and local political representatives are still haggling over details. For its part, MahaMetro said it submitted its plan for the area to PMC and was awaiting further communication. At the moment, MahaMetro is engaged in pre-tunnelling work like shifting utility and drainage lines in the area. The work on the underground station is pending for want of land currently occupied by the shops and residents. Apart from the station, MahaMetro also plans to sink vertical shafts to extract the tunnel-boring machines that are excavating the underground tunnels for the Metro rail. Mandai is the only underground station site where the civil work has yet to begin. MahaMetro has already started work at the Shivajinagar, Civil Court, Kasba Peth and Swargate sites. Local corporator and standing committee chairperson Hemant Rasne said PMC was working on several options to relocate vendors. He said the relocation has become a challenge as the area is very congested. “We keep meeting all stakeholders to expedite the process and hope for a breakthrough soon. We have identified a few spots and will ensure the vendors suffer minimal losses during the relocation,” Rasne said. The PMC had earlier proposed to move the vendors to an empty parking lot in the same area, but the vendors did not agree to it. Officials said they were in the final stages of rehabilitating a few residents. “Most families responded positively and talks in the final stages,” a MahaMetro official said. Residents said it would be a challenge to manage the traffic in the area once civil work begins in full swing. “The roads are narrow and encroached upon. It will be chaotic,” Sharad Jadhav, a local vendor, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mandai-metro-work-on-hold-over-vendors-relocation/articleshow/79453937.cms||Sarang Dastane
November 28, 2020||Lucknow||‘54% girls in Uttar Pradesh uncertain of return to school after Covid-19’||LUCKNOW: One in two girls in UP is not sure of her return to school after the Covid-19 pandemic subsides, according to a survey conducted by the Right to Education Forum (RTE Forum) along with the Centre for Budget and Policy Studies (CBPS) and Champions for Girls’ Education. “About 54% girls were uncertain about returning to their schools after pandemic. Covid-19 has not only affected their learning, but has added to uncertainties of continuing their education,” noted the survey, titled ‘Gendered impact of Covid-19 on education of school aged children in India’, conducted across five states. Chief Education, UNICEF India, Terry Durnnian and chairperson of the Bihar State Commission for Protection of Child RightBihar State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (SCPCR) Pramila Kumari Prajapati expressed concern over the results of the study, officially shared on Thursday. Researchers pointed out that education of girls from rural and economically weaker families has already suffered due to socio-economic factors. The survey also showed that Covid-19 has negatively affected the life of girls more than boys. “Data on time-use reveals a clearly gendered pattern with 64% girls spending their time on chores and care work and 78% of boys spending time on leisure,” it stated. The girls felt that their mobility had been restricted making over 75% of them conclude that ‘life before Covid-19 was better’. While there was barely any leisure time, pressures of domestic chores had gone up. Some of the girls said they had to continue with household responsibilities even during study time. In UP, the survey included 944 households in rural and peri-urban areas of 11 districts – Ambedkarnagar, Ayodhya, Faizabad, Hamirpur, Hardoi, Kanpur, Kushinagar, Lucknow, Moradabad, Sultanpur and Rae Bareli. Nearly half of the families belonged to the SC/ST while 30% were OBC. About 15% families were Muslims. The survey also noted that the presence of technology did not ensure access to education during pandemic. “Even though 53% had a TV set at home, only 15% reported watching educational TV shows or programmes for educational purposes… Also, most children reported having a phone at home but only 22% (21% girls against 29% boys) had access to it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/54-girls-in-up-uncertain-of-return-to-school-after-covid/articleshow/79455943.cms||Shailvee Sharda
November 28, 2020||Varanasi||Yogi Adityanath reviews preparations for PM’s November 30 visit to Kashi||VARANASI: Ahead of PM Narendra Modi visit to Varanasi on the occasion of Dev Deepawali due on November 30, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath said that the event would be more `Bhavy’ (grand) and `Divya’ (beautiful). Yogi was in Varanasi to take stock of preparations for the PM's scheduled visit. Yogi’s chopper landed at Khajuri in Rajatalab area in the afternoon where he reviewed the arrangements for Modi’s public meeting immediately after his arrival in Varanasi. Yogi asked the officials about the entry, exit, seating and security plans before leaving for Domari helipad in the trans-Ganga area by chopper. He then boarded a cruise boat to reach Rajghat and inspected the arrangements for the PM’s participation in Dev Deepawali celebration where he will light the first lamp, Deepdan and also about the cultural activities to be held. He also sought details about the security plans for the PM. The CM then reached Lalita Ghat to visit Kashi Vishwanath (Dham) corridor project area, where Modi is likely to go. He then boarded the cruise again to reach Chet Singh Ghat where a laser show will be presented on the theme of Lord Shiva and Ganga on November 30. Yogi then visited Sant Ravidas temple where he offered prayers and hailed the mystic poet-saint as an exponent of Sanatan Dharma. From Samneghat, he reached Sarnath through the same route which will be taken by the PM to see the light and sound show before leaving the city for the airport. After inspection, the CM reached the circuit house and held a meeting with the officials in the night. Yogi also took stock of the works done at Kashi Vishwanath corridor, where PM is scheduled to visit. Modi would participate in a Deepdan programme at Raj Ghat. Before Yogi’s arrival, additional chief secretary (home) Avanish Awasthi and Additional chief secretary (information) Navneet Sehgal as well as teams of security agencies, including SPG officials, also took stock of all these sites on Friday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/yogi-reviews-preparations-forpms-nov-30-visit-to-kashi/articleshow/79453325.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Goa||Turtle festival set to welcome Olive Ridleys||Panaji: As Goa welcomes the onset of the nesting season of Olive Ridley sea turtles, the Morjim Sea Turtle Trust and state forest department will host the second edition of the Goa Sea Turtle Festival 2020-2021 on December 1. While workshops will be held at turtle nesting sites at Morjim and Agonda, nature trails and other activities will be held at Galgibaga. Competitions and community engagements will also be held in the villages near the turtle nesting beaches. “The turtles travel from all the oceans of the world to come back to their home in Goa to nest their eggs. This happens even if they have been born here 20 years ago. The December to February period is when the turtles return to Goa to continue the life cycle, so the event is like a celebration of their homecoming,” Morjim Sea Turtle Trust managing trustee Sarita Fernandes said. “Being on the same beach as the turtles who have travelled the oceans to reach Goa, surviving ocean currents, marine pollution and ocean plastics, is nothing short of a miracle. No other coastal state makes an effort to make its visitors aware about the turtles,” she said.  Since the turtles are schedule I species, the organisation is working alongside the forest department to conduct the event. The forest department’s nature interpretation centre is located near turtles nesting sites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/turtle-festival-set-to-welcome-olive-ridleys/articleshow/79455945.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Delhi||Wind boosts Delhi air quality to moderate||NEW DELHI: At 137, Delhi’s Air Quality Index (AQI) reading on Friday improved to moderate category from Thursday’s 302 in the poor range due to strong winds. With wind speed likely to remain same for the next 24 hours, the air quality is expected to remain in similar range. Track the pollution level in your cityKuldeep Srivastava, scientist, India Meteorological Department (IMD), head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “The average wind speed of 15 kmph was recorded on Friday, which led to easy dispersion of local pollutants. The speed is forecast to remain around 12-15 kmph on Saturday.” V K Soni, head, environment monitoring centre, IMD, said, “Strong winds and negligible external emission helped improve the air quality.” The increased wind speed in the past two days has helped clear pollution, and improved the AQI level from 413 in the severe range on Wednesday to 137 on Friday. System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR), the forecasting body under Union ministry of earth sciences, said, “High ventilation due to fast wind and rainfall in the surrounding regions have helped clean the accumulated pollutants. Surface-level winds are southwesterly, and speed is still high. Ventilation is quite favorable for dispersion of pollutants. The boundary layer transport-level winds are northwesterly.” An effective fire counts with sufficient potential estimated from SAFAR-multi-satellite products were 136. The stubble burning share in PM2.5 was almost negligible and estimated at 2% on Friday. According to Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi, the air quality was likely to remain in the satisfactory to lower end of poor on Saturday and touch poor levels on Sunday. Surface winds are forecast to decrease from November 30, and the air quality likely to remain in the poor to the lower end of ‘very poor’ category, SAFAR added. The minimum temperature in the city was 10.2 degrees Celsius, while the maximum was 27 degrees — one degree above normal. A Met official said, the minimum was expected to touch 7 degrees by November 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/wind-boosts-city-air-quality-to-moderate/articleshow/79455124.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Aurangabad||Boy, 10, killed in leopard attack in Beed village||AURANGABAD: A 10-year old boy was mauled to death by a leopard in a farm at Kinhi village in Ashti taluka of Beed district, about 175km from here, on Friday noon, triggering fear in the area as only three days ago, a man was mauled to death by a big cat in a neighbouring village. The boy, Sarthak Bankar, from Bhapkarwari village of Srigonda in Ahmednagar district, had gone to the village to stay with his grandparents during the Diwali vacation and was watering the ‘tur’ crop when he was attacked by the big cat. On Tuesday evening, 40-year old Nagnath Garje, husband of a woman member of the Panchayat Samiti, was killed in a leopard attack in Surdi village while he too was watering the ‘tur’ crop in his farm. Asked if the leopard is samd and being treated as a man eater, range forest officer Amol Munde said it is too early to declare the animal a man eater, as a special committee studies the attacks and makes a decision in this regard. “The animal had eaten a part of Garje’s neck and fled after seeing the villagers arriving at the spot while in the boy’s case, the big cat escaped after killing the boy, probably because the farmers were searching for the boy all around,” he said. According to forest officials, the boy’s grandparents were busy in some work in the farm when the leopard pounced on him and dragged him away. Hearing his cries for help, farmers working in the area, along with the elderly couple, tried chasing the leopard, which dragged the boy away and hid. “The farmers found the boy’s body in the bushes, at a distance of about 1.5km, after a two-hour search with wounds on the neck and other some parts of the body,” said the officials. A police team rushed to the area soon after receiving information and appealed to the villagers to avoid going to the farms alone. Superintendent of police R Raja said, “We have been informed that multiple teams from the forest department have rushed to the area and are conducting a combing operation.” Sources said that police as well as forest department officials have decided to use drone cameras to track down the animal. The divisional forest officer (territorial division) could not be reached for comment despite repeated attempts. About a fortnight back, a father-son duo were killed in a leopard attack in Paithan taluka of Aurangabad district, following which the forest department deployed five trap cameras apart from cages at different locations. The authorities said that they have deployed half a dozen teams in Paithan and efforts are on to trap the leopard, which has attacked dogs and cattle in surrounding areas in the past few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/boy-10-killed-in-leopard-attack-in-beed-village/articleshow/79451840.cms||Mohammed Akhef
November 28, 2020||Madurai||‘Establish spl courts to try offences against disabled’||Madurai: Madras high court on Friday sought a response from the state government on a plea which sought to establish special courts to try the offences against people living with disabilities as per the provisions of Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016.A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi was hearing a public interest litigation filed by R Manibharathi, a resident of Madurai district.The petitioner stated that the Act imposes criminal liability on anyone who within the public view insults or intimidates a person living with disabilities with the intention of humiliating such person. As per the provisions of the Act, the state government with the concurrence of Chief Justice of high court should specify a sessions court in each district to try the offences under this Act.He stated that the Delhi government in 2019 had established such special courts and the same should be established in Tamil Nadu for the purpose of providing speedy trial for offences against those living with disabilities. He stated that though he submitted a representation to the authorities, no steps were taken.Hence, he sought for a direction to establish special courts in all the districts across the state with infrastructure and modern equipment so that it could be easily accessible by people living with disabilities. He also sought to appoint special public prosecutors to these courts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/establish-spl-courts-to-try-offences-against-disabled/articleshow/79455115.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Pune||Brain-dead woman’s liver and kidneys benefit three||PUNE: A 55-year-old brain-dead woman’s husband and son donated her vital organs in Pune on Thursday, which benefited three patients with end-stage liver and kidney diseases. The woman had suffered intracranial bleeding and was admitted to Aditya Birla Memorial hospital (ABMH) in Pune on November 13. She was declared brain-dead on Wednesday. When her family was approached, they consented to donate her vital organs including liver and kidneys, the hospital's transplant coordinator Bobin Mathew said. The woman’s liver benefited a 45-year-old businessman from Pune, who was enrolled with the Jupiter Hospital. “He had been suffering from liver cirrhosis for a year. His condition had worsened from March and he needed an urgent transplant surgery,” Gaurav Chaubal, Jupiter hospital's transplant surgeon, said. The recipient was recovering post-transplant and would be discharged after a week, he added The woman’s kidneys were allocated to a patient in ABMH and another one in Ruby Hall Clinic. “A total of 34 brain-dead individuals have donated vital organs this year, so far, after their families consented,” Aarti Gokhale, transplant coordinator of the Zonal Transplant Coordination Committee (ZTCC), said. The ZTCC oversees the allocation of donated organs as per the norms in the Pune region. The Indian Organ Donation Day was observed at KEM hospital in Mumbai on Friday. Organizations involved in organ donation from across the country held an online meet to mark the day. Families of brain-dead donors were felicitated. “Maharashtra received two awards in the virtual presence of the Union health minister Harsh Vardhan. State health minister Rajesh Tope congratulated doctors, hospitals and all of those, who had contributed to the organ donation movement,” Gokhale said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/brain-dead-womans-liver-and-kidneys-benefit-three/articleshow/79453969.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Kanpur||Kashi, Azamgarh cops eliminate two wanted criminals||VARANASI: Two dreaded criminals were eliminated in separate police encounters in Varanasi and Azamgarh districts on late Thursday night. Both these criminals were trying to revive the extortion trade in east UP region, said police. The criminal killed in Varanasi was identified as Roshan Gupta alias Kittu. He had come under the police radar after a video clip showing him threatening a jeweller on gunpoint for extortion of Rs 50 lakh went viral on social media three days ago. Besides, Suryansh Dubey, who was eliminated by Azamgarh police, had demanded Rs five lakh from a trader. Varanasi SSP Amit Pathak said that a team of police led by SP (city) Vikas Chandra Tripathi, on a tip-off, had cordoned off Saraiyya area under Jaitpura police station on late Thursday night. When Kittu passed through the area, the police tried to stop him, but he opened indiscriminate fire injuring a sub-inspector and a constable. In retaliatory firing he suffered bullet injuries and was rushed to SPG divisional hospital where he was declared brought dead. Over 36 criminal cases were lodged against Kittu, said Tripathi. He added that Kittu had masterminded Chowkaghat double murder case. Besides, his video of threatening a jeweller for extortion had gone viral on social media recently. A diary recovered from his bag contained a list of traders who were on his target for extortion. Pathak said that a cash reward of Rs 1 lakh was announced on Kittu, while the state government also announced to give a cash reward of Rs 2 lakh to the police team who eliminated Kittu. Meanwhile in Azamgarh, a team of crime branch intercepted Suryansh Dubey near Sherva village under Saramir police station when he opened indiscriminate fire on them in an attempt to escape, informed Azamgarh SP Sudhir Kumar Singh. Two policemen suffered bullet injuries. In retaliatory firing, Dubey also suffered bullet injuries and all the three injured were rushed to the district hospital where doctors declared Dubey as brought dead. The SP said that Dubey had come to the limelight after he killed a Dalit village head Satyamev Jayate. This had sparked large scale protests in Tarva area of Azamgarh a few months ago, following which a cash reward of Rs 3 lakh was announced on him. Singh said that Dubey was traced after he attempted to extort Rs 5 lakh from a trader through a text message. Several teams were engaged to nab him. Over a dozen criminal cases were lodged against Dubey at the police stations of Azamgarh, Mau and Jaunpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/kashi-azamgarh-cops-eliminate-2-wanted-criminals/articleshow/79453297.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Kanpur||SP chief interacts with kinof building collapse victim||Kanpur: Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav interacted with the agitating family members of the deceased Rakesh Sharma, who had died in building collapse incident in Qulie Bazar in Anwarganj area of the city on Monday night, via video conferencing on Friday. Yadav also announced a compensation of Rs 2 lakh to his kin from party fund. Expressing anguish over the collapse of a building that claimed a life besides rendered several others homeless, SP chief said, “My deepest condolences are with the bereaved family of Rakesh Sharma. We are releasing a sum of Rs 2 lakh to his kin from party fund. Samajwadi Party is with them in their difficult time, and I want to assure each and every sufferers that the party will help them in some way to make their life easier.” Meanwhile, SP MLA Amitabh Bajpai, who supervised the interaction session through video conferencing, alleged that their party corporator Abhishek Gupta had previously complained to the authorities about the condition of the buildings, but none paid heed to his complaint. One person was killed, while nearly 23 families were rendered homeless, after major portions of two multi-storeyed building collapsed in Qulie Bazar area in Aanwarganj on Monday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/sp-chief-interacts-with-kinof-building-collapse-victim/articleshow/79453263.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Aurangabad||HC rules against use of disaffection act by cops||AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court has reaffirmed that to attract punishment under the Police (Incitement to Disaffection) Act 1922, the disaffection has to be caused among the police and against the state government. The bench of justices T V Nalawade and Shrikant Kulkarni on November 23 cited a 2012 ruling to this effect by the Gujarat high court and quashed and set aside a case under section 3 of the Police (Incitement to Disaffection) Act, 1922 registered on January 2 by the Tuljapur police in Osmanabad district against a 23-year-old social activist Ravindra Dhawale. Tuljapur police station’s then inspector had lodged the FIR after Dhawale wrote a letter to the state police higher ups seeking the inspector’s transfer on the grounds of various allegations, including a criminal case, that was reported on December 30, 2019 by a weekly newspaper. Dhawale had furnished a copy of the newspaper report along with his letter to the higher ups. It was the inspector’s case that the allegations were unfounded and in the criminal case, the concerned police station had already filed a `B’ summary report i.e. finding no evidence worth filing a charge-sheet. As such, the allegations tended to cause disaffection among the police. The HC bench referred to the case papers and held: “It can be said that the purpose of the publication of the matter was not to create disaffection amongst police or incite them to act against the government. Thus, even if the allegations made in the FIR are accepted as they are, they cannot make out offence punishable under section 3 of the (Police) Act.” The bench held, at best, the respondent-inspector can pursue a private case of defamation under Section 500 of the Indian Penal Code. Speaking to TOI, senior counsel V D Sapkal, who represented Dhawale, cited the HC’s observation that “the inspector took steps that may amount to abuse of power.” The Tuljapur police had arrested Dhawale on January 9 and produced him before a magisterial court there on January 10 for seeking his custodial remand. However, Dhawale had complained of manhandling and assault by the police following which the court had referred him to medical examination and based on the doctor’s report, the court on January 11 granted him a release on bail. Later, the police had filed a chargesheet against Dhawale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hc-rules-against-use-of-disaffection-act-by-cops/articleshow/79451860.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Varanasi||IIT-BHU, IIT-Guwahati sign MoU for joint doctoral prog||VARANASI: To start a joint doctoral programme, the Indian Institute of Technology-Banaras Hindu University and IIT-Guwahati signed a memorandum of understanding through virtual meeting on Friday. After signing the MoU, the director IIT-BHU Prof Pramod Kumar Jain and director of IIT-Guwahati Prof TG Sitharam addressed an online meeting and claimed that this was the first time in the country that two IITs have come together to offer a joint degree programme. Providing details of this virtual meeting, the IIT-BHU spokesman said, the idea of a joint PhD programme was originally proposed in 53rd IIT Council meeting held on September 27, 2019. The vision behind it is to build a ‘network of excellence of all IITs’ rather than each one striving to become a ‘tower of excellence.’ The IIT Council accepted the proposal to start the Joint Degree Programme. It will start from July 2020-21 academic session. Through this academic collaboration, both the institutes are expecting a significant boost in high quality Research and foundation for further academic collaborations. Considering the National Education Policy (NEP-2020), such educational reform and academic collaborations between the premier educational institutes will promote multi-disciplinary academic programme and research for knowledge based economy of the country. IIT-BHU and IIT-Guwahati are also considering to start a joint MTech programme on the similar lines to provide multi-institutional and multi-disciplinary and MTech programmes. Maximum ten students in IIT(BHU) and maximum ten research students in IIT-Guwahati will be able to register for research in subjects of Engineering, Science and Humanity. These researchers will have two separate supervisors & the facility to do research work in both the institutes. Research students will be awarded joint degrees by both the institutes. However, it will be compulsory for research students to do at least one year of research work in both institutes. The virtual meet conducted to mark signing of the MoU was also attended by the dean (academic affairs) Prof SB Dwivedi, associate dean (academic affairs) Dr Vikash Kumar Dubey, Dr Rajesh Kumar Upadhyay, of department of chemical engineering at IIT-BHU while from IIT Guwahati dean (outreach education programme) Prof Kalpesh Kapoor and dean (academic affairs) Prof Chitralekha Mahanta were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/iit-bhu-iit-guwahati-sign-mou-for-joint-doctoral-prog/articleshow/79453285.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Lucknow||Another milestone: UP conducts record 80k RT-PCR tests in 24 hrs||Lucknow: Creating a new record, Covid-19 labs in UP conducted nearly 80,000 RT PCR tests in the past 24 hours -- which is the highest number of tests in the category in a single day. RT PCR is the gold standard in Covid-19 testing. “As many as 79,812 RT PCR tests were done on Thursday which is one of the highest in the entire country. Total Covid tests conducted in the past 24 hours was 1,83,557 which was also the highest number of tests done in a single day,” said Alok Kumar, secretary to UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. Kumar later said that the CM has laid clear instructions that ‘the aggressive strategy needs to be maintained to ensure that the state remains ahead of the pandemic virus which is raising its head for the second time. “So far, UP’s case positivity rate has been 1.5% which is remarkable,” he said. Earlier, additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad reiterated that there is need for caution against the pandemic virus especially in wake of winters. Meanwhile, 2,366 cases fresh cases in the past 24 hours took the state’s total to 5,37,747, while the number of recoveries reached 5,04,411 with 2,058 new entries. Health officials also recorded the death of 23 persons which took the Covid-19 casualties to 7,697.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/another-milestone-up-conducts-record-80k-rt-pcr-tests-in-24-hrs/articleshow/79455953.cms||Shailvee Sharda
November 28, 2020||Aurangabad||Government orders recall of salary hikes to staff without certs||AURANGABAD: The state general administration department has given its nod for recovering increment in salaries granted to all the serving and retired public servants, who got the hikes despite failing to submit mandatory computer literacy certificates within stipulated deadline. Employees’ unions are upset with the move. Maharashtra state gazetted officers’ federation chief advisor Ganpat Kulthe told TOI, “It is an absolutely wrong decision to recover increments given long back. We will protest against this decision.” It was first on January 25, 1999, that the department made it mandatory for all the grade A, B and C employees to complete the basic computer course, and submit a certificate. After the communication received a meek response, the government on July 20, 2002 said that salary increments of these government employees would be put on hold, if they fail to submit the computer literacy certificates within stipulated time. The department finally on May 5, 2007 issued a resolution setting December 31, 2007 as the final deadline for completing the course and submitting the certificate. However, the state received several representations and proposals seeking extension of the deadline. Later, the government ordered recovery of the increments but through a communication dated November 20, 2018, put the recovery process on hold. The department on Thursday issued a notification stating, ‘The salary increments of the government employees failing to meet the deadline for completion of basic computer course should have been put on hold, but were not. This has resulted in granting of excess salaries to these employees. The latest GR supersedes the one issued on November 20, 2018.’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/govt-orders-recall-of-salary-hikes-to-staff-without-certs/articleshow/79451874.cms||Mohammed Akhef
November 28, 2020||Meerut||Roads blocked, grooms & ‘baraatis’ walk to wedding venues||Meerut: Roads blocked and time ticking out, scores of grooms and their kin on Friday left their flower-decked cars and SUVs and walked to the wedding venues, some as far as 3km, to make sure that they didn't miss the wedding. Some even shouted slogans in favour of the protesting farmers to get through the blockades.While some were coming from across the state border, from Haryana and Uttarakhand, others were venturing into another district when they faced the road blockades. After several requests and cajoling failed, they decided to walk the remaining distance on foot.Hari Om, a groom decked up in flowers and wearing a currency garland, said, “I am from Aterna village of Sonipat. I was going to Pilkhuwa, Hapur for my wedding. But I am not able to cross the UP border. I requested police as well as agitators but no one listened.” Another Haryana resident, Vijay Vir Singh, had to reach Sikhera village in Baghpat to tie the knot. “We are getting calls from my would-be in-laws. All preparations are made and we are stuck here. Agitators should at least allow people like us to pass.”Similarly, a wedding procession heading to Meerut from Uttarakhand’s Rudrapur got stuck near Bijnor barrage on the border.“This is a big disappointment that neither the farmers nor state administration are thinking about travellers. There are other ways to protest. Why the public has to suffer,” said Vikram Singh, who was part of the procession.While in Baghpat, a groom raised slogans in favour of farmers while trying to get through the blockade. Its video is doing the rounds of social media platforms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/roads-blocked-grooms-baraatis-walk-to-wedding-venues/articleshow/79452864.cms||Sandeep Rai
November 28, 2020||Kanpur||63 courses, 5 instts, 13 centres passed by DDUGU council||GORAKHPUR: The Vidya Parishad (academic council) of DDU Gorakhpur University (DDUGU), under the chairmanship of vice chancellor Prof Rajesh Singh, approved 63 new courses, five new institutes and 13 new centres to be run under the university on Friday. The proposals were already approved by the councils of Arts, Science, Commerce and Education faculties. Elaborating on the five institutes, Prof Singh said, “The proposal to set up two big institutes—Mahayogi Sri Gorakshanath Global Institute for Cultural and Development Studies, and Advanced Multidisciplinary Institute of Science Education and Research—was approved. The other three institutions—Entrepreneurship Development and Business Studies Incubation Institute, Institute of Hotel and Tourism Management, and Institute of Physical Education and Sports Sciences—will operate on public-private-partnership.” “The Vidya Parishad also passed a proposal to set up 11 centres of excellence which will be forwarded to the state government for approval. The proposal to establish a separate department for journalism in the university and to introduce BSc in Agriculture and MSc Agriculture on the university campus was also accepted,” he added. Prof Singh said the proposals were prepared after taking into account the CBCS system and the New Education Policy. The Vidya Parishad also cleared over 300 fellowships to be started by the university including Deendayal Upadhyaya fellowship for PhD scholars and Guru Gorakhnath fellowship for sportspersons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/63-courses-5-instts-13-centres-passed-by-ddugu-council/articleshow/79453359.cms||---
November 28, 2020||India||Govt prepares talks table as farmers storm Capital||NEW DELHI: With farmers’ ‘Delhi Chalo’ protest march reaching the Capital, the Centre on Friday sought to give them passage into the city while appealing to farm leaders to suspend their agitation and attend talks scheduled on December 3. “The government has always been ready to discuss all issues with farmers. We can find out ways only through discussions. We have invited farm organisations for another round of talks on December 3,” agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said. Two rounds of discussions with Punjab Union were earlier convened by the ministry besides other interactions involving defence minister Rajnath Singh with a different group. The decision to offer passage and earmarking a place for them at Burari is considered an attempt to create a conducive atmosphere ahead of talks on December 3. Though the ‘Delhi Chalo’ protest march was planned for only two days, the agitation will now continue from Nirankari ground in Burari. “As far as reforms (in the farm sector) are concerned, new laws were the need of the hour. These laws will bring revolutionary changes in the lives of farmers in the coming days. There have been certain apprehensions in the mind of farmers of Punjab about the new laws. The government is, however, ready to discuss it with them,” Tomar said while appealing to farmers to give up or at least suspend the agitation. The minister had earlier held a discussion with Punjab farmers on November 13. Though the meeting was held for over seven hours in a cordial atmosphere, it did not yield any result as neither the government nor the farm leaders altered their respective positions. While farmers have been demanding legal guarantee to the procurement of crops at minimum support price (MSP) and repeal of the three newly enacted central farm laws, the Centre has consistently held a position that the new laws will eventually help the farmers by giving them more options to sell their produce and get a better price. The government even sought to clarify it time and again that the MSP will continue and there should not be any apprehensions about its discontinuation in the minds of farmers. Tomar’s appeal to farmers come after the farm groups under Coordination Committee of the ‘Samyukt Kisan Morcha’ on Friday morning wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking discussion on their demands with farmers’ representatives from across the country without limiting the exercise with farmers’ Union of Punjab. The groups said the Centre should at least stop its confrontationist attitude of denying the largest section of society an opportunity to be heard. They said the Centre should initiate sincere dialogue otherwise it will become meaningless for the government to offer talks and not create a conducive atmosphere for such talks to happen. Besides demanding the repeal of three central farm laws, the farmers’ organizations have also called for withdrawal of the proposed Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2020 which seeks to end direct subsidies. Under the proposed law, all consumers, including farmers, will have to pay the tariff, and the subsidy will be sent to them through direct benefit transfer (DBT). “The Centre will try to discuss the issue again with farmers’ representatives of Punjab on December 3, explaining to them how the procurement at MSP has consistently been increasing and how the new laws will ultimately help the farmers,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-prepares-talks-table-as-farmers-storm-capital/articleshow/79456481.cms||Vishwa Mohan
November 28, 2020||Meerut||Farmers bring western UP to a halt, block border with Haryana & start a march towards Delhi||Meerut: All the eight NCR districts of Uttar Pradesh witnessed massive protests by farmers on Friday as several highways and key roads leading to Delhi, Uttarakhand and Haryana were blocked. By Friday evening, hundreds of farmers and supporters of Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) reached Meerut's outskirts and started a march towards Delhi. After a night’s halt, they will resume their journey to the national capital on Saturday morning to protest against the Centre’s three agriculture bills and also the use of force over protesters on Delhi-Haryana border.The protests remained peaceful, but commuters had to face harrowing time. Police and administration had diverted the traffic to other arterial roads to minimize the congestion. Baghpat, Muzaffarnagar, Meerut and Shamli were among the districts where the protests were held on a large-scale as farmers sat on roads against the backdrop of a long queue of vehicles, stuck and honking.Rakesh Tikait, national spokesperson of BKU, led the protesters from Muzaffarnagar to Meerut, where police were on its toes and on high alert. “Tonight we will camp at Siwaya toll plaza on the outskirts of Meerut. We will move towards Delhi in the morning,” Tikait said.When asked about their demands, the BKU leader said, “We are just asking for our rights. Minimum Support Price (MSP) should continue and anything less than that should be considered illegal. There are several other issues. We are with our brothers from Punjab and Haryana. We are also protesting against the cruelty meted out to them on Thursday. We are ready to face any consequences. If the UP government wants to replicate what Haryana and Delhi did, let it be. We will not stop.”State police, meanwhile, said that the protests were peaceful.Additional director general (ADG) of Meerut zone, Rajeev Sabharwal, said, “Road blockade and protests continued throughout the day, but peacefully. Since we had already diverted the traffic, there wasn’t much congestion. Though there was heavy pressure on alternate routes because of which traffic movement was slow.”Thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana are camping on the Delhi border for the last few days. They also clashed with police which allegedly used batons to disperse them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/farmers-bring-western-up-to-a-halt-block-border-with-haryana-start-a-march-towards-delhi/articleshow/79452867.cms||Sandeep Rai
November 28, 2020||Lucknow||Zoo ready to enter its 100th year with online celebrations||Lucknow: Come Sunday, children visiting Lucknow zoo will be greeted by life-size statues of popular cartoon characters like Motu Patlu and Chhota Bheem at children’s park. The zoological garden, which will celebrate its 99th foundation day on Sunday through virtual mode due to pandemic, is planning to make the 100th year special. As part of the celebration, an online slogan and essay competition was organised for the public on Friday. To attract children, makeover of children’s park is already underway with additions of life-size statues of cartoon characters and restoration of swings and slides. The zoo is also planning to include more enclosures for animals, along with the development of much-awaited lion house. “Unlike last year, there will be minimal celebrations of foundation day with only staff and other members of the zoo family. The event will be hosted virtually for people since only limited visitors are allowed inside the premises due to pandemic,” said zoo director RK Singh. Conceptualised by Harcourt Butler, the then governor of United Province (now Uttar Pradesh), the zoo was established in 1921 and built to commemorate the visit of Prince of Wales to Lucknow and named after him- Prince of Wales Zoological Garden. In 2015, it was named after Nawab Wajid Ali Shah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/zoo-ready-to-enter-its-100th-year-with-online-celebrations/articleshow/79455959.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 28, 2020||Aurangabad||Crime branch seizes gutka worth over Rs 25L||Aurangabad: The crime branch of city police on Thursday raided a godown situated in Old Mondha area and seized banned gutka worth over Rs 25 lakh, that was transported to the city by concealing in large packing.  Police while registering an offence against two, including an employee of Batco Roadlines, a transporter, have launched an in-depth probe to expose the entire racket. Suresh Wankhede, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), said, “The preliminary probe has revealed that gutka was loaded in a heavy vehicle from Indore and the person who was supposed to receive the consignment is involved into local trading of the banned article.” Sources said the crime branch on Friday paid a surprise visit to different transporter offices and their godowns to check the flow of gutka.  “This entire week we scanned several godowns, before finally nailing the stock that was loaded from another state,” said an officer with crime branch. Authorities said the city police chief Nikhil Gupta has issued directives to keep a check on illegal businesses thriving in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/crime-branch-seizes-gutka-worth-over-rs-25l/articleshow/79451881.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana to observe Saturday as ‘Sampling Day’||CHANDIGARH: The Haryana health and family welfare department has decided to observe Saturday as ‘Sampling Day’ in the state. As per the proposal, the target would be to conduct a minimum of 50,000 samplings of Covid-19 in a single day, out of which 80% would be RT-PCR and the rest, antigen rapid tests. Additional chief secretary, department of home, health and family welfare, Rajeev Arora said they are coordinating with all the laboratories in advance. The Haryana Medical Services Corporation Ltd would ensure supply of VTM kits and other materials. Sampling would be targeted (like educational institutes/colleges/universities) as well as random to isolate all those who have been indiscreet in the festival and marriage season, he said. The managing director of national health mission, Haryana, and the director general health services would supervise the entire sampling process. Arora said they have already targeted conducting a minimum of 30,000 testing daily. “At present, we are concentrating on increasing testing in Gurgaon, Faridabad, Hisar and Rohtak, where the cases are much higher. With these levels of testing as is being done in Gurgaon, we will quickly isolate the Covid positive cases and bring down the positivity rate,” he claimed. Meanwhile, a review of the data procured from the state health department revealed that around 2.50 lakh tests of Covid-19 have been conducted in Haryana in the past one week. In this, the highest number of 44,526 tests were conducted on Thursday and 42,353 sampling on Friday. A total of 2,50,085 tests have been conducted from November 21 to 27. During this period of seven days, the highest numbers of around 48,000 tests were conducted in Gurgaon district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-to-observe-saturday-as-sampling-day/articleshow/79455135.cms||Ajay Sura
November 28, 2020||Kanpur||Woman on morning walk shot dead in Jhansi||Jhansi: A 25-year-old woman on morning walk was shot dead opposite commissioner’s office on Friday early morning by some unidentified person/s. The woman was noticed by a passing PRV vehicle lying in pool of blood on the roadside and was taken to the district hospital where she was declared brought dead. Police have recovered an empty cartridge from the crime scene. SSP Jhansi, Dinesh Kumar P has constituted three teams to nab the accused. As per reports, the deceased Pooja Jaiswal who lives near Chitra crossing had gone for morning walk at around 5.00 am. While she was between Circuit House and Commissioner’s office, she was shot by some unidentified person’s. The place of crime is a VIP area with all important offices including that of Jhansi divisional commissioner and his residence while the DM residence is also few meters away. Giving details to the police, the husband of the deceased, Pradip Jaiswal, said that usually his wife went for walk in the evening though on Friday she thought of going in the morning. As per SSP Jhansi, he has constituted three teams that are investigating the incident. Meanwhile, police have lodged a case of murder against an unidentified person and sent the body for post-mortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/woman-on-morning-walk-shot-dead-in-jhansi/articleshow/79453244.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Last barricades at Haryana border fall as farmers shelve sit-in strategy||BATHINDA/PATIALA: Breaking the last barricades, left intact on Thursday, farmers and activists of farm organisation BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) on Friday moved towards Delhi from Dabwali and Khanauri-Jind border between Punjab and Haryana. Over 20,000 farmers had assembled at Dabwali who uprooted the barricades despite stiff resistance by the police. Though on Thursday, the farm organisation had decided to stay put at both borders of Dabwali and Khanouri till December 3 when the Union government has called farm organisations for talks, but a section of the farm organisation wanted to move forward like other farmer organisations, which had moved into the interiors of Haryana on Thursday by breaking cordons. A scores of youngsters also expressed their annoyance with the decision of the farm organisation of staying put. Going by the aspirations of the activists, the farm organisations had on Thursday night decided to move ahead, announcing that they would break barricades by 11am on Friday. But, the farm organisations moved even before the stipulated time on Friday. At Dabwali, some of the farm activists had climbed a police vehicle and tried to cause damage, but unlike Thursday the farmers did not face much resistance from police at both the places as the farmers were in large numbers as compared to police personnel. They moved towards Sirsa from Dabwali and towards Narwana-Jind from Khanouri. The farmers drove into Haryana in tractor-trolleys, jeeps and canters. Earlier, a large number of activists from districts of Bathinda, Muktsar, Faridkot, Moga, Ferozepur, Fazilka had assembled from two sides of Bathinda and Malout at Dabwali. After gathering at the barricades, they had not taken much time in breaking the cordon. As farmers entered the Haryana border, some of them climbed Haryana Police’ water canon vehicle and caused some damage. “Though we had decided to hold week-long protests at both the places, we changed our strategy as other farm groups too went against their earlier decision of staying put wherever stopped,” said BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan and general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri. Joginder termed some protesters as planted members of RSS or other agencies as they did not follow the call given by the organisation to sit in a protest and started removing the barricades on Thursday. Sources, however, said the farm group took the U-turn following criticism from within. Early on Friday, the farmers with the help of tractors cleared the road by removing soil heaps laid on the interstate border. Through Khanauri toll plaza, thousands of farmers moved on their tractor trolleys entered a few kilometres into Haryana. The farmers cheered with playing some songs on loudspeakers against the central government. Restlessness among protestersA large number of farmers were unwilling to stay put at the borders and wanted to move Delhi. Some farmers also raised slogans ‘Faisla Karo – Delhi Chalo’ while taking out a march at the interstate Khanauri-Jind border. “Farmers were annoyed after they were asked not to march towards Delhi when all other farmer unions have crossed the borders. The farmers here would have marched on their own even if the leaders wanted to stop them,” said Nirmal Singh, a farmer from a village in Patiala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/last-barricades-at-hry-border-fall-as-farmers-shelve-sit-in-strategy/articleshow/79459214.cms||Bharat Khanna
November 28, 2020||Amritsar||Last barricades at Haryana border fall as farmers shelve sit-in strategy||BATHINDA/PATIALA: Breaking the last barricades, left intact on Thursday, farmers and activists of farm organisation BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) on Friday moved towards Delhi from Dabwali and Khanauri-Jind border between Punjab and Haryana. Over 20,000 farmers had assembled at Dabwali who uprooted the barricades despite stiff resistance by the police. Though on Thursday, the farm organisation had decided to stay put at both borders of Dabwali and Khanouri till December 3 when the Union government has called farm organisations for talks, but a section of the farm organisation wanted to move forward like other farmer organisations, which had moved into the interiors of Haryana on Thursday by breaking cordons. A scores of youngsters also expressed their annoyance with the decision of the farm organisation of staying put. Going by the aspirations of the activists, the farm organisations had on Thursday night decided to move ahead, announcing that they would break barricades by 11am on Friday. But, the farm organisations moved even before the stipulated time on Friday. At Dabwali, some of the farm activists had climbed a police vehicle and tried to cause damage, but unlike Thursday the farmers did not face much resistance from police at both the places as the farmers were in large numbers as compared to police personnel. They moved towards Sirsa from Dabwali and towards Narwana-Jind from Khanouri. The farmers drove into Haryana in tractor-trolleys, jeeps and canters. Earlier, a large number of activists from districts of Bathinda, Muktsar, Faridkot, Moga, Ferozepur, Fazilka had assembled from two sides of Bathinda and Malout at Dabwali. After gathering at the barricades, they had not taken much time in breaking the cordon. As farmers entered the Haryana border, some of them climbed Haryana Police’ water canon vehicle and caused some damage. “Though we had decided to hold week-long protests at both the places, we changed our strategy as other farm groups too went against their earlier decision of staying put wherever stopped,” said BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan and general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri. Joginder termed some protesters as planted members of RSS or other agencies as they did not follow the call given by the organisation to sit in a protest and started removing the barricades on Thursday. Sources, however, said the farm group took the U-turn following criticism from within. Early on Friday, the farmers with the help of tractors cleared the road by removing soil heaps laid on the interstate border. Through Khanauri toll plaza, thousands of farmers moved on their tractor trolleys entered a few kilometres into Haryana. The farmers cheered with playing some songs on loudspeakers against the central government. Restlessness among protestersA large number of farmers were unwilling to stay put at the borders and wanted to move Delhi. Some farmers also raised slogans ‘Faisla Karo – Delhi Chalo’ while taking out a march at the interstate Khanauri-Jind border. “Farmers were annoyed after they were asked not to march towards Delhi when all other farmer unions have crossed the borders. The farmers here would have marched on their own even if the leaders wanted to stop them,” said Nirmal Singh, a farmer from a village in Patiala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/last-barricades-at-hry-border-fall-as-farmers-shelve-sit-in-strategy/articleshow/79455134.cms||Bharat Khanna
November 28, 2020||Aurangabad||Tourist bodies hold virtual protest||AURANGABAD: As many as eight organisations dependent on tourism held a virtual protest on Friday demanding to reopen tourist spots and heritage sites. The members of Aurangabad Tourism Development Foundation pointed out that several important tourism spots across the country have been reopened. They also cited the example of Elephanta Caves, which was recently been reopened by Raigad collector. Sunit Kothari, a member of the foundation, said, “With folded hands, we request the central and the state government to reopen the historical monuments in and around Aurangabad, as the situation for all those depending on the tourism industry, is deteriorating.” Irbaz Ansari of I Love Aurangabad Foundation said since March, innumerable families that earned their livelihood as being tourist guides, driving tourist vehicles, working in hotels, handicraft industries and all the related sectors have been badly affected. Echoing the two, foundation’s Jaswant Singh said not allowing the heritage, tourism-related structures to reopen, is nothing but discrimination against the tourism capital of Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/tourist-bodies-hold-virtual-protest/articleshow/79451893.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Two cyclones in a week last occurred in 2016||VISAKHAPATNAM: Officials at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) are mooting the possibility of a second cyclone within one week of Nivar due to another low pressure system forming over the Bay of Bengal. As per IMD officials, the formation of consecutive cyclones twice in the space of a week last occurred in 2016. In 2016, cyclones Nada and Vardah had originated over the Bay of Bengal and affected the south coastal areas of India. November is known for the formation of cyclones over the Bay of Bengal with 25% of total cyclones, as per IMD history, originating in the month. The cyclone, should it occur, will be called Burevi — named by Maldives — as per the list of 169 names suggested by a panel of the World Meteorological Organisation and the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and Pacific. As per IMD officials, a low pressure system will form over the south-east part of Bay of Bengal by Sunday, concentrate into a depression by Monday and is likely to intensify thereafter. Speaking to TOI, IMD director general at New Delhi, Mrutyunjay Mohapatra said the present conditions are favourable for formation of strong weather systems which can give wide spread rain, the likes of Nivar. “At present, we can say it will be a depression but it is too early to predict that it will become another cyclone,” Mohapatra said and added that the fresh system is also likely to tread towards Tamil Nadu and its neighbouring meteorological regions including south coastal Andhra Pradesh. According to IMD Andhra Pradesh director S Stella, favourable conditions like sea surface temperature, wind shear among others favour the formation of storms over the Bay of Bengal during this season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/2-cyclones-in-a-week-last-occurred-in-2016/articleshow/79454039.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
November 28, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: In Krishna delta, Nivar leaves massive crop loss in its wake||AMARAVATI: Crops spread over several thousands of acres have been damaged in the heavy rains triggered by cyclonic storm Nivar. While farmers in Krishna, East Godavari, West Godavari, Anantapur, and Guntur districts had lost crops during the massive rains in September, Nivar damaged the standing crops in Prakasam, Nellore, Chittoor and Kadapa districts. The incessant rains just before the harvest shattered the hopes of farmers in the Krishna delta of reaping a bumper crop. The agriculture department in its report to the state cabinet, which met here on Friday, said crops on about 70,000 acres were damaged. The report, based on preliminary calculations, said paddy was damaged on about 40,000 acres, black gram on about 17,000 acres, cotton on 8,000 acres and other crops on about 6,000 acres. The preliminary report does not contain details of crop damage from Guntur district. “Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy has directed officials to start enumeration of crop damage without delay and we are here to provide full relief to farmers,” said agriculture minister Kurasala Kannababu. According to field reports, paddy fields witnessed near uprooting of the plants. Normally, paddy can withstand rains for three days during the early stage of cultivation. It could not survive the rain this time as the crop had almost reached the harvest stage. Field-level officials are worried that damages could be much bigger as Guntur, Prakasam, Nellore and Chittoor districts have reported huge losses. “I did not expect this much of damage at the final stage of harvest,” said Mangalagiri legislator Alla Ramakrishna Reddy, who lost his standing paddy crop. Paddy farmers are likely to witness a loss of nearly Rs 60, 000 to Rs 80,000 per acre while cotton farmers are set to lose nearly Rs 40,000 to Rs 50,000 per acre. Industries minister Mekapati Gautham Reddy, who represents Nellore district in the cabinet, reviewed damages with officials of Nellore and Chittoor districts. In Krishna district, paddy farmers are also staring at loss following heavy rainfall since Wednesday evening. “We were about to harvest the crop by December 10. Despite rains, we had a good crop this year and were anticipating profits but now our crops are submerged,” said M Ranga Babu a farmer from Challapalli. Farmers in Nandigama, Jaggiahpet, Kanchikacherla, Chatrai and other upland areas who cultivate cotton also said untimely rains had ruined the crop. “These rains will affect the quality of cotton and as a result, we will get a poor market price,” said Chepupati Kranti, a farmer from Ghaniathkuru village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/in-krishna-delta-nivar-leaves-massive-crop-loss-in-its-wake/articleshow/79452878.cms||Samdani MN
November 28, 2020||Lucknow||Two groups clash over land dispute at Uttar Pradesh's Para, four injured||LUCKNOW: Four persons sustained serious injuries after a clash broke out between two groups over a land dispute in Para on Friday afternoon. Police force was deployed and the injured were admitted to the KGMU trauma centre. Cross-FIRs were lodged by the two sides. According to the police, Umesh along with his father Jagannath Rawat, mother Dulari and labourers reached Ramnagar in Para and started breaking an unmetalled road. “Hearing the news, a property dealer, Sushil Rawat, reached the spot along with his aides and a quarrel with Umesh ensued. The verbal spat took an ugly turn leading to two rounds of firing. The two groups also indulged in stone pelting. Both Umesh and Sushil were injured. Jagannath and his wife Dulari suffered head injuries,” said SHO, Para, Triloki Singh. The police reached the spot and took the injured to a hospital in Rajajipuram but doctors referred them to KGMU trauma centre. Singh said that preliminary probe revealed that Umesh had signed a land agreement with Sushil five years ago. But the land was yet to be registered which became a cause of dispute between the duo. Jagannath’s son Ashok Rawat alleged that Sushil and Sunil had been given three bigha land five years ago. “But Sunil and Sushil were not giving money,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/2-groups-clash-over-land-dispute-four-injured/articleshow/79455968.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow records no Covid-19 death for second time in five months||LUCKNOW: There was no let-up in the Covid-19 in the city on Friday as the number of new cases continued to be more than recoveries for the ninth consecutive day. While 306 more persons tested positive for the novel coronavirus infection in 24 hours, 265 patients were able to beat the virus. Since more are getting infected in comparison to recoveries, the number of people with active infection is gradually rising. TimesViewCovid hospitals in the city may come under pressure if the number of active cases continues to increase. In order to avoid a situation similar to September when all critical care beds in hospitals were packed to capacity, people — particularly those falling under vulnerable groups — will have to take extra precaution as winter is considered to be conducive for Covid-19 transmission. Authorities also need to ensure strict implementation of safety protocols to check the possibility of a second wave.About 3,771 active cases were in the city as of Friday evening. Of these 2,541were mild or asymptomatic cases recuperating in home quarantine, the rest were in hospitals. The condition of some of those hospitalised was stated to be serious. However, the good news was that for the second time in nearly five months (142 days), no patient died in the city. Earlier, on November 11, the city had reported zero casualties. Of the total 70,834 cases recorded since the outbreak in March 66085 (93.3%) have recovered, but 978 (1.4%) died during treatment. Within the city, Gomtinagar and Indiranagar continued to contribute the most to the tally by recording 36 and 34 cases respectively. Aashiana recorded 21 cases, Talkatora 19, Alambagh and Mahanagar 16 each, Rae Bareli Road 15, Hasanganj 14, Chowk 13 and Madiaon, Sarojininagar and Vikasnagar 10 each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/city-records-no-death-for-second-time-in-5-months/articleshow/79455978.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Vijayawada||Swarna Palace tragedy: HC grants custodial questioning of Ramesh||Vijayawada: The AP High Court on Friday allowed the petition filed by Vijayawada police granting three-day custodial interrogation of Dr Pothineni Ramesh Babu in the Swarna Palace fire accident case. Vijayawada police moved the high court alleging that Ramesh of Ramesh Hospitals is not cooperating with the investigation as directed by the Supreme Court and sought directions for custodial interrogation. The high court directed the police to conduct interrogation at the office of additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP) from November 30 to December 2. Interrogation should be done between 10 am and 5 pm and police should allow the advocate of Ramesh, said the high court adding that the investigation officers should also comply with all Covid-19 guidelines while conducting interrogation. Earlier, the high court issued an order staying all further proceedings in the case after hearing a petition moved by Ramesh seeking to quash the FIR against him. The government challenged this order in the Supreme Court and the apex court stayed a portion of the high court order stalling all further proceedings. The Supreme Court however, said Ramesh should not be taken into custody for interrogation on his cooperation with police. However, the police moved the high court alleging that Ramesh is not complying with the apex court order as he did not submit the documents as asked for under Section 91 CrPC and also did not attend for questioning when issued notice under Section 160 CrPC. The prosecutor argued that as Ramesh is not cooperating with the investigation as per the apex court judgement, he sought directions for custodial interrogation. Ramesh’s counsel argued that they have submitted all documents in their possession and requested for questioning through video conference in view of Covid-19. He also said they do not have any objection for custodial interrogation provided Covid-19 guidelines are followed. Hearing the arguments of both sides, Justice Ch Manavendra Roy allowed the petition moved by police and granted three days custody of Ramesh with conditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/swarna-palace-tragedy-hc-grants-custodial-questioning-of-ramesh/articleshow/79452911.cms||Srikanth Aluri
November 28, 2020||Vadodara||SSG resident doctors to be recalled from Ahmedabad||VADODARA: Resident doctors of state-run SSG Hospital who were sent on deputation to Ahmedabad will be recalled to Vadodara. On Friday, during a meeting with Dr Vinod Rao, senior IAS officer and officer on special duty (OSD) for Covid-19, representation regarding shortfall of resident doctors in Vadodara was made. So far, two batches of resident doctors have been sent to Ahmedabad on deputation. While 12 resident doctors were sent on deputation in the first batch, the second batch had as many as 30 resident doctors who were assigned Covid-19 duties in Ahmedabad. The resident doctors are the backbone for both SSG Hospital and GMERS Medical College and Hospital, Gotri. “We have made a representation regarding rising cases in Vadodara and shortfall of resident doctors here, as Gotri hospital does not have any resident doctor and we have to remain dependent on resident doctors of SSG Hospital for managing our Covid hospital,” said Dr Minoo Patel, advisor for Covid-19 at both SSG and Gotri Hospital. “Dean and superintendent of SSG Hospital are writing a letter to the state government explaining the situation in Vadodara. Dr Rao has assured that he will endorse the request,” said Patel. As of now, the first batch of 12 resident doctors are likely to return to Vadodara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/ssg-resident-doctors-to-be-recalled-from-ahmedabad/articleshow/79452926.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Chennai||Sleep tech comes to the rescue of sleepless citizens||CHENNAI: Lullabies and bed-time stories have been traditionally used to put kids to bed, but not anymore. From bed-time stories to soothing ASMR (autonomous sensory meridian response) music, adults are going back to their roots to sleep better during a difficult year and tech companies are reaping the rewards. Tech startups that offer tools for sleeping better are seeing a surge in adoption. Convinced that one is never too old for a bedtime story, mental wellness startup Mindhouse recently announced Sleep Stories, a collection of audio tales designed to help adults slip easily into sleep. The company has collaborated with Bollywood actors like Rahul Bose, Konkona Sen Sharma, and Amol Parashar to narrate the first set of stories. Almost 25% of our users were selecting ‘better sleep’ as their key goal on our app, and usage of our tools were surging from 9 pm to 2 am during the pandemic prompting us to launch Sleep Stories, Pooja Khanna, co-founder, Mindhouse, said. Launched a couple of weeks ago, 35% of Mindhouse app’s existing users have heard at least one sleep story so far, Khanna said. “We are seeing a 3x increase in downloads since we launched sleep stories. This is mostly through word of mouth,” she added. Bengaluru-based health tech startup Dozee uses Ballistocardiography technology for proactive monitoring and correction of sleep. Dozee’s thin sensor sheet is placed below the mattress (any mattress up to 18 inches) of the user to capture the data on micro-vibrations in the human body. This data is further analyzed using advanced machine learning and artificial intelligence algorithms to create a report on the user’s sleep. Dozee co-founder Mudit Dandwate said they have seen 2x-3x growth in orders during the pandemic months as people want to track and correct their sleep patterns. Users are buying it for themselves as well as their parents and other loved ones, he said. “Pre-Covid, India was almost five years behind the West in recognizing the importance of a good sleep, but now the pandemic has fast tracked awareness and use of digital tools to sleep better,” he said. Founder of yoga chain SARVA Sarvesh Shashi says music has long proven to be the one thing that engages the mind in a creative visualization of a calm dream-like world and it is not uncommon for humans to turn to music, since the first thing we hear is a mother’s lullaby. “The SARVA app includes many of these guided meditations and lullabies that will help one fall asleep to a soothing voice and a gentle melody. Initial feedback to the lullabies and sleep stories is phenomenal,” he said. Digital fitness startup GOQii has seen over 50,000 people consuming the ASMR music playlist on their app, and the number of people engaging with the meditation music has also crossed one lakh during the pandemic. “Since August, we have also sold over 50,000 units of curated health products for sleep such as chamomile teas and others as people are trying everything to ensure a good sleep,” Vishal Gondal, Founder and CEO, GOQii, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/sleep-tech-comes-to-the-rescue-of-sleepless-citizens/articleshow/79454069.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
November 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Toll nears 900 as Covid claims 3 more lives; 85 test +ve in dist||Ludhiana: Three residents of Ludhiana died of Covid-19 and 85 tested positive on Friday.Chief medical officer Dr Rajesh Bagga said the district casualties included a 75-year-old man of Mundiya Kalan, who was suffering from hypertension, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and died at Mohandai Oswal Hospital; a 67-year-old man of Patel Nagar, Dandai Swami Road, who succumbed at Astha Hospital; and an 82-year-old man of New Shivpuri with hypertension, who breathed his last at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital.The district toll tally has now climbed to 897 and that of outsiders to 376. Bagga said on the day, 103 positive reports were received, of which 85 were Ludhiana residents and 18 from other districts.The district cases included 14 contacts of positive patients, five health-care workers, one international traveller, 28 from OPD, 31 from flu corner and one severe acute respiratory infection case.The Ludhiana case count is 22,542. Of them, 20,768 (92.13%) have recovered.On Tuesday, 3,634 samples were collected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/toll-nears-900-as-covid-claims-3-more-lives-85-test-ve-in-dist/articleshow/79452945.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Lucknow||Piped supply to take out Uttar Pradesh’s Terai region from troubled waters||LUCKNOW: Piped drinking water supply in districts of Terai region of the state is no less than a boon for the people. In an exercise carried out by the state government to zero down on the reasons for the high incidence of encephalitis in the region, unsafe drinking water was found to be one of the key contributors. The policy document of National Programme for Control of Vector-Borne Diseases also stresses on piped drinking water to check disease burden in Terai districts of UP and even Bihar. As part of the state government’s decision to roll out Jal Jivan Mission’s Har Ghar Jal Scheme, piped drinking water will be supplied to all households of the state. Talking to TOI, social activists and experts said the move would help in cutting down the prevalence of infectious diseases, including the dreaded encephalitis in the region. “Water-level in districts of Terai region is naturally high as the terrain is bowl-shaped (low-lying to flat) which favours accumulation of water. When the pits and ponds get filled in the rainy season they become cesspool of microbes which cause infection. Though concerted efforts by the state government have curbed prevalence of encephalitis, piped water will surely improve the situation,” said social activist Rajesh Mani, who is based in Terai region. Health specialist, Unicef (UP), Dr Kanupriya Singhal said improvement in water quality could help in controlling encephalitis. “Acute encephalitis cases in the region are linked to entero-viruses family and piped water is surely an improved source of water which guarantees infection-free supply,” she said. A study by NIV, Pune, on encephalitis patients revealed that about 21% of the cases are linked to entero-viruses types 89 and 76. Piped water supply will help in doing away with shallow hand-pumps which are in abundance in the region. Shallow hand-pumps are a constant source of water-borne diseases. “Actually, the problem lies in the fact that water level in the region is high and every household depends on shallow hand-pumps to draw water for their daily needs. This water may get contaminated with entero-viruses which are present in abundance all around us, especially during the rainy season, and cause water-borne diseases like diarrhoea, cholera and even encephalitis,” said Unicef’s WASH (water supply, sanitation, hygiene) specialist Nagendra Singh, who has worked on the issue in the region. The geography of the area and presence of rice fields make the region conducive for mosquito-breeding. “It has been observed that in villages, men, women and children are bitten by mosquitoes when they go to fetch drinking water from safe hand-pumps besides other occasions. Water supply to their home will cut down the need to move out for drinking water, thereby saving people from vector-borne diseases,” said MK Singh, a former school teacher who has lent support to state’s campaign against encephalitis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/piped-supply-to-take-out-terairegion-from-troubled-waters/articleshow/79455986.cms||Shailvee Sharda
November 28, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh frees 53 life-convicted woman prisoners||VIJAYAWADA: The government has issued guidelines for granting special remission to 53 life-convicted female prisoners for offences against laws related to matters to which the executive power of the state extends. The decision will help these 53 prisoners lead a dignified life after their release. The standing committee constituted under the chairmanship of the principal secretary to the government and home department reviewed the list of eligible female prisoners as per state government guidelines. The director-general of prisons and correctional services on Friday sent the prison-wise list of 53 eligible life-convicted female prisoners for grant of premature release. Of the 53 women who are going to be released, 19 are serving sentence in the special prison for women in Rajamahendravaram, 27 in the special prison for women in Kadapa, two in Visakhapatnam central prison and five in Nellore central prison. Some of the prisoners being released have completed degrees while serving their sentence while others have learnt tailoring, embroidery, baking and other skills. Howeverm all ll premature releases are subject to the execution of a personal bond of Rs 50,000 and the women will have to appear before the probation officer and police station concerned once every three months till the completion of the unexpired portion of their jail term.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/state-frees-53-life-convicted-woman-prisoners/articleshow/79452940.cms||---
November 28, 2020||India||Gita as subject in schools: HC junks plea as ‘vague’||PRAYAGRAJ: A Lucknow bench of Allahabad high court has dismissed a PIL petition, requesting the court to direct the Uttar Pradesh government and its education authorities that “Bhagavad Gita” be taught as one of the subjects to students of all classes in the overall interest of society. Dismissing the PIL filed by one Brahma Shanker Shashtri, the division bench comprising justices Pankaj Mithal and Saurabh Lavania observed that the PIL is “completely vague and misconceived”. While dismissing the PIL, the court, however, said that in case the petitioner wanted “Bhagavad Gita” to be included as one of the subjects in intermediate syllabus, he might approach the appropriate authority such as the board of high school and intermediate education, UP, or any other board or university concerned. Petitioner Shashtri himself appeared before the court on November 25, when the court made the above observations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/gita-as-subject-in-schools-hc-junks-plea-as-vague/articleshow/79456505.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Dehradun||Minutes before wedding, bridegroom tests Covid-19 positive||Pithoragarh: Minutes before his wedding rituals were to start, the bridegroom, who had come to Pithoragarh from Delhi, was told that his coronavirus test report had come positive. The incident took place in Chhera village of Pithoragarh when tehsildar Pankaj Chandola reached the wedding venue and told the groom that he had been found infected with Covid-19. The wedding was held following strict Covid-19 protocols and later, the newlyweds were put under home isolation, Chandola told TOI. The groom is a resident of Jakhpuran village and had come to Uttarakhand from New Delhi last Sunday (November 22). “All those who had attended the wedding were requested to get themselves tested for the coronavirus and the family of the bride and groom will also be tested by the health department. These people were advised by the department to stay home until the coronavirus report is received,” said HC Pant, CMO, Pithoragarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/minutes-before-wedding-bridegroom-tests-covid-19-positive/articleshow/79452967.cms||Prem Punetha
November 28, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Districts hit by arsenic contamination pin hope on Har Ghar Jal scheme||LUCKNOW: UP government’s Har Ghar Jal scheme has identified areas affected by arsenic and fluoride contamination where it will start the work of providing piped water by the middle of next year. These areas form a crucial part of the government’s plan due to the health impact of the contaminants on those who are exposed to the water over a long period of time. For years, residents of east UP, living along and near the Ganga river, have been seeking the state’s intervention in providing piped water to the region. This area, including parts of neighbouring Bihar, are plagued by high level of arsenic in groundwater, a long term exposure to which can cause lesions, allergies and even cancer. Similarly, while low levels of fluoride are necessary for good dental health, excess fluoride leads to a condition called fluorosis which impacts the skeleton and in extreme cases causes spasms, vomiting and abdominal pain. In UP, the Central Ganga Alluvial region is affected by high levels of fluoride in the groundwater. Saurabh Singh, director of Inner Voice Foundation, who has been leading a campaign against arsenic contamination for the past several years, says that despite crores of rupees spent on new infrastructure, governments have failed in stemming the problem. “It is not just Ballia or Basti where this contamination is found but also in Varanasi, Prayagraj and Lucknow. Tubewells providing water to schools in Ballia have been found to contain high levels of arsenic,” he said. A 2011 technical report on the arsenic toxicity in the groundwater of Uttar Pradesh by the State Water Resources Data and Analysis Centre said that “harmful concentration of arsenic in ground water, exceedingly the BIS permissible limit of 0.01 mg/l, have critically spread over 144 blocks of the state located in 28 districts...Ballia and Lakhimpur Kheri are the worst affected districts with arsenic in groundwater. Ghaghra basin is the most severely arsenic affected region of the state”. The situation has only worsened since then. In UP’s Fatehpur, young people with bent backs and twisted joints are not a strange sight. However, the story of this area, one of the many fluoride contamination affected villages of UP, is set to change with the Har Ghar Jal Yojana. Social activist Rajendra Sahu of the Nehru Yuva Sangathan said that a visit to the fluoride affected villages may be compared to watching an alien movie. In a 2018 study on fluoride, ‘Excessive fuoride in groundwater of Central Ganga Alluvial Plain: a case study of Fatehpur, North India’ by V Dutta, N Fatima and N Kumar, “sampling in two villages showed that 95% of the groundwater samples belong to high fluoride concentration which is responsible for the endemic dental and skeletal fluorosis in the area concerned. Agra one of the most affected areas”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dists-hit-by-arsenic-contaminationpin-hope-on-har-ghar-jal-scheme/articleshow/79455988.cms||Neha Lalchandani
November 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: At 6 deaths, lowest 1-day toll in months on Friday||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 733 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the cumulative case load to 8,66,438. This is the second lowest single-day case total in the last five months. The toll increased to 6,976 as six people succumbed to the disease on Friday, the lowest single-day casualty total in the last 140 days after July 3 when the state recorded eight deaths. Of the six deaths, two are from Krishna and one each from Anantapur, Chittoor, Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram. As many as 1,205 Covid-19 patients were declared cured on Friday. For the first time in months, there are less than 1,000 active cases in 10 districts, other than East Godavari, Guntur and Krishna. West Godavari recorded 118 infections on Friday, followed by Guntur (112) and Krishna (102). The remaining 10 districts recorded less than 100 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/at-6-deaths-lowest-1-day-toll-in-mnths/articleshow/79452961.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Ludhiana||On plea for rape FIR against Bains, HC notice to Pb, Ludhiana top cop||Times News NetworkChandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday issued a notice to the Punjab government, Ludhiana police commissioner and MLA from Atam Nagar assembly segment in Ludhiana district Simarjit Singh Bains on a plea against delay in registration of an FIR against the legislator.Justice Gurvinder Singh Gill of the HC issued the notice after taking cognizance of the plea filed by a 44-year-old woman from Ludhiana district. The petitioner has sought registration of a rape FIR and directions to the Punjab police not to harass her by calling her repeatedly to Ludhiana police lines. Fearing threat to her life and liberty, the petitioner has also sought production of the report on action taken by the Ludhiana police on her complaint. According to the petitioner, she is a destitute widow with two young children and seeks justice against her exploitation by MLA Bains, who is known for his political and financial fortitude. She has contended that she was entrapped by Bains and his aides. Taking advantage of her social and economic vulnerability, she said, Bains repeatedly raped her on the pretext of helping her, and his brother also started making repeated calls and sending numerous WhatsApp messages soliciting physical relations with her. She informed the HC that to end her emotional and physical misery, she appeared before the Ludhiana commissioner of police in his office on November 16 and handed over a handwritten statement for registration of an FIR against Bains.“On November 19, the petitioner was taken to police lines by the local police and produced before the joint commissioner of police, Ludhiana. To add insult to the injury, instead of taking action on her complaint, the petitioner was humiliated and impetuously interrogated with a shameful questionnaire. The petitioner fully cooperated and provided all answers and also showed the WhatsApp chat between her and the MLA and his brother,” counsel for the woman submitted before the HC.The petitioner said her brother and father were being constantly threatened on phone and approached personally by close aides of the MLA. She alleged the Punjab government and the police officers were providing patronage to Bains due to his political clout, as he was close to a cabinet minister of Ludhiana and other leaders of the ruling party. The petitioner said despite Bains facing around 12 FIRs and his anticipatory bail applications in some cases being declined, he was roaming free and the police authorities were mum. The matter will come up for hearing on April 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/on-plea-for-rape-fir-against-bains-hc-notice-to-pb-ludhiana-top-cop/articleshow/79452969.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Meerut||Man held for raping 5-year-old after encounter||Meerut: A man wanted in connection with the rape of a five-year-old was held after an encounter with the local Medical police station team in Jagriti Vihar colony here on Friday.The accused, identified as Rakesh, in his 40s, is a native of Bulandshahr who is currently living in Meerut’s Jagriti Vihar area, where the survivor also resides. He is an e-rickshaw driver, said Akhilesh Narayan Singh, superintendent of police (city). He was with his younger brother when police intercepted him and arrested him after an encounter. Based on a complaint lodged on Thursday by the girl's father, an FIR was registered against the accused under IPC section 376 (rape) and relevant sections of the Pocso Act. The survivor’s father alleged that Rakesh lured the girl to a desolate spot and raped her. The girl later complained of pain and narrated her ordeal to her parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-held-for-raping-5-year-old-after-encounter/articleshow/79452978.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Police will write to RBI about banks opening instant accounts||Ludhiana: The Ludhiana police are planning to write to the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) through the Punjab director general of police about the frauds occurring due to certain new facilities provided by some banks. The city police had recently busted a gang of cyber fraudsters with the arrest of seven accused, who took advantage of instant bank account facility to dupe people. The instant accounts are opened online without any verification.Besides, the distributors of telecommunication companies are also being questioned over their policies and lack of checks on the sale of SIM cards and verification of documents. The city police have got some more names of Ludhiana residents whose IDs were used by the accused for committing a fraud of about Rs 2.5 lakh. Additional deputy commissioner of police (crime) Rupinder Kaur Bhatti said, “Besides opening bank accounts fraudulently, the accused have also duped companies providing online loans. The police have got four names of Ludhiana residents whose IDs and mobile numbers were used for availing loans. The respective companies are providing us all the details for further verification. The police are also contacting these people to know if they were aware of their IDs being misused.”“The police will trace those SIM card providers who sold the ID proofs of people to these fraudsters. Action will be taken against them. Since we have come to know about the loopholes in the instant bank account opening system, we are planning to write to the RBI through the Punjab DGP. We are recommending them not to allow transactions in instant accounts without physical verification of the account-holder. However, before that we are collecting more information from the banks.” She said that the pressure on bank managers and distributors of telecommunication companies for opening more accounts and selling more SIM cards, respectively, could be one of the reasons for their negligence, which helped these fraudsters. “The police will also take up the issue with the telecom companies,” she added. On November 25, the cyber cell of Ludhiana police, in a joint operation with CIA-II and the counter-intelligence wing, had busted a gang of cyber fraudsters who were a part of an inter-state racket that was duping people and availing loans on gullible citizens’ ID proofs. The accused also used to assist other cyber criminals. With their arrest, the city police had come to know about a racket selling Aadhaar and PAN cards of people for merely Rs 100 to the cyber criminals. The arrested included Vijay Kumar Bittu of Krishna Nagar, Anshuman Singh of Lakshmi Nagar, Sushil Kumar Patel of Mahadev Nagar, Sooraj of Makkar Colony, Sanjay Kumar of Prem Nagar, Rohit of Bhora Colony and Ram Narayan of Lakshmi Nagar. The police had recovered Rs 5.45 lakh, 11 mobile phones, three credit cards, 17 SIM cards, two laptops, one scanner, one coloured printer, 45 PAN cards, six memory cards and 11 debit cards from their possession.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/police-will-write-to-rbi-about-banks-opening-instant-accounts/articleshow/79452977.cms||Payal Dhawan
November 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Noida man accused of Rs 158 crore bogus billing arrested||Ludhiana: Central GST (CGST) commissionerate, Ludhiana, has arrested a Noida resident accused of involvement in bogus billing of Rs 158 crore and availing forged input tax credit (ITC) worth several crores. The accused had used fake ID cards, like Aadhaar and PAN, to fleece the government and conceal his identity.Ashutosh Baranwal, principal commissioner, CGST commissionerate, Ludhiana, said, “We received an input that two firms, M/s La Mode Fashions and M/s Decent Fashions, were indulging in fake invoices and fraudulently availing ITC. Our investigations led to a third firm involved in the same modus operandi. One CA and a private accountant have already been arrested in the matter. Investigations at Noida-end were carried out by the officers of CGST, Ludhiana, along with our counterparts in Noida. One person, Ajay Gupta, was partner in two firms (M/s La Mode Fashions and M/s Murari Enterprises) out of the three under investigation. It came to our notice that Gupta had created a fake identity to conceal his actual credentials and his real name was Rajesh Kumar.”“Rajesh Kumar, alias Ajay Gupta, in his statements has admitted to creating a fake identity through documents like Aadhaar and PAN cards, among others, receipt of remunerations in lieu of creation of these two dummy firms and knowledge that the firms created on the basis of his fake identity will be used in GST frauds. In these two firms, the accused had created fake invoices of Rs 153.15 crore, generated fake ITC of Rs 17.11 crore and monetized refund of Rs. 2.90 crore. He has been placed under arrest and remanded to judicial custody up to December 11,” Baranwal added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/noida-man-accused-of-rs-158-crore-bogus-billing-arrested/articleshow/79452974.cms||Mohit Behl
November 28, 2020||Mumbai||1 in 5 maternal deaths in Mumbai due to Covid||MUMBAI: About 22% of maternal deaths in the city in the past seven months were caused by Covid-19, shows civic data. The pandemic virus may have raced past traditional causes such as sepsis, haemorrhage and tuberculosis to become the most formidable cause of death in new mothers. According to BMC’s public health department, there were 133 maternal deaths between April and October this year. Of these, 29 were attributed entirely to Covid by a maternal death committee. Overall, 53 of the deceased (40% of the 133) who died of other reasons had tested positive for coronavirus as well, reports Sumitra Deb Roy. The remaining 104 deaths were caused by sepsis, pneumonia and pregnancy-induced hypertension, among several other complications. Among the deceased, 76 women were residents of Mumbai while 57 were from outside the city. Doctors from civic hospitals said several mothers delivered babies and went on to develop Covid-related complications three to four days later. A few in-utero deaths have been recorded too, although their details are still being collated. At BYL Nair Hospital in Mumbai Central, where over 740 Covid positive women had delivered since April, there were eight maternal deaths. “We observed that women mainly died of complications of the lungs, advanced pneumonia or involvement of multiple organs,” said Dr Ganesh Shinde, head of gynaecology, adding the overall mortality due to Covid was not very high among pregnant women. Most pregnant women treated at Nair were asymptomatic and the diagnosis was incidental as a mandatory RT-PCR test was done before delivery. The BMC-run Sion Hospital that has carried out 400 deliveries of Covid-positive women saw nearly 14 deaths. Gynaecology head Dr Arun Nayak said the deaths were caused by associated conditions such as excessive bleeding, infection, kidney and liver dysfunction. “It could have aggravated the basic disorder but there is nothing to suggest Covid is substantially increasing maternal mortality,” he said. In an analysis of 2017 maternal deaths, sepsis (severe blood infection) was responsible for maximum casualties (12%), followed by tuberculosis (11%) and haemorrhage (9%). “Covid has become a major cause for maternal deaths in the past seven months. We have lost 29 mothers who may have survived if not for the virus,” said Dr Meenakshi Rao, a BMC special officer overseeing maternal deaths. According to Dr Niteen Karnik, head of medicine at Sion Hospital, pregnancy itself creates a complex immune situation for women, which could get complicated by delayed diagnosis or treatment of Covid. Rao said there have been instances where new mothers had gone home with their babies after discharge only to come back with a bad infection. “Such cases are not directly related to pregnancy, but since deaths happened within 42 days of childbirth, they are counted as maternal deaths,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/1-in-5-maternal-deaths-in-city-due-to-covid/articleshow/79456002.cms||Sumitra Debroy
November 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Covid sewa punishment for no mask?||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Friday sought a quick response from the government on whether it could introduce punishment of social service in Covid centres for those who are caught without wearing masks in public places. The bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala was of the view that the mandatory mask rule is not “strictly complied with” in Gujarat. The judges appeared interested in the idea put across by petitioner-advocate Vishal Awtani, who proposed to increase the fine and introduce punishment of placing the violators in Covid centres for social service and they should be assigned the non-medical tasks for 14-15 days. This could work as a great deterrent. “The amount of fine has no deterrent effect among public,” the lawyer argued and suggested social punishment so that people should understand the gravity of situation. The judges observed about the idea, “We also feel that such steps if taken would definitely ensure greater implementation of compulsorily wearing a mask, which will definitely help us in containing the spread of covid-19.” The suggestion for social punishment as a deterrent also found support in the advocate general and the government pleader and both requested the court for some time for the government to respond to this idea. Later during the proceeding on the suo motu PIL on Covid-19 and lockdown, the judges again referred to this suggestion and reiterated that a deterrence is necessary, “That fear of being caught without mask should creep into the minds and hearts of the people.” Justice Pardiwala said that the suggestion of social service as punishment must be given a serious thought or else people will not follow the norms. On suggestion to condemn repeat offenders to social service, the chief justice commented, “They will wear mask for their lifetime, if they are required to go to covid centre.” The advocate general expressed difficulty in implementing the idea for repeat offenders because it would be difficult to identify who was caught earlier, he submitted. The judges cited news reports that 47 persons were tested Covid-19 positive out of those caught roaming without mask in Ahmedabad. They termed the situation as “very alarming”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-sewa-punishment-for-no-mask/articleshow/79454140.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Dehradun||Upto 50% bookings cancelled by tourists after decision to conduct Covid tests of people coming from Delhi, claim hoteliers in hill towns||Nainital: The state government’s decision to conduct mandatory tests of people coming from Delhi to Dehradun has, according to the state’s hoteliers, created confusion among tourists, leading to cancellation of bookings and almost no new queries for the upcoming long weekend (on account of Gurpurab falling on Monday). Speaking to TOI, several hoteliers from tourist towns like Nainital, Mussoorie and Ramnagar said that they have received almost no new queries or hotel bookings from people travelling from Delhi-NCR for the last few days ever since the state government’s new directions became public. “We had received several pre-bookings for this three-day weekend, but now, people are calling us to inquire whether they need to carry Covid-19-negative certificate. This has created a lot of confusion,” said Ved Sah, secretary, Nainital Hotels and Restaurants’ Association. As reported by TOI earlier, with a spurt in the number of tourists from the national capital — which is facing yet another surge in Covid-19 caseload — the health department in Dehradun had decided to conduct mandatory tests of those arriving from Delhi-NCR. Hoteliers from Ramnagar (the gateway to the Corbett Tiger Reserve) and Mussoorie also raised similar concerns saying that after over six months, tourism was finally picking up “but the government’s changing guidelines were discouraging tourists.” Hari Mann, president of the hotel association of Ramnagar, said, “There has been a lot of confusion. Though the direction to conduct tests is only for people coming to Dehradun, customers have called us and are enquiring whether the directions apply to those coming to Corbett as well. As a result, we have had almost no bookings in the last two days,” he said, adding that almost 20% of the total bookings in Ramnagar have been cancelled as well. Hoteliers in Mussoorie, too, added that their business has taken a nosedive because of the decision to conduct Covid tests of tourists coming from Delhi as well as the farmers’ agitation. “We have had an almost 50% cancellation in hotel bookings in the past few days,” said Sanjay Aggarwal, secretary of Mussoorie Hotels Association. (with inputs from Anmol Jain in Mussoorie)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/upto-50-bookings-cancelled-by-tourists-after-decision-to-conduct-covid-tests-of-people-coming-from-delhi-claim-hoteliers-in-hill-towns/articleshow/79452012.cms||Prashant Jha
November 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Make sure rooms are well ventilated in winter to avoid Covid-19 surge: Doctors||Ludhiana: Amid the possibility of second surge and winter aggravating the Covid-19 pandemic, experts advise about the precautions that people can take to protect themselves from being infected with the virus.Civil surgeon of Ludhiana, Dr Rajesh Bagga, said ventilation is the key to prevent an infection like Covid-19. He said winter is being viewed problematic because people normally close the rooms to keep them warm.“The cases are expected to increase, as the virus gets active in winter. There is need for wearing masks, ensuring social distancing and other norms are being followed to check the pandemic,” said district epidemiologist Dr Ramesh Bhagat. He indicated that the cases have already started increasing.“It is all the more important to ensure flow of fresh air inside rooms. This is besides the other norms related to Covid-19 that people have to follow, including wearing of masks, maintaining social distancing and hand and respiratory hygiene,” said Dr Varun Saggar, a surgeon at civil hospital who was involved in Covid-19 management. “It is necessary to follow norms, ensure ventilation in rooms and avoid dry air due to heating appliances in rooms at home or in offices as it results in throat and respiratory problems. It is also advisable that people should takes measures so that they don’t contract normal flu and common cold because of which a person’s immunity goes down and he becomes prone to infections like Covid-19.”President of Ludhiana chapter of Indian Medical Association, Dr Sunil Katyal, also insisted that ensuring proper ventilation in room is important to prevent that build up of air-borne disease causing organisms. “I have seen many people, including doctors, using exhaust fans in reverse direction to allow fresh air inside,” said the doctor.Precautions for winter1. Allow ventilation in room by keeping a window open2. Sudden exposure to heat and cold should be avoided to ensure that a person doesn’t fall ill and becomes prone to infections3. As people use heaters in rooms, the air should be humidified with steamers for five to 10 minutes to reduce the chances of dry cough4. Social distancing even at home, offices and public places5. Elderly persons, who are vulnerable, should be isolated in a room if possibleDate New casesLudhiana15 November 6416 8417 9218 8519 104 20 9621 8122 9823 9624 10225 104||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/make-sure-rooms-are-well-ventilated-in-winter-to-avoid-covid-19-surge-doctors/articleshow/79453000.cms||Shariq Majeed
November 28, 2020||Meerut||Students enrolment in UP schools dips in 26 of 75 dists in one yr||Strap: Notice To Schools Concerned, Asked To Explain Meerut: The enrolment of students dipped drastically in 26 out of 75 districts of Uttar Pradesh in both government and private schools in the previous academic year, an analysis of the data by the state authorities has revealed. Startling examples include a drop from 917 students to 92 students at a school on Govind Nagar and from 215 to 33 at a school in Indirapuram. A notice has been served on the schools concerned and an explanation sought from them for the lapse. “In an analysis done by the state government, it was found that 26 out of 75 districts in UP registered a dip in the enrolment of students from 2018–19 to 2019–20 academic session,” said Vijay Kiran Anand, state project director, Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan. The district-wise comparison showed that in 26 districts, the student enrolment dipped, in 71 districts, the number of schools fell and in four districts, the number of teachers dropped. The 26 districts include Mau, Allahabad, Deoria, Pratapgarh and Mathura.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/students-enrolment-in-up-schools-dips-in-26-of-75-dists-in-one-yr/articleshow/79452987.cms||Ishita Bhatia
November 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘We were 36th in the line to cremate body of a patient’||AHMEDABAD: Shivam Rajgor (name changed), 32, a resident of Ellisbridge, got a call at 7am on Friday from Civil Hospital that his elder sister, admitted in the hospital for past one week due to Covid-19 infection, was no more. “We reached the hospital immediately to get the body. The procedure took four hours as we got the body at 11.30am. We first went to the crematorium at Vadaj, but we were told that it would take about three to four hours due to the long queue of bodies,” narrated Rajgor. Rajgor and his brother then approached the crematorium behind the VS Hospital where there was ‘comparatively shorter’ queue. “We were told that from the morning, they had cremated 35 bodies – of both Covid-19 patients and non-patients – and we were the 36th in line,” he said. “We got our slot at 4.30pm – five hours after getting the body. One can just imagine our mental status from morning to afternoon.” The pandemic has also resulted in traversing the conventional boundaries. At the same crematorium, Rakhi Mittal (name changed), teacher with a city-based CBSE school, was also in line. “I have come to cremate body of my father-in-law. With my husband and mother-in-law under Covid-19 treatment, I had no other option but to do it on my own. I am awaiting my turn as it’s the third crematorium I have been to in hope of finding a slot sooner,” said Mittal at 2.30pm. While the death figures are mounting in the city, some of the crematoriums have increased the timings to accommodate the maximum bodies, said sources. A relative said that it’s difficult to quantify the ‘Covid-19’ deaths as the death certificate of several patients doesn’t mention the viral infection. “My uncle was diabetic and he died during the Covid-19 treatment. The ‘cause of death’ column remained empty,” said a youth from Saraspur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/we-were-36th-in-the-line-to-cremate-body-of-a-patient/articleshow/79454160.cms||Yogesh Chawda
November 28, 2020||Dehradun||Few takers for night shelters this winter due to threat of coronavirus||Dehradun: The four rain-baseras (night shelters) of the state capital, three run by the Dehradun Municipal Corporation (DMC) and one by a social organisation, usually start filling up with the onset of winter, but have few takers this year. The fear of contracting Covid-19 has kept people from staying at these centres, even as the shelters say they are taking all precautions against the pandemic. “We have the capacity to accommodate 50 people but for the past few days, only four to five people have been staying here at night. Migrant labourers, who make up most of the inmates here, did not turn up this year. On our part, we are following all norms of social distancing and sanitising the compound on a regular basis,” said Direndra Singh, caretaker at the night shelter in Patel Nagar. The night shelter near Clock Tower started operating on Wednesday and has had only seven people come here so far. The centre earlier had 100 beds but has now reduced its capacity. Deepak Kukreti from Doon Shelter Society for Homeless (DSSH), a social organisation that runs the shelter, said, “So far only a few people are coming to our shelter. However, several posters at various public places have also been placed so that the people in need can utilise our facility.” Some people who were using the night shelters till last year expressed apprehension at going there this year. Mannu Ram, a rickshaw puller, said, “I am used to spending winter nights at night shelters but am hesitant to go to one this year because of the coronavirus threat.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/few-takers-for-night-shelters-this-winter-due-to-threat-of-coronavirus/articleshow/79453006.cms||Abhijeet Singh
November 28, 2020||Meerut||Sister appeals on social media to help trace her 'missing' brother||Muzaffarnagar: Days after the tragic accident in which a car with four Delhi youths, including two women, fell into Upper Ganga canal at Purkazi in Muzaffarnagar district, the younger sister of one of the two missing youngsters made an emotional appeal to the residents of the district to help trace her brother and his friend."Please help find my brother Nikhil and his friend. You must have helped so many people. Now, please help us. Maybe, they were taken out and admitted in some hospital. Please let us know if you have any information. It is important," she appealed on social media.On the morning of November 24, an Alto fell into the Upper Ganga canal after the driver lost control of the vehicle. All four occupants - in their early 20s and residents of Delhi - fell into the canal. Divers rescued two women out of which one died later in the hospital. Two young men - Nikhil and Praveen - could not be traced.Nikhil's sister Sonam Kumari, who uploaded the video, told TOI, "It has been four days. We have no information about my brother. The entire family is very disturbed. My mother keeps crying. I request everyone to help trace my brother and his friend."Nikhil used to work at a private company which manufactures clothes and was two years elder to his sister Sonam. Their father had died years ago.Mini Devi, Nikhil's mother, had visited Muzaffarnagar after the incident and left for Delhi after spending a day with the rescue team. She is planning to visit Muzaffarnagar again."On November 18, my son had left home for Rishikesh to celebrate his 22nd birthday which falls on November 20. Nikhil said that he was going with his three friends. I had insisted on him not to travel now, but he didn’t listen," Minni Devi said.Purkazi SHO Jitendra Yadav said, "We are still searching, divers are looking for them in the water."There is still no trace of Nikhil and Praveen, residents of Fatehpur Beri and Safdarjung, respectively, another police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/sister-appeals-on-social-media-to-help-trace-her-missing-brother/articleshow/79452982.cms||Mohd Dilshad
November 28, 2020||Ludhiana||GRP inspector’s efforts help police trace body of accused||Ludhiana: The Jagraon Government Railway Police (GRP) would have cremated the body of realtor Rajiv Sunda, 60, on Friday evening had its inspector Jeevan Singh not approached Ludhiana cops after reading about Sunda family in a newspaper.For two days, nobody approached the GRP to know about any abandoned, unidentified body. After the GRP inspector read the news report, he decided to pursue the case of body recovered from railway tracks on the evening of November 24. The inspector said he had alerted the Ludhiana rural police about it and vernacular newspapers had also published a report about the suicide, but the Ludhiana city police remained unaware about it. On the morning of November 24, Rajiv had murdered with an axe and a knife his wife Sunita, 56, son Ashish, 35, daughter-in-law Garima, 30, and grandson Saket, 13, at their house in Mayur Vihar, Hambran Road. Thereafter, he had committed suicide at railway tracks in Jagraon.The inspector said, “I visited the railway tracks where the body was found. After keeping it in the mortuary, we alerted the Ludhiana rural police about it. I also gave information about it in two vernacular newspapers so that the relatives of the deceased could approach us. But, nobody came. On the morning of November 26, I read the news of Sunda family in a newspaper. I thought on-the-run Rajiv could be the same man whose body was found on the railway tracks. I immediately approached the Ludhiana city police, who brought the deceased’s kin for verification. After the kin identified the body, it was handed over to them. Else, we would have cremated it after completion of 72 hours on Friday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/grp-inspectors-efforts-help-police-trace-body-of-accused/articleshow/79452993.cms||Payal Dhawan
November 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Pirates abduct 4 Indian seafarers off Nigeria||HYDERABAD: Pirates kidnapped 10 crew members, including four Indian seafarers, from a ship in the Gulf of Guinea in Nigerian waters. The vessel was reportedly attacked approximately 52 nautical miles north west of Brass oil terminal, Bayelsa state, Nigeria, between November 25 evening and November 26 morning. “The vessel was in transit from Koko in Nigeria to Douala, Cameroon, when it came under attack. The exact time of the attack remains unclear. After some time on board, the perpetrators left the vessel with the kidnapped crew,” a report said. Captain Sanjay Prashar, general secretary, Himachal Seafarers’ Association, said security consultancies — Ambrey and Dryad Global — had told them about the abduction of the seafarers. The cargo ship ‘Milan’ was flagged off from St Kitts. Among the crew who were taken hostage include three Lebanese, two Egyptians and one Cameroonian. Two crew members from Cameroon were left on board the vessel managed by Miro Shipping, Tripoli, Lebanon. “We have taken up the matter with the authorities concerned and the employer to ensure safe release of the hostages. Necessary consular assistance will also be rendered,” the high commission of India in Abuja told Capt Prashar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pirates-kidnap-4-indian-seafarers/articleshow/79454147.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
November 28, 2020||Vijayawada||Farmers held without valid reason, says Andhra Pradesh high court||VIJAYAWADA: The Andhra Pradesh High Court on Friday expressed displeasure against the police for putting farmers in jail for 18 days. The court said the police arrested the farmers without valid reason and sending them to jail is nothing but infringing on their fundamental rights. The high court had earlier directed the police officers responsible to submit a report on arresting Dalit farmers under SC-ST Act in the capital region. The court also found fault with the lower courts for denying bail to the farmers without taking the affidavit given by the complainants into consideration. Justice K Lalitha took the police to task, and wondered how could they register a case against Dalit farmers under the SC-ST Act and put them in jail. Who is responsible for putting them in jail without a valid reason, she asked. Justice Lalitha further observed that the FIR and the remand report submitted by the police contradict each other. Noting this is a serious issue pertaining to implementation of the rule of law, she said the issue can be taken up as contempt of court as police did not follow the guidelines. Arguing on behalf of the police, senior counsel S S Prasad said the cops acted as per the norms based on the complaint that they received. He said this is only a bail petition and it requires prior notice to initiate contempt of court proceedings. Justice Lalitha said they will issue necessary orders based on the reports submitted by the police and the judicial officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/farmers-held-without-valid-reason-says-hc/articleshow/79452985.cms||Srikanth Aluri
November 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Cash-for-vote: 3 SC cases to decide future of ACB case||Hyderabad: Telangana ACB is now looking forward to derive its strength from Supreme Court to take the cash-for-vote scam case forward. Its special counsel V Ravi Kiran Rao on Friday told Justice Shameem Akther of Telangana high court that they are waiting for the outcome in two cases pertaining to former AP chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu and Jerusalem Mathaiah, an accused, whose case was quashed by Hyderabad high court earlier. “We challenged the quashing of the FIR against Mathaiah in the apex court. Similarly, YSRCP MLA Alla Ramakrishna Reddy’s petition seeking the inclusion of Naidu as an accused in the cash-for-vote case too was slated to come up for hearing at Supreme Court soon. We are waiting for the outcome in these cases,” the ACB counsel said. The judge was hearing a plea filed by MLA Sandra Venkata Veeraiah who challenged the order of the ACB court that dismissed his discharge plea. MLA’s counsel Siddhartha Luthra told the court that the ACB is seeking to prosecute him without making a foolproof case against him. He found fault with the trial court for dismissing his discharge plea even though there was not much material before it. Another counsel E Uma Maheswar Rao, who also argued the case of Sandra Veeraiah, said the allegation of ACB that the two accused in the case spoke over phone to seek vote for TDP nominee in 2015 MLC elections looked funny. “The two accused — Sebastian, TDP’s Christian wing president, and Sandra Veeraiah, MLA, — belong to the same party. Their attempt to seek the vote of an independent MLA is not a crime. No need for any call data for this. Even if the call data shows that they spoke with each other on this aspect, no crime can be attributed to such conversation between colleagues from the same party,” Uma Maheswar said. Refuting this contention, ACB counsel Ravi Kiran said that they collected from the state assembly the voice samples of the two accused MLAs — Revanth Reddy and Sandra Veeraiah — in this case and sent them to the FSL which confirmed and said their telephonic voices had tallied with their voices in the assembly. “They spoke about the bribe to be paid to independent MLA Elvis Stephenson which is a conspiracy,” he said. ACB laid a trap and caught Revanth and Sebastian with Rs 50 lakh cash when they were trying to bribe Stephenson. “We could not collect the voice sample of Sebastian in the past because there were legal hurdles. Recently, the Supreme Court removed such hurdles and paved the way for the prosecutors to collect voice samples of private individuals too. Hence, we will file an application before the trial court seeking permission to seek voice sample of Sebastian too,” the ACB counsel said. The judge reserved his order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cash-for-vote-3-sc-cases-to-decide-future-of-acb-case/articleshow/79454143.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Dehradun||Jawan from Pauri killed during ceasefire violation||Dehradun: Subedar Swatantra Singh, resident of Oriyari village in Pauri Garhwal, was killed in firing by Pakistani army targeting Indian military outposts and residential areas along the LOC on Thursday. A civilian was also seriously injured in the firing. “The JCO, from Garhwal rifles, was injured in the firing in the afternoon and succumbed to injuries at hospital,” said the spokesperson from the defense ministry who added, “Our soldiers are also giving a strong response to the firing of the enemy.” Chief of Army staff General MM Naravane, Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, and assembly speaker Prem Chandra Agarwal offered condolences to the bereaved family. The JCO is survived by his wife and four children, who all live in his native village in Pauri. The family of the jawan received the information of his death on Thursday evening. His body was brought to Lansdowne on Friday evening and is expected to be taken to his home on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/jawan-from-pauri-killed-during-ceasefire-violation/articleshow/79453002.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Mayur Vihar murders: Father, bro of realtor’s daughter-in-law booked||Ludhiana: Three days after a 60-year-old realtor allegedly killed four members of his family at their house in Mayur Vihar, Humabra Road, and committed suicide, the PAU police on Friday booked his daughter-in-law’s father and brother on the charge of abetment to suicide.In a suicide note, realtor Rajiv Sunda had held the two — Ashok Gulati and his son Gaurav of Haiowal — responsible for his taking the step.The cops had recovered the body of Rajiv from railway tracks in Jagraon on Thursday. The police, however, said they would make arrests in the case only after verifying the allegations. Rajiv said in the suicide note that Ashok and Gaurav had taken Rs 7 lakh from him in the past two years. “Now, they were again demanding Rs 10 lakh from us. When we refused, the duo threatened to get a dowry harassment case filed against me. In dowry harassment complaints, police favour women. I am killing my family and committing suicide. Ashok Gulati and Gaurav are responsible for this and should get strict punishment,” the note added. After writing the note, Rajiv brutally killed his wife Sunita, 56, son Ashish, 35, daughter-in-law Garima, 30, and grandson Saket, 13, and escaped from the house.Police said Rajiv committed suicide the same day at Jagraon railway tracks. PAU police station SHO inspector Paramdeep Singh said, “On the basis of the suicide note, a case has been registered against Ashok and Gaurav under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the IPC. However, they will be arrested only after verifying the allegations. Both Ashok and Gaurav are factory workers.” Ashok and Gaurav have refuted the allegations of demanding money or threatening to lodge an FIR against Rajiv and said the latter would stop Garima from visiting them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mayur-vihar-murders-father-bro-of-realtors-daughter-in-law-booked/articleshow/79453004.cms||Payal Dhawan
November 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Mercury levels to rise post Nov 29||Hyderabad: Even as Hyderabad experiences cold days in view of cyclone Nivar, the mercury levels will soon rise post November 29 as the official onset of winter is still two weeks away. On Friday, the maximum temperature dropped by three degree Celsius to 25 degree Celsius. Although the minimum temperature was recorded at 18 degree Celsius, which is three degree Celsius above normal, the cloud overcast over the city made the temperature feel like 16 degree Celsius. While the city is likely to witness light rains on Saturday, the mercury level is set to rise from Sunday. “The city will continue to witness light rains even on Saturday, resulting in further drop of one to two degree Celsius in mercury levels,” said A Shravani, meteorologist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mercury-levels-to-rise-post-nov-29/articleshow/79454149.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana reports 760 new Covid cases||HYDERABAD: A total of 761 new Covid-19 cases and four deaths were recorded on Friday in Telangana, even as authorities urged people with comorbidities to stay indoors and rush to the nearest health facility in case of emergency. Health department officials in the guidelines urged citizens to seek medical care in case of any flu-like symptoms such as fever, cough, sore throat, runny nose, difficulty in breathing, body pain and headache. “If symptoms related to Covid-19 are observed, please report to the nearest government health facility and seek the required health services without any delay. People with co-morbid conditions are also requested to stay indoors and avoid any kind of travel except for medical care to avoid exposure to the virus,” the statement read. The total death toll now stands at 1,448 cases. As on Friday, there were 10,839 active Covid-19 cases in the state. The GHMC limits saw 161 new cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-reports-760-new-covid-cases/articleshow/79454157.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Dehradun||BSNL to roll out 4G network, internet services in border areas of Uttarakhand||Dehradun: State-run telephone service provider Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) is all set to roll out 4G mobile network and high-speed internet services in remote areas of the border districts of Uttarakhand. Sanjay Dhotre, minister of state for education, communication and electronics and information technology, on Friday said that BSNL is going to install 28 4G mobile towers in border areas in Chamoli, Pithoragarh, Champawat and Uttarkashi districts under the Universal Service Obligation (USO) project. For these 28 towers, 21 sites have been selected and tower installation is in progress in 11 sites, said Dhotre, who was in Dehradun on an official visit. He added that "mobile connectivity in these areas will greatly help the paramilitary and defence personnel, who are posted in these areas and are safeguarding our international borders, to remain in touch with their families." With the expansion of telecom network in remote and difficult areas of Uttarakhand, the local people will be able to use high speed 4G data network to enjoy the benefits of e-services, including tele-medicine, tele-education and work from home, said Dhotre. This will also help in boosting various sectors such as pilgrimage, wellness and trekking tourism in Uttarakhand. The minister has also directed the authorities concerned to improve the coverage of mobile network along the Char Dham Yatra route. To facilitate the clearance for mobile tower installation and laying of optical fibre, the Uttarakhand government has already aligned the Right of Way (RoW) policy in line with the department of telecommunications' guidelines, and launched online RoW webportal (single window clearance system-SWCS) for faster clearance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bsnl-to-roll-out-4g-network-internet-services-in-border-areas-of-uttarakhand/articleshow/79453014.cms||Gaurav Talwar
November 28, 2020||Dehradun||BJP appoints Suresh Bhatt as state general secretary||Dehradun: With just over a year left for Uttarakhand assembly elections, Banshidhar Bhagat, state president of BJP, appointed party leader Suresh Bhatt as the state general secretary of the saffron clan in Uttarakhand on Friday. Commenting on the development, BJP media in-charge Devendra Bhasin said that Uttarakhand has three state general secretary posts and one of them was lying vacant. “Hailing from Nainital, 52-year-old Suresh Bhatt is a law graduate from Kumaon University. He became active in student politics after joining Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) in Almora. He later became a full-time pracharak (ideologue) of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) in 1993. He has also served as the BJP's state general secretary (organisation) in Haryana. The party had just four MLAs in the state when he joined there but BJP won a full majority with 47 MLAs during his term. Also, our party secured 7 out of 8 Lok Sabha seats from Haryana,” added Bhasin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bjp-appoints-suresh-bhatt-as-state-general-secretary/articleshow/79453036.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Some polling booths have fewer than 500 voters||Hyderabad: Some of the polling booths in the city have as few as 406 voters making it easy for the electors to cast their vote without having to wait in serpentine queues for a long time when the polling will be held on December 1. There are also polling booths with 600-odd and 1,000-odd voters as per the final list of polling booths published by the civic body.  The SEC had announced that the number of voters would be brought down from 1,500 per polling booth to about 1,000 per polling station on an average keeping in view the Covid-19 pandemic guidelines of the Election Commission of India. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation election officials said the reason for some of the wards having 400 to 500 voters and a few others 1,000-odd is because they tried to accommodate the “leftover voters after rationalisation” in the same building in which their polling booths were located in 2016 polls. For example, if two polling booths located in a building had 1,250 voters each, about 500 voters would be left after rationalisation of 1,000 voters in each of the two polling stations. This leftover 500 voters were given a polling booth in the same building instead of merging them with leftover voters of other polling booths located in different building and another locality. State election commissioner C Partha Sarathi said the voters feel comfortable if they find their polling booth in the same building they had gone to vote in the previous election. It is keeping in view the comfort of the voters that some polling booths were allowed to have even 510 voters instead of packing them with another set of voters and allotting a different polling booth, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/some-polling-booths-have-fewer-than-500-voters/articleshow/79454184.cms||Roushan Ali
November 28, 2020||Dehradun||Scientists at GB Pant National Institute of Himalayan Environment claim to have found 2 compounds that could help control Covid spread within body||Dehradun: In a recently-released peer-reviewed paper in the journal ‘Nature’, scientists of GB Pant Institute of Himalayan Environment, Almora, have claimed to have found two compounds that could help check the spread of the Covid-19 virus in the body of the infected person. “These compounds, if used in drugs, can help stop further multiplication of the virus in the body,” Mahesha Nand, co-author of the study, told TOI. Scientists of the research team said that the compounds were likely to enter clinical trials soon and that a patent had been filed for the discovery. Nand, who is from the Environmental Information System Centre on Himalayan Ecology at the institute, said, “ For the study, our team screened the sequence of 1,528 anti-HIV1 compounds by sequence alignment between 3CLpro of SARS-CoV-2 and avian infectious bronchitis virus. This was followed by a machine-learning predictive model, drug-likeness screening and molecular docking.” Among the 1,528 compounds, 356 were selected. The list was further narrowed down to 84 compounds that did not cause side-effects. “The compounds were anti-viral and did not affect the absorption, distribution, digestion and excretion processes,” the scientist said, adding, "Among the 84, 40 compounds were zeroed in on for possessing medicinal properties found to be active against the 3-CLC Pro (3-chymotrypsin like protease) enzyme of the coronavirus by fundamental docking method.” Subsequently, 22 effective compounds were selected on the basis of medicinal quantity (IC0-50), which boiled down to just 12, due to some of the compounds having similar molecular structures. “A functional group analysis was done, where ‘Cluster 2’ showed the presence of several essential functional groups having pharmacological importance. Conclusively, two out of 1,528 compounds were screened as potential hits against 3CLpro, which could be further treated as an excellent drug against SARS-CoV-2. Both of the compounds were previously useful in preventing the HIV-1 infection,” added the scientist. Apart from Nand, other members of the team were Priyanka Maity, Tushar Joshi, Veena Pandey, Subhash Chandra, MA Ramakrishnan and JC Kuniyal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/scientists-at-gb-pant-national-institute-of-himalayan-environment-claim-to-have-found-2-compounds-that-could-help-control-covid-spread-within-body/articleshow/79453045.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 28, 2020||Meerut||Partially-charred body of a man recovered from a graveyard||Bijnor: The body of a man with his face burnt beyond recognition was recovered from a graveyard in Kotwali police station area of the city on Friday morning. While launching an investigation into the matter, police said the man was most likely murdered, and his body later abandoned in the graveyard.The deceased was identified as Shubham (24) from Badwaan mohalla of Bijnor city. He had gone missing from his house on Thursday evening. Since then, his relatives had been searching for him, but to no avail. The body was spotted by a passerby lying in the graveyard, at a spot close to Jhalu bus stand, on Friday morning. He informed police, who rushed to the spot and took the body to district hospital for autopsy. According to superintendent of police Dharamveer Singh, “A 24-year-old man went missing from his house. His partially-charred body was found lying in a graveyard. Assailants had attacked him with stones. His face was distorted by burning it. Police are trying to crack the case, which has been registered against unidentified assailants.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/partially-charred-body-of-a-man-recovered-from-a-graveyard/articleshow/79453035.cms||Harveer Dabas
November 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Gold worth Rs 18L seized at RGIA||Hyderabad: The Air Intelligence Unit sleuths of the customs department seized 40 tola gold from two passengers, who arrived from Riyadh by Go Air’s flight (G8 6700) at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport. During screening, customs sleuths intercepted two men, who opted for green channel. When subjected to metal detector check and frisking, the officials found three gold bars on each passenger. Total weight of the seized gold is 369.8 grams and its market value is Rs 18.07 lakh. A case has been registered under the Customs Act. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gold-worth-rs-18l-seized-at-rgia/articleshow/79454188.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Disallow MPs, MLAs from voting in GHMC mayoral election, plea urges High Court||Hyderabad: Urging the high court to strike down section 90 (1) of GHMC Act that allows MLAs, MPs and MLCs to vote in the ensuing election for GHMC mayor and deputy mayor posts, E Anil Kumar from Nizamabad district on Friday filed a writ petition in HC. Each elected corporator will have one vote to elect the mayor. On par with him or her, now even the legislators were permitted to become ex-officio members of the GHMC council and they were allowed to vote on par with the elected corporators. This practice of allowing legislators to vote in the GHMC mayoral election was introduced in 2015 and the SEC is following the same process in the 2020 mayor election too. If this undemocratic practice is allowed as many as 55 legislators will vote and tilt the popular will reflected in the corporator polls, the petitioner said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/disallow-mps-mlas-from-voting-in-ghmc-mayoral-election-plea-urges-high-court/articleshow/79454163.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana tops in use of facial recognition technology||HYDERABAD: The Internet Freedom Foundation (IFF) on Friday said that Telangana has been using the highest number of facial recognition technologies in the country. As per the IFF’s ‘Project Panoptic’, a system for tracking facial recognition technology (FRT) in the country, the Telangana State Election Commission, Hyderabad Police, Telangana Police, Hyderabad airport and the state higher education department are using the FRT systems. Of 32 FRT systems in India, Telangana has implemented five. The aim of Project Panoptic is to bring in transparency and accountability in the implementation of facial recognition technology projects in India. The Centre has implemented six FRT projects out of which one is in active use. The Central Board of Secondary Education, National Crime Records Bureau, Ministry of Railways, South Western Railways, Ministry of Civil Aviation and Digiyatra Foundation have implemented FRT. According to Anushka Jain, associate counsel (transparency and RTI), who has filed several RTIs regarding FRT projects, the SEC on January 18 conceived a pilot project for FRT in urban body polls at 10 polling stations in Kompally. The technology was developed by Telangana State Technology Services (TSTS) . In the RTI reply, the SEC said that FRT is being used for voter verification. TSTS ensured that all data is deleted once the statistics are collected for the pooling process and will not be used for any other purpose. The average accuracy rate was 78%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-tops-in-use-of-facial-recognition-technology/articleshow/79454173.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
November 28, 2020||Dehradun||Char Dham deaths two this year against 91 in 2019||DEHRADUN: With footfall of pilgrims down to nearly a tenth of last year’s, the number of deaths (due to medical reasons) has also dropped to a five-year low. A total of two deaths – both of pilgrims who had gone to Kedarnath – were reported during the Char Dham Yatra this year, compared to 91 deaths last year. Health department officials said that the decline could be due to “fewer senior citizens embarking on the yatra and intensive health screening this year because of Covid-19 concerns”. Chamoli’s chief medical officer (CMO) Dr GS Rana said that not a single death had been reported in Badrinath this year, while over 22 people had died on the Badrinath route during the yatra last year. Dr VK Shukla, CMO of Rudraprayag said that both the persons who died in Kedarnath during the pilgrimage this year were senior citizens. Last year, the number of deaths was 45 on the Kedarnath route. Dr BK Biswas, additional CMO Uttarkashi, where Gangotri and Yamunotri shrines are situated, also confirmed that not a single death had taken place this year, while around 24 deaths had been reported from the two shrine towns last year. Dr Ashutosh Sayana, principal, Government Doon Medical College (GDMC), said that the biggest contributor to casualties on the Char Dham Yatra was pilgrims ignoring their health problems and overestimating their physical capabilities for the sake of devotion. “This year, extensive screening, strict guidelines of the government and fear of Covid-19 has stopped elderly pilgrims from visiting the Char Dham temples,” he said. “The shrines are located hundreds of meters above sea level and casualties happen here due to less oxygen and extreme cold conditions,” Sayana added. In 2018, 106 people had lost their lives in the yatra. In 2017, 112 people had died whereas 39 people died in 2016 and eight in 2015. This year, 3.1 lakh people had embarked on the yatra, compared to 38 lakh pilgrims last year. The pilgrimage, which spans over six months, was a curtailed one this year. The shrines were opened in mid-July but only pilgrims from the state were allowed to undertake the yatra. Visitors from outside Uttarakhand were permitted only a month later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-deaths-on-char-dham-yatra-this-year-compared-to-91-last-year/articleshow/79453028.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 28, 2020||Mumbai||Centre caps Ola, Uber fare at 1.5x, lets pvt cars run as cabs twice a day||New Delhi/Mumbai: Cab aggregators such as Uber and Ola won’t be allowed to charge over 1.5 times of the base fare as surge price during peak demand and less than 50% of the base fare during non-peak period, according to the “Motor Vehicle Aggregator Guidelines-2020” issued by the Union road transport ministry to regulate ride-hailing services. Even commercial car pooling platforms will have to comply with the norms and get licences. The guidelines enable states to allow attaching personal passenger vehicles to aggregators, with the condition that such vehicles can be allowed to carry passengers twice in a day within a city (intra-city) and only twice a week between cities. In case any state government prohibits attachment of private vehicles to aggregators, it would have to specify the reason “in writing” and it should be put on the portal of the state’s transport department. The regulations will be applicable only when states notify them. Maharashtra transport commissioner Avinash Dhakne said, “The guidelines are well-drafted and we will look at the possibility of including as many new rules in our proposal to be submitted to the state government for clearance.” The “Motor Vehicle Aggregator Guidelines-2020”, which will work as a template for the states to formulate their policies, has also defined the base chargeable fare as “city taxi fare indexed by WPI for the current year”. In states where the city taxi fare has not been determined, Rs 25-Rs 30 shall be treated as the base minimum fare. For other vehicles such as buses and two-wheelers, there will be no such base fare. The base minimum fare chargeable to customers availing aggregator services would be for a minimum of 3 km, said the guidelines, which have been issued as per the amended provisions of the Central Motor Vehicle Act. It has also specified norms for ride- pooling with the provision that the aggregators need to provide option in the cab-hailing App for women passengers to book such rides only with other female passengers. According to the guidelines, the passenger vehicles aggregators will draw a fee of 20% of the chargeable fare and the rest 80% should be paid to the drivers. It also said the cancellation fee of 10% of the total fare, not exceeding Rs 100 would be for both riders and drivers where they cancel the ride without any valid reason. The state governments can also notify charging 2% over and above the fare towards the state exchequer for amenities and programmes related to aggregator-operated vehicles. As per the template, the aggregator will have to have a 24x7 helpline to maintain uninterrupted contact with the control room. Moreover, the aggregator would be required to ensure regular spot checks of vehicles integrated with it. Violation of licensing norms will invite a penalty of up to Rs 1 lakh and cancellation of the licence. The guidelines prescribe for Rs 5 lakh as licence fee for five years. The aggregator would have to ensure compliance on the part of drivers, which include valid proof of identity, driving licence, minimum driving experience of two years, and police verification. The driver of a vehicle should also not have been convicted within the past three years for driving under the influence of alcohol. The aggregator would have to conduct compulsory remedial training programme for drivers whose rating is below 2 percentile from amongst all drivers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/centre-caps-ola-uber-fare-at-1-5x-lets-pvt-cars-run-as-cabs-twice-a-day/articleshow/79456041.cms||Dipak K Dash
November 28, 2020||Dehradun||Three engineers involved in construction of bridge that collapsed removed||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand government has removed three engineers involved with the construction of the bridge on the Rishikesh-Badrinath highway that collapsed last Sunday (November 22). The order was released by the office of Ramesh Kumar Sudanshu, secretary of Public Works Department (PWD) in Dehradun. The engineers — Dinesh Kumar, Manoj Panwar, and Mritunjay Sharma — have been attached to the office of the chief engineer of PWD in Dehradun. They were earlier posted in Srinagar. Additionally, the state government has also banned the construction company, building the bridge, for a year and during this time, the company will also not be able to file tenders for any new projects in the state. According to officials, another construction company, involved in the Char Dham all-weather road project, was also blacklisted. This company was providing technical consultation for the highway bridge project. The actions were taken after CK Birla, Chief Engineer, National Highway Projects, had submitted a preliminary report to the government on Tuesday. The bridge collapse had caused the death of one worker and 13 others had sustained injuries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/three-engineers-involved-in-construction-of-bridge-that-collapsed-removed/articleshow/79453060.cms||Abhijeet Singh
November 28, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand gives nod to establishing Atal Adarsh Schools||Dehradun: The state education department has given its nod to begin the establishment process of Atal Adarsh Schools after completing all the formalities and shortlisting the schools which will eventually be converted into the model schools. The nod was given after the governor gave her approval and the other formalities were completed by the education department. Meanwhile, the education minister has also ordered to ensure classes for commerce subjects in all the 190 proposed model schools. Also, a state-level committee will be formed to look into the daily affairs of the Atal Adarsh schools. These model schools will have students from Classes VI to XII and students will have an option to choose the medium of teaching — English and Hindi. Unlike other state government schools which are affiliated to the Uttarakhand Board of School Education (UBSE), the model schools will be affiliated to CBSE (Central Board of Secondary Education).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-gives-nod-to-establishing-atal-adarsh-schools/articleshow/79453052.cms||Mohammad Anab
November 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Dark web link to LSD bust sheds light on drug network||Visakhapatnam: The recent drug bust in Vizag that led to 33 LSD (Lysergic acid diethylamide) blots being seized from a group of five is only the tip of the iceberg of the drug menace in Vizag, say police officials who suspect that more gangs are involved in the trade. Cops are chalking out strategies to break the chain of supply. The main accused in the LSD case, Arvind Agarwal, had recently returned to the city after graduating from a college in Bengaluru. Somehow, he found his way into the ‘dark web’ where he found drug dealers who sell LSD, cocaine and crystal meth. He made a deal with a drug peddler and paid via crypto currency. According to a senior police official of the special branch, drug trafficking gangs are reaching out to college students and young professionals. Police informed that some Vizag-based gangs are even exchanging ganja for LSD in Goa. This is because, while one LSD blot sells for Rs 500 in Goa, the same sells for Rs 2,000 in Vizag. Similarly, one gram MDMA in Goa costs around Rs 1,000. The price of the same amount in Vizag is nearly Rs 3,000, according to the police who further informed that one kilo dry ganja costs around Rs 5,000 in Vizag but Rs 35,000 in Goa. PM Palem police inspector Ravi Kumar said that the police are identifying drug users and counselling them to wean them away from drugs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/dark-web-link-to-lsd-bust-sheds-light-on-drug-network/articleshow/79453067.cms||Nalla.Babu
November 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Coronavirus juggernaut takes Gujarat past 1,600 daily cases||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat in 24 hours ending 5pm on Friday added on average 67 Covid-19 positive cases every hour, totalling 1,607 cases — the highest daily tally for the state. This was the third peak in three days for the state and the first instance of 1,600-plus cases in a day. With the update, the state again broke into the Top 10 tally of Indian states with the highest daily cases. The cases included 353 from Ahmedabad, 299 from Surat, 167 from Vadodara, and 139 from Rajkot districts. The four districts accounted for 958 or 59.6% of the daily cases on November 27. Ahmedabad district’s total tally inched closer to the 50K mark with 49,148 cases till Friday. Ahmedabad city recorded the deaths of 10 positive patients — the fourth time 10 or more deaths in a day have been registered in the past five days. The rest of Ahmedabad district recorded one death. Surat’s death count was four and Gandhinagar’s one, taking the total daily death toll to 16. The cumulative death toll of Gujarat has reached 3,938. With the discharge of 1,388 patients in 24 hours, the number of total discharged patients has reached 1.86 lakh. Ahmedabad city recorded the highest discharges at 337, followed by Vadodara city (257), Surat city (173), and Rajkot city (81). The number of daily tests again dipped at 69,283, taking the total to 76.2 lakh. After the highest ever 91,459 tests on Wednesday, daily tests have dipped by about 24%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/virus-juggernaut-takes-guj-past-1600-daily-cases/articleshow/79454223.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Polling staffers undergo training||Hyderabad: As GHMC polling day draws closer, polling personnel appointed in the districts underwent training on how to conduct the polling scheduled for December 1. They were also given a demonstration on how the polling should be conducted as ballot boxes will be used in the polling, instead of EVMs. Those functioning as presiding and assistant presiding officers at the government degree college in Siddipet town, were given training as per guidelines issued by theSEC. Out of the 435 polling staff, 334 attended the training that was conducted on Friday. The polling personnel were advised to keep all polling material ready. As many as 435 staff of various departments were appointed as polling personnel, including 171 presiding officers and 264 assistant presiding officers. Additional collector S Padmakar said the officials would report in Hyderabad on November 30 for the polling. From Mahbubnagar district, a total of 219 presiding officers and 816 assistant polling officers were appointed to conduct the GHMC election. Collector S Venkat Rao said bus facility would be provided to the polling personnel to travel to Hyderabad and return. These buses would depart from various locations in Mahbubnagar at 7.30 am on November 30. He also warned the polling personnel that strict action would be taken against them if there was any negligence in discharging their duties or if any violations were noticed. Training for 1,035 personnel was conducted at JJR garden function hall in Mahbubnagar on Friday. Meanwhile, the Sangareddy district administration has announced a general holiday on December 1 in areas which fall under GHMC for voters to exercise their franchise. The administration said that all factories and establishments should give a holiday to workers and also pay wages for the day. In industries, the managements have been asked to facilitate a shift system to enable registered voters to be able to go to cast their vote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/polling-staffers-undergo-training/articleshow/79454216.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Dehradun||Centre of excellence in robotics and drones to be established in Doon: CM Rawat||Dehradun: A first-of-its-kind e-waste studio made by Information Technology Development Agency (ITDA) was inaugurated by CM Trivendra Rawat during a virtual event held for the inauguration of Software Technology Parks of India (STPI) incubation centre at Information Technology (IT) Park in the city on Friday. CM Rawat applauded ITDA's work of converting electronic waste in "an effective manner". Secretary IT R K Sudhanshu in his address during the occassion highlighted the important role played by IT and ITES industry during the time of the pandemic. He informed that turnover of the order of Rs 140 crore was done by STPI units. The CM during the event announced that a centre of excellence in robotics and drones will be established in Dehradun. The CM also added that the land for construction of the facility is readily available. The announcement came during . Ravi Shankar Prasad, Union minister of electronics and information technology, joined the inauguration ceremony virtually and Sanjay Dhotre, minister of state for education, communication and electronics and information technology, was present on the occasion. Uttarakhand IT secretary RK Sudhanshu highlighted the important role played by IT and ITES industry, especially during the pandemic. Talking about drone technology, he explained the multiple ways in which drones can be deployed in Uttarakhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/centre-of-excellence-in-robotics-and-drones-to-be-established-in-doon-cm-rawat/articleshow/79453070.cms||Gaurav Talwar
November 28, 2020||Mysuru||ASI restores Kali idol in Doddagaddavalli, villagers say no to puja||HASSAN: The idol of Mahakali that was found broken a week ago at the Lakshmi Devi temple in Doddagaddavalli has been restored by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) but villagers are refusing to offer puja, saying a broken idol is inauspicious. The 12th century temple in Hassan’s Belur taluk is among the sites proposed for a Unesco world heritage site tag and restoration of the idol is key to that plan. The villagers want the district administration to replace the damaged idol with a new one. ‘Idol restored to original shape’Whether to carry out puja or not is left to villagers. As per ASI norms, we have to preserve historic monuments. We can only mend articles and monuments that are many years old, there is no legal provision to replace them,” said an ASI official. “The Kali idol was broken into four pieces and is now restored to its original shape.” Venkatesh, the temple priest, said ASI has “properly fixed” the idol. “Earlier, it was swinging back and forth. We had informed everyone but no one responded. ASI has given permission for the villagers to keep an idol like Panchalinga (Utsavamurty) in the same sanctorum to carry out puja. I urge the authorities to keep the restored Kali idol somewhere in the temple premises as only preserving the idol is concerned. I fear that if anyone touches the idol, it may get damaged.” Denying that any complaint was made, the ASI official added that garlands, weighing about 20kg in all, were placed on the idol during Deepavali, causing it to lean forward.  “Probe is still on. Till now, there is no evidence to prove that outsiders have committed the crime. We are looking into possible elements in neighbouring villages. There is a chance that this may be a natural fall,” said SP R Srinivas Gowda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/idol-restored-to-original-shape/articleshow/79456589.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Bhopal||Elephant from ‘Ram-Balaram’ pair found electrocuted near Jabalpur||BHOPAL/JABALPUR: Two persons have been detained by the state forest department in connection with the death of an elephant in Jabalpur district. DFO Anjana Suchita Tirki, said one of them is a farmer and they had laid electric wire traps for poaching wild boars. “We are interrogating them for more details,” said the officer.  ‘Ram-Balaram’ — the inseparable wild-elephant pair, whose bonding gave them the nickname — have been torn apart. One of them, forests aren’t sure which, was found dead under mysterious circumstances near Jabalpur city on Friday. Chief wildlife warden Alok Kumar said they suspect electrocution. This is the second jumbo death in Madhya Pradesh since August 28, when a female was accidentally electrocuted in Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve. The tusker’s carcass was found around 9am on Friday near Mohas area in Bargi Range, about 25km from Jabalpur. DFO Anjana Suchita Tirki, who is leading the investigation, refused to comment on cause of death. Ram and Balaram had come over from Odisha around two years ago, and wandered through villages along the Narmada, mostly in Balaghat, Dindori, Mandla, Narsinghpur and Umaria districts. In April this year, they killed a villager in Ghansaur tehsil of Seoni when he was collecting mahua flowers. But for this, they generally steered clear of humans. There are no reports of damage in Mangeli, Mohas and Jamtara villages, where they were mostly seen, say officials. The ‘jodi’ was last seen near Jabalpur’s Mangeli area on Thursday, about 30km from where the carcass was found. Foresters are trying to locate the other elephant. Senior lawyer and Congress Rajya Sabha MP Vivek Tankha called for an inquiry into its death. “A wild elephant reaching Bargi and then being found dead is surprising. No official information of its death. This shows the failure of the state forest department,” he tweeted. Environmentalist Ajay Dubey alleged that its tusks were missing. “This incident exposes the lacuna of the Jabalpur administration and forest department. Strong action should be taken,” he said. The chief wildlife warden denied Dubey’s allegation. “All its body parts are intact,” Kumar said. The jumbo death points at the need for an elephant project. On April 2, three persons, including two women, were trampled to death by a herd of 12 elephants in Rajendragram of Anuppur district. It was an unexpected crop raid by elephants. A second attack was reported on April 12. Officials say immediate measures are needed to mitigate conflict situations, especially since the migration of wild elephants to Madhya Pradesh has increased in the last few years. A herd of around 40 jumbos came to Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve a year ago, reviving an old corridor from Jharkhand, and have stayed put.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/elephant-from-ram-balaram-pair-found-electrocuted-near-jabalpur/articleshow/79454214.cms||P Naveen
November 28, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19 impact: Doon bans holy dip in Ganga on Kartik Poornima||Dehradun: To contain the spread of Covid-19, Dehradun district administration has put a ban on the practice of taking a holy dip in Ganga during Kartik Poornima on November 30. According to the orders issued by district magistrate Ashish Kumar Srivastava, people will not be allowed to gather on the banks of river Ganga in Rishikesh and other rivers in Dehradun district. The officials said that the decision has been taken in view of the rising Covid-19 cases. In case any individual or religious group is found flouting the restrictions, action will be taken under provisions of Disaster Management Act of 2005.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-impact-doon-bans-holy-dip-in-ganga-on-kartik-poornima/articleshow/79453094.cms||Abhijeet Singh
November 28, 2020||Delhi||With no physical evidence of learning yet, students sweat over Board exams||NEW DELHI: A few days ago, some websites wrongly carried a story that the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) had released the tentative dates for the Class XII board practical exams, Aryan Gulati and his classmates panicked. The Delhi Public School, RK Puram, science student scrambled to verify the authenticity of the news and was relieved to discover the news was fake. Without having attended a single physical class this year and with no signs of schools re-opening, students of Class X and XII are filled with stress, all of them wondering if they will be able to manage the board exams having attended only online classes. Riya Dikshit, a Class X student in a government school, expressed the wish of all students when she said, “I hope we have physical classes before we are sent to write the board exams.” Wracked by anxiety, Vivek, a student of Government Co-ed Sarvodaya Vidyalaya, Sector 8 Rohini, asked, “I was reading that a few states have pushed their board exams to May. Do you think CBSE will do the same?” He said it was easier to clarify doubts with the teachers in the classroom. Vivek is using an app called Doubtnet to clarify confusions. “If the app is unable to address my concern, I have to call my teacher,” he said. He is edgy about the exams because his father could not afford private tuitions due to financial issues at home caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. Unlike Vivek, who uses a tablet gifted by Delhi government on scoring good marks in his Class X exams, Mohini relies on her mobile phone. The Class XII student of Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Madanpur Khadar, despaired, “I am so worried about how am I going to write my board exams.” She initially missed some classes because she had to share the family phone with her brother, who is also in Class XII. “Our teacher sent us voice notes on WhatsApp and that is how I studied at that time,” she said. “Then, an NGO help me find a sponsor for a phone. My family also chipped in, and that is how I am able to attend online classes now.” But she still has to divert the money she received to buy textbooks to recharge her data pack. It’s not as if only government school students are sweating about the exams. Darshan Ram, a Class XII commerce student at Bluebells School International, said, “It has become quite worrisome now. In the online classes, one cannot be mentally present at all times even if physically present. The lack of connect makes it easy to lose concentration.” For Ram, maths and accountancy are especially challenging. He takes private tuition for these subjects, but it’s again online. Ram lists exam assessment as another headache. “I am really worried. Because of the reduced syllabus, everyone might do well and the competition for college seats will be intense,” the youngster said. “Besides, in our weekly tests and half-yearly exams, all three-hour papers allowed half that time for multiple choice questions and the other half for subjective questions. In actual exams, however, the subjective questions take a longer time to answer.” All institutions, government or private, have been conducting these assessments, but students claim the tests don’t seem real while writing them at home. For Gulati, though relieved that the news about exams was false, practical exams are still heavy on his mind. As a PCM student with computer science, he doesn’t know how he is to appear for the chemistry and physics practical exams, both of which carry a 30-mark weightage. “If the board decides to change the way the practical exams are held, then it is fine. Otherwise, I am in trouble,” mumbled Gulati. For economically disadvantaged students, the pressure is extra high. Shivangi Sharma, for instance, knows she has to do well if she is to manage a Delhi University admission. “My parents keep reminding me that I need a good score,” said the Indian School student. “We can’t afford private universities.” An unstable network connection has been a bane, and Sharma has to constantly ask her teachers for additional help.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/with-no-physical-evidence-of-learning-yet-students-sweat-over-board-exams/articleshow/79454230.cms||Shradha Chettri
November 28, 2020||Bhopal||Anti-Macron speech: MP HC grants Congress MLA anticipatory bail||BHOPAL/JABALPUR: A division bench of Madhya Pradesh high court, headed by officiating Chief Justice Sanjay Yadav, granted anticipatory bail to Congress MLA Arif Masood on Friday, holding that he had said nothing at a public gathering in Iqbal Maidan to attract a second FIR for ‘inciting communal passions’. Masood, a first-time legislator from Bhopal (Central) constituency, has been in the eye of a storm ever since he organized a protest rally on October 29 against French President Emmanuel Macron over his remarks on Islam. Initially, he was booked under IPC section 188 for violation of Covid protocol and unlawful assembly. On November 4, he was booked IPC 153A for allegedly ‘spreading disharmony or feelings of enmity, hatred or ill-will between different religion’. He moved high court for anticipatory bail. On Friday, the HC said that the second FIR in this case was not maintainable, and dismissed advocate general Purusendra Kaurav’s contention that Masood should not be granted bail because he is ‘absconding’. The bench, comprising Justice Sanjay Yadav and Justice V K Shukla, said: “We have carefully gone through the contents of the transcript and are unable to agree with the stand of the advocate general that a portion of his speech attracts Section 153A of IPC. In our view, the said portion of the speech cannot be divorced from the complete text nor it can be read in isolation. Prima facie, we do not find any element in the speech of the applicant which attracts Section 153A of IPC.” “Prima facie, the applicant (Masood) has… expressed his views, which is certainly his valuable fundamental right. The right to freedom of expression must include the freedom after the expression as well, unless it is established with accuracy and precision that such expression has violated any legal/penal provision,” the judges observed. On the advocate general’s contention that Masood was not eligible for anticipatorybail because he was ‘absconding’, the judges pointed out that the argument could have been accepted had he been declared a “proclaimed offender” by a court under Section 82 CrPC. The court also said that the second FIR was not maintainable since it was not in the form of ‘counter complaint’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/anti-macron-speech-hc-grants-cong-mla-anticipatory-bail/articleshow/79454217.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Madurai||Decision-making powers must be vested with police: Madras HC||MADURAI: Observing that decision-making powers must be vested with police officers on how to proceed with the case, the Madras high court has held that courts cannot stand in the way by directing to register a case or whether the police should exercise power under Section 41 CrPC (to arrest) or under Section 41(A) CrPC (not to arrest - notice) while dealing with anticipatory bail petitions. The court was hearing the anticipatory bail petition filed by P Vasantha, a resident of Pudukottai district. While the government advocate informed that no case was registered against the petitioner, her counsel sought to issue notice under Section 41(A) CrPC to the petitioner in the event of registering any case against her so that she would be able to file anticipatory bail petition in advance before the court. Justice S M Subramaniam noted that a case must be registered for the purpose of considering an anticipatory bail petition, under Section 438 CrPC. The judge said that Section 41(A) CrPC is very clear that if arrest is not required, then, only notice is to be issued by the police officer in advance calling a person to explain with regard to the allegations set out in the complaint. The judge observed that a free, fair and impartial approach in accordance with law is an important factor for any police officer, while dealing with the crime and criminal cases. This court is of the considered opinion that the required amount of freedom is essential to exercise the powers by the police officials to control the crime and maintain law and order in the interest of the public at large. The judge cited that if police officials are directed to issue notice under Section 41(A) of CrPC in all the cases without considering the facts and circumstances, there is a possibility of erroneous implementation of the orders by the police or likelihood of the accused persons absconding. “It is needless to state that when no case is registered against the petitioner, the question of issuing any direction would not arise at all. Once a case is registered then only the courts are expected to pass appropriate orders and not in all circumstances. There may be some exceptional cases, but the same cannot be followed as a precedent or rule,” observed the judge. The judge observed that the concept of granting relief even before registration of a case is not preferable and in the event of conferring any such privilege in favour of the petitioner in an anticipatory bail, there is a possibility of misuse and abuse of such order. That apart, police officials may also be deprived of exercising their lawful powers. Hence, the judge dismissed the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-decision-making-powers-must-be-vested-with-police/articleshow/79455406.cms||Kaushik Kannan
November 28, 2020||Dehradun||CM launches software to give online nod for landing and parking of helicopters||Dehradun: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Friday launched a software to give online permission for landing and parking of helicopters in the state during the sixth meeting of the board of directors of Uttarakhand Civil Aviation Development Authority (UCADA). According to UCADA officials, the helicopter firms will be able to get permission for landing directly from the concerned agency and the firms will no longer have to obtain permission from the respective district administrations. “It was decided in the meeting that a company will be formed for the commercial work of UCADA which will work for all round development of the civil aviation department in the state. The role of controlling and regulating the commercial work of civil aviation will be done at the directorate level,” said the CM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-launches-software-to-give-online-nod-for-landing-and-parking-of-helicopters/articleshow/79453091.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 28, 2020||Madurai||‘Homes should get clearance while admitting child’||Madurai: Children’s homes functioning in Madurai district have been instructed to get mandatory clearance order from members of the child welfare committee (CWC) while admitting a child. In a joint statement issued by chairperson of Madurai district CWC V M Vijayasaravanan, its members B Pandiaraja, L Shanmugam and M R Shanthi, they said that all details about the family background of the child and reasons for admission at the home should be produced before the CWC in order to obtain the clearance order. All the homes should maintain a separate register which should have details of the children who are admitted and are leaving the homes and the same would be verified during surprise inspections carried out by the members of CWC. During inspections, if any homes are found to have admitted children without obtaining clearance order from the CWC, appropriate action would be taken against them. If there are any children admitted without obtaining a clearance order, the homes could apply and obtain the order for such children within December 15, the statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/homes-should-get-clearance-while-admitting-child/articleshow/79455409.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Madurai||MP wants HC to ensure that Centre’s replies are in English||Madurai: The Madras high court on Friday sought a response from the central government on a plea seeking for a direction to ensure that all communications between the Centre and the state of Tamil Nadu, its people and MPs shall be in English Language. A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi was hearing the petition filed by Madurai MP Su Venkatesan. The petitioner stated that after a notification was issued for CRPF paramedical recruitment drive, he had sent a representation on October 9, to the ministry of state for home affairs seeking to set up exam centres for the recruitment at Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. He stated that he received a reply dated November 9 from the ministry which was in Hindi.Stating that he hails from a non-Hindi speaking state and does not know to read, write or speak in Hindi, he sent a representation to the ministry protesting the act of sending the reply in Hindi. Despite his representation, the Centre did not recall the communication.He stated that as per Section 3 of the Official Languages Act, English shall be used between the Centre and the state which has not adopted Hindi as its official language. Admittedly, Tamil Nadu has vehemently opposed the introduction of Hindi as its official language. Hence, the petitioner moved the HC. He also sought that appropriate action should be taken against the concerned officials who are responsible for violating the said procedure. He also sought to immediately give an English translated copy of the reply sent to him in Hindi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mp-wants-hc-to-ensure-that-centres-replies-are-in-english/articleshow/79455407.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Covid-19 cases go up, testing not enhanced||CHANDIGARH: Even while the Covid-19 cases and positivity rate has increased in the past one week, the testing has not been enhanced. Experts feel that the asymptomatic and young people should come forward for voluntary testing. At the beginning of the week, the positivity rate was 6.87 %, which increased to 9.8 % till November 24. “The second wave will certainly be more explosive as we do not see enhancement in testing. Moreover, there is a casual attitude towards preventive measures. Those who are young have high tolerance, but they can transmit the virus to the elderly and those with comorbidities. Thus, testing in this section of the population is important,” said a public health expert at the PGI. The testing in the city has been reduced by 55% as compared to the last month. “Most of the tests being done are antigen-based tests as the results come within a few hours. These tests are not confirmatory as the RT-PCR ones are. Even while the cost of the tests has been reduced in the city, most prefer antigen testing as it can be done anywhere,” said a public health expert. “It is not possible to confirm reinfection before six months. There have been two instances in the city till now. But none of them are confirmed as the virus remains in the system for a while and one can test positive even after the infection is over. But this does not imply that the virus has the load to transmit infection,” said an epidemiologist at the PGI. The Union ministry claims that the country has daily testing capacity of 15 lakhs. “Yet our daily testing has largely remained around 10 lakhs. Also, the daily new active cases in the country have gone into positive territory after being in the negative for two months,” said Dr Rijo M John, a Kerala-based health economist and a former consultant with the WHO. BOX: 156 test positive in Mohali districtTwo employees of the Zirakpur births and deaths registration branch have tested positive for Covid-19. The department has been sealed with immediate effect and testing of other employees is being done. One death and 156 new cases were reported in Mohali district on Friday. Only seven managed to defeat the deadly virus. Mohali Urban saw 112 cases, followed by Dhakoli (20), Kharar (9), Gharuan and Lalru (4 each), Banur and Derabassi (3 each) and Kurali (1). Panckula: 39 new infectionsThe city reported 39 new cases on Friday. Civil surgeon Dr Jasjit Kaur said the recovery rate has marginally improved since last week. No death has been reported in the past couple of days in Panchkula with fatalities remaining at 127. Out of 39 new cases, six cases have surfaced from Sector 9, three each from Ramgarh, sectors 4, 7, 26 and 28 and one to two cases each from MDC-6, MDC-5, Moginand, Pinjore, sectors 7, 8, 10, 12, 17, 20, 21, 25 and 27 City report 106 fresh casesThe city reported 106 new cases on Friday. This has taken the active cases to 1,190, while the confirmed cases are 17,157. A total of 85 patients were discharged on Friday, taking the total recovery count to 15,697 Ambala: One death, 99 CasesThe Ambala district reported one death and 99 fresh cases on Friday. A 65-year-old woman of Shukal Kund Road, Ambala City, succumbed to the virus. Deputy civil surgeon Dr Sanjeev Singla said Ambala Cantt reported 44 cases, followed by Ambala City (30), Chourmastpur (12), Mullana (5), Barara (4), Shahzadpur (3) and Naraingarh (1). As many as 31 patients recovered. He said a total of 124 deaths have been reported in the district so far, with a mortality rate of 1.20%||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covid-cases-go-up-testing-not-enhanced/articleshow/79453141.cms||Shimona Kanwar
November 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: AHNA revives helpline to deal with spurt||AHMEDABAD: In light of the ordeals of several citizens – especially from the western parts of the city where a surge in Covid-19 cases is being seen — the Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA) has decided to revive its 24-hour helpline. Dr Bharat Gadhvi, president of AHNA, said they came across cases where citizens had to go from pillar to post to ensure they or their kin got a bed with oxygen or a ventilator. “The helpline was initially launched during Diwali to guide citizens. We will re-launch it in a day or two so citizens can get information on bed availability in various areas,” he said. The AHNA website updates bed availability data once or twice a day. On Friday morning, of 1,198 isolation beds, 88% were occupied, of 1,248 high-dependency units (HDU) with oxygen 90% were occupied, of 472 ICU beds without ventilators 92% were occupied, and of 221 ventilator beds, 93% were occupied. Overall, of 3,139 total non-requisitioned beds at 95 city hospitals, 90% were occupied. On the other hand, occupancy at Covid care centres run by private hospitals on Friday was just 13%. According to figures issued by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) at 7pm, 902 beds in the AMC quota and 572 in the private quota are vacant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahna-revives-helpline-to-deal-with-spurt/articleshow/79454235.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: It’s ‘Decembrrr’ ahead, brace for another cold spell||BHOPAL: Take out your jackets and blankets as the state will witness another cold spell in the coming days. The day temperature in the city has already dipped below the normal mark and the night temperature is also expected to touch the 10-degree mark soon. Met officials said, the systems that were leading to clouds and moisture incursion in parts of the state subsided. Day temperature has reduced in many places and night temperature will also start going below the normal mark, they added. Day temperature in Bhopal on Friday was recorded at 25.6 degrees Celsius, two degrees less than normal mark, and the night temperature was recorded at 12.8 degrees Celsius, at normal mark. Wind direction in the city was north-easterly while average wind speed was 18 kilometres per hour. Lowest minimum temperature in the state was recorded at 9 degrees Celsius in Nowgaon. In the forecast for Bhopal on Saturday, Met office stated, there would be clear sky and dry weather will prevail. Day and night temperature would be at 25 degrees Celsius and 10 degrees Celsius, respectively, while average wind speed will be 12 kmph. In the forecast for the state, a possibility of light rain and thunder .was underlined for places including Anuppur, Dindori, Chhindwara, Seoni, Mandla and Balaghat districts. Weather would be dry over remaining places in the state. No weather warning was issued for anywhere in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/its-decembrrr-ahead-brace-for-another-cold-spell/articleshow/79454224.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19 cases cross 73k-mark in U’khand||Dehradun: With the state recording 530 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Friday, the number of novel coronavirus cases in Uttarakhand breached the 73,000-mark. The Covid-19 tally, till Friday, stood at 73,527 in the state. Also, five more fatalities pushed the Covid-19 toll to 1,201 in Uttarakhand on Friday. Among the fresh cases, the maximum of 168 were recorded in Dehradun, followed by 69 in Nainital, 45 in Champawat, 43 in Haridwar, 40 in Pauri, 38 in Chamoli, 38 in Udham Singh Nagar, 33 in Pithoragarh, 25 in Almora, 22 in Almora, 20 in Rudraprayag, 11 in Tehri, and eight cases each in Uttarkashi and Bageshwar districts. Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room, said that the Covid-19 test reports of 12,492 samples were found negative on Friday. Meanwhile, the number of cured cases reached 66,855 in the state with 391 more people recovering from Covid-19 infection on Friday. The state, till Friday, had tested over 13 lakh people. The positivity rate was recorded at 5.6% while test results of 18,449 samples were pending in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-cases-cross-73k-mark-in-ukhand/articleshow/79453113.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh PGI: 108 take Oxford vaccine’s second dose without reaction||CHANDIGARH: So far, 108 volunteers have received the second dose of Oxford vaccine Covidshield without any adverse effect during the PGI trials. The shots were given in two full doses. What does a double or half dose mean? A vaccine expert of the PGI said: “Half a dose has 2.5 billion virus-like particles. That is a huge amount for the body’s response. And how the body responds to which dosage is a different science altogether.” The 149 volunteers who got the first dose will be followed up for six months until February. No one has reported any bad reaction. Entire world is praying for a vaccine to come out. A PGI doctor said: “This vaccine can be stored easily in the Indian cold storages. The vaccine has to work even on the asymptomatic cases and young super spreaders.” The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) keeps getting calls from the people who are eager to participate in the Covid-19 vaccine trials. A PGI doctor said: “There was a quick response when the recruitment began in September. We have volunteers from both younger and older sections.” The PGI was selected as one of the 17 sites for the phase 2 and 3 human trials of Covidshield, a vaccine candidate developed by England's Oxford University and British–Swedish pharmaceutical multinational AstraZeneca. The PGI screened 2,000 healthy volunteers, shortlisted 1,600, and recruited 250 for the trial. Doctors will test the vaccine's safety, efficacy, and immunogeneticity (antibody response) against Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/108-take-oxford-vaccines-2nd-dose-without-reaction/articleshow/79453154.cms||Shimona Kanwar
November 28, 2020||Goa||Nearly 900 litres of liquor seized near Polem||POINGUINIM: Thirty-two bags of illegal liquor were found hidden behind pig iron bars in a Kerala-bound truck, near Polem gate, Canacona, on Friday. Excise officials arrested the driver, a native of Kerala, and seized nearly 900 litres of alcohol, mostly brandy. Excise official R N Naik said the seized consignment is worth Rs 2.3 lakh. In the wee hours of Friday, a Kerala-registered truck was intercepted by excise officials from Karnataka, stationed at the neighbouring state’s checkpost located just 100 metres away after crossing the Polem gate in Canacona. The consignment comprised 32 bags of illegal liquor, with 1,152 bottles of 750ml each. In all, excise officials seized 864 litres of alcohol. The accused driver, Latheep M P T of Kasargod, Kerala, was held, and his vehicle was attached.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/nearly-900-litres-of-liquor-seized-near-polem/articleshow/79455418.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Fatality rate remains higher in men||Chandigarh: Even as the number of Covid-19 cases has started rising, fatality in men as compared to women remains high. Out of the 37 deaths due to Covid-19 from November 1 till date, nine were women, while 28 were men. While last month, out of the 59 deaths, 41 were men and the remaining were women. Moreover, the numbers of the overall infected cases have risen by 3% in November as compared to October. “There are more men with fatality and still there is a hypothesis that they have not been able to fight the virus better as women,” said a public health expert. He said, “The festival gatherings and winters are the known factors for the overall rise in the cases throughout the country.” Also, November has seen 1,343 men who were infected with the virus, while there were 1,024 women. In October, 1,405 men tested positive, while 915 women were infected. “Even in numbers, there are more men than women. Moreover, most men are hospitalised under severe category with lung infection. One reason can be smoking which affects the lung and makes it vulnerable to any other lung infection like Covid-19,” said an epidemiologist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/fatality-rate-remains-higher-in-men/articleshow/79453162.cms||Shimona Kanwar
November 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||HC inquires about measures taken by Gujarat govt in second wave||AHMEDABAD: Banning political gatherings, reducing the number of participants in marriage and funeral and night curfew were among the measures the government lawyers enumerated when the Gujarat high court questioned on Friday as to what measures it has taken to contain Covid-19 spread in its second spike. During the hearing of suo motu PIL on the issue of Covid-19 and lockdown, the bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala questioned the state government what steps have been taken during the second spike. The advocate general and the government pleader quickly submitted that all political gatherings have been banned and political programmes have been cancelled. They also brought to the court’s notice how numbers of participants in marriages and funerals have reduced to 100 and 50 respectively. This besides the imposition of night curfew and the normal practice of maintaining thermal guns, maintaining social distancing and mandatorily covering the face. The government informed the court that in Ahmedabad total 8,918 beds are secured for Covid patients in seven governemnt hospitals and 101 private hospitals. The chief justice was curious to know whether the government wanted to continue with its weekend curfew policy. The advocate general answered in negative. The judges were concerned about violation of social distance norms during social functions. A judge even commented, “How do you keep a watch on how many people are invited and how do you expect them to maintain social distancing? You cannot even say that there should be no marriage for one year. That nobody would get married this year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-inquires-about-measures-taken-by-govt-in-second-wave/articleshow/79454257.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh high court issues notice on guest house to govt||VIJAYAWADA: The high court on Friday issued notices to the state government in a petition challenging construction of a state guest house on land belonging to Greyhounds Training Centre at Kapuluppada in Vizag. Amaravati Joint Action Committee convener Gadde Tirupati Rao moved the high court challenging the state government’s decision to take over the land of Greyhounds Training Centre. He contended in his petition that construction of state guest house in the Greyhounds Training Centre will jeopardise the security of commandos. Arguing on behalf of the petitioner, senior counsel Unnam Muralidhar Rao said the government cannot put the lives of Greyhounds commandos at risk by constructing a guest house. He argued that the Greyhounds training facility was developed with Rs 1,000 crore of public money. Taking 30 acres from the facility is a prelude to taking over of the entire land and the government is planning to shift the training centre to another location. Public money spent on Greyhounds Training Centre will go to waste if the facility is shifted, he said. Rao further argued that the Union government gave funds for the development of Greyhounds Training Centre and the state government can neither take the land nor shift the facility to some other place. He said the state government did not give justifiable reasons for the construction of a guest house. Rao added that ground clearance works are going on despite the orders from the high court. Taking his arguments into consideration, the high court issued notices to the state government to file a counter affidavit with details of the proposed guest house at Kapuluppada in Visakhapatnam. The high court also directed the petitioners to make the Union government a respondent in the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hc-issues-notice-on-guest-house-to-govt/articleshow/79453143.cms||Srikanth Aluri
November 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Coronavirus fear grips govt school teachers||CHANDIGARH: A fear of testing postive for Covid-19 has gripped teachers of government schools. More than three teachers from different schools have tested positive this week alone and a dozen others since the reopening on November 2. District education officer Ravinder Kaur said, “The schools inform us but we are not keeping a record since those recovering keep returning to work. However, proper protocol is being followed. The schools inform us if any teacher tests positive or anyone in their family tests positive. We ask the schools to share details of who came in contact with the affected teacher and since when the teacher had not come to school. Schools have been given instructions to get their premises sanitised on a regular basis every time there is a case.” TimesViewTeachers are an important link in the fight against Covid-19. For teachers to ensure that children are able to continue their education in a safe and healthy environment, they have to be safe themselves. Since it will be months before the vaccine is released, the only thing the teachers can do is follow the Covid protocol strictly.Ensuring daily cleaning and disinfecting of surfaces and objects like desks, countertops, doorknobs, computer keyboards, learning tools, taps, phones will minimize the threat of infection for teachers and students alike.Kaur said, “The entire city is witnessing a rise in cases and teachers are also part of the society.” Regarding students testing positive, Kaur said, “The schools have been instructed to send back any child who is not well and to give leave to teachers feeling unwell. These days health department is conducting testing in different schools for the locals in which many teachers also got themselves tested and some have reported positive. When asked if the education department was planning to have some changes in the reopening of schools, director school education Rubinderjit Singh Brar said, “We will review and reassess next week.” Due to the rise in the number of cases, Chandigarh Parents Association and teachers’ unions too have written to UT education department to close the schools on the lines of Haryana and Himachal Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/virus-fear-grips-govt-school-teachers/articleshow/79453146.cms||Kamini Mehta
November 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Days ahead of polls, voters find names missing from rolls||Hyderabad: Days ahead of the elections, several voters from the city woke up to a rude shock, on Friday, after their names went missing from the electoral rolls. Interestingly, most of these residents had cast their vote from the same area in the last election. Many even complained that though their names were reflecting on the website of the Chief Electoral Officer (CEO), Telangana, they were unable to generate voting slips. “When I had checked a week ago, my wife and my name was there on the CEO, Telangana website. However, today (Friday) morning when I tried to download the voting slips, I noticed that our names are missing. I immediately contacted the officials concerned and they said that there is nothing they can do at this stage,” said Subhro Chakraborty, working with a multinational company of repute in the city. Flustered, he said that the last-minute deletion has stripped him of his right to participate in the electoral process. Narender K, a 75-year-old voter from Ward No 139, shared his sentiment. The senior citizen said he has been taken aback by this glitch. “All my family members’ names are present; only my name is missing. It is very surprising, since I voted in the last civic elections as well,” he said. Some aggrieved voters also took to social media to air their concern. “My name is missing from the voter list for #GHMCElections2020. If you are a resident in Hyderabad, check if your name is in the voter list,” tweeted Srinivas Kodali with the handle @digitaldutta. Apart from missing names, people also complained about errors like misspelt names or multiple voter slips being generated on one person’s name. In fact, voters said that in some cases while the names are missing, when searched on the link provided by officials -- http://searchvoterslipulb.tsec.gov.in/downloadvoterslipulb.do — they could find them, and even download voting slips, when searched by using EPIC number. “Many does not reflect in this list but are on complete rolls of each division,” tweeted Kumar P with handle @Ameerpetmetro. Speaking to TOI, GHMC commissioner-cum-election authority, Lokesh Kumar, said that they received about 74.06 lakh voter details from the election commission of India, and all the voters have been mapped. “We cannot add or delete any voters. Unless all the voters are mapped, we cannot freeze the list. Chances are that an individual might be added to the wrong ward. If there are any specific cases, we will look into it,” said Kumar adding that they have considered voters registered up to November 16 while preparing the final electoral roll. “About 1.2 lakh registered after November 16. Their names were not included,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/days-ahead-of-polls-voters-find-names-missing-from-rolls/articleshow/79454270.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
November 28, 2020||Goa||Hundreds protest questioning of 2 anti-coal activists by cops||Margao: Anti-coal protesters on Friday lodged a complaint with the Maina-Curtorim police against chief minister Pramod Sawant, environment minister Nilesh Cabral and others involved in coal handling and transportation, and coal infrastructure projects, for “genocidal crime against all Goans, Indians and entire humanity”. Enraged over two of their fellow protesters being summoned for interrogation by the Maina-Curtorim police, hundreds of anti-coal protesters converged outside the South Goa district police headquarters in Margao, where the police station is housed, Friday morning in an expression of solidarity. As Abhijit Prabhudesai and Sandesh Talekar were subjected to police questioning inside the station over their participation in the November 1-2 midnight protest at Chandor, the restive crowd waiting outside the closed cast iron gates of the police station chanted slogans denouncing what they called “intimidating” moves of the police to quell their agitation. The Maina Curtorim police had booked offences against six protestors on charges of rioting, forming unlawful assembly and wrongful restraint, and had issued notices to two of them – Prabhudesai and Talekar – asking them to appear before the investigating officer at the police station on Friday morning. “I was present at Chandor, arrest me too. I was present at Davorlim, arrest me too…” the belligerent protesters chanted as the duo went inside the police station. They demanded to know why none of the MLAs who had participated in the midnight protest at Chandor were booked by the police and called for questioning while just six were targeted from the thousands of agitators. Margao MLA Digambar Kamat, Fatorda MLA Vijai Sardesai and Curtorim MLA Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco had participated in the Chandor protest to pledge their support to the people’s agitation. Emerging out of the police station, Prabhudesai and Talekar told the crowd that they refused to give any written statement to the police. “We told the police that this is a people’s movement and there is no one particular leader. The entire state of Goa is with us as over 100 panchayats have passed a resolution supporting our agitation,” Prabhudesai said. A delegation of protesters then went inside the police station to submit a memorandum to the South Goa SP demanding quashing of the “false and fabricated” FIRs registered against the six protesters. The delegation also lodged two separate complaints – one against Maina-Curtorim police inspector Shivram Vaingankar for “misuse of his discretionary powers” by registering offences against peaceful protesters at Chandor, and the other against “all the persons involved in coal handling and transportation, coal infrastructure projects and river nationalisation.” They have asked the police to register FIRs against Sawant, Cabral, Adani Group, South West Ports Ltd, Vedanta, MPT chairman, general manager RVNL for “their actions against the state, destroying public health, destroying the lives and livelihoods of all Goans and threatening the lives of all humans”. Nearly 300 protesters signed the two complaints on the spot before they dispersed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hundreds-protest-questioning-of-2-anti-coal-activists-by-cops/articleshow/79455422.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Kolkata||Med colleges get nod to start classes from Dec 1||Kolkata: The state health department has given a nod to all medical colleges to reopen physical classes on December 1. On Friday, the state’s special secretary, health issued a circular in this regard. But the circular says that such reopening will be done in a phased manner only after taking all Covid preventive protocols. The medical colleges have also been asked to plan it in their respective ways. On November 25, the Union health secretary had written to all state health secretaries to reopen MBBS classes on or before December 1 on the basis of recommendation by the National Medical Commission (NMC). Medical colleges across the state have started preparing for reopening after getting the directive from the health department. To begin with, all students will be undergoing Covid tests before the classes start. The students will be divided into several batches so that physical distance norms can be followed and they will be asked to wear masks and use hand hygiene. “All our students will undergo Covid test by RT-PCR as a preventive measure. We are working hard to put in place other safety precautions so that we can reopen the classes by December 1,” said Raghunath Misra, medical superintendent and vice principal at IPGMER (SSKM). “We are planning to start classes for the MBBS final year students who have their exams in February and the batch of first year students who have their exams in March,” said an administrator at Calcutta National Medical College. An MBBS student steps into clinical training after completion of two semesters. They start entering wards, OPDs, OTs and labs for their clinical training and practical classes. But their curriculum has gone haywire due to the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/med-colleges-get-nod-to-start-classes-from-dec-1/articleshow/79454285.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
November 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Revival of lakes on priority list for Sainikpuri residents||Hyderabad: When contesting candidates met them, on Friday, Sanikpuri residents made their demands be heard, loud and clear. Their key issues: Reopening of cantonment roads, revival and beautification of lakes, road widening and repair, removal of encroachments, wet waste management among others. The ward — Division 1 of Kapra — spread over more than 50 square km has about 50,000 voters living in 105 colonies. Members of 15 resident welfare associations (RWA) here gathered for the session with candidates running for the post of corporator. “The condition of roads is extremely poor in many of these colonies. Worse, while roads like the one leading from sixth avenue towards Kandiguda has been repaired partially, it continues to be in bad shape. Not just that, many lanes still don’t have proper street lights, which we want the political leaders to fix on war footing,” said KS Nair, president of the Saipuri Colony RWA. The meeting was convened by the Federation of Northeastern Colonies of Secunderabad (Green Sainikpuri). Apart from roads, the RWAs unanimously demanded that a storm water drain be laid from CDM to Kapra lake and from Netaji Nagar to Kapra lake. Not just that, residents also demanded the candidates in the fray assure ti increase the number of inlets into the lake. “We put down all issues and got signatures on bond paper as assurance, from both our TRS and Congress candidates. They have promised to look into the civic issues ailing our ward,” said Chandra Sekhar, member, Federation of Northeastern Colonies of Secunderabad .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/revival-of-lakes-on-priority-list-for-sainikpuri-residents/articleshow/79454281.cms||Preeti Biswas
November 28, 2020||Vijayawada||‘Move to shift capital violates state’s Reorganisation Act’||Vijayawada: The government’s decision to set up three capitals is in violation of the Constitution, senior counsel A Satya Prasad told the high court on Friday. Arguing on behalf of the petition moved by former minister Pitani Satyanarayana, he said there is a specific section in the AP Reorganisation Act for identification of the capital and Amaravati was selected as capital of the state as per section 6 of that Act. Any move to change the capital would be in violation of the AP Reorganisation Act which cannot be allowed under the constitutional scheme of things, Satya Prasad argued. He said the Sivaramakrishnan committee came up with three alternatives for the capital that included developing a greenfield capital, developing an existing city, and distributing offices across the state. The then state government opted to develop a greenfield capital and the same was approved unanimously by the state assembly. Amaravati was also notified by the Union government. The decision cannot be changed after initiating developmental works, he said. The hearing on the batch of petitions challenging the trifurcation of capital will continue on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/move-to-shift-capital-violates-states-reorganisation-act/articleshow/79453173.cms||Srikanth Aluri
November 28, 2020||Bhopal||Bio-bubble keeps athletes safe in Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL: To keep athletes safe from the Coronavirus, the sports department has started a ‘bio-bubble’ at Tatya Tope Staidum. A bio-bubble is a safe and secure environment isolated from the outside world to minimise the risk of Covid-19 infection. It permits only authorised sportspersons, support staff and match officials to enter the protected area after testing negative for Covid-19.  Officials said that it is because of the bio-bubble that 257 athletes of different games have been training for the past four months without being infected. While opening the sports training of the athletes, the biggest challenge for sports department was to ensure the trainers’ safety. “Athletes are our priority. While allowing the athletes for training, the important thing was to ensure that they would not be exposed to the Covid pandemic. As we have seen that bio-bubble has been successful in keeping athletes safe from the pandemic, we found it better to apply that here also,” said sports minister Yashodhara Raje Scindia. The department has made it clear to the athletes that they will not be allowed to meet anyone except their coaches and teammates. “Coaches were given the responsibility to ensure that the safety of the athletes. It was not easy for the athletes to keep themselves away from everyone. Players supported us in our effort. Thankfully, we managed to keep our athletes away from the infection,” said sports director Pawan Jain. Officials said that after successfully implementing the concept, even training in contact sports like boxing was started. “We have been doing training by using dummies only. We have also restricted the number of boxers per session. They have been provided their dummies which only the assigned boxer is allowed to practise with,” said boxing coach Roshan Lal. Full story on www.toi.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bio-bubble-keeps-athletes-safe-in-mp/articleshow/79454246.cms||Ramendra Singh
November 28, 2020||Madurai||179 fresh cases in southern dists, 125 in central region||Madurai: A total of 179 fresh Covid-19 cases and two deaths were reported in the 10 southern districts of Tamil Nadu on Friday. Meanwhile, the central region recorded 125 new cases, a day after registering below 100. One death each were recorded in Tirunelveli and Dindigul districts. Kanyakumari (31) recorded the highest number of fresh cases on Friday, followed by Tirunelveli (30) and Dindigul (29). But for Theni (9), the nine other districts in the region recorded more than 10 fresh cases. The 20 fresh cases reported in Madurai include one imported case. The higher fresh cases reflected in the number of active cases going up for the second day in succession and stood at 1,044. The districts with less than 100 active cases are Theni (26), Ramanathapuram (44), Virudhunagar (79), Tenkasi (87) and Sivaganga (88). In the eight districts of the central region, the total number of positive cases stood at 70,285. The number of active cases decreased to 1,011 on Friday. The region discharged 68,376 cases as on Friday. Nagapattinam and Tiruvaur recorded 23 and 16 cases respectively. The slowdown in the process of taking samples from the people before the Cyclone Nivar had brought down the number of tests. As the situation was back to normal, the focus was turned towards Covid-19 prevention. Trichy remained on top with 28 cases, including three imported cases. Positive cases in the district was 13,353 which was the second highest after Thanjavur. Thanjavur reported 25 fresh cases today, taking its tally to 16,320. Ariyalur also saw an increase in cases to 10. Perambalur continued to stride on the steady path of having fresh cases in single digit. On Friday, the district recorded one case to take its tally to 2,236. On person died in Thanjavur taking the district death toll to 229 and the regional toll to 898.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/179-fresh-cases-in-southern-dists-125-in-central-region/articleshow/79455417.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad civic body seals 5 units for no social distancing, no masks||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has sealed five shops in Naranpura ward for not enforcing social distancing and not asking their customers to wear mask. In the city, 151 cases of people not wearing masks were registered. Director of solid waste department Harshad Solanki said that of these 151 cases, 85 were taken for Covid test and of these one person in south zone tested positive for Covid. The person was admitted to a Covid care centre. The shops that were sealed included Yash Communication and Chankuz Arts, both situated on Ankur Road; Shree Shankar Sandwich Pizza, Odhani Creations, Sukanya NX all three situated near Naranpura Crossing. Officials said that at one of the units, customers were allowed trial of clothes. At many shops, staff attending to customers were without masks. Of the 151 cases filed for not wearing masks, the maximum 30 cases were from the west zone followed by 26 from the south zone, said an AMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/civic-body-seals-5-units-for-no-social-distancing-no-masks/articleshow/79454277.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Erode||No Diwali spike, Covid cases continue to drop in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: Nearly a fortnight after Diwali, Covid-19 cases and deaths in Tamil Nadu continue to drop, with epidemiologists saying positivity rate, hospital bed occupancy and doubling period were also declining. On Friday, the state added 1,422 cases and 12 deaths, taking the case tally to 7,77,616 and cumulative death toll to 11,682. The active cases dropped to 11,109 against 18,966 on November 7. “We have nearly completed one incubation period since the festival day and more than 14 days if we count the days when people crowded shops. But during this period, we continued to see a decline in fresh and active cases,” said director of public health Dr T S Selvavinayagam. The 11 northern districts together reported 726 cases, including 576 in Chennai region. Chennai had 392 fresh cases and two deaths. The zone had 6,059 active cases. While the west had 412 fresh cases, including 145 in Coimbatore, south and central districts had 179 and 125 cases. Deaths were highest in the west (4) after north. Central districts together had 1 death and southern districts together 2. With 1,011 people in central districts still under treatment, the zone had the least active cases, followed by south (1,044). The rate at which cases are being added has also come down. The chance of a person who has acquired antibodies being infected is low. The number of cases in November dropped to 53,094 compared to 1.2 lakh in October and 1.6 lakh in September. The state also reported an increase in recoveries and decline in daily deaths. In May, to reduce infection rate, the National Institute of Epidemiology set targets — decline in positivity rate, increase in doubling time for cases and deaths, fewer active cases, decrease in bed occupancy in hospitals. The positivity rate and hospital occupancy rate went down while the doubling period for cases and deaths went up. “We have fewer people on oxygen support or ventilators because most people come in early. So deaths have come down too,” said director of medical education Dr Narayanababu R.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/no-diwali-spike-cases-continue-to-drop/articleshow/79461121.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Chennai||No Diwali spike, Covid cases continue to drop in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: Nearly a fortnight after Diwali, Covid-19 cases and deaths in Tamil Nadu continue to drop, with epidemiologists saying positivity rate, hospital bed occupancy and doubling period were also declining. On Friday, the state added 1,422 cases and 12 deaths, taking the case tally to 7,77,616 and cumulative death toll to 11,682. The active cases dropped to 11,109 against 18,966 on November 7. “We have nearly completed one incubation period since the festival day and more than 14 days if we count the days when people crowded shops. But during this period, we continued to see a decline in fresh and active cases,” said director of public health Dr T S Selvavinayagam. The 11 northern districts together reported 726 cases, including 576 in Chennai region. Chennai had 392 fresh cases and two deaths. The zone had 6,059 active cases. While the west had 412 fresh cases, including 145 in Coimbatore, south and central districts had 179 and 125 cases. Deaths were highest in the west (4) after north. Central districts together had 1 death and southern districts together 2. With 1,011 people in central districts still under treatment, the zone had the least active cases, followed by south (1,044). The rate at which cases are being added has also come down. The chance of a person who has acquired antibodies being infected is low. The number of cases in November dropped to 53,094 compared to 1.2 lakh in October and 1.6 lakh in September. The state also reported an increase in recoveries and decline in daily deaths. In May, to reduce infection rate, the National Institute of Epidemiology set targets — decline in positivity rate, increase in doubling time for cases and deaths, fewer active cases, decrease in bed occupancy in hospitals. The positivity rate and hospital occupancy rate went down while the doubling period for cases and deaths went up. “We have fewer people on oxygen support or ventilators because most people come in early. So deaths have come down too,” said director of medical education Dr Narayanababu R.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/no-diwali-spike-cases-continue-to-drop/articleshow/79454279.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Madurai||LVB workers seek MP’s help to stop merger||Madurai: Employees of Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) have made a representation to Madurai MP Su Venkatesan to take steps to ensure that the RBI withdraws its move to merge this bankrupt bank with another private sector bank. In their representation, they stated that LVB had 50 branches in Madurai, 563 throughout Tamil Nadu and also in other states and had been serving the people for the past 91 years. On November 17 , the bank issued a notification to its customers saying that they could withdraw only Rs 25,000 at a time, shocking the customers. Now, the RBI has announced its decision to merge the bank with a private sector bank. This bank, which was started to help the textile industry, had been profitable till 2017. If the RBI merges the bank with the international private sector bank as it has decided to do, it would cause a lot of inconvenience to its customers. They would be pressurised to maintain a higher deposit, which would be beyond their capacity. The jobs of 40,000 employees would also become unsure. Hence, they urged him to ensure that the RBI reconsiders its move.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/lvb-workers-seek-mps-help-to-stop-merger/articleshow/79455420.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Police nod not needed in Gujarat for weddings’||GANDHINAGAR: After several complaints and misconceptions among the people about the need for local police permission for weddings or other social gatherings due to the Covid-19 outbreak, minister of state for home Pradipsinh Jadeja clarified on Friday that no permission is needed from the police for any social gathering. Jadeja said, “According to the guidelines, citizens can hold weddings or any social gatherings with a maximum of 100 persons or 50% of the capacity of the hall. No permission is needed from the police for these functions. However strict following of Covid-19 protocols is required.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/police-nod-not-needed-for-weddings/articleshow/79454287.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh ready for Covid shield||BHOPAL: A database of more than 5 lakh frontline health workers — both government and private — has already been prepared as Madhya Pradesh prepares for the Covid-19 vaccine administration. “Phone numbers of these frontline workers are being validated, and data cross checked,” state immunisation officer Dr Santosh Shukla, said, adding that a procedure has been worked out for administering the vaccine. “People will be called for vaccination in a staggered way in batches. They will receive SMSes on their mobile phones about the date, venue and time slot in which they will be given the vaccine. We will ensure there is no crowding at the site,” Shukla said. The two major sources for collecting mobile numbers are voters’ identity database and the Samagra ID. “Those whose mobile numbers are not available will be informed through health worker networks,” he added. Backup plans are being readied to meet unforeseen situations. “We are prepared to meet the challenges. In a week’s time last year, we had administered MR vaccine to more than 2.5 crore kids. We have experience of launching drives for at least 11 new vaccines in the past few years,” Shukla said. As of now, the state has storage capacity of around 1.5 crore vaccines. “We have more than 1,200 vaccine-carrying vehicles. Storage capacity is being increased to 2 crore. This is to store vaccines at temperatures of 2 degrees Celsius to 8 degrees. If needed, things could be transported in -20 degree temperature as well. A lot depends on the type of vaccine and the manner in which it is supplied to us by the government,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-ready-for-covid-shield/articleshow/79454271.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Kolkata||HC to start physical hearings from Dec 7||Kolkata: The Calcutta High Court will start physical hearing of cases from December 7 with restricted entry to the courtrooms. Lawyers, however, can continue using online platforms. The HC has also urged the district judiciary to factor in local situation before resuming normal functioning. The decision was taken by Chief Justice TBN Radhakrishnan on the recommendation of the HC’s Covid committee after travel bottlenecks to courts eased with resumption of Metro Railway and suburban railway services. The notification by high court registrar Rai Chattopadhyay says that if there is overcrowding, the judges may suspend work in courtrooms. Work can also be stopped if there is overcrowding in the high court corridors and bar rooms. The order says only people with court business will come to courts. Lawyers can bring only one of their staff members. There can be no “seresta” in the HC corridors. The HC will take up motions in the morning and hearings will be taken up post lunch. In the first half, when motions are being moved, the HC will take up the cases in a hybrid mode — with state and Central government lawyers in the courts — and other parties appealing online. For hearings, the HC left it to the lawyers to decide whether they would argue their cases online or want to do that physically. However, HC has capped the presence of people at 12 in larger courts and seven in smaller courts. The court also asked all HC employees to report to work from December 1. They will also work on Saturdays, barring second and fourth Saturdays. The circuit benches in Port Blair and Jalpaiguri will start from January, unless the “situation deteriorates”. For the district courts, the HC has given emphasis on the speedy conduct of the final hearings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hc-to-start-physical-hearings-from-dec-7/articleshow/79454304.cms||Subrata Chattoraj
November 28, 2020||Goa||Goa CM Pramod Sawant to meet home, mines mantris today||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday left for Delhi to hold a meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah and mines minister Pralhad Joshi on Saturday over the resumption of mining activities in Goa. Sawant said that the main purpose of his visit to Delhi is to expedite the restarting of mining in the state. Mining in Goa ceased in March 2018 following the Supreme Court’s decision to quash the second renewal of mining activities. “We have submitted a proposal to the Union government regarding how mining in Goa could be restarted and are hoping for a positive outcome at the meeting,” he said. Joshi on Sunday had said that the Centre is looking “positively” at finding a solution to the mining imbroglio in Goa. “Goa has given some representation,” he had told reporters in New Delhi. “We are looking at various levels. I cannot comment much, but as far as the sentiments of Goa are concerned, we are there with them. We want to find a solution as far as Goa mining is concerned.” Sawant had met Prime Minister Narendra Modi in September and had said that he was “hopeful of a positive outcome in the coming days”. The state government had announced in October that Modi would chair a meeting on the Goa mining issue, but no such meeting has been held so far. One scheduled meeting was postponed as Joshi had tested positive for Covid. Earlier this month, Sawant had said he would meet home minister Amit Shah to impress upon the Centre to find a solution to the issue. However, Shah was busy as Sawant’s visit coincided with the results of the Bihar election and the meeting couldn’t take place. The state had earlier urged the Centre to amend the Goa, Daman and Diu Mining Concessions (Abolition and Declaration as Mining Leases) Act, 1987, to restart mining.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-to-meet-home-mines-mantris-today/articleshow/79455427.cms||Murari Shetye
November 28, 2020||Chennai||10th century AD Mahavira sculpture found half-buried in Tamil Nadu's Polur||CHENNAI: A 10th century AD sculpture of Mahavira, the 24th and last Tirthankara of Jainism, has been found abandoned under thick vegetation at Polur in Tiruvannamalai. K Jeevakumar, a Jain priest who found the sculpture, cleared shrubs to reach out to the half-buried, three-foot-tall sculpture, which locals believed was a Buddha idol. Experts who checked its stylistic features said it dates to the 10th C-11th C AD, when the region was inhabited by Tamil Jains. It was a friend in Polur who told Jeevakumar about the idol during a casual conversation a month ago. “He said he used to see a ‘Buddha’ sculpture on the same premises a couple of years ago. When I went there, the area was covered with thick vegetation. I didn’t know where to start. With the help of villagers, I started clearing the vegetation and finally found the ruined sculpture of Mahavira,” said Jeevakumar, who has discovered more than 20 such abandoned sculptures of Jain Tirthankaras in Tamil Nadu, mainly in the Chengalpet-Kancheepuram region. “The earlobes are longer than those found in usual sculptures of Mahavira found in TN. The Ashoka creeper behind the image has significant curled branches and the halo behind the head has floral and fire motifs. All these stylistic features attribute its creation to around 10th C-11th C,” said K Ajithadoss, a Jain scholar. “The ancient Tirumalai Jain centre is close to Polur. The whole region was once a centre of Jains.” The Tirumalai Jain Mutt and the local administration have been informed, and soon a shelter will be constructed for it. “I only cleaned the upper part. The lower part and the pedestal remain buried. I have informed the local administration and the Jain Mutt about the discovery. We will construct a shelter to protect the sculpture of Mahavira soon,” said Jeevakumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/10th-c-ad-mahavira-sculpture-found-half-buried-in-polur/articleshow/79454302.cms||M T Saju
November 28, 2020||Goa||Overladen coal barges merit probe: Lourenco||Panaji: Days after environment minister Nilesh Cabral said that the black substance found on two beaches in Goa was not coal, an image of a coal-laden dumb barge out at sea began to be circulated on social media platforms. The dumb barge, which appears dangerously overloaded, was being towed by a tug boat when fishermen reportedly came across the vessel. The incident prompted Curtorim MLA Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco to question the state government’s seriousness in monitoring coal transportation. The Congress MLA shot off a letter to chief minister Pramod Sawant and Cabral and called for an impartial investigation. “Now will the Goa government again deny that there is no spillage of coal in Goan waters after looking impartially at the aforesaid picture,” said the Congress MLA. “Will Cabral again comment that it is not coal spillage but only charcoal.” On November 23 Cabral said that the black substance found on the beaches of Keri and Benaulim was charcoal and not coal as stated by environmentalist Claude Alvares and fisherman Pele. Cabral had gone on to attack Alvares for misleading people about coal transportation and spillage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/overladen-coal-barges-merit-probe-lourenco/articleshow/79455425.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Goa||Against coal but not double track: Cabral||Panaji/Vasco: Environment minister Nilesh Cabral on Friday said that he would protest the increase in coal handling, but sought to defend development works like double tracking, which according to him is necessary for nation building. Cabral said that if coal transportation is increased in Goa, he himself would come on the streets and join hands with Cortalim MLA Alina Saldanha in opposing it. “But what is required for development has to be allowed,” he said while speaking after inaugurating the renovated washrooms at Dabolim airport. “Whatever is bad for Goa, we will not allow. I am certainly against coal, but in favour of double tracking. We are a developing nation, and so new and expansion services are need of the hour. Just like we have at airport parallel runway, in the same way we need double tracks,” he said. Cabral also said that there are certain things mentioned in the Sagarmala project which “we object and the chief minister will write to the Centre about them”. His statement comes a day after chief minister Pramod Sawant said that he has directed Goa State Pollution Control Board to submit a detailed report on coal handling at Mormugao Port Trust within eight days  Sawant said that if the Tamnar project is not completed, then Goa will face power shortage in two years. On Friday, Sawant said that MLAs should explain the benefit of the project to the people and added that some people are opposing it with elections in mind. “What can the government do if some people are not ready to understand? Those who do will leave the agitation,” Sawant said. “Before the shipping and ports minister arrives in Goa we will get a report from the board and I will be able to take a decision on the issue,” he said. The chief minister said that he has decided to decrease coal handling at MPT by 50%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/against-coal-but-not-double-track-cabral/articleshow/79455428.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Hyderabad||NGOs keen to involve people in electoral process||Hyderabad: Even as the political leaders are reiterating their commitment to resolve civic problems ahead of the civic polls, several NGOs are working hard to encourage people’s participation in the entire electoral process. To increase public participation in polls, several individual activists and NGOs in the city are running parallel campaigns with political leaders by reaching out to people on the ground level. One such campaign is being run by Apni Duniya Social Welfare Association. “Some concrete measures should be initiated by the candidates who are elected. For that to happen, people should know their issues and the candidates, before they come out to vote. Politicians, who visit the houses of poor people while campaigning, forget their promises once they are elected and since this has been happening every single time, people have lost faith and many have stopped voting,” said Mohammed Shafi, president of Apni Duniya Social Welfare Association. “Now, we have taken up this campaign to encourage people to vote by ensuring support from our NGO to pursue their issues with the politicians,” he added. Similarly, COVA Peace Network in collaboration with the University of Hyderabad (UoH) has produced a 30-minute documentary on the recent Hyderabad floods to raise the issue of encroachments ahead of the elections. “The objective of the documentary is to show the process of illegal encroachments, legalisation of encroached lands, and the fraudulent sale of lands to common people, who end up paying the price, both in terms of flooding of their houses and their demolition by authorities,” said Dr Mazher Hussain, director of the film.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ngos-keen-to-involve-people-in-electoral-process/articleshow/79454290.cms||Moulika.KV
November 28, 2020||Bareilly||Govt doctor held for sexual assault in Budaun city||BAREILLY: A government doctor, booked for allegedly sexually assaulting a woman doctor of a private hospital three months ago, has been arrested in UP’s Budaun. The FIR was registered on the order of a judicial court in August this year. According to sources, the accused and the complainant were in a "relationship". But the woman had alleged that it was a forced one. She had claimed that the accused had taken her photographs while she was bathing. And he used them to blackmail and force her into the relationship. In a recent application given to senior superintendent of police (SSP) Budaun, Sankalp Sharma, the complainant had alleged that the accused was using his influence and forcing her to compromise in this case. The arrest was made after that, on Thursday. The SSP said, “The accused is a gynaecologist at the district hospital. He was booked under the sections 376 (rape), 420 (cheating) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC on the order of a judicial magistrate. The complainant had given a statement against the accused in the court which was recorded under section 164 of CrPC. Now, the accused has been arrested and sent to jail. The investigation in this case is still going on.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/booked-for-sexual-assault-3-months-ago-govt-doctor-arrested-in-budaun/articleshow/79452134.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 28, 2020||Bareilly||Agitating farmers block Bhind-Lipulekh highway in UP’s Pilibhit||PILIBHIT: Tens of hundreds of farmers following a call by All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee assembled near Pilibhit collectorate on Friday and blocked Bhind-Lipulekh highway to protest against the three farm bills, now law. Heavy police force has been deployed in the area to maintain the law and order. The agitation lasted in Pilibhit for about four hours. It was followed by appeals to the district administration to repeal the contentious farm laws and other local issues. The agitating farmers were led by district president of Bhartiya Kisan Union Satvinder Singh Kahlon. They handed over a memorandum to ADM (finance and revenue) Atul Singh, directly addressed to the prime minister. A 15-point second memorandum was primarily concerned with harassment of farmers in paddy procurement and the arrears of sugarcane price. It was addressed to the district magistrate. Kahlon alleged that the district administration had lost all control over the functioning of the procurement agencies that compelled farmers to sell their paddy at Rs 1,100 to Rs 1,200 a quintal compared to the minimum support price of Rs 1,868. “This illicit practice is being applied deliberately to extract bribes from farmers to the tune of Rs 200 a quintal in lieu of accepting their paddy," Kahlon said. "The farmers who declined to follow the directives of the procurement agencies were being made to wait for three to four weeks for their turn. Their paddy has been left in the cold weather without any proper arrangement," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/agitating-farmers-block-bhind-lipulekh-highway-in-ups-pilibhit/articleshow/79452145.cms||Keshav Agarwal
November 28, 2020||Bhopal||1,645 new Covid cases in Madhya Pradesh, tally breaches 2 lakh mark||BHOPAL: The tally of Covid-19 patients in the state crossed the 2 lakh mark on Friday as 1,645 new patients were diagnosed. With these new cases, the count of Covid-19 patients reached 2,01,597 on Friday. Apart from these fresh cases,15 deaths were reported in the entire state, taking the death toll due to Covid-19 to 3,224. Districts where these deaths were reported include Indore where 3 deaths were reported, Bhopal and Sagar where 2 deaths each were reported and one death each was reported from Gwalior, Khargone, Ratlam, Hoshangabad, Vidisha, Khandwa, Chhatarpur and Sidhi districts. On Friday, fresh cases were reported from 51 of the 52 districts of the state. It was only Burhanpur district where no case was reported on Friday. And of the 51 districts where new cases were reported, cases were reported in double figures from 24 districts of the state. Districts where maximum cases were reported include Indore where 556 fresh cases were reported, Bhopal where 313 fresh cases were reported, Gwalior where 95 fresh cases were reported and Jabalpur where 85 new cases were reported. Of the 31,400 samples that were tested on Friday, 1,645 people were found positive, thus the positivity rate—people found positive out of every 100 samples tested—for November 27 stood at 5.2%. Cumulative positivity rate of Covid-19 patients in the state as on November 27 was 5.5%. On the brighter side, 1,152 people who were admitted at hospitals recovered and were discharged. With these new patients recovering from the disease, the count of people who have recovered so far from the disease reached 1,83,696. The cumulative total recovery rate of patients in the state as on November 27 was 91.12%. As on November 27, there were 14,677 active cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/1645-new-cases-in-state-tally-breaches-2l-mark/articleshow/79454284.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia pushes for vocational subjects||NEW DELHI: Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said the vocational subjects being taught in schools will be linked with degrees from Skill and Entrepreneurship University. While felicitating Class XII board toppers of the vocational stream on Friday, Sisodia said, “It is necessary to change the attitude of society towards vocational courses. These courses provide excellent employment and business opportunities yet they are looked down upon. You should be proud of your achievements. Once vocational subjects in schools open the way to university degrees, the importance of these subjects will increase significantly. This change in the perception will greatly benefit students.” Students scoring 90% and above were invited to the Delhi Secretariat. Talking about the new university, which will soon be opened, he hoped that it will create such an environment in the city where vocational courses are not considered as secondary areas of study. “The suggestions of all the students, teachers and parents will be very useful in helping us design the courses we can offer at the university,” said Sisodia. Tushti Arora, a student of Government Girls Senior Secondary School (Ashok Nagar), had typography and computer applications and office procedures as her vocational subjects. She hoped the stigma attached with pursuing vocational subjects and stream faded away with time. Neharika Vohra, vice-chancellor of the university, who was also present at the meeting, highlighted how in countries like Germany and Finland vocational subjects are given a lot of importance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sisodia-pushes-for-vocational-subjects/articleshow/79454336.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Voters asked to reveal electoral choice||Hyderabad: Ahead of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections, residents are being flooded with calls from unknown landline numbers, in the name of a voter survey. These calls have left many questioning whether it is legal for tele-callers to ask which party they are going to vote for and curious why officials concerned are not monitoring and initiating action against people conducting such surveys. “I got a call from an unknown number registered in Andhra Pradesh asking who I am going to vote for in the ensuing elections. They did not reveal under whose orders they are conducting the survey or give any other information. I was surprised to receive such a call and I did not know who to complain to,” said Bhargav P, an IT employee. Sai Chand K, who resides in the Cyberabad region, said that he received a similar call from a tele-caller. Some even took to social media to highlight such instances. “There is a landline call from 040 71044431 (Hyderabad) asking to which party you are voting in the coming GHMC elections. There is no identification of who is calling or under whose authority they are recording. Atrocious indeed (sic),” tweeted KV Srihari with handle @Sriharikv1949. Similar posts were also found on Facebook. GHMC commissioner-cum-election authority Lokesh Kumar, meanwhile, said that they have received no complaints regarding this issue. “As these calls are made to individuals, we won’t have any knowledge about it. No one has come forward and complained about these calls so far. But, if someone files a complaint about these calls, we will look into it,” said Kumar. There are about 74 lakh voters across 150 wards of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/voters-asked-to-reveal-electoral-choice/articleshow/79454295.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
November 28, 2020||Vijayawada||Affidavit on Amaravati works filed||Vijayawada: The office of the accountant-general told the high court that divulging information to which the legislature is privy would be against the provisions of the Constitution. Deputy accountant-general Aditya R Bhojgadhiya filed an affidavit on behalf of the accountant-general in a petition that challenged stalling of development works in Amaravati. The high court had sought details of expenditure incurred on Amaravati development work. The affidavit filed stated the Comptroller and Auditor General’s audit reports are submitted to the governor for placing before the legislature and divulging information would be against the provisions of the Constitution. — Srikanth Aluri||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/affidavit-on-amaravati-works-filed/articleshow/79453193.cms||Srikanth Aluri
November 28, 2020||Bareilly||In a first in 25 years, Uttar Pradesh govt issues 240 new licences to khandsari units||PILIBHIT: The Uttar Pradesh sugarcane administration has issued 240 new licences for setting up khandsari (raw sugar) units in the state, This is the first time in 25 years that such a large number of licences have been issued in a single year. Sanjay R. Bhoosreddy, additional chief secretary of sugarcane and sugar industry, said the prime objective of creating a chain of khandsari units parallel to the sugar mills is to ensure 100% procurement of additional quantity of sugarcane that is an outcome of increased productivity in the state this year. “The total established crushing capacity of newly approved khandsari units is 5.86 lakh quintals of cane a day, which is on par with the daily capacity of 11 cooperative sugar mills,” said Bhoosreddy . The khandsari units are expected to generate over 41,000 job opportunities and attract capital investments to the tune of Rs 1,098 crore in rural areas. Thereby, it is hoped that it would augment farmers’ income and enhance their capacity for making better investments in their crops, he said. Bhoosreddy added the process of issuing new khandsari licences was in progress. The licence would be issued within 100 hours of filing of the application. Of the total number of approved khandsari units, as many as 117 had already begun operation. Of the 240 new licences issued so far, 229 were issued online while the remaining 11 were issued manually, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/in-a-first-in-25-yrs-up-govt-issues-240-new-licences-to-khandsari-units/articleshow/79452151.cms||Keshav Agarwal
November 28, 2020||Goa||Year-long Liberation Day celebrations planned||Panaji: As part of the year-long celebrations to mark 60 years of Goa’s Liberation from Portuguese rule, the state government has planned to spend over Rs 100 crore to conduct various programmes. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to attend one of the programmes, chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Friday. “We will invite the prime minister depending on the prevailing Covid scenario,” the chief minister said. The state plans to organise at least one programme in the capitals of various states and Union territories to showcase Goa’s culture and tourism as part of the celebrations which will commence from December 19, 2020. The state government has sought funds from the Centre for the celebrations, Sawant said. “We are hopeful of getting the funds,” he said. Various programmes have been planned across the state to be held throughout the year. An organising committee has been constituted headed by the chief minister. Union Ayush minister Shripad Naik is the co-chairman and other members include speaker Rajesh Patnekar, deputy chief ministers Chandrakant Kavalekar and Manohar Ajgaonkar, member of parliament Vinay Tendulkar and Francisco Sardinha, ministers, opposition leader Digambar Kamat, MGP senior leader Ramkrishna Dhavalikar, Goa Forward Party president Vijai Sardesai, Pandurang Kunkolienkar of the Freedom Fighters’ Association, Joaquim Pinto of the Goa Daman Diu Freedom Fighters’ Association, and others members. Sawant said that the committee will hold its first meeting on December 1 or 5 to finalise the programmes. He said that except for December 19, other programmes have not been finalised. “A draft of the programmes would be placed before the committee and will be finalised after taking suggestions by the committee members,” he said. After the flag hosting the first programme would be held on December 19 evening at Azad Maidan which will showcase the state’s culture. Sawant said that the programmes will include debates and discussions in the national capital over the history and future of the state. The programmes will also focus on promoting the Atmanirbhar Bharat Swayampurna Goa initiative, including the ‘make in Goa’ concept. “Even the return gifts and shawls will be manufactured in Goa for the celebrations,” he said. The chief minister said that various festivals would be celebrated in a grand manner. All freedom fighters would be felicitated, including posthumously, as well as those living outside the state. Educationists, historians, etc, will be part of the celebrations while cultural groups will get opportunities to showcase their talents, Sawant said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/year-long-liberation-day-celebrations-planned/articleshow/79455431.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Seven more administered Covid trial vaccine||AHMEDABAD: It was a surprise for the medicine department officials at Sola Civil Hospital on Friday when a nine-year-old girl, accompanying her parents, asked the doctors to enrol her for the trials. “It was a great spirit on her part, which also encouraged others. We told her that she cannot participate according to the guidelines – as only those above 18 years of age can volunteer – but we commended her zeal to help the society in fight against Covid-19,” said an official. The girl’s parents got enrolled for the trial of Covaxin, the indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine, they added. On Friday, seven more persons were administered the vaccine based on the clinical trial guidelines. The officials said that they have received about 50 inquiries from cross-section of the society and the response is encouraging.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/seven-more-administered-trial-vaccine/articleshow/79454311.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Bareilly||Overloaded sugarcane truck turns turtle burying five of family, two dead on spot||PLILIBHIT: An overloaded sugarcane truck that turned turtle near village Naugma Ambar on Bilsanda-Bisalpur road under Bilsanda police station at around 3.30 PM on Friday, claimed the lives of a father and his son, while three others of their family were seriously injured. The family of the deceased was travelling on a bike, when the truck lost control and turned over the bike as it was passing by, burying the family under a heap of sugarcane. The SDM and the CO of Bisalpur circle rushed to the spot and had the survivors and dead bodies fished out with a crane. The truck has been impounded, though its driver and helper managed to flee. SHO Birja Ram said the two deceased were identified as Mahesh Yadav (55) and his 6-year-old son, Durgesh, of village Chak Safora under Nigohi police station of district Shahjahanpur. The survivors — Yadav’s wife Ram Kali, daughter Sarita and elder son Kapil — were shifted to Bilsanda community health centre, while the dead bodies were sent for autopsy, he added. The affected family was travelling to Gola town of district Kheri from their home, when the mishap occurred, the SHO said. The sugarcane truck was on its way to Bajaj sugar mill in Barkhera from the mill’s cane procurement centre at village Mavaiya under Bilsanda police station. The police said they will wait for a written complaint in the matter before lodging an FIR in the matter, for which they have communicated to relatives of the family of the victims, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/overloaded-sugarcane-truck-turns-turtle-burying-5-of-family-2-dead-on-spot/articleshow/79452161.cms||Keshav Agarwal
November 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||PM Narendra Modi to visit the research facility in Ahmedabad||GANDHINAGAR: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit the research facility of Ahmedabad-based pharmaceuticals company Zydus Cadila near Bavla to review the company’s coronavirus (Covid-19) vaccine development. Nitin Patel, deputy chief minister and health minister confirmed that the PM will be in Ahmedabad on Saturday and will visit the research unit. Patel added that the PM will be in Gujarat for about two or three hours and has no other engagements. The Prime Minister’s single-point visit is likely to take place between 9am and 11am. He will arrive at SVPI airport in Ahmedabad and go to the Zydus facility in a helicopter. The PM will return to the city airport by helicopter and then leave for Pune.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pm-modi-in-city/articleshow/79454345.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Centre playing politics in time of crisis, says AAP||NEW DELHI: Responding to the affidavit filed by the Centre before Supreme Court claiming that Delhi government took inadequate measures, which supposedly led to a surge in Covid-19 cases, AAP said that such comments at a time of crisis like the pandemic were very unfortunate. The Centre told the apex court on Friday that cases surged because of the slackness of Delhi government in enforcing Covid-19 guidelines, ensuring proper containment zones and taking preventive measures despite being aware of the festive and marriage season. “The comments of the Centre about Delhi government in its affidavit before SC are very unfortunate. It is extremely unfortunate that the central government has chosen to play dirty politics in this critical hour,” AAP said in a statement. AAP said the affidavit seemed “to have been drafted by a BJP spokesperson, rather than by the Union government”. It added that the Centre was meant to work in collaboration with the states during a pandemic. It further claimed that the affidavit was factually incorrect. “Delhi government is worried about the well-being of its people and will continue to work together with all governments and agencies, as it has been doing so far. We hope the central government will also refrain from playing dirty politics,” AAP’s statement added. Claiming that Union home minister Amit Shah had promised to provide 750 ICU beds within 72 hours in a meeting held with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on November 15, AAP said till date only 200 beds had been provided. “We hope the Centre will provide the rest of the beds soon,” it added. “The central government has deprived Delhi of funds provided to other state governments during this epidemic on the flimsy premise that the capital is a Union Territory. We hope that the Centre will do something concrete for Delhiites rather than playing blame game,” said AAP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/centre-playing-politics-in-time-of-crisis-aap/articleshow/79454375.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Bareilly||Woman, 3 kids injured after monkeys cause roof to collapse in Kheri village||BAREILLY: A 35-year-old woman and her three minor children were injured when the roof of their house collapsed as a troop of monkeys jumped on it. The condition of the woman, Meena Devi, and her three-year-old daughter, Sundari, is critical. Both were referred to Shahjahanpur district hospital while other two children, Upasana, 15, and Sreedevi, 10, are undergoing treatment at a community health centre in Kheri. This incident took place in Ucholia area of Lakhimpur Kheri district on Thursday night when the four of them were sleeping. In a similar incident in neighbouring district Shahjahanpur in July this year, a woman and her four children were killed. Meena’s husband, Beenu Singh, said, “There are many monkeys in our area and they are a menace -- destroying our crops, wreaking havoc in our orchards and barging into our houses and stealing our food. Now, these monkeys have caused my roof to collapse. The condition of my youngest daughter is quite critical because of a head injury.” Rakesh Kumar, SHO, Pasgawa police station, said, “The revenue department has been informed about the incident. Fortunately, all the victims have survived despite sustaining head injuries.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/woman-3-kids-injured-after-monkeys-cause-roof-to-collapse-in-kheri-village/articleshow/79452166.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 28, 2020||Chennai||Storm or no storm, it is politics as usual in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: Even as the state braved a cyclonic storm, it is back to politics for parties, including the ruling AIADMK, considering there is hardly any time for the May 2021 assembly election. DMK chief M K Stalin is scheduled to resume the virtual public meeting ‘Tamilagam Meetpom (Retrieve Tamil Nadu)’ on November 29 in Tirupur and on December 2 in Krishnagiri. DMK youth wing leader Udhayanidhi Stalin will continue his suspended campaign ‘Vidiyalai Nokki Stalinin Kural (Stalin’s voice for awakening)’ in the delta region from Saturday. “It will all be indoor meetings and interactions with targeted audience such as coconut farmers,” said a close associate. Poll strategists are evolving plans to set the narrative. ‘Retrieve Tamil Nadu’ campaign was held in 53 out of 77 party district units so far, covering several lakh cadres and voters and will be completed by mid-December. “The virtual campaign is effective, which is why our leader wants to continue it. Some 1.5 to 2 lakh people watch Stalin’s speech in halls organised by the party, on social media and our channel. Since it is not restricted to cadres, the public also get to see the leader at close quarters and enjoy his speech,” DMK MP T K S Elangovan said. In his hour-long speech, Stalin hits out at the AIADMK-BJP combine for their alleged misdeeds, corruption and anti-Tamil policies. The Krishnagiri meeting may be put off by a few days given the new weather formation in the Bay of Bengal. As for the AIADMK, besides cyclone relief work, the ruling party hopes to strengthen its base by appointing members for its young men and women’s wing, a 25-member booth level women’s committee and inclusions in the voters’ list. “With ministers and senior leaders being appointed as zonal in charge, meetings continue to pep up cadres,” said a senior minister. Meanwhile, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam took a day’s break and attended marriages of party functionaries in Salem and Theni before returning to Chennai. Their presence at such weddings help build goodwill, point out partymen. On Friday, PMK leader S Ramadoss took to Twitter to announce his scheduled address to the members of the youth wing, roughly 20,000 members, via video conference on November 29. The PMK will hold agitations near TN public service commission headquarters from December 1 to 4, and thereafter, a state-wide agitation will be held near village administrative offices on December 10 to press for 20% reservation for vanniyars.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/storm-or-no-storm-it-is-politics-as-usual-in-tn/articleshow/79454360.cms||Julie Mariappan
November 28, 2020||Bareilly||Youth booked for stalking, harassing college student||PILIBHIT: A 22-year-old youth was booked on Thursday evening for stalking and making derogatory gestures at an 18-year-old girl pursuing her second year of graduation from a degree college in Pilibhit city. The youth had first met the girl at a wedding ceremony held in a banquet hall here last year. In her police complaint, the victim, a resident of Pilibhit Kotwali police station, said she had met Harish Chandra of village Sanda under Neuria police station at the wedding of her friend’s brother last year. They had then exchanged cell phone numbers and later committed to marry each other, once Chandra found a good job. But, following the advice of her parents after Chandra allegedly got involved in illicit practices and turned into a drunkard, she broke up with him, the victim said. Thereafter on November 26, Chandra allegedly stalked her while she went to college and passed obscene remarks at her after blocking her way. SHO Shrikant Dwivedi said the accused was booked under Section 354 (assault or criminal force to a woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of IPC. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/youth-booked-for-stalking-harassing-college-student/articleshow/79452172.cms||Keshav Agarwal
November 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: As cases rise, complaints about AMC services spike||AHMEDABAD: As corona cases surge, there has been a sharp uptick in complaints from patients about the inadequacies of the AMC’s services. A Ghatlodia couple said on Friday that no government healthcare provider has attended to them since they tested Covid positive four days ago. Meanwhile the residents of Garden Paradise in Bopal are unhappy that the AMC has been overzealous in micro-containing. Also, some patients say that the 104 service has stopped visiting people in home isolation. A case in point is Thakore Patni, a resident of Syamrath Tower in Ghatlodia. He said on Friday that his wife had tested positive on Monday and since then no doctor of the 104 service has examined her. Patni said no medicines have been provided either. “On Monday, my wife Bina and I went to the Ghatlodia Urban Health Centre and got rapid antigen tests done,” Patni said. “We both tested negative after which I left for office.” Later in the day, Bina developed a fever and hence went to a nearby kiosk and got herself tested along with her son. Bina tested positive while her son’s result was negative. “An AMC team pasted a sticker outside our home declaring our quarantined status,” Patni said. “From that time, even the vehicle which picks garbage from quarantined homes did not come by. Finally I broke the quarantine on Friday and went to the Urban Health Centre to complain. The Covid garbage was picked up soon thereafter.” Later on Friday, Patni’s son also developed a fever and when the Patnis called the 104 service, they were told that since the boy had been tested on Monday, he cannot be tested again so soon. Patni said that even his brother-in-law Dharmendra Solanki and his wife Jayshree — residents of Saumil Apartments in Ghatlodia — have faced a similar ordeal. “My brother-in-law has recovered from Covid and hence he could buy medicines over the counter for his wife and their son,” Patni said. “The AMC has not given him any medicine.” Dilipkumar Rana, the deputy municipal commissioner in charge of 104 services, said: “Facilities such as 104 and Sanjivani are operational and such incidents are isolated.” Rana sent a team to Patni’s residence on Friday and said an inquiry would be conducted. As for Garden Paradise, Baldev Makwana, the society supervisor, said that on Thursday night an AMC team barricaded the entire Block C and quarantined floors 1 to 3 in Block M. “There are three cases on the fourth floor of Block C but the entire block has been sealed,” Makwana said. “There are two cases in Block M, but the AMC has sealed 3 floors.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/as-cases-rise-complaints-about-amc-services-spike/articleshow/79454368.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP submits memorandum to guv over CM review meet||Hyderabad: Three days ahead of polls, members of the BJP state unit rushed to Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan and submitted a memorandum seeking her to instruct officials not to attend a review meeting with the chief minister till the completion of GHMC polls. BJP alleged that they are being used for political purposes. In a three-page memorandum, submitted by BJP former state president K Laxman, and former city president N Ramchander Rao, BJP also sought appointment of special observers for free and fair elections. “The result of Dubbak actually busted the conspiracy of the TRS - a conspiracy to intimidate and browbeat people in the name of riots. Thereby attempting to make people suspect other parties which are challenging the despotism of the ruling party,” the memorandum said. BJP team also alleged that choosing of ballot system over e-voting was suspicious. “It is also important to take into cognisance the fact the TRS chose ballot system in these elections citing pandemic condition as a reason for the departure from the practice of e-voting. This is notwithstanding the fact that e-voting was followed successfully in larger states like Bihar in similar condition. This gives room to suspect the intent of the government,” it said. They also alleged that AIMIM uses the ballot system for ‘rigging’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-submits-memorandum-to-guv-over-cm-review-meet/articleshow/79454356.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Office-goers run late as traffic crawls again||MOHALI: The farmers’ ‘Delhi Chalo’ march to protest the farm laws caused traffic snarls on the outskirts of the city on Friday again. Commuters were stuck for hours on the Zirakpur road, while industrialists heading towards Derabassi focal point were a harried lot as the police kept the entry to the flyover closed for traffic for the second day in a row. The traffic approaching the Patiala crossing was diverted on to the road beneath the flyover, causing long queues of vehicles. The road was closed as the farmers were passing through Zirakpur, Derabassi and Lalru while on way to Delhi. The road blockade also resulted in a traffic jam on the Panchkula side. Monika Chopra, who was going to her workplace from Panchkula to Zirakpur, said, “I have been stuck in a traffic jam for 30 minutes. It seems I will reach my office late.” Industrialists Sanjay Kumar, Deepak Singh, Kamal Jha and Satvir Singh told TOI over phone “The highway has been blocked by the police. We are stuck in traffic jam for 45 minutes. It seems that we may reach our workplaces by lunch.” Fearing another surge of farmers that could deteriorate the law and order situation on the Zirakpur-Lalru road, the police barricaded the highway while keeping alternate routes open. The entry points at Zirakpur, Derabassi and Lalru had been sealed. Mohali police had sealed the Zirakpur border road at 9.30 am on Thursday. It was not opened for traffic till Friday. Vehicles were not allowed to go past the Zirakpur flyover as well towards Ambala. The incoming traffic from Ambala was diverted at Derabassi towards Panchkula to reach Chandigarh. Similarly, the outgoing traffic from airport road at Patiala crossing was diverted towards Zirakpur, where it was further diverted towards Panchkula-Nada Sahib-Barwala road and Yamunanagar expressway to reach Ambala and Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/office-goers-run-late-as-traffic-crawls-again/articleshow/79453208.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: After wife dies, amputee kills self||AHMEDABAD: After his wife died of Covid-19 earlier this year, a 54-year-old man from the Dariapur area of the city, Ashok Pedkar, poisoned himself on Wednesday. He was rushed to Civil Hospital but died there on Thursday. Pedkar had been depressed since his wife’s death. “He was also suffering from diabetes. A month ago, his left leg had to be amputated as sepsis had set in following a a rat bite,” a Dariapur police official said. “We reached the hospital on learning about the incident but could not record his statement as he was not conscious. His relatives told his had died of Covid five months ago and he had been depressed ever since,” a police source said. Police sources said a month back, Pedkar was bitten by a rat on his left foot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/after-wife-dies-amputee-kills-self/articleshow/79454374.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Vadodara||SMC sanitary sub-inspector succumbs to Covid||SURAT: One more employee of the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) succumbed to Covid-19 on Friday. According to SMC officials, the 51-year-old was a sanitary sub-inspector in Varachha (B) zone in the city. According to SMC officials, Manoj Kadia, breathed his last at the SMC-run SMIMER Hospital after battling Covid for ten days. Till date, about 20 employees of the civic body have died due to the coronavirus. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/smc-sanitary-sub-inspector-succumbs-to-covid/articleshow/79453268.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Madurai||Man hacked to death by son over property dispute||TENKASI: A 66-year-old man was hacked to death by his son on Friday evening. The murder is said to be a fall out of a property dispute. The victim has been identified as K Thangaraj, 66, of Nadutheru in Therku Kadayam village near Kadayam in Tenkasi district. According to police, preliminary inquiries revealed that the Thangaraj had four children from his first marriage. He got separated from his first wife and had married another woman. He divided the 40 acres land he had and gave 25 acres to his second wife and 15 to the first wife. The first wife’s family had to go past the portion belonging to the second wife to access their piece of land. Since the two families were not in good terms, the land dispute worsened over the years. Meanwhile, Thangaraj did not take part in any events in the first wife’s family including the death of one of his sons last week. On Thursday, when his first wife’s son Thirukumaran, 42, tried to take hay from his land, Thangaraj blocked the way resulting in an argument. On Friday too, a similar quarrel broke out and Thirukumaran in a fit of rage hacked his father on his head and neck, leaving him dead on the spot. Thangaraj’s body was taken to the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital for post-mortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-hacked-to-death-by-son-over-property-dispute/articleshow/79455433.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Chennai||Rs 12 lakh CM, PM relief for kin of 4 Tamil Nadu Nivar victims||CHENNAI: Announcing compensation and relief package for bereaved families and for loss of livestock and damage to dwellings in the wake of Cyclone Nivar, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Friday directed officials to evolve plans for a permanent solution to prevent flooding in Velachery, Mudichur, Varadarajapuram and Tambaram in Chennai and suburbs. The frequent flooding and damage to houses in these parts of the city during monsoons have come in for strong criticism from DMK leader M K Stalin as well. In a statement, Palaniswami said the state government took elaborate precautionary measures to prevent the loss of lives. “I was saddened to learn about the death of four people due to the cyclone and heavy rain. I express my deepest condolences and sympathies to the bereaved families,” he said, announcing compensation of Rs 4 lakh from the state disaster relief fund and Rs 6 lakh from the chief minister’s public relief fund for each of the bereaved families. He announced a relief amount of Rs 30,000 to those who lost cows, Rs 25,000 for buffaloes, Rs 16,000 for calves and Rs 3,000 for goats. At least 114 cattle deaths had been reported in the state. The cyclone also damaged 302 huts fully and 1,439 huts partially, 39 tiled-roof houses fully and 161 tiled-roof houses partially. Adequate relief amount would be given for the damaged houses, the CM said. Enumeration of damaged crops has been ordered to extend relief from the disaster relief fund and compensation from the crop insurance scheme. The CM said his government had taken several safety measures on a war footing following the meteorology department’s forecast of cyclone landfall between Karaikal and Mahabalipuram. “Casualties were largely prevented due to this. The damage caused in 18 districts due to strong winds and heavy rain will be taken care of immediately,” the CM said. The districts are Ariyalur, Chengalpet, Chennai, Cuddalore, Kallakurichi, Kancheepuram, Nagapattinam, Perambalur, Pudukkottai, Ranipet, Sivaganga, Thanjavur, Tirupattur, Tiruvallur, Tiruvannamalai, Tiruvarur, Vellore and Villupuram. He said people staying in low lying areas were evacuated and housed in government relief camps and were given essentials. The administration also supplied 10kg of rice, a dhoti, a saree and a litre of kerosene to each affected family. “I also ordered 1kg of dal and 1L of edible oil be given,” the CM said. The Tangedco estimates that 108 transformers and 2,927 electric poles were damaged. To check transmission of Covid-19 due to cyclone, the government has set up 1,220 medical camps, 275 mobile camps benefitting 85,331 people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/eps-asks-for-fix-to-prevent-flooding-in-velachery-suburbs/articleshow/79454419.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Madurai||Nagercoil to Mumbai train service to begin after 8 months||Madurai: The railway board has approved the operation of special trains between Nagercoil and Mumbai from December 7. Direct train service between the two destinations was suspended from the last week of March due to lockdown.Train No. 06340 will depart Nagercoil at 6am and reach Chhatrapati Sivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) at 7.15pm the next day. In the return direction, train No. 06339 will depart CSMT at 8.35pm and reach Nagercoil at 10.20am on the second dayTrain No. 06340 will operate on Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Fridays and reach Mumbai the next evening. Trains No. 06339 will operate on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays and reach Nagercoil in the morning the second day of commencing the journey. Arrival and departure of the trains is as follows.The trains will have a composition of one AC two-tier, four AC three-tier, 10 sleeper class, two second sitting and one pantry coaches. Rail users said that it will greatly benefit those from the southern districts who are working in Mumbai and other parts of Maharashtra.Meanwhile, Southern Railway has rescheduled four pairs of special train services including the Chennai Egmore – Madurai – Chennai Egmore Tejas special. The services of the Tejas special will be revised with effect from December 4.Train No. 02613 will start from Chennai at 6am and reach Madurai at 12.20 pm, with stoppages at Trichy (9.55-10am) and Kodaikanal Road (11.18-11.20am). Train No 02614 will leave Madurai at 3pm and reach Chennai at 9.15pm, with stoppages at Kodaikanal Road (3.28-3.30pm) and Trichy (5-5.05pm)Services of the 02663/02664 Howrah – Trichy – Howrah bi-weekly special has also been rescheduled. Train No. 02664 will leave Trichy at 1.45pm from December 1 and reach Howrah at 11.45pm the next day. Train No. 02663 will leave Howrah at 5.35pm and reach Trichy at 2.50am on the third day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/nagercoil-to-mumbai-train-service-to-begin-after-8-months/articleshow/79455440.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||28 societies put in micro-containment in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: In all, 28 more societies were placed under micro-containment on Friday. With this, the number of societies quarantined in the city reached 279. In several societies, multiple blocks were micro-contained. Of the 28 societies, 15 are in Bodakdev, Gota, Chandlodia, Thaltej, Paldi, Vasna, Navrangpura and Naranpura in the western part of the city. Since Diwali, the western part has been accounting for over 50% of the total societies under micro-containment. On Friday, 913 families and a population of 3,453 were placed in micro-containment. Of these, 70% of the families and 67% of the population that is 639 families and 2,313 people were from northwest zone, southwest zone and west zone of the city. The areas of Bodakdev, Gota, Chandlodia and Thaltej had 506 families and 1,910 population under quarantine. According to the AMC, on Friday morning the city had 2,799 active cases. The northwest zone, including areas such as Thaltej, Gota, Bodakdev and Ghatlodia, accounted for 474 cases. Jodhpur, Vejalpur, Bopal and Sarkhej accounted for 476. The west zone, comprising Ranip, Naranpura, Navrangpura, Paldi and Usmanpura, had 466 active cases. These numbers for other zones were: north 321; east 330; south 408, and central 315. The active cases dropped to 2,790 against 2,799 on Thursday. However, the western part of the city saw an increase of 43 active cases while the eastern part had a decline of 52 cases. The societies in the western part that have been quarantined included Harivilla Row House (Jodhpur), Sunvilla Row House (Memnagar), Tirupati, Takshshila Apartment (Thaltej), Akruti Green, Akash Parisar, Shyam Satadhar, Preet Home in Gota, Uma Sharnam (Chadlodia), Hariom Tower (Navrangpura), Chaturai Flat, Shantinath Society, Kalapvrux Flat, Padmaprabhu Society, Shiddhchakra Jain Nagar all in Paldi and Ayojan Nagar (Vasna).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/28-societies-put-in-micro-containment/articleshow/79454441.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
November 28, 2020||Madurai||Health checkup for 900 sanitary workers in Nagercoil corpn||Kanyakumari: A special health checkup was conducted for the more than 900 sanitary workers and their families in Nagercoil Corporation on Friday. It included 216 permanent sanitary workers, 444 people employed on contract basis and 274 employed in the micro compost centre.Corporation commissioner Asha Ajith said that the sanitary workers, who have been actively engaged in Covid-19 activities have been regularly screened for the virus at the five urban primary health centres in the city. On Friday, the checkup was conducted in coordination with private hospitals.Doctors from nine specialties conducted the checkup. It included screening for breast cancer and cervical cancer for women workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/health-checkup-for-900-sanitary-workers-in-nagercoil-corpn/articleshow/79455439.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Hyderabad||School fee default: Ire over ‘blocked’ virtual classes||Hyderabad: Alleging that management of an international school has blocked fee defaulters from virtual classes and is demanding bank statements, about 40 to 50 parents protested in front of the school campus in Gachibowli on Friday. They questioned why Oakridge International School is charging the full fees when the classes are conducted online, which in turn reduced infrastructure expenses, utilities, housekeeping, library, sports, upkeep of the premises, security, among others.  They wanted the fee to be reduced by 50% for the current academic year. “How can the school demand parents for a copy of their bank statements? If valid, then can a parent also not expect bank statements from the school? We challenge the school to open their accounts and invite a fair third-party audit,” said Sam Reddy, a parent.  They further said that the school is sending out multiple messages and calls, asking parents to clear dues. Sources from the management, meanwhile, denied disconnecting online classes. They said that the management, in fact, is extending relief to those parents affected because of the pandemic by giving a discount of one lakh rupees and for this purpose had asked parents, who are seeking relief, to attach their bank statements along with the application. The management said that they are open to discussion and added that parent can take appointment and meet the school principal to discuss their issues. How can the school demand a copy of parents’ bank statements? If valid, then can a parent also not expect bank statements from the school?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/school-fee-default-ire-over-blocked-virtual-classes/articleshow/79454421.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 28, 2020||Madurai||Corpn workers clear garbage dumped on banks of channel||Madurai: Workers of the Madurai Corporation have cleaned the banks of Aavin channel in Madurai on Friday after the issue of garbage being dumped around channels was highlighted in the Times of India on November 27.As the corporation commissioner S Visakan was informed of the situation, he immediately instructed the sanitary workers to clean the banks with the help of tractors. Former councillor of the corporation, A Jayakumar said that it was commendable that the civic body had acted so fast and cleaned the area. “It would be good if trees are planted along these banks to prevent further littering by the public,” he said.K Senthil, a morning walker along this stretch, said that the cleaned area really made the walking experience better on Friday. Usually, the sanitary workers use this place to burn garbage, it would be good if they cleaned it regularly and prevented garbage accumulation, he said. The civic body’s response to grievances from the citizens is really commendable said residents living near the channel, he added.The Aavin channel, which flows through Anna Nagar, Yagappa Nagar and Vandiyur, is a classic example of an ill-maintained channel. In Anna Nagar, the channel bank had turned into a garbage collection spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/corpn-workers-clear-garbage-dumped-on-banks-of-channel/articleshow/79455443.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Delhi||Entire Delhi to be immunised within a few weeks of Covid vaccine availability, says Satyendar Jain||NEW DELHI: Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Friday said that the capital has sufficient infrastructure and systems in place to vaccinate the city’s entire population within a few weeks once a Covid-19 vaccine is made available. “There is no need to worry about storage of the vaccines,” Jain said. “We have a large number of health care facilities, such as mohalla clinics, poly clinics, hospitals and other installations across the city where a Covid-19 vaccine can be easily administered to people,” Jain said. “Now it all depends on how early the Centre gives us the vaccine and we can within weeks vaccinate the entire population,” Jain said, adding that Delhi is the country’s capital and should be given priority during the distribution when the vaccine is available. Delhi government’s Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital in northeast Delhi has been chosen by the Centre as a storage facility for Covid-19 vaccine, whenever it is introduced. The utility block of the designated Covid hospital will be used for the facility, which will be spread over 5,000 square metres. Jain said there will not be only one storage facility in the city but many other such units will be added as just one will not suffice. “The vaccine comes equipped with cold storage, which is dry ice,” Jain said. Delhi government is also collecting data of health care workers from both government and private sectors, who are at top of the priority list of the Delhi government for the vaccination programme. On Thursday, Delhi’s immunization officer Suresh Seth had also said that the capital is geared up for the Covid-19 vaccination programme and the city’s entire population can be covered in a month. He had said that the city has 600 cold storage points and around 1,800 outreach sites for the universal immunizstion programme for children. He also said that the city has sufficient equipment for vaccines that can be stored at a temperature of 2 to 8 degrees Celsius and those that need minus 15 to minus 25 degrees Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/entire-city-to-be-immunised-within-a-few-weeks-of-covid-vaccine-availability-says-jain/articleshow/79454433.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Steep hike in property tax upsets Secunderabad Cantonment residents||SECUNDERABAD: Several residents are criticising SCB claiming that it has hiked the property tax as part of its triennial revision (2018-21). A group of taxpayers had even met SCB president and requested him to look into the issue as they are facing financial stress due to the pandemic. “The proposed hike ranges between 1,000 and 9,500 percent,” the owners mentioned in the plea submitted to the president. SCB revises the property tax every three years. Once annual rateable value (ARV) is completed, the tax department serves fresh demand notices to the residential and commercial owners, who should pay the tax within 30 days. So far, 500 demand notices have been served and many of the recipients are shocked with the steep hike. Some alleged that SCB’s CEO has not followed the procedure mentioned in the Cantonment Act 2006. “A public notice has to be issued before the revision of property tax. But they did not follow the rules and instead selected a few properties for revision,” an owner told TOI. SCB chief executive officer, B Ajith Reddy, said they will consider the requests of property owners. “Those who feel that the increase is high, can appeal through writing by raising objections to the proposed assessment. We will verify the records and decrease ARV,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/steep-hike-in-property-tax-upsets-secbad-cantonment-residents/articleshow/79454429.cms||Sunil Mungara
November 28, 2020||Bareilly||Bus torched after it runs over biker in Kheri city||BAREILLY: A luxury bus was vandalised and torched by residents after a bike rider was run over by the vehicle in Lakhimpur Kheri city on Friday. The driver of the bus - which was part of a wedding function - managed to flee and later surrendered before cops to save himself from the mob's ire. The biker was identified as Vicky Saxena, aged 18. He died on the spot after his head was crushed by the bus. Lakhimpur Sadar SHO Suneel Singh said, “The bus was completely burnt down. We have registered an FIR against the bus driver. A separate FIR would be registered for setting the bus on fire after receiving a complaint. The situation is under control now.” In a separate accident, three persons died after a combine harvester parked along the roadside was hit by a speeding truck on Farrukhabad state highway in Shahjahanpur district on Friday. The deceased were residents of Rampur and were returning home from Kannauj after completing harvesting work. According to police, the deceased were identified as Amar Singh, 40, Guddu, 43, and Bhoore Khan, 35. They were returning home from Kannauj when their harvester broke down. Driver Iftikhar Khan parked the machine on the roadside and went to the nearby town to look for a mechanic while the three others decided to take a nap as they were tired. Around 8am, a truck coming from the direction of Bareilly rammed into the harvester and it turned upside down after skidding for nearly 100 metres. The locals rushed to help the victims but all three of them had died by then. The truck driver was caught by the locals and handed over to police. He was badly thrashed as well. Allahaganj SHO Ajab Singh said, “We have registered an FIR under IPC sections 304a (causing death by negligence) and 279 (rash driving) against the accused driver. The bodies were sent for autopsy and their family have been informed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bus-torched-after-it-runs-over-biker-in-kheri/articleshow/79452228.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 28, 2020||Madurai||Fourteen more armed two-wheeler patrols to prevent gang crimes||Madurai: Commissioner of police Prem Anand Sinha on Friday launched 14 armed two-wheeler patrols to curtail rowdy and gang-related activities and prevent gruesome offences in Madurai city. With the addition of these 14 two-wheeler patrols, the total number of police patrols in the city has increased to 67.These patrols will be on the move in areas identified as more prone to criminal activities. The areas include Teppakulam, Avaniyapuram, Thallakulam, Anna Nagar, SS Colony, Sellur, Mathichiyam etc., The movement of patrol vehicles is expected to have a deterrent effect and also increase police visibility. “Two personnel will be on patrol in each team, including one who is weapon-trained and armed with 9mm digital weapons. Being armed, they will be able to have better defence,” said a senior police official.The patrols are also instructed to attend to any rowdy and gang-related calls without delay and to use the weapons sparingly and safely. “The patrols will function throughout the day from 7am in two shifts after which night patrols will take over. They will be in sync with the police control room and office of the commissioner of police to quickly contact and respond to calls,” said the official.The launch of these patrols is set to help make the city more safe and secure, especially in light of a daylight murder of a youth by a gang that took place in front of St Mary’s Church in the city recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/fourteen-more-armed-two-wheeler-patrols-to-prevent-gang-crimes/articleshow/79455445.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata's Majerhat bridge ready for commissioning as E Railway gives go-ahead to PWD||KOLKATA: Eastern Railway on Friday gave the state government the go-ahead for opening the Majerhat bridge. The state PWD, implementing agency of the new bridge, was waiting for this final approval, before commissioning the structure. A span of the lifeline fell on September 4, 2018. The ROB is in ER’s ambit and needed its approvals at various stages of construction. It also needed nod from the Commissioner of Railway Safety, under the ministry of civil aviation. The CRS accords safety clearances to new railway projects. On Friday, Sanjay Banerjee, ER’s chief engineer, bridge rehabilitation, wrote to PWD (roads), “Since the bridge has been completed, the safety certificate jointly issued by this railway and PWD, has been signed and forwarded to the CRS, Eastern Circle … all statutory formalities have now been completed … PWD may take further action for opening of the newly constructed bridge for public use.” Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Thursday that the bridge could have been launched nine months ago had ER not sat on clearances. “The delay is because of the BJP’s politics. Residents of Behala and other areas have been harassed … There are some clearances (from the railways) that are still required and it will take around seven days. Since railway tracks are below we have to take clearance (from ER). So it is (bridge’s inauguration) is not in our hands,” she had said. The CM spoke hours after BJP supporters rallied at Majerhat demanding immediate opening of the bridge. They pulled down guardrails that were put up at the approaches to the new bridge and courted arrests. State PWD minister Aroop Biswas said on Thursday: “We applied for the last permission on Tuesday, should have got in 24 hours, considering we have paid railways Rs 7.3 crore as supervision charges of the ROB, apart from the Rs 33.3 crore for various other reasons.” ER tweeted on Friday that it received the joint safety certificate from the state PWD on Friday itself and put its counter-signature soon after along with the letter of clearance. “Hence, no delay on the part of the railways,” tweeted ER. It also issued a media release countering the allegations of withholding approvals, starting with the four months “misspent” while PWD changed the bridge’s design from bow-string to cable-stayed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/majerhat-bridge-ready-for-commissioning-as-e-railway-gives-go-ahead-to-pwd/articleshow/79454455.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
November 28, 2020||Madurai||Woman cop held in Madurai for bribery||MADURAI: A woman inspector of police was arrested after she was caught red-handed while accepting a bribe of Rs 30,000 to remove names of two accused from the charge sheet of a 2017 case. Inspector Anitha from Checkanurani police station had reportedly sought a bribe of Rs 80,000 and demanded Rs 30,000 in advance from the complainant, Nallathambi to remove the names of his son Mari and nephew Kamal Pandi from the hurt case list. The Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) had laid the trap on Thursday night based on a complaint. A special team led by deputy superintendent of police M Sathyaseelan caught her red-handed when she received the cash at around 9 pm on Thursday. Police said that phenolphthalein test proved to be positive and tainted money was recovered. Subsequently, she was arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/woman-cop-held-in-madurai-for-bribery/articleshow/79455450.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 28, 2020||Madurai||Seven govt school students petition collector seeking medical seats||MADURAI: Seven government school students from Madurai who were eligible to get medical and BDS seats and on a waiting list under the 7.5% quota have submitted a petition to the district collector seeking a chance to get seats. The students said that it is unfair that the government’s announcement of providing financial aid for students getting seats in private colleges came a day after they had to opt out of accepting seats as they couldn’t afford. “We didn’t have money at that time to pay the Rs 25,000 to as non-refundable deposit during the counselling. Further, in a private college, we found it would cost up to Rs 6 lakh in a year, which is something we can never dream to afford. My father is a daily wage worker while my mother is a goatherd,” said V Muthukumar, who had secured 406th rank overall in the state ranking for the 7.5% quota for government school students Similarly, a parent of another student, V Priya said that her daughter decided to be on the waiting list only because it was assumed that she would have to pay the lakhs of fees if she gets a seat in a private college. “If the announcement was made a day earlier, they might have got seats now. Some could not even afford the deposit money of Rs 25,000. The students and parents panicked when as they were informed that fee would be around Rs 3-5 lakh and settled for the waiting list,” said a NEET co-ordinator from the district. The co-ordinator said by submitting a petition to district collector T Anbazhagan along with call letter and certificates, the students are now hoping for some aid from the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/7-govt-school-students-petition-collector-seeking-medical-seats/articleshow/79455447.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 28, 2020||Chennai||M K Stalin asks Tamil Nadu CM to speed up relief work||CHENNAI: DMK president M K Stalin on Friday asked chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami to expedite cyclone Nivar relief work in Chennai, its suburbs and other affected districts. Stalin, who visited affected areas in the city for the third day, highlighted the problems faced by residents in Tambaram-Mudichur region, besides Tiruvottriyur and a few places in his Kolathur assembly segment. “Several places in Chennai and suburbs are inundated. Residents have also gone without power and drinking water. In all the places I visited, people complained about lack of support from the government and officials. Instead of addressing the media and patting himself on the back for the precautionary measures taken, the CM should focus on these pressing issues,” Stalin said in a statement. He added that the government must ensure that relief announced to farmers reaches them without corruption. Stalin also blamed the Centre and the state government for letting down government doctors from benefitting from 50% reservation in higher medical education this year. He was reacting to Supreme Court rejecting the plea to order reservation from this year. While the state, after lot of protests, issued a government order paving way for the reservation, it failed to conduct counseling. “Had counseling been held, the reservation could have been implemented,” Stalin said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/stalin-asks-eps-to-speed-up-relief-work/articleshow/79454453.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Excise officials arrest peddler at Bowenpally||Hyderabad: Sleuths from the prohibition and excise department arrested a drug peddler and seized ecstasy pills and MDMA powder from his possession. Acting on a tip-off, the team arrested Syed Ibrahim (20) at Bowenpally on Friday and seized nine ecstasy pills and one gram of MDMA powder. Ibrahim confessed that he procured the drugs from Mohammed Mubeenuddin alias Mobin of Bowenpally. Ibrahim recently went to Goa and returned on November 21 after obtaining ecstasy and MDMA from Mobin. “As per Mobin’s instructions, Ibrahim has been selling an ecstasy pill for Rs 1000 and MDMA powder for Rs 3,500 per gram,” Anji Reddy said. The accused along with the seized material was handed over to Secunderabad Excise Station officials for further probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/excise-officials-arrest-peddler-at-bowenpally/articleshow/79454450.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Delhi||17 teachers on Covid survey duty test +ve in Delhi||NEW DELHI: During a random testing of teachers who recently conducted a door-to-door Covid survey in northwest Delhi, 17 out of 60 were found positive on Friday. They had visited the Bawana JJ clusters for five days from November 20 to identify people with Covid symptoms and got the test done at the end of it on Tuesday from a dispensary in the area, said a teachers’ associations. Times ViewSchool teachers multi-task in India. Whether it’s work related to census, election or polio, they are asked to chip in. A coronavirus survey is risky business. Not providing them with adequate safety gear is unacceptable. In future, they must be given the facilities they need to carry out the job they are entrusted with. The administration must ensure that the infected teachers receive proper medical care.“A total of 120 teachers from corporation primary schools were engaged in 60 teams in the area. The RT-PCR test results of 25 others is pending,” said Kuldeep Khatri of Shikshak Nyay Manch, Nagar Nigam. The teachers’ associations have blamed the district administration and the civic agency for not providing enough safety gear and other facilities. They alleged that unlike paramedical staff, teachers were not given any training, thereby risking their lives. “While some teachers were provided thermal scanners and oximeters, many conducted the survey with pens and notepads. They didn’t even have hand gloves,” said Khatri. “Our only apprehension is that they can easily transmit the inspection to others, including their family. The government has issued a fresh order asking teachers to conduct another survey soon,” he added. Even teachers above 50 years were deployed despite the Centre’s order to avoid them for such duties, claimed Ram Niwas Solanki of Nagar Nigam Shikshak Sangh. “We are forced to conduct surveys without getting paid for three months. In a letter to Delhi government, we have demanded regular tests and safety gear.” North corporation mayor Jai Prakash said they had asked Delhi government to arrange for Covid tests of such staff. “They are concerned about their families. They and their families must be tested for Covid before and after the survey duty,” he said. Delhi government didn’t comment on the issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/17-teachers-on-covid-survey-duty-test-ve/articleshow/79454466.cms||Vibha Sharma
November 28, 2020||Agra||5,000 streetlights out of order in Agra city||AGRA: Moving about in the city can be hazardous in the night as several roads either remain in complete darkness or are poorly lit as the streetlights do not functiion. Complaints by residents and municipal councillors have fallen on deaf ears.. Civic body officials claim that the fault is a result of the recent rainfall. In 2018, the then high-pressure sodium or halogen streetlights were replaced with LEDs across all the 100 wards of the city. But due to lack of proper maintenance, around 5,000 LED streetlights have stopped working. The installation of the LED lights was done by Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL), an energy service company of the central government. As per the contract, EESL is responsible for maintaining the LED lights for seven years. Councillor Ravi Mathur said, “The situation of street lighting is poor. Hundreds of LED lights are not working. The matter has been raised with senior officials of the civic body several times. But no action has been taken. Now, the matter will be taken up at the board meeting.” The streetlights are not functioning in different places, including MG Road, Maruti Estate, Kothi Meena Bazaar, Prithvinath Fatak, Water Works crossing, Mall Road, Madiya Katra, Bodla crossing, different places in Sikandra, vicinity of Rambagh crossing and near the Taj Mahal on the Mehtab Bagh Road. Bodla resident, Madan Lal Agarwal, said, “A majority of the streetlights in the area are not working properly. Roads are also in a poor condition. After every rainfall, roads get waterlogged. The situation can cause a major accident.” Commissioner KB Singh said, “The complaints regarding non-functioning of streetlights have increased following the recent rainfall. We are working to get them repaired. Citizens can directly register their complaints about faulty streetlights at the ESSL toll free number, 18001803580. The officials of the company have been directed to sort out the complaints. Soon, a citywide survey will be conducted to check condition of steetlights in all the 100 wards of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/5000-streetlights-out-of-order-in-agra-city/articleshow/79452237.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Kolkata||Far away from match venue, city fans soak in derby fever||Kolkata: It was the first derby for the city giants in new look at the Indian Super League and the fans could not have asked for more. The match, where ATK Mohun Bagan had the better of SC East Bengal, might have been played behind closed doors at Tilak Maidan in Goa, but fans from both clubs left no stones unturned to bring in the “stadium feel” back at home — from gathering in neighbourhood clubs with friends, arranging for big screen live action (complete with an online ticketing system) to unveiling songs composed by fans. For those who wanted to follow Covid protocols, every moment spent before the big and small screens recreated the nostalgia that had made the century-old rivalry legendary. While the fan clubs of green and maroon brigade organised the screenings — the first of its kind post pandemic — at Rajarhat, New Town, Tangra, Jadavpur, Tala and in Howrah, fan clubs of SC East Bengal held the screenings at Kestopur, Barasat, Maniktala, Beliaghata and in Howrah. The organisers said they tried to ensure there was no overcrowding and everyone maintained social distancing. Crackers were also banned. “We as fans look forward to every derby and this derby was extra special as this was the first time the two teams met after the pandemic. Since travelling to Goa is not possible now, we organised free public screenings for the fans in open areas,” said Rabi Shankar Sen, an East Bengal fan. At Bonhooghly, Amit Roy of East Bengal ultras — one of the biggest supporter groups of the club — was a busy man. They sold hundreds of “tickets” for the giant screen view and ensured all social distancing was maintained at the spot. The second half began with the biggest moment of the game till then — a 49th minute goal by Roy Krishna. “Yet again, he showed who’s the boss out there,” said an elated Sourav Roy, who had come with three friends, two masks and a Mohun Bagan flag to Jadavpur. Manvir Singh sealed the game for Mariners with a superb solo effort in the 85th minute, scoring the second goal. Prasenjit Sarkar of Mariners Base Camp was elated as he celebrated with 150-odd fans at Derozio College ground in Rajarhat. “Every bit of effort of organising the screening by following safety norms was worth it after the victory. Before the match, we paid tribute to Diego Maradona,” said Sarkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/far-away-from-match-venue-city-fans-soak-in-derby-fever/articleshow/79454518.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 28, 2020||Hyderabad||25-year-old woman and mom held for theft, 44 tola gold recovered||Hyderabad: A 25-year-old woman along with her mother was arrested for committing a theft in her in-laws house in Yapral. Rachakonda police commissioner Mahesh Bhagwat said V Sony and her mother N Leelavathi were arrested and 44 tolas of gold, 15 tolas of silver and Rs 15,000 cash were recovered. “During the investigation, we verified various CCTVs and found that the offence was committed by a woman and not by a man,’’ the commissioner said. Police came to know that Leelavathi had mortgaged her plot and raised Rs 30 lakh loan, which was used to perform Sony’s marriage. As Leelavathi was unable to repay the loan, she hatched a plan and asked her daughter to commit theft in her in-laws house. Jawahar Nagar police received a complaint from Sony’s father-in-law V Venkataswamy on November 23 that valuables kept in the almirah were missing after they came back from a function in Kandikal. When cops questioned the family members, they found that Sony had gone to her mother’s house and stayed back there four days prior to attending the function. After confirming that members of her in-laws’ family had left for the function, Sony went back to the house and opened the door with a key she had||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/25-year-old-woman-and-mom-held-for-theft-44-tola-gold-recovered/articleshow/79454497.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Chennai||PM Modi speaks to Tamil Nadu CM, announces solatium||CHENNAI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday night telephoned Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and inquired about the situation after cyclone Nivar made a landfall in the state. In its official Twitter handle, the Prime Minister’s Office wrote, “The PM spoke to Tamil Nadu chief minister and discussed the situation in the wake of the cyclone and heavy rainfall in parts of the state. Central teams are being sent to Tamil Nadu to assist in rescue and relief work.” Another tweet said Modi expressed condolence on the loss of lives and prayed for a quick recovery of the injured. Ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh each would be given to the next of kin of the persons deceased and Rs 50,000 each to the injured from the Prime Minister’s national relief fund. An official release from the state government said PM spoke to the chief minister at 9pm and inquired about the damage meted out by the cyclone. “The PM also said he would provide necessary assistance to Tamil Nadu,” the release said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pm-speaks-to-cm-announces-solatium/articleshow/79454498.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Agra||Eight-year-old girl raped & strangled to death in Mathura village||AGRA: An eight-year-old girl was allegedly raped and strangled to death in a Mathura village on Thursday night. Her body was recovered on Friday morning. Police have detained a suspect. An FIR has been registered against an unidentified person. Mathura SSP Guarav Grover told TOI that a postmortem report has confirmed that the minor girl was raped and killed by strangulation between 7pm and 8pm on Thursday. He said that one person has been detained for questioning after taking a statement of the girl’s parents. According to police, the girl went to collect dry wood with one of her neighbours near her house around 3:30pm on Thursday, and then disappeared. Her parents and relatives started searching for her but failed to locate her and filed a complaint to the nearby police station. Police also launched a search operation at night. Her body was found in the same forest in the morning where she had gone to collect wood. Initially, the police registered a case of kidnapping. However, after the postmortem report, charges under sections 376 and 302 of IPC were included in the FIR. The Pocso Act was also added after it was found that the girl was a minor. According to the annual National Crime Records Bureau’s 'Crime in India 2019' report, Uttar Pradesh reported the highest number of crimes against women [59,853], accounting for 14.7 percent of such cases across the country. Also, UP had the highest number of crimes against girl children under the Pocso Act with 7,444 cases. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/girl-8-raped-strangled-to-death-in-mathura/articleshow/79452254.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Goa||Late start to academic year to delay Goa Board exam||PANAJI: As the academic year 2020-21 was off to a slow start due to the pandemic and as schools may need more time to complete their syllabus, the Class X and XII public exams of the Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education are also set to be held later than usual. The exams, which are usually held for Class XII starting from end of February, will be conducted in April. For Class X, the public exams begin from April normally, but are expected to be conducted in May 2021, as per the proposal sent by the directorate of education (DoE) to the state government for approval. In July, the Goa Board had announced its decision to curtail syllabus from Class IX to XII by 28-30% in select subjects. As classes are being held online, schools have been unable to complete the prescribed practical work in the laboratory for students of these classes. Students of Classes X and XII were allowed back on school premises by the state government as a special case only from November 21. Normally, by November, the registration process of students by Goa Board for the public exam begins, but it has not started this year, with schools only asked to upload data of students studying in Class X and XII. Class XII exam to start in AprilAs per the schedule proposed by the DoE, the Class XII public exam will start from the last week of April, while that of Class X exam is set to begin from the third week of May.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/late-start-to-academic-year-to-delay-goa-board-public-exam/articleshow/79455482.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Shrey hospital case: No report from KA Puj panel yet, extension awaited||AHMEDABAD: The news of five Covid patients being burned to death at a Covid hospital in Rajkot brought back memories of the death of eight Covid patients in the fire at Shrey Hospital on August 6. Ironically, the high-powered inquiry commission under Justice K A Puj is yet to submit its report into the Shrey incident. The term of the commission ended on November 11 and the government is yet to issue communique on an extension. The three-month ‘time bound’ report was to give citizens impartial answers about the Shrey Hospital fire, identify those responsible and also seek remedial measures to prevent such incidents in the future. Minister of state (MOS) for home and law, Pradipsinh Jadeja, about the outcome of the Justice Puj inquiry commission, said: “The commission has yet not submitted its report. I will check the status of the inquiry report.” The Justice Puj inquiry report was necessary as on August 10 the chief electrical inspector (CEI) H H Khoja submitted to the state government that 76% of the 364 designated Covid hospitals in Gujarat were found to have defective wiring or overloading issues, making them extremely susceptible to fires caused by short-circuits. On August 11, the government ordered the formation of the Justice K A Puj commission. On September 29, when the Gujarat HC heard a PIL on fire safety, the state government filed an affidavit stating that it had done the needful with reference to the Shrey Hospital fire. The government submitted that the inquiry report of the KA Puj commission was awaited, with a time frame of three months given to complete the probe. Senior sources in the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation said that a public notice was issued on October 29 for petitions from aggrieved persons. The commission was allotted an office on the sixth floor of Karmayogi Bhavan in Gandhinagar. The government is yet to announce an extension for the committee, highly places sources in the home and urban development departments said. (with inputs from Kapil Dave)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/shrey-case-no-report-from-puj-panel-yet-extension-awaited/articleshow/79454531.cms||Paul John
November 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Shrey case: 'No evidence of negligence against owner’||AHMEDABAD: Nearly four months after the fire at Shrey Hospital — a designated Covid-19 hospital in Navrangpura — killed eight Covid patients, city police are yet to get any evidence to prove negligence on the part of the owner and the prime accused in the case. On the morning of August 6, a major fire broke out in the ICU of Shrey Hospital. It later emerged that the hospital did not have a no-objection certificate (NOC) from the fire department of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC). The state government had also set up an inquiry committee headed by a retired high court judge which also had two bureaucrats, Mukesh Puri and Sangeeta Singh. The police investigation was handed over to ACP, A division, M A Patel. At the time, an FIR was filed under IPC Sections 304-A (causing death by negligence), 336 (act endangering life or personal safety), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life) and other charges. Patel said the investigation is yet to be completed and there is no substantial evidence against prime accused, Bharat Mahant. “We have been investigating on the basis of reports of the FSL and fire department but no substantial evidence was found against Mahant and the three other accused, who are out on bail,” said Patel. Sources in police said that the fire caused due to spark in electric socket which spread rapidly due to oxygen supply in the hospital. “The oxygen supply was essential for the Covid-19 patients and the fan was kept in the ward on request of a patient. So, there was no negligence on the part of hospital authorities,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-evidence-of-negligence-against-owner/articleshow/79454584.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Rachakonda cops nab hashish oil peddler||HYDERABAD: Rachakonda police on Friday arrested a peddler and seized two litres of hashish oil from him. The accused had even used goods and cargo delivery apps to supply contraband to customers. Malkajgiri SOT sleuths nabbed V Laxmipathi (24), a B Tech dropout, from Pedda Amberpet X roads. Two associates — Mohan Reddy and Nagesh — are at large. Rachakonda CP Mahesh Bhagwat said Laxmipathi, a ganja addict, ventured into peddling a few years ago. “Recently, Laxmipathi started procuring hashish oil from suppliers in the Visakhapatnam agency area for less and sold it in the city for Rs 1 lakh a kilo,” SOT inspector Naveen Kumar said. Laxmipathi, who lives in Manikonda, has been mixing Iso Propyl Alcohol in hashish oil, packing it in 10ml containers and selling it for Rs 3,000. Police also seized other evidence. Laxmipathi was handed to Hayathnagar police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rachakonda-cops-nab-hashish-oil-peddler/articleshow/79454537.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Goa||Goa: No way yet to confirm Covid-19 reinfection, says Dr S M Bandekar||PANAJI: Goa Medical College (GMC) dean and in-charge of Covid hospitals, Dr S M Bandekar said that the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, has informed them that it does not do cell cultures to determine Covid-19 reinfection. “There will be no way, at least for some time, to conclusively know if there are indeed Covid-19 reinfections,” Bandekar said. The GMC had written to the NIV, Pune, after two of its doctors tested positive and were suspected to be cases of reinfection. Bandekar said that it will be not possible to confirm those two cases in the absence of laboratory findings. Since then, no other such cases have been detected. Any person who tests positive for Covid-19 is considered recovered after 17 days, but the virus can remain in the system for 90 days. In such a situation, if a person redevelops symptoms within the 90-day period, he/she can’t be termed as a case of reinfection, he said. In two cases, he said, it was seen that they had developed the symptoms within 90 days. “How can there be a new infection? It is likely to be the same virus,” Bandekar said. He said they have come across many cases where people have tested positive for a prolonged period. One such case was reported from Miramar where the person tested positive for 90 days. In some countries such as the US, the Covid-19 recovery rate is slow. “Our recovery rate is 95% and those who have completed 17 days after testing positive are declared cured,” Bandekar said. “In the present context, the definition of recovery is incomplete. The question is whether we are applying the definition of recovery correctly? For this pandemic we also need to define “recovery” correctly as even WHO hasn’t done it till date,” he said. The two suspected cases of Covid reinfection reported from GMC two months ago had created quite a furore among health workers and doctors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/there-is-no-way-yet-to-confirm-covid-19-reinfections-gmc-dean/articleshow/79455497.cms||Bindiya Chari
November 28, 2020||India||BMC demolition of Kangana home illegal, malafide: HC||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Friday held that the BMC’s action of razing renovations in actor Kangana Ranaut’s bungalow in Mumbai’s Bandra area, was “illegal and high-handed” and “actuated by malafides”. Setting aside the September 9 demolition order, a bench of Justices S J Kathawalla and Riyaz Chagla said BMC’s act had caused “substantial injury” to Ranaut and added she was entitled to compensation from the civic body. To quantify the loss, the HC appointed a valuer and sought a report by March 9 after hearing Ranaut and the BMC. The razing had taken place after Ranaut had lashed out at the MVA government and had alleged “abuse of power” and “malafide action” by the Shiv Sena-ruled BMC as a “counter blast” as she was “at loggerheads with the state over her outspoken comments”. The HC said, “Irresponsible statements, however distasteful, are best ignored.” However, it said, “Illegal and colourable action on part of the state or its agencies vis-a-vis a citizen, is far too serious and damaging to society to be overlooked.” Rejecting BMC’s contention that the work demolished was “ongoing”, the HC in its 166-page judgment set out photos and said the work was “pre-existing”. The HC said civic officials invoked Section 354A of the BMC Act — meant for ongoing illegal construction, with a notice of just 24 hours, unlike Section 351 which offers seven days’ notice — for a “more sinister” purpose, “mainly to prevent her from taking legal recourse”. “The whole attempt of the BMC and its officers was to somehow present the petitioner (Ranaut) with a fait accompli, leaving her practically no time to seek redressal,” said the court, accepting her counsel Birendra Saraf’s submission that the demolition notice of September 7 and order were both ex facie illegal and deserved to be quashed. “We would be perfectly justified on the basis of law stated by the Supreme Court in the case of Sunbeam to order compensation,” it said. The demolition, the arrangement for which, the HC noted, had begun even before the H/West ward officer pasted his order at 10.35am, “was nothing but malice in law”. In other words, intentional damage sans any excuse. The actor, 34, had petitioned HC for urgent intervention within hours of a police squad and civic team landing at her bungalow. The BMC had not even waited for her to reach Mumbai that day, said her lawyer Rizwan Siddiquee. Ranaut had sought Rs 2 crore as damages, a claim which BMC through its counsel Aspi Chinoy, Anil Sakhare and advocate Joel Carlos had dubbed as “bogus”. Sarafsaid BMC’s actions were “lacking in good faith” and had an “ulterior motive,” with which the HC agreed. “An administrative authority must act in a bona fide manner and should never act with improper or ulterior motives,” the HC said. The bench had on September 9 stayed what it observed even then was civic action “smacking of mala fides.” In its final judgment it deprecated BMC’s “delaying” tactics that day when hearing was scheduled at 12.20 pm, to ensure “40%” of demolition was carried out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bmc-demolition-of-kangana-home-illegal-malafide-hc/articleshow/79456672.cms||Swati Deshpande
November 28, 2020||Pune||100 envoys’ trip to two local vaccine manufacturing facilities in Pune cancelled||PUNE: The visit of ambassadors and high commissioners of 100 countries to two local vaccine manufacturing facilities, scheduled for December 4, has been cancelled. Pune collector Rajesh Deshmukh said the external affairs ministry informed the district officials of the cancellation through a letter without specifying any reason. “We only received the letter of cancellation on Friday. Maybe they would reschedule the trip,” Deshmukh said. The cancellation came just a day after divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said the envoys’ tour — described as a daylong ‘familiarization visit’ — was confirmed by the Union Ministry of External Affairs The trip was originally scheduled for November 27 before it was postponed to December 4. The envoys were to fly in from New Delhi and visit Serum Institute of India (SII) and Gennova Biopharmaceuticals in Hinjewadi. Serum Institute has partnered with pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca and Oxford University to develop a Covid-19 vaccine. The institute said it was planning to seek emergency regulatory approval for the vaccine, Covieshield, and hopes to get the go-ahead by the end of the year. Gennova is developing a messenger RNA (mRNA) vaccine similar to that of US pharma major Pfizer’s. Gennova’s representatives said the vaccine’s early tests on animals have been encouraging and they were now waiting to roll out phase I human trials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/100-envoys-trip-to-pune-cancelled/articleshow/79454609.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Sea ‘spewing’ little beads of gold at Uppada||KAKINADA: Uppada, a tiny seaside village in East Godavari district, is as notorious for its sea erosion as it is famous for its silk sarees woven in jamdani style. But cyclonic storm Nivar seems to have brought a new fortune to the village in its wake — little beads of gold. On Friday, the sleepy village woke up to a virtual gold rush as local fishermen found glittering gold filings along with small beads of the precious metal on the beach. As the word of the sea ‘spewing’ gold spread like wild fire, hundreds of people rushed to Uppada braving the cyclonic rain to test their luck. Locals told TOI that about 50 people got gold worth about Rs 3,500 each. People at Uppada beach in East Godavari district in search of gold beadsMany were seen with sieves filtering the sand brought out by every wave with the hope of finding gold. Uppada beachWhat exactly caused the rough sea to throw fine gold particles onto the beach at Uppada is not clear. However, local police said there were two recent incidents of temples crumbling under the impact of sea erosion. Several houses too collapsed under the impact of rough sea waves in recent times. It is estimated that about 150 acres of land has been lost to sea erosion in the last two decades. “It is customary in these parts to bury small gold beads or particles during foundation laying ceremony for houses and temples. As old buildings collapsed under the impact of sea erosion, the gold particles must have been got carried into the sea along with the debris. Cyclone Nivar has overhauled the sea. In the process, some of the gold particles must have landed on the beach from the ocean bed,” explained local assistant sub-inspector Lovu Raju. He told TOI that revenue officials will visit the village on Saturday to take a first hand assessment. “Only a few people have found gold. Not everyone was lucky,” he added. About a year ago, an ancient house collapsed under the impact of cyclone at Konappa Peta, a few kilometres away from Uppada. The house exposed a huge treasure of ancient coins. The state government earlier this year proposed to construct a retaining wall along the sea at Uppada to arrest erosion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/after-nivar-sea-spews-gold-beads-near-ap-village/articleshow/79456279.cms||Samson Raj
November 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||GVMC working on initiative for bin-free Vizag||Visakhapatnam: The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) is planning to make Visakhapatnam into a garbage bin-free city in a phased manner. The GVMC has already started withdrawing a few bins from each ward to take the initiative forward. The GVMC wants to change the waste collection dynamics by working on a robust solid waste collection and management system. The civic body would remove the secondary bins and containers after the proper establishment of the system in all wards. For instance, about 50% of bins have already been withdrawn from zone-I and zone-II of the city. GVMC officials are also exploring imposing penalties on those who regularly throw waste into the bins instead of handing it over to the sanitary staff after waste collection hours. The GVMC conducted several review meetings on the same initiative in the recent times to devise an effective door-to-door waste collection system and segregation strategies by innovating the waste collection instruments. For example, the GVMC earlier installed QR code-embedded radio frequency identification (RFID) tags on the walls of every household to implement the online waste management system. When scanned by the sanitary workers with the devices provided by the GVMC, the QR codes - unique for each house - make an entry into online database of the civic body. Now, the civic body wants to take advantage of this online waste management system to make sure of 100% door-to-door collection. Moreover, the GVMC would focus more on timely garbage collection and transportation to make the public used to the new system. Speaking to TOI, GVMC additional commissioner Dr V Sanyasi Rao said that the initiative would be launched in a few wards of the city on a pilot basis in the first phase. “The same model will be replicated in other parts of the city. It may take some time to create public awareness about the initiative. Community engagement would be a key driver,” said Dr Rao. The additional commissioner added that the GVMC has launched several solid waste management initiatives in the recent times, which may better the GVMC’s rank in Swachh Survekshan-2021. The GVMC has recently decided to apply for seven-star rating under the ‘garbage-free cities’ initiative this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/gvmc-working-on-initiative-for-bin-free-vizag/articleshow/79453552.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
November 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag Aadhaar centre upgraded to Category-A by Union IT ministry||Visakhapatnam: The Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI), a statutory authority under the Union ministry of electronics and information technology (MeitY), has upgraded the existing category-B Aadhaar centre in Visakhapatnam City to category-A. At present, the state has only two Aadhaar centres including the one at Vijayawada. The Visakhapatnam centre was designated to category A with provision of additional infrastructure facilities and an increase in capacity of enrolment and updation of applicants per day, said Aadhaar centre manager, Polavarapu Sreehari. “Earlier they used to cover 500 to 800 applications per day, but now the targeted capacity was increased to 1,500 per day. The number of staff has also increased to 30 people. We are now able to provide Aadhaar services within an hour. Nearly 90% of applicants come with requests such as change of name, address, and phone numbers,” Sreehari told TOI. Sreehari said that they would now be starting off-centre drives where Aadhaar centre staff would go to people if the number of applications are over 50. “We are also mobilising staff to keep ready all essential documents and gather at least 50 people for the Aadhaar services. Then, they need not visit our office. Instead, we will reach them and get the services delivered at their door step,” Sreehari added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vizag-aadhaar-centre-upgraded-to-category-a-by-union-it-ministry/articleshow/79454139.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
November 28, 2020||Vijayawada||Govt planning ultra-modern centres at Shilparamam: Min||Amaravati: Tourism minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao (Avanti) on Friday said the government has decided to construct ultra-modern convention centres at Shilparamam. He said they were readying plans to design Shilparamam projects to make them biggest attraction and rope in tourists from across the globe. The minister launched the Shilparamam website at the secretariat on Friday. Speaking to media, Avanti said that eight projects were completed in the state and they were planning construct at least one such project in each district. “Shilparamam projects are presently located in Tirupati, Kadapa, Pulivendula, Ananthapuram, Puttaparthi, Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and Kakinada. We will add more such projects in other districts,” he said. The minister said the crafts village projects were chiefly planned to create sustainable livelihoods for artisan community and preserve cultural traditions. He added they would also establish centres of visual arts, creativity, crafts and culture to create awareness about art from AP. “Involving public, especially women, in the preservation of their rich cultural heritage is the main agenda behind Shilparamam projects,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-planning-ultra-modern-centres-at-shilparamam-min/articleshow/79454146.cms||Samdani MN
November 28, 2020||Nagpur||Schools assn accuses state of fraud in not passing on centre’s RTE funds||Nagpur: A city-based association of schools has alleged that the state government is not reimbursing RTE fees for pre-primary students, even though the central government has approved it. RTE Foundation, which represents schools and parents, says the state government has “cheated” them when it comes to reimbursements for free admissions given under Right To Education (RTE) quota.Sachin Kalbande, president of the association, said, “Through RTI, I have received confirmation from the central government that funds have been regularly released for RTE reimbursements. But, somehow, the state government has not shared it with eligible schools. It makes you wonder where these funds are going.”TOI tried reaching out to school education minister Varsha Gaikwad, but she did not respond. The RTE Act provides for free admission in private unaided schools (non-minority) to students who belong to categories specified by the central and state government. While schools can’t charge fee from them, they can claim reimbursement from the state government. This reimbursement is fixed by the state government for all schools, regardless of their actual fee structure. The current reimbursement is around Rs18,000 per year. This expense is borne by both state and central governments.Kalbande said, “We have always been told by the education department that reimbursement is available only from Std I. But the RTI reply from central government states that it is available even for nursery school.” He added that there was another big discrepancy. “We are paid less than Rs20,000 per year, per child. But the central government has approved almost Rs27,000 with extra funds for uniform and books,” said Kalbande.RTE Foundation is now planning to create mass awareness among schools and other associations about this issue. “People are not realizing the scale of this lie, which the government has been telling us. Are the central funds being diverted somewhere else? Why has no one told us that reimbursement can be claimed even for pre-primary section,” said Kalbande.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/schools-assn-accuses-state-of-fraud-in-not-passing-on-centres-rte-funds/articleshow/79454180.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
November 28, 2020||Nagpur||Society plateaus sometimes, but art never does: Sonal Mansingh||Nagpur: Musing whether the Indian society had kept pace with its art, revered Indian classical dancer Sonal Mansingh, in the opening interview of the 2nd Orange City Literature Festival on Friday, put art forms at the pantheon of national heritage. In conversation with senior journalist Barkha Mathur, the Padma Vibhushan awardee said, “Society evolves at its own pace. Sometimes it seems to be on a plateau. But art has never been on a plateau, and that is why it is still vibrant.” The septuagenarian added, “In India, art is the soul of civilization and society, and therefore has a very different ethos from that in European and American countries.” The interview capped off Day 1 of the fully digital literature festival, which was inaugurated virtually by Union road transport minister Nitin Gadkari, in the presence of founder Sunil Raisoni and former Mumbai University vice-chancellor Rajan Welukar. The event also marked the launch of political commentator Tuhin Sinha’s Marathi-translated book ‘Mi Kashmir Ahe’, and a talk on ‘converting setbacks into comebacks’ by motivational speaker Shiv Khera. Mansingh went on to say that Covid-19 had dealt a body blow to the performing arts, but it also presented the opportunity to reach many more people. “The pandemic has axed away the normalcy, which was a very beautiful way of life. Society, art, artists — all are at a standstill,” she said. However, the Rajya Sabha member of parliament added, “I performed an online Natya Katha (storytelling through classical art forms) recently, and the audience was in tears. One has to let go of inhibitions and put all their energy and soul on the screen.” The veteran artiste was all for people taking to dance for any reason whatsoever. “You dance to keep healthy and supple, to look beautiful, to gain grace and power, to attract suitors. Any which way, come to dancing,” she said. Mansingh felt artists had a “huge responsibility” to point out everything going wrong with the society. “As an artist, and as a thinking, feeling person, you say, what can I do about this? I do my bit through my poetry, speeches and performances.” The venerated classical dancer signed off with her pithy take on the digital revolution. “If you know how to use technology, it’s very helpful. But the moment you allow it to control you, it’s disastrous. The digital revolution should not turn your brain into a walnut.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/society-plateaus-sometimes-but-art-never-does-sonal-mansingh/articleshow/79454078.cms||Bhuvan Gupta
November 28, 2020||Nagpur||Vidarbha’s Covid-19 cases in Nov again outnumber recoveries||Nagpur: Consistent increase in fresh Covid positive cases and drop in recoveries, especially since November 17, have led to more cases registered cases in the month than recoveries. November had started with more recoveries and fewer cases. Till November 12, there was difference of more than 2,000 between number of recovered patients and number of new cases. From November 17, the cases started increasing and the gap started narrowing. After detection of 1,265 cases and 938 recoveries on Friday, the number of cases in November reached 24,965, surpassing the number of recoveries which are 24,928. October is the only month in which the number of recoveries (49,474) were way more than the number of cases (35,848). Overall, the caseload of Vidarbha reached 2,23,915 on Friday, and recoveries touched 2,05,811. The recovery rate, which used to be 93% earlier, has now declined to 91.9%. Number of patients under treatment in Vidarbha surpassed the 12,000 mark once again, and reached 12,142. The region reported 17 deaths on Friday. These included Nagpur (8), Chandrapur (4), Akola (2), Wardha (1), Amravati (1), and Yavatmal (1), taking the toll to 5,972. The case fatality rate, however, declined further to 2.66%.Friday’s 1,265 cases came from Nagpur (457), Chandrapur (168), Gondia (134), Bhandara (118), Buldhana (81), Gadchiroli (67), Amravati (64), Wardha (61), Yavatmal (52), Akola (46), and Washim (17). Highest 262 were reported from Nagpur, followed by Chandrapur (167), Amravati (109), Gondia (98), Gadchiroli (79), Bhandara (56), Wardha (55), Buldhana (52), Yavatmal (28), Washim (28) and Akola (4). Gondia: The day saw 134 new cases and 98 recoveries in the district. No fatality was reported. Of the 1,135 patients under treatment, 716 (63.08%) are in home isolation. Reports of 1,380 samples are awaited. The caseload of Gondia has reached 12,150, including 10,860 recoveries and 155 deaths.Bhandara: Once again, the district reported 100+ spike and the caseload reached 10,494 after detection of 118 new cases on Friday. On the other hand, 56 patients recovered from the infection, taking the recoveries to 9,317. No death was reported for the second consecutive day and the toll remains 248. Now, 929 patients are under treatment.Gadchiroli: With 67 new patients diagnosed in a day and 79 getting discharge, the caseload and recoveries reached 7,812 and 6,968, respectively. No death was reported on Friday, and the toll remains 78. Now, 778 patients are under treatment. Recovery rate is 89.2%. Akola: The district saw 46 new cases and only four recoveries on Friday. With this, Covid tally has reached 9,290, including 8,357 recoveries. Two deaths reported on Friday took the toll to 291. Now, 642 patients are under treatment. Buldhana: The district reported 81 new patients while 52 patients got discharge on Friday. No death was reported. Caseload surpassed 11,000-mark to reach 11,055, including 10,563 recoveries and 134 deaths. Now, 358 patients are under treatment. Washim: The district reported 17 new cases and 21 recoveries on Friday. No death was reported. Total cases reached 6,066, including 5,711 recoveries and 148 deaths. Now, 207 patients are under treatment.Amravati: After several days, the district posted a three digit spike of 102 cases and also recorded one death to take the caseload to 17,656 and toll to 375. The day also recorded 109 recoveries for a total of 16,822, posting a recovery rate of 95.28. This left 459 active cases under treatment.Wardha: A 69-year-old man from Wardha died due to coronavirus while undergoing treatment while new 61 patients were detected and 55 patients were discharged on Friday. Out of the 936 test reports, 61 (31 women and 30 men) tested positive, taking the total number of cases to 7,733. With 55 recoveries, the number rose to 6,979. Active patients are 512, including Wardha (33), Deoli and Hinganghat (7 each), Selu (6), Karanja (4), Samudrapur (3) and Arvi (1).Chandrapur: The Covid total mounted to 19,526 with the detection of 168 new cases on Friday. The day also saw four deaths of Covid patients taking the toll to 293. In all, 167 patients were discharged after recovery. The total recoveries now stand at 17,450, while 1693 active patients are under treatment in the district. Yavatmal: A 65-year-old woman from Ghatanji died on Friday. The district now has 373 deaths. Out of 711 test reports, 52 were positive. According to sources, there are 469 active positive patients undergoing treatment across the district. 11,382 patients were recorded so far with 10,543, including 28 of Friday, negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vidarbhas-covid-19-cases-in-nov-again-outnumber-recoveries/articleshow/79454148.cms||Balwant Dhage
November 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Independents lose out in poll campaign||Hyderabad: While the political parties are running a high-voltage campaign, independents are missing in action in many divisions in running an effective campaign. While some of them filed their nominations as rebel candidates after being denied party ticket, some are in the fray just to test their luck at the hustings. Some independents filed nominations at the behest of the political parties. Of 1,122 candidates in fray, 415 filed their nominations as independents. The highest number of independents are contesting from Jangamet division in the Old City where 13 independents filed their papers. In Banjara Hills division, nine independents are contesting, seven candidates in Serilingampally, Tarnaka and Gunfoundry divisions. In about 10 divisions such as Jeedimetla, Mettuguda, Hafeezpet, Khairatabad, Tolichowki, Nanalnagar and Dattatreyanagar, there were no independents in the fray. Official sources said many independents filed their nominations after failing to get the party tickets and did not withdraw. “If a candidate is contesting on a party ticket, the party provides him funds and campaign material apart from leaders campaigning for the candidate. The other advantage is people also prefer to vote for a known symbol of major parties and not to independents except in exceptional cases,” Chepuri Venkateshwar Rao, whose daughter filed as an independent from Sitaphalmandi, said after failing to get a ticket from Congress. In some places, TRS, Congress and BJP encouraged independents to file nominations by even paying their deposit amounts to split votes of opposition parties on religion or caste equations. “It is a common practice in the electoral politics to confuse and divide the votes by fielding candidates with similar names and symbols,” a candidate said. Interestingly, a majority of independents are helping the official candidates for showing election expenditure. “Independents are also eligible to campaign with vehicles passes, agent passes, and other election expenditure on a par with parties’ candidates. Most of the party candidates exceed the limit of Rs 5 lakh ceiling for election expenditure,” a returning officer said. “Even if it is a known fact, we cannot prevent,” he said. Officials said most of these independents do not submit their election expenditure to the GHMC within 45 days of the declaration of the result.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/independents-lose-out-in-poll-campaign/articleshow/79454568.cms||Koride Mahesh
November 28, 2020||Nagpur||Cops register offences, but spare leaders||Chandrapur: Ramnagar police have registered offences against the Chandrapur district unit of OBC Janganana Samanvaya Samiti (JSS) for organizing a mammoth protest rally on Thursday, said SDPO Sheelwant Nandedkar. He, however, claimed that the people’s representatives who participated in the rally were spared. Covid norms were violated during the rally in which had more than 10,000 participants. People from across the district came in jam-packed vehicles. Precautionary Covid measures like avoiding large gatherings, maintaining social distancing, sanitization and wearing of masks took a back seat. The entire stretch of Warora Naka road was jam packed. Senior leaders, including guardian minister Vijay Wadettiwar, MP Balu Dhanorkar, MLA Subhash Dhote, Prathibha Dhanorkar, Kishor Jorgewar, ZP president Sandya Gurnule, district and city chiefs of all major parties were seated in the front row, but did not take the stage. While MLA Jorgewar said he did not participate in the rally but only welcomed it, MP Dhanorkar claimed that all norms were followed. Guardian minister Vijay Wadettiwar could not be contacted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-register-offences-but-spare-leaders/articleshow/79454127.cms||Mazhar Ali
November 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||11% of hospitals in Ahmedabad have no fire equipment in place||AHMEDABAD: The Shrey Hospital fire in Ahmedabad which cost eight lives was not jarring enough for city hospitals to get fire safety equipment in place. At least 11% of the 2,250-odd hospitals in the city still do not have fire safety equipment installed. Fire department officials said after the Shrey Hospital fire it was made mandated that every hospital have working fire safety equipment and no-objection certificates (NOCs) from the fire department. However, even three months after that fire 250-odd city hospitals have not got fire NOCs. “After the Rajkot hospital fire, the AMC asked its fire department to again carry out a check on all designated Covid hospitals to see if their fire safety equipment is in working condition,” said municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar. Officials said the AMC has said that when a hospital is designated a ‘Covid hospital’, it has to have a fire NOC. This was mandatory earlier too, but was not enforced strictly. There are now 99 designated Covid hospitals in the city. All these hospitals were checked soon after the Shrey fire and were told to get fire NOCs. An official said that the team is yet to report back but so far, they found that once the NOC expired hospital managements failed to get them renewed, as is the case of a certain hospital on Ashram Road. AMC officials said that at almost all hospitals there are no outlets to get smoke out and in some cases the authorities said they have sliding windows which can be opened easily. Another aspect was that in order to have more rooms, the space in the lobby is such that not even two stretchers can abreast. In case of a fire, this can hamper efforts to get patients out quickly. Officials said once the report covering all 99 hospitals is received, it would be clear how many have fire safety equipment in working condition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/11-of-city-hospitals-have-no-fire-equipment-in-place/articleshow/79454637.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Goa||Revenue mop-up to be 70% this month: Goa CM Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Friday that the state government revenue would touch 70% of normal this month-end. Speaking to reporters, Sawant said that in April, revenue collection dropped to 10%, and is now around 65%. He also said that the state has received around Rs 12 crore from the Centre for Covid management. While the Centre has disbursed Rs 244.4 crore to Goa to meet the state’s revenue shortfall due to the drop in GST collections, Sawant said there is still some pending amount with the Union government. The funds disbursed to Goa — the latest tranche of which was deposited in the state government’s account on November 23 — have provided the Sawant government a cushion and prompted the state administration to ease up on expenditure curbs imposed on June 10 this year, said officials. Interest rate on borrowing lower for central govtThe funds have been borrowed by the Centre through a special window for states that opted for it. It was among two choices offered by the Union finance ministry. The other choice was the states borrowing to offset the GST shortfall. Since the Centre borrows the funds, the interest rate of 5.2% is much lower than what states would have had to pay. While the loan term is 3-5 years, repayment will be done from compensation cess collected by the Centre. Apart from Goa, a total of 24 states chose the first option. The government of India thus borrowed Rs 24,000 crore on behalf of the states, and disbursed it on October 23, November 2, November 9 and November 23 to the states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/revenue-mop-up-to-be-70-this-month-cm/articleshow/79455502.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: FIRs filed against HRF functionaries||VISAKHAPATNAM: AP police have filed two FIRs against VS Krishna, Human Rights Forum coordination committee member for AP and Telangana, and others for influencing Vakapalle rape survivors to depose falsely against police personnel. The two FIRs were filed at Munchingput police station in Visakhapatnam district and Piduguralla in Guntur district by invoking the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Condemning the FIRs, HRF representatives S Jeevan Kumar and A Chandrasekhar said HRF and with many other organisations have been actively seeking justice since 2007 for the 11 Vakapalli women who were raped by special forces personnel. “It is because of the resilience of the women of Vakapalli and the intervention of the high court in 2012 and the Supreme Court in September 2017 that the trial is continuing. Thirteen accused police personnel are presently on trial. While two victims have died in the intervening years, the remaining nine came to Visakhapatnam and deposed in court. HRF, along with several other organisations, have provided them with food and shelter,” they said, adding that it is certainly not a crime to provide food and shelter to Adivasi woman witnesses who come from remote areas to depose in a criminal trial mandated by the law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/firs-filed-against-hrf-functionaries/articleshow/79454106.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra CM Jagan Mohan Reddy to hold survey of Nivar-hit areas today||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy will conduct an aerial survey of the affected areas which were hit by cyclone Nivar, on Saturday. After the aerial survey, the chief minister is scheduled to hold a review meeting in Tirupati with district collectors and officials of Nellore, Chittoor and Kadapa districts. The state cabinet meeting, which was held at Velagapudi secretariat on Friday, reviewed the situation and directed officials to start relief and rehabilitation operations immediately. The cabinet also asked officials to start assessment of damage to crops and houses due to cyclone and prepare the report by December 15 so that compensation could be paid by December 31. Briefing reporters after the cabinet meeting, agriculture minister K Kannababu said people in relief camps would be given Rs 500 each and crop loss enumeration would be taken up on a war footing and completed by December 15. “The compensation would be paid by December 31. There would be 80 per cent subsidy on seeds to farmers in the affected areas. Ex gratia and compensation with regard to loss of human life and damage to property would be paid as per guidelines,” he said. Heavy rains battered the state under the effect of the cyclone. Nellore, Prakasam and Rayalaseema bore the brunt with almost 188 per cent of excess rainfall. Over 10,000 people have taken shelter in 147 relief camps. As per preliminary reports, about 30,000 hectares in Chittoor, Nellore, Kadapa and Prakasam districts have suffered crop loss. Paddy (16,290 hectares), followed by black gram (7,362), cotton (3,571) and other crops (2,529 hectares) were damaged due to heavy rains triggered by Nivar. Besides these, in many areas there were power interruptions while nearly 180 km of roads have been damaged. Inundated houses have been recorded as 664 while damaged houses are 673, as per preliminary data. “The state government has been providing input subsidy in the same season. For crop damages between June and September, the subsidy was paid in October and for October crop loss, it was paid in November,” Kannababu said. The chief minister has directed officials to provide all help to people who have taken shelter in relief camps and give them Rs 500 each while returning home. He also instructed officials to focus on restoration of power supply and repairs to damaged roads on a war footing. Officials have also been told to provide ex gratia to the kin of deceased families at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cm-to-hold-survey-of-nivar-hit-areas-today/articleshow/79453620.cms||Gopi Dara
November 28, 2020||Nagpur||Vidarbha’s Covid-19 cases in Nov again outnumber recoveries||NAGPUR: Consistent increase in fresh Covid positive cases and drop in recoveries, especially since November 17, have led to more cases registered cases in the month than recoveries. November had started with more recoveries and fewer cases. Till November 12, there was difference of more than 2,000 between number of recovered patients and number of new cases. From November 17, the cases started increasing and the gap started narrowing. After detection of 1,265 cases and 938 recoveries on Friday, the number of cases in November reached 24,965, surpassing the number of recoveries which are 24,928. October is the only month in which the number of recoveries (49,474) were way more than the number of cases (35,848). Overall, the caseload of Vidarbha reached 2,23,915 on Friday, and recoveries touched 2,05,811. The recovery rate, which used to be 93% earlier, has now declined to 91.9%. Number of patients under treatment in Vidarbha surpassed the 12,000 mark once again, and reached 12,142. The region reported 17 deaths on Friday. These included Nagpur (8), Chandrapur (4), Akola (2), Wardha (1), Amravati (1), and Yavatmal (1), taking the toll to 5,972. The case fatality rate, however, declined further to 2.66%. Friday’s 1,265 cases came from Nagpur (457), Chandrapur (168), Gondia (134), Bhandara (118), Buldhana (81), Gadchiroli (67), Amravati (64), Wardha (61), Yavatmal (52), Akola (46), and Washim (17). Highest 262 were reported from Nagpur, followed by Chandrapur (167), Amravati (109), Gondia (98), Gadchiroli (79), Bhandara (56), Wardha (55), Buldhana (52), Yavatmal (28), Washim (28) and Akola (4). Gondia: The day saw 134 new cases and 98 recoveries in the district. No fatality was reported. Of the 1,135 patients under treatment, 716 (63.08%) are in home isolation. Reports of 1,380 samples are awaited. The caseload of Gondia has reached 12,150, including 10,860 recoveries and 155 deaths. Bhandara: Once again, the district reported 100+ spike and the caseload reached 10,494 after detection of 118 new cases on Friday. On the other hand, 56 patients recovered from the infection, taking the recoveries to 9,317. No death was reported for the second consecutive day and the toll remains 248. Now, 929 patients are under treatment. Gadchiroli: With 67 new patients diagnosed in a day and 79 getting discharge, the caseload and recoveries reached 7,812 and 6,968, respectively. No death was reported on Friday, and the toll remains 78. Now, 778 patients are under treatment. Recovery rate is 89.2%. Akola: The district saw 46 new cases and only four recoveries on Friday. With this, Covid tally has reached 9,290, including 8,357 recoveries. Two deaths reported on Friday took the toll to 291. Now, 642 patients are under treatment. Buldhana: The district reported 81 new patients while 52 patients got discharge on Friday. No death was reported. Caseload surpassed 11,000-mark to reach 11,055, including 10,563 recoveries and 134 deaths. Now, 358 patients are under treatment. Washim: The district reported 17 new cases and 21 recoveries on Friday. No death was reported. Total cases reached 6,066, including 5,711 recoveries and 148 deaths. Now, 207 patients are under treatment. Amravati: After several days, the district posted a three digit spike of 102 cases and also recorded one death to take the caseload to 17,656 and toll to 375. The day also recorded 109 recoveries for a total of 16,822, posting a recovery rate of 95.28. This left 459 active cases under treatment. Wardha: A 69-year-old man from Wardha died due to coronavirus while undergoing treatment while new 61 patients were detected and 55 patients were discharged on Friday. Out of the 936 test reports, 61 (31 women and 30 men) tested positive, taking the total number of cases to 7,733. With 55 recoveries, the number rose to 6,979. Active patients are 512, including Wardha (33), Deoli and Hinganghat (7 each), Selu (6), Karanja (4), Samudrapur (3) and Arvi (1). Chandrapur: The Covid total mounted to 19,526 with the detection of 168 new cases on Friday. The day also saw four deaths of Covid patients taking the toll to 293. In all, 167 patients were discharged after recovery. The total recoveries now stand at 17,450, while 1693 active patients are under treatment in the district. Yavatmal: A 65-year-old woman from Ghatanji died on Friday. The district now has 373 deaths. Out of 711 test reports, 52 were positive. According to sources, there are 469 active positive patients undergoing treatment across the district. 11,382 patients were recorded so far with 10,543, including 28 of Friday, negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vidarbhas-covid-19-cases-in-nov-again-outnumber-recoveries/articleshow/79454388.cms||Balwant Dhage
November 28, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Police make headway in face-spray murder case||VIJAYAWADA: Police have made headway in a case wherein a man had died after unknown persons had sprayed a toxic liquid on his face. Cops have concluded that the liquid contained cyanide which had resulted in the death. It is learnt that the police have found out that two persons who had committed the premeditated murder are residents of Machilipatnam in Krishna district. On November 4, the two persons came on a bike and splashed the liquid on the face of 42-year-old Bashyam Brahmaiah in Thalluru village under Guntur district’s Pedakurapadu mandal. The accused fled the scene without being noticed by anyone. Brahmaiah, who used to run a hotel in the village was disposing garbage on the village outskirts on at the time of the incident. Shocked, he called his friend and explained what had happened and told him that he would be coming to the hotel. As soon as he reached, he complained of a burning sensation and collapsed moments later. Brahmaiah was rushed to hospital where doctors declared him dead on arrival. A case was registered following which the police began their investigation. Sources said cops have identified the accused and are in the process of collecting more evidence to establish the case. The motive behind the murder is still unknown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/police-make-headway-in-face-spray-murder-case/articleshow/79454126.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Pune||70 of 120 hospitals in PMC limits fumble on bed data update||PUNE: Bed availability information for Covid-19 treatment has taken a hit in the Pune municipal limits with more than 70 hospitals failing to update this data on the divisional commissioner’s dashboard for days altogether. In a contrast, the health hubs in Pimpri Chinchwad have shown the way by updating this data regularly. According to the dashboard, there are a total of 102 hospitals in the PMC limits providing treatment to Covid-19 patients, while 30 care hubs have been providing the treatment in the PCMC areas. Defending some private hospitals, health officials said they were not updating the information as their beds were no more needed for Covid treatment in view of the decline in the number of patients in the last few weeks. Experts, however, said information should be updated without fail as it was more about saving the lives of patients than convenience. Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao told TOI that they had strategically disengaged Covid beds in the last few weeks. “Since there is less requirement of Covid-19 beds right now and the non-Covid load has increased across the region, we have disengaged some beds, especially from the private hospitals,” he said. On the likely second infection wave, he said, “We can always re-engage the beds from the hospitals within three days. We have got a written commitment from them.” PCMC additional commissioner Santosh Patil said they too had disengaged at least 12-14 private hospitals. “The trend from the past few days has shown that the spike in the cases, which was feared, is not there. The real worries for the administration will begin if the positivity rate crosses 10%,” he said. Subhash Salunkhe, member of the state’s technical committee on disengaging of the beds, said, “We had the discussion regarding disengaging the beds. The basic preparation was told to be at 400 ICU supported beds and at least 8,000 regular beds at any given time.” He said the committee would meet the Pune divisional commissioner next week to review the Covid situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/70-of-120-hosps-in-pmc-limits-fumble-on-bed-data-update/articleshow/79454639.cms||Piyush Bhusari
November 28, 2020||Goa||Mhadei basin level down, no out-of-court settlement: Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Friday that the state government is “not ready for any out-of-court settlement on the Mhadei issue”. He said that the water in the Mhadei basin has reduced and that he has told BJP Goa desk incharge and Karnataka MLA C T Ravi that Karnataka has diverted the Mhadei. “We have filed our contempt petition against Karnataka in the Supreme Court. We want Karnataka to release water towards Goa and start discussions,” Sawant said. In October, the Goa government filed a contempt petition in the Supreme Court against Karnataka for illegal diversion of the Mhadei’s waters to the Malaprabha river basin and sought a direction for a joint inspection of the Kalasa site under an independent assessor. Sawant told reporters that he has not discussed the Mhadei matter with the special envoy sent by the Karnataka government, Shankar Gouda Patil, who had called on him on Wednesday. In a bid to stem the growing discord between Goa and Karnataka, Patil was sent to discuss various issues pertaining to the economic and social growth of both states, including the Mhadei water dispute. “We are not here to discuss the Mhadei issue with anybody,” he said, adding that the Karnataka representative had raised the issue, but it was not discussed. “I told him that I don’t want to speak anything on the Mhadei.” Recently, responding to a question on Karnataka continuing to divert water despite the court order, Ravi had said, “It is your feeling”. He added that BJP is a national party and to it, both Goa and Karnataka are equal. The Chikmagalur MLA said that both Karnataka and Goa will abide by the Supreme Court order on the Mhadei. Plea seeks restoration of natural river flowIn its contempt petition, the state has sought a direction to restore the natural flow of the Mhadei towards Goa. The plea has also stated that due to Karnataka’s contumacious acts, there is a sharp reduction of water flow to the Surla nullah that passes through the Mhadei Wildlife Sanctuary and that the diversion is a violation of the Wildlife Protection Act. The plea has sought an “order directing the contemnors/respondents to take remedial and curative actions to make good the loss of water to the state of Goa pursuant to their acts of diversion and to further restore the natural flow of the Mhadei towards the state of Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mhadei-basin-level-down-no-out-of-court-settlement-cm/articleshow/79455504.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Ludhiana||From March, not a drop of untreated water can end up in Buddha Nullah: NGT||Ludhiana: Irked over no improvement in the condition of Buddha Nullah, the members of monitoring committee formed by National Green Tribunal to check pollution in Satluj river and drain, have made it clear that from March onwards heavy penalties will be imposed on the civic body if situation remained the same. Chairman of the committee, justice (retd) Jasbir Singh said after March not even single untreated drop of water will be allowed to fall into Buddha Nullah. The committee members had come in February and the members said even after nine months there is hardly any change in the situation. The committee members were shown the micro forests being developed alongside drain and beautification plan was also shared with them. They also visited Real Time Water Quality Monitoring System installed in Buddha Nullah near Jainpur village and were not satisfied with water quality. For the rejuvenation of Buddha Nullah, the upgradation of sewerage treatment plants was proposed and approved by state government at the cost of Rs 650 crore but the work has not started yet. This irked the committee members who said civic body should remain prepared for a fine of Rs 10 lakh per month for each outlet from where untreated water is going into the drain after March 2021. The committee members were also taken to carcass utilisation plant at Noorpur bet, which was supposed to be completed by the end of this month. But the officials told the committee members that deadline was November 30, which was already extended. And in case the municipal corporation will skip this deadline, then even on this project there is penalty and MC will have to pay it. After that committee members were shown the slaughter house and plantation done at the backside of slaughter house. The committee members appreciated the micro forests and advised civic officials to get more saplings planted around the drain. Meanwhile, one of the directors of Ludhiana Smart City mission, Sanjay Goel showed them a proposal to beautify the banks of drain with plantation and creating cycle tracks along. The committee members told him to go ahead with the plan and also start fencing along drain to stop people from throwing garbage inside. Later on, the committee members also visited CETPs at Bahadur K Road and Tajpur Road to check progress. Justice Jasbir Singh said according to the NGT orders, if the district won’t start STPs before March 31, 2021, a penalty of Rs 10 lakh per drain per month will be levied. He asked the district authorities to commence the work related to in-situ remediation before July 1, 2021. He also appealed to residents to start doing source segregation. “If you just start doing source segregation of waste, you could be a big contributor in achieving the cleanliness campaign,” he said. The environmentalist and member of committee Balbir Singh Seechewal said, “We had come in February and where we had left the situation is still the same except plantation. We are shown only plants around but there is no difference to black water of drain.” He said the penalties are already fixed by NGT and if officials did not mend their ways they will have to pay the price as well. First visit since Covid-19 outbreak The six-member monitoring and executing committee of the green panel led by Justice Jasbir Singh and Justice Pritam Pal made a first physical visit to Ludhiana after the Covid-19 to review the status of various works being carried out by the MC and Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) related to cleaning of Buddha Nullah and solid waste management among other issues. Committee members, including S C Agrawal ( former chief secretary of Punjab), Urvashi Gulati (former chief secretary, of Haryana), Sant Balbir Singh Seechewal and technical expert Dr Babu Ram were also present on the occasion. BJP councillors protest near Chand Cinema The BJP councillors wanted to meet the committee chairman Justice Jasbir singh and wanted to show him crucial points where actually Buddha Nullah was polluted. They claimed that in every visit of NGT committee the officials take the members to selected locations where they have already maintained everything. The councillors however kept on waiting for the committee members near Chand Cinema till afternoon but nobody turned up so they left from there . The committee members reached the location after councillors left from there||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/from-march-not-a-drop-of-untreated-water-can-end-up-in-buddha-nullah-ngt/articleshow/79454641.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Beautify Ludhiana: MC seeks applications for graffiti||Ludhiana: Hitting two birds with a stone, the civic body has sought applications from the city residents to paint and maintain graffiti corners in various parts of the city. It will help in beautifying the city as well as involve the city residents in beautifying the city. The project is open to children too. The municipal corporation (MC) will kick off a beautification drive in city at mass level. The themes for graffiti would be sports, health, Punjab culture, industry, make in India, make in Ludhiana, environment and social issues. The residents who want to participate will have to get permission from the civic body by sending request emails to graffitiludhiana@gmail.com. The residents would have to submit their self-created graffiti designs on paper in the form of scanned copy at the above mentioned email ID. Once the design is approved, residents would be able to paint graffitis in the city. A meeting was conducted by cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu with mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal. Ashu said one would have to maintain the graffiti for two years or the space will be allotted to someone else. Anyone covering graffiti with posters or any other way will be fined a minimum of Rs 10,000 plus repair cost, said Ashu. The MC and smart city Logo has to be placed on the graffiti, he said adding that similar space will be allotted for the sponsor logo as well. Ashu said this would be the best way residents can showcase their talent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/beautify-ludhiana-mc-seeks-applications-for-graffiti/articleshow/79454646.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 28, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC polls are not galli elections: Nadda||Hyderabad: BJP national president JP Nadda on Friday said the GHMC polls are not just some galli (street) elections and some leaders calling it as a Delhi parties versus galli parties fight is highly disrespectful to the people of the city who will be voting on December 1. He was taking a dig at TRS working president KT Rama Rao. Interacting with several people during an intellectuals’ meet at a private hotel here, he said: “This city with nearly one crore population needs respect from every party. Every house and every street deserves to be shown respect.” KTR during his roadshows was often heard asking people, “Choose between pucca local galli party (TRS) or ‘kirkiri’ Congress or ‘lolli’ Delhi party (BJP).” Alleging that there is large-scale corruption in Telangana, he said: “The BJP-led government at the Centre is always supporting the state. But, the vessel (state) receiving the funds has leakages in the form of corruption. The state needs strong vessels and the BJP can provide that.” Nadda during his interaction with the intellectuals described chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s efforts to cobble up an ‘anti-BJP’ front as a ‘family parties’ front. “In Congress, one family flourished. Similarly, in some states also, families flourished. KCR’s new front will be nothing but a family front,” he said. Trying to draw a parallel between the functioning of KCR and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he said the CM never goes to the secretariat, whereas the PM always leads the country from the front.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-polls-are-not-galli-elections-nadda/articleshow/79454676.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 28, 2020||Pune||Tally up from 59 to 200 over two weeks in rural Pune belt||PUNE: The daily Covid-19 tally has jumped from 59 to 200 in rural Pune over two weeks since November 14, prompting health officials to pursue an aggressive testing strategy for early detection and treatment of cases. “We recorded 200-plus new cases on Wednesday (276) and Thursday (230). A majority of these were from Haveli and Khed tehsils,” district health officer Bhagwan Pawar said. Against the case trend, the number of hotspot villages have gone down from 223 to just 23 over the last one month. “But, cases are rising gradually in newer areas, especially after the festive season,” district civil surgeon Dr Ashok Nandapurkar said. District health officials said more tests were being conducted for early detection of infections in rural Pune. “Our teams will look out for people with comorbidities during a fortnight long TB and leprosy drive that begins from December 1,” Pawar said. Dr Balasaheb Gadve, health officer of Khed, said, “On an average, we have recorded 25 new cases per day for the last two weeks. We are getting cases mainly from industrial towns.” Haveli’s health officer Dr Sachin Kharat reported similar numbers of average daily infections for the last two weeks. “But recoveries are also in the same range,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/tally-up-from-59-to-200-over-two-weeks-in-rural-belt/articleshow/79454645.cms||Sandip Dighe
November 28, 2020||Surat||Woman kills 18-month-old daughter, ends life at home in Surat||SURAT: A 29-year-old mother of an infant girl committed suicide by consuming some poisonous substance at her home in Surat on Thursday afternoon, leaving her family members shocked. Aarti Tarsaliya accused her in-laws and husband of harassment before dying at a private hospital. The Katargam police have registered a case in the incident and started investigations. According to the police, Aarti, a native of Bhavnagar, married Hitendra Tarsalia two years ago and moved to Surat. But since last few months she was very unhappy. Aarti told the police that her in-laws had been harassing her over petty issues, causing her mental torture. “So, Aarti left her in-laws’ home with her one-and-half-year old daughter and shifted to her maternal uncle’s home in Surat a year ago,” the police said. Aarti said in her complaint that her husband neither came to meet her nor agreed to give divorce. Tired of living such life, she first gave poison to her daughter and then consumed it herself. While the baby died before she could be treated, Aarti died on Thursday night. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/woman-kills-18-month-old-daughter-ends-life-at-home/articleshow/79452354.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: Rs 50,000 surety amount sought for release of detained farmers||CHANDIGARH: The executive magistrates in Haryana have imposed the condition of furnishing surety amount of Rs 50,000 — an amount normally imposed by courts for bail of those facing serious charges, for the release of farmers detained in view of ongoing protest. A large number of farmer leaders in Haryana were picked up by the police in various parts of the state regarding the protest against new farm laws. All of them were taken into preventive detention and booked under section 107 and 151 of the criminal procedure code (CrPc). As sub-divisional magistrates (SDMs) is empowered to grant bail to those arrested under these sections, many of such farmer leaders reportedly could not be released on bail on account of the condition of high surety sought to be furnished by the magistrates. The issue of high amount of surety was also raked up before the Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday. When the petition related to farmers’ detention came up for hearing before the court, advocate Pardeep Rapria, who has been representing a farmer union, informed the HC about the condition of high amount of surety bond being imposed for farmers release. Rapria stated that in such cases normally the accused are released on personal surety of maximum of Rs 10,000 but only to ensure the farmers are not released early, the magistrates had been imposing conditions of Rs 50,000 surety amount for their release. Advocate Rajiv Godara, state president of Swaraj India, alleged that apart from imposing the condition of high surety bonds, some unusual tactics were being adopted by the district administrations to ensure delay in release of farmer leaders. “In the case of Sirsa district based farmer Prahlad Singh Bharukheda, initially the SDM ordered to release him on 50,000 surety but later the condition was imposed for his verification report and ultimately when all conditions were fulfilled, the local SDM was not accessible to his family members for two days for passing his release orders,” he said. “Such tactics are being adopted only to ensure delay in their release,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rs-50k-surety-amount-sought-for-release-of-detained-farmers/articleshow/79454644.cms||Ajay Sura
November 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Hetero to produce 100m Sputnik shots||HYDERABAD: Pharma player Hetero Labs has joined hands with Russia’s sovereign wealth fund, Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), to manufacture over 100 million doses of Russian Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V in India. Sputnik V will be manufactured by Hetero’s biologics arm Hetero Biopharma at Jadcherla in Telangana, where production of the vaccine is slated to commence in the first quarter of 2021, Hetero said on Friday. Though the agreement is primarily focused on manufacturing for the Indian market, it is open ended and a global supply later cannot be ruled out, a Hetero Labs spokesperson said. “We have enough capacities to produce over 100 million doses,” the Hetero spokesperson added. RDIF said it has received requests for over 1.2 billion doses of Sputnik V from over 50 countries and that vaccine supplies for the global market will be produced by RDIF’s international partners in India, Brazil, China, South Korea, among others. RDIF already has a tie-up with Hyderabad-based pharma giant Dr Reddy’s Laboratories for conducting Phase 2/3 clinical trials for Sputnik V and for distribution of 100 million doses of the vaccine in the Indian market. The Russian vaccine has already received approval of the Indian drug regulators for Phase 2/3 clinical trials even as Phase 3 trials are underway in Belarus, the UAE, Venezuela and other countries. RDIF CEO Kirill Dmitriev said the tie-up with Hetero will pave the way for production of Sputnik V vaccine in India. “The vaccine’s interim clinical trial results show 95% efficacy on the 42nd day after the first dose. Thanks to our cooperation with Hetero, we will be able to significantly increase production capacity and provide people of India with an efficient solution in this challenging period of the pandemic,” he said. Hetero Labs Ltd director- international marketing, B Murali Krishna Reddy, said while the clinical trial results in India are awaited, manufacturing the product locally would be crucial to enabling patients to get swift access to the vaccine. RDIF and the Gamaleya National Center of Epidemiology and Microbiology had announced on November 24 that they have obtained positive results during the second interim data analysis of the largest double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled Phase III clinical trials of Sputnik V in Russia’s history involving 40,000 volunteers. RDIF said the interim trial results confirmed the high efficacy of the Sputnik V vaccine, which is touted as the world’s first registered vaccine against coronavirus based on the human adenoviral vectors platform. “Evaluation of efficacy was carried out among volunteers (n = 18,794) 28 days after receiving the first dose (7 days after the second dose) of the vaccine or placebo upon reaching the second control point of the trial in compliance with the clinical trial protocol. The analysis demonstrated a 91.4% efficacy rate for the Sputnik V vaccine,” RDIF said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hetero-to-produce-100m-sputnik-shots/articleshow/79456293.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
November 28, 2020||Kolkata||B’deshi patients trickle back as travel curbs ease||Kolkata: Patients from Bangladesh, who are a major source of revenue for several private hospitals in Kolkata, have started trickling back. There has been a surge in their number in November and it could continue over the next few weeks even as relaxation of travel curbs and the need for emergency treatment makes the fear of Covid recede, believe hospital authorities. Flow of Bangladeshi patients had dried up after borders were closed and international flights stopped last March. Soon after the borders reopened, a few emergency patients visited. But the number remained low till the second half of November. “We saw a sudden surge post-Diwali and it continues. At present, we have 11 Bangladeshi patients admitted for treatment while the outpatient department has had around 10-11 from Bangladesh daily over the last fortnight. It’s gradually increasing and we expect the number to double by December-end,” said Peerless Hospital CEO Sudipta Mitra. Peerless received around 45 OPD patients from the neighbouring country everyday till Covid struck. “In addition, we had at least 15 in-patients at any given time,” added Mitra. At RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS), too, patients from Bangladesh are back. The hospital would receive more than 6,000 Bangladeshi patients a month till March. There has been ‘a substantial increase in patients from Bangladesh coming to our OPDs this month, according to RTIICS zonal director R Venkatesh. “More than 600 Bangladeshi patients are expected to visit our OPD this month. We expect the number to rise in December. But, these numbers are far from what they were before the pandemic,” said Venkatesh. He added that it will take some time to regain those sort of footfalls since travel restrictions are still in place and number of non-Covid beds has gone down. “This month, we have had around 25 inpatients from Bangladesh so far. Both the outpatient and inpatient numbers are at around 10% of the pre-Covid numbers,” said Venkatesh. AMRI Hospital has seen its Bangladeshi patient count rise to 15 inpatients and 35 OPD patients a day this month. The authorities expect it to rise by at least 10% in December. AMRI CEO Rupak Barua said they had more than 40 inpatients from Bangladesh across its three units till Covid struck. While Bangladeshi patients are trickling back at Medica Superspecialty Hospital, their number has been less than a dozen a day so far. But it will steadily rise, felt chairperson Alok Roy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bdeshi-patients-trickle-back-as-travel-curbs-ease/articleshow/79454661.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
November 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Railway union members protest against transfer of drivers||Ludhiana: Members and office bearers of Northern Railway Men’s Union (NRMU) on Friday staged a protest against senior railway officials for transferring some drivers without any justification. The protest is going on at all the railway stations under Ferozepur Division. At Ludhiana, the protesters gathered near loco lobby and shouted slogans demanding acceptance of their demands. NRMU leaders Gaurav Sharma, Mahender Singh Meena and Ashok Kumar said, “Recently some of the drivers of our division were transferred to Budgam, which is not justified and all the members of NRMU have agreed that until these transfers are cancelled we will keep up with our protest everywhere. Today, we got overwhelming response from all the members and office bearers of the organisation, as almost everyone joined this protest, which has been organised against the atrocities of high ranking officials. This is our warning to the department that if the transfers of drivers are not rolled back, our agitation will turn into a movement and it will be difficult for the department to handle it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/railway-union-members-protest-against-transfer-of-drivers/articleshow/79454659.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Reaching Delhi by breaking barricades a victory for farmers: YAD||Ludhiana: Above party lines, the large number of Youth Akali Dal (YAD) leaders and workers also joined the agitation of farmers in Delhi. YAD district president Gurdeep Singh Gosha said the centre and Haryana governments failed to stop the farmers and it is the first victory for farmers. “Now, the government should understand that the farmers will not end the agitation till three agriculture laws are taken back,” he added. Gosha said he along with Prabhjot Singh Dhaliwal and others joined the protest to support farmers. According to him, farmers have created history and they will take the issue to a logical end. Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) had snapped ties with BJP government in support of farmers and in future also they will continue support to farmers, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/reaching-delhi-by-breaking-barricades-a-victory-for-farmers-yad/articleshow/79454655.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 28, 2020||Pune||Pune: Many Covid-recovered patients opt for flu shot to avoid further lung damage||PUNE: Many patients suffering from moderate to severe Covid-19 and likely to have suffered lung damage are opting for flu shots after recovery. This is to avoid further harm to the lungs if they are infected with the influenza virus at a later stage. Experts claimed that flu vaccines reduced the risk of flu illness, hospitalisation and death. Getting a flu vaccine this winter was more important to reduce the risk of flu as seasonal influenza viruses were known to catch people with weaker immunity, they stressed. “It is likely that the flu virus and the virus that causes Covid-19 will both spread this winter. Most of the flu activity peaks between December and January,” said Ruby Hall Clinic's physician Abhijit Lodha. SARS-CoV-2 that causes Covid-19 and seasonal influenza viruses that cause flu illness have all been known to cause respiratory complications. They mainly attack the lungs. Lodha has administered flu shots to over 150 Covid-recovered patients so far. “It is crucial to protect the already-damaged lungs because of Covid infection from flu — easily preventable through a shot,” he said. As the symptoms of flu and Covid-19 are similar, it may be hard to tell the difference between them based on symptoms alone. Hence, testing may be needed to help confirm a diagnosis. Everyone, six months and older, should get the influenza vaccine. It takes two weeks after the vaccination to develop antibodies that provide protection against flu. “So, this is the right time for people to receive a flu shot. People who are sick with Covid-19 should also be vaccinated for flu once they recover,” Lodha said. There are different strains of flu viruses, which change every year. The composition of flu vaccines is reviewed annually and updated as needed to match the circulating flu viruses. “Hence, it is important to take the updated version of flu vaccine every year. People should also opt for the vaccine against pneumonia (pneumococcal vaccine) for more protection,” Lodha said. Sahyadri hospital’s senior physician Atul Joshi also vouched for the urgency of the flu vaccine in the current winter scenario and the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. “The flu shot is key to save the lungs from second injury by flu illness. I have given it to over 200 Covid-recovered patients so far,” Joshi said. Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital’s senior physician Narendra Javadekar advised flu vaccine to every individual with underlying medical conditions. “Preventing flu and its complication is the objective behind flu shot. It is advisable that every recovered patient should opt for it,” Javadekar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/many-covid-recovered-patients-opt-for-flu-shot-to-avoid-further-lung-damage/articleshow/79454657.cms||Umesh Isalkar
November 28, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC polls: Parties ride on freebies, but where’s the money?||HYDERABAD: Desperate to win the GHMC elections, major political parties are promising the moon to voters. But, many of the promises are unlikely to be fulfilled as they require thousands of crores of rupees which neither the corporation nor the state government have. According to one estimate, GHMC will need at least Rs 1 lakh crore to meet most of the promises that parties have listed in their manifestos. “GHMC’s yearly budget is Rs 5,600 crore and property tax is a major source of revenue which is about Rs 1,800 crore. How are the parties going to provide funds for keeping their promises?” Sudhir Jalagam, an RTI activist, wondered. Times ViewThe Election Commission had said some years ago that it would monitor manifestos and act against parties that promise everything under the sun. But officials soon realized it was a gargantuan task and gave up. It is now left to us voters to let parties know that our vote is conditional – if a majority of the promises are not kept five years down the line, the candidate should not get our vote. The cycle of making impractical promises every five years must stop.In fact, GHMC is facing a financial crisis and managing projects by availing loans from financial institutions and by floating bonds. Read AlsoGHMC polls: BJP leaders will come anywhere to end corruption, says JP NaddaClaiming that the time has come for TRS to go from the state, BJP national president JP Nadda on Friday said that his party leaders will come anywhere to secure a win for the party and end corruption.Even the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) is in financial trouble. Forum for Good Governance secretary, M Padmanabha Reddy, said despite the Election Commission of India’s direction to the political parties not to make impracticable promises, such promises were made. Read AlsoGHMC elections 2020: AIMIM woos all communities in Old CityIn a bid to reach out to more voters, AIMIM candidates are now conducting meetings with members of Agarwal, Bengali and Sikh communities in the Old City. AIMIM strongholds Ghansi Bazar, Shali Banda, Charminar, Puranapul and Jambagh have a sizeable population of people from these communities.TRS, BJP and Congress announced in their manifestos that they would provide financial assistance to flood-affected families, free drinking water, power tariff, waiver of property tax, construction of 2BHK houses, Metro Rail connectivity and many other promises. Read AlsoTelangana: 49 candidates in GHMC polls have criminal recordAs many as 49 candidates belonging to four major contesting parties in the Greater Hyderabad civic polls have criminal record.The state government had already disbursed about Rs 650 crore as part of Rs 10,000 aid to six lakh flood-hit families, while BJP and Congress offered Rs 25,000 and Rs 50,000 respectively to each family. The cost is likely to be around Rs 1,500 crore to Rs 2,000 crore. Read AlsoGHMC elections: What Hyderabad wantsTOI's call for a voters' manifesto received an overwhelming response from readers. Here are the top 10 civic issues that they want parties, contesting in this election to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, to focus onWhile the BJP said it would provide free drinking water and connections to the people, Congress promised to give water up to 30,000 litres a month. If the promises are to be kept, the HMWS&SB will lose about Rs 1,000 crore a year of its total revenue. There are about 11 lakh connections in the city. Read AlsoGHMC polls: MIM fields 5 Hindus based on ‘local conditions’All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM), which is dubbed as the Old City and Muslim party, has fielded five Hindu candidates in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections.“Sixty to 70% of our revenue goes to power charges. We have been asking the state government to waive power charges. If our revenue is impacted, we will struggle to pay even salaries. With free water connections, we will lose about Rs 5 crore revenue through connection charges if it is implemented. The Water Board is not part of GHMC,” a senior official told TOI. Read AlsoHyderabad: To reboot citizens’ lives, techies step out to crack political codeLeaving their high-paying IT jobs behind, several techies in the city have forayed into politics in the ensuing Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections to try and resolve civic issues.TRS also offered free power to hair saloons and dhobi ghats. BJP and Congress went a step ahead and offered free power to those who use 100 units and waiver of charges during pandemic. This at a time when power distribution companies are facing a Rs 10,000-crore debt and the government was struggling to release subsidy to the discoms. Property tax waiver is another major poll promise. TRS had already announced 50% tax waiver for those paying up to Rs 15,000 a year for the current financial year. BJP offered tax waiver to all SC colonies and slums, while Congress promised 100% property tax and MV tax waiver during the lockdown period and no property tax for 2BHK houses, houses in slums and houses built in 80 square yards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/parties-ride-on-freebies-but-wheres-the-money/articleshow/79456298.cms||Koride Mahesh
November 28, 2020||Kochi||Tiger cub found abandoned in PTR||Idukki: A sixty-day-old female tiger cub was rescued near Mangala Devi temple on border with Tamil Nadu inside Periyar Tiger Reserve (PTR). The tiger cub was suspected to have been abandoned by its mother, according to PTR officials. The cub was found on November 21 and the officials monitored its movements over the next two days. After the presence of its mother was not noticed in the area, the cub was shifted to a temporary shelter near to the temple as per the direction of assistant forest veterinary doctor Syam Chandran. The forest department has been providing treatment to the animal as per the guidance of the forest veterinary doctor, according to Periyar Tiger Reserve East division deputy director. The procedures were carried out as per guidelines of National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) as well, said the deputy director. The health condition of the cub is not fully normal now. The forest department installed camera traps in the area to find the mother. A joint search was also conducted with the staff of the Meghamala forest in Tamil Nadu as the cub was found on the border forest area between the two states. “Normally tigers will not abandon their cubs and it shows that something has happened to the mother. The camera traps and field inspection will give an answer to it,” former director of Kerala Forest Research Institute and wildlife expert Dr P S Essa said. The forest department plans to release the cub with its mother after tracing the animal. According to latest tiger census, the PTR hosts 35 to 40 tigers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/tiger-cub-found-abandoned-in-ptr/articleshow/79453445.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Goa||Cattle in Canacona to get radium belts||Poinguinim: Radium neck belts are being placed on over 150 stray cattle in Canacona, in a joint effort by citizens of a voluntary organisation and the Shristhal biodiversity management committee (BMC). The idea is to prevent the cattle from getting hit at night by speeding vehicles on the national highway that passes through Canacona. Volunteers of the Kamdhenu Goraksha Seva Saunstha, Canacona, started the drive four days ago. They tied the reflective belt on cattle found loitering on NH 66 near Chaudi. BMC Shristhal then extended its support along with like-minded persons. The volunteers are now covering the areas around Hanuman temple Chaudi, Patnem and Char Rasta. “The BMC is happy to note that many people are coming forward to be volunteers in this project and they are helping in covering more areas where stray cattle have made their dwelling. It is rather sad to note that owners haveshunned their responsibility leaving these cattle to fend for themselves,” BMC’s Shrish Pai said. The drive, said the volunteers, is meant to protect the lives of the stray cattle, who bear the brunt of speeding vehicles, as also motorists, who may become victims of accidents due to the animals not being visible at night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cattle-in-canacona-to-get-radium-belts/articleshow/79455545.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Gurgaon||Delhi: Travel borders on madness amid protests||NEW DELHI: From office goers and families that needed to reach Indira Gandhi International Airport or New Delhi Railway Station, people crossing the borders of Delhi from and into NCR cities were hit by a triple whammy on Friday: choked borders, exorbitant cab and auto fares and suspension of Delhi Metro services. Police curtailed movement at several places to prevent protesting farmers from entering the capital. Later in the day, when the farmers were given permission to come to Delhi, some of chaos eased out. By then, however, commuters had suffered. “I travel for work from Gurugram to Connaught Place. Aware of the traffic jams yesterday, I left two hours earlier than usual, but still ended up a couple of hours late,” said Kunal Bhatnagar. “We were totally stuck at the border and then at several spots in between. Returning home was another big problem.” A traffic police officer said that the borders at Dhansa, Jharoda Kalan, Tikri, Gurugram, Singhu and Chilla were closed for traffic movement due to the farmers’ protest. Apart from this, sections of Outer Ring Road, Mukarba Chowk, GT Karnal Road and NH 44 were also closed. There was heavy deployment of police at DND Flyway and the borders at Chilla, Tigri, Bahadurgarh, Faridabad, Kalindi Kunj and Singhu. At Huda City Centre metro station in Gurugram, factory worker Chandan Kumar was in great stress because he had to catch a train to Patna from Anand Vihar at 6pm. “But the cabs are asking for Rs 800 and even if I pay his astronomical sum, I’m not sure I will get there in time with the traffic congestion on the border,” Kumar fretted. At the Gurugram border, Anjali Yadav, a nurse who had just finished her 12-hour night shift at a private city hospital, was wondering how to get home to Saket. “I didn’t know anything about the protest. I will have to ask my brother to pick me up. I have no other means of transport,” she grumbled. In Noida too, long snarls were witnessed at the Chilla border, Jhundpura and DND as both Delhi Police and Noida Police put up barricades. Ramesh Kumar, who was going to Mayur Vihar from Noida, said, “The barricades at Chilla left little space for cars, resulting in huge jams. I had to idle there for 30 minutes.” Gagan Singh, a private firm executive going to Moti Nagar in west Delhi was similarly stuck for over 20 minutes. Tailbacks up to 2km were seen on DND Flyway till 11.30am, after which traffic eased following the farmers being allowed to enter Delhi. Protestors representing over 30 farm bodies had called a Dilli Chalo march to press their demand for the repeal of the recently enacted farm laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/travel-borders-on-madness-amid-protests/articleshow/79456785.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Travel borders on madness amid protests||NEW DELHI: From office goers and families that needed to reach Indira Gandhi International Airport or New Delhi Railway Station, people crossing the borders of Delhi from and into NCR cities were hit by a triple whammy on Friday: choked borders, exorbitant cab and auto fares and suspension of Delhi Metro services. Police curtailed movement at several places to prevent protesting farmers from entering the capital. Later in the day, when the farmers were given permission to come to Delhi, some of chaos eased out. By then, however, commuters had suffered. “I travel for work from Gurugram to Connaught Place. Aware of the traffic jams yesterday, I left two hours earlier than usual, but still ended up a couple of hours late,” said Kunal Bhatnagar. “We were totally stuck at the border and then at several spots in between. Returning home was another big problem.” A traffic police officer said that the borders at Dhansa, Jharoda Kalan, Tikri, Gurugram, Singhu and Chilla were closed for traffic movement due to the farmers’ protest. Apart from this, sections of Outer Ring Road, Mukarba Chowk, GT Karnal Road and NH 44 were also closed. There was heavy deployment of police at DND Flyway and the borders at Chilla, Tigri, Bahadurgarh, Faridabad, Kalindi Kunj and Singhu. At Huda City Centre metro station in Gurugram, factory worker Chandan Kumar was in great stress because he had to catch a train to Patna from Anand Vihar at 6pm. “But the cabs are asking for Rs 800 and even if I pay his astronomical sum, I’m not sure I will get there in time with the traffic congestion on the border,” Kumar fretted. At the Gurugram border, Anjali Yadav, a nurse who had just finished her 12-hour night shift at a private city hospital, was wondering how to get home to Saket. “I didn’t know anything about the protest. I will have to ask my brother to pick me up. I have no other means of transport,” she grumbled. In Noida too, long snarls were witnessed at the Chilla border, Jhundpura and DND as both Delhi Police and Noida Police put up barricades. Ramesh Kumar, who was going to Mayur Vihar from Noida, said, “The barricades at Chilla left little space for cars, resulting in huge jams. I had to idle there for 30 minutes.” Gagan Singh, a private firm executive going to Moti Nagar in west Delhi was similarly stuck for over 20 minutes. Tailbacks up to 2km were seen on DND Flyway till 11.30am, after which traffic eased following the farmers being allowed to enter Delhi. Protestors representing over 30 farm bodies had called a Dilli Chalo march to press their demand for the repeal of the recently enacted farm laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/travel-borders-on-madness-amid-protests/articleshow/79454665.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Man who turned off water cannon was also booked||Ambala: Video of 26-year-old Navdeep Singh, who climbed atop a police vehicle to turn off a water cannon during the farmer agitation on Wednesday on the National Highway (NH) 44, is being shared widely on social media. The incident had taken place while police were trying to stop Haryana farmers from breaking barricades at Mohra village in Ambala Cantonment and proceed to Delhi to join others in protest there. Navdeep, son of local farmer activist Jai Singh of Jalbera village of Ambala district, is among those booked under charges of the attempt to murder, rioting, and violation of Covid-19 norms with Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) Haryana president Gurnam Singh Charuni. The case was registered at Parao police station on Thursday. In the video, Navdeep can be seen climbing atop a Varun (water cannon vehicle) and turning the tap off and jumping back on a tractor-trolley. The incident took place near grain market of Mohra village. It couldn’t be learnt if Navdeep was booked for the episode recorded on video or some other event that happened during the protest. While talking to TOI, Navdeep who completed graduation in 2015 from Kurukshetra University and started working with his father on their farm fields, said, “I climbed on top of water cannon truck from a tractor-trolley and after reaching the tap, I turned it off. A policeman also climbed up while chasing me but by that time, my brother brought his tractor near and I jumped on to it. The police hit me on my legs but I have no anger as they are doing their job and we are doing ours.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/man-who-turned-off-water-cannon-was-also-booked/articleshow/79454664.cms||Jaskaran Singh
November 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Amarinder Singh welcomes decision to let farmers enter Delhi||CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Friday welcomed the Centre’s decision to allow the agitating farmers to enter Delhi, but slammed the Manohar Lal Khattar government in Haryana for its continued use of force to stop farmers even after the Centre’s conciliatory move. “Though the central government has allowed the farmers to enter the national capital to exercise their democratic right to protest, the Haryana government is engaged in a confrontational approach against the farmers moving towards Delhi,” said Capt Amarinder. “What’s the need for such harsh measures? This barbarism needs to stop right now @mlkhattar ji,” Amarinder wrote on Twitter. He expressed shock at the methods used by the Khattar government in their desperate bid to stop the farmers, including destruction of public property by digging up the national highway. “The farmers did not inflict even an iota of damage to any public property over the past three months of their protest, and here is a state government that is brazenly and shamelessly digging up roads made of public money,” he said. Capt Amarinder also reiterated his appeal to the Centre to initiate immediate talks to address farmers’ concerns on the agriculture laws and resolve the simmering issue. “Having taken the first step towards finding a peaceful and amicable solution to the problem, the Centre should now move quickly towards holding further talks with the farmers’ unions to thrash out the problem triggered by the agricultural legislations which have threatened the lives and livelihoods of the farmers,” he added. He, meanwhile, expressed “appreciation for the remarkable restraint shown by farmers in face of the Khattar government and Haryana police’s brutality”. Saying that farmers refused to be provoked and had not created any law and order problem even after being subjected to tear gas and sprays of water in such cold weather, Amarinder said this showed that all the farmers desired was to take their voice to Delhi. Farmers were neither misguided nor out to create any problems for the people of India, he added, urging the Government of India to accede to their demand for a legal provision to assure continuation of MSP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/capt-welcomes-decision-to-let-farmers-enter-delhi/articleshow/79454662.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Patna||Bihar: BJP names Sushil Kumar Modi for Rajya Sabha seat||PATNA: BJP on Friday named former Bihar deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi (SuMo) as its candidate for the byelection to a Rajya Sabha seat from the state. The seat fell vacant after the demise of LJP founder Ram Vilas Paswan. “The BJP’s central election committee has approved only one name — Sushil Kumar Modi — as its candidate for the Rajya Sabha bypoll in Bihar,” party’s national general secretary Arun Singh said. SuMo’s election to the Upper House of Parliament is almost certain as the BJP-led NDA has a clear majority in the state assembly. The NDA has 125 MLAs in the 243-member assembly, while the RJD-led Mahagathbandhan has 110 MLAs. Voting for the lone RS seat will be held on December 14, if the rival Mahagathbandhan decides to contest the bypoll. With the LJP is out of the Bihar unit of the NDA after its decision to fight the recent assembly elections on its own in a bid to target CM Nitish Kumar-led JD(U), the BJP leadership decided to reclaim the seat which it had offered to Paswan from its quota as part of the seat-sharing agreement for the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. After BJP decided not to make SuMo the state deputy CM again, it was widely speculated that he would be sent to the Rajya Sabha. SuMo had been the deputy CM in all the Nitish Kumar -led NDA government in state till 2020 elections. SuMo is an MLC now. The saffron party instead chose its two lesser known leaders — Katihar MLA Tarkishore Prasad and Bettiah legislator Renu Devi as his replacement in what was seen as an attempt by the party to infuse a new crop of leadership in the state. Now, as the party has decided to make him the Rajya Sabha member, many in the BJP feel that SuMo, given his vast experience as the state’s finance minister, might be given a berth in the Union Cabinet in its next expansion. “Few might have got from the BJP and the RSS as much as I did in my 40 years of a political career. I will fulfil whatever responsibility that comes my way in future. Nobody can, after all, snatch away from me the post of a party worker,” Modi had tweeted soon after BJP decided not to name him CM Nitish’s deputy again. The former deputy CM against dropped a bombshell this week when he claimed that RJD chief Lalu Prasad called BJP MLA Lallan Paswan to abstain from voting in the election for the legislative assembly Speaker’s post.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjp-names-sumo-for-rajya-sabha-seat/articleshow/79453446.cms||Madan Kumar
November 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||82 foreign students enrol in Gujarat Technological University||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat Technological University has enrolled 82 foreign students from as many as 22 countries amid the Covid pandemic. GTU on Friday said in a press statement that it is the only technological varsity in Gujarat to draw such a large number of foreign students. The Government of Gujarat, having realized the importance of bringing more diversity into classrooms, has under its ‘Study in Gujarat’ initiative rolled out a strategy to attract more foreign students to the state. Since 2013, GTU has been at the forefront of enrolling foreign students in its campuses, the varsity said. “GTU has always been at the vanguard of technical education at the national and international levels,” GTU vice-chancellor Naveen Sheth said. “As a result, it has become the first choice for foreign students over the past three consecutive years.” So far, more than 828 students from 48 countries have studied at GTU. The 82 foreign students admitted this year are from countries such as Afghanistan, Namibia, Mozambique, Angola, Bangladesh, Ethiopia, Kenya, South Sudan, Switzerland, and Uganda. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/82-foreign-students-enrol-in-gtu/articleshow/79454667.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Kolhapur||Parties seek educational institutes’ support in polls||KOLHAPUR: Political parties are looking for the support of educational institutes to get votes for their candidates contesting the Pune division graduates’ and teachers’ constituency election. The parties are holding meetings with operators of educational institutes in the constituencies covering Pune, Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur and Solapur districts. Candidates of both major political fronts — the MVA and BJP — are sugar barons this time. Though most of the educational institutes are operated by the functionaries of Congress and NCP, the graduates’ and teachers’ constituencies have remained electorally unconquered. Prakash Pawar, a political expert and professor of political science at the Shivaji University, said, “For this election, the voters are all graduates and teachers. Despite most institutions having a Congress or NCP connection, the voters here have largely favoured the BJP candidate mainly because the teachers and the staff at these institutes are against the operators. Also, there have been internal differences among both the parties. However this time, both Congress and NCP are working in tandem and holding meetings with educational institutes and directly connecting with the voters.” The Rayat Shikshan Sanstha, which runs a network of schools and colleges in the region, has extended support to the MVA candidates. The private institutes owned by ministers and MLAs of Congress and NCP are leaving no stone unturned to get the votes. The Pune district has more than 4 lakh voters of the 5.35 lakh voters in the graduates’ constituency. It also has the highest number of teachers registered for the teachers’ constituency. “Congress and NCP are trying to make up for the likely loss of votes in the Pune district by convincing the voters from the rest of the districts in the constituency. This time there will be a close contest. Also, some of independent candidates have a strong presence in the constituency and it will be interesting to which candidate will suffer due to their votes,” added Pawar. The voting will take place on December 1. Despite several attempts, most of the independents have remained in fray.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/parties-seek-educational-institutes-support-in-polls/articleshow/79449573.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Delhi||AAP MLAs back farmers, Delhi govt ensures facilities in Burari||NEW DELHI: AAP MLAs on Friday extended their support to the farmers who are protesting against the Centre new farm laws, while Delhi government made arrangements at Sant Nirankari Samagam ground in north Delhi’s Burari where the farmers have been allowed to protest. Delhi Jal Board (DJB) vice-chairman and MLA Raghav Chadha reviewed the arrangements on the ground along with Burari MLA Sanjeev Jha and instructed the authorities to provide facilities to the protesting farmers. “We extend a warm welcome to our farmers, to those hard-working individuals who put food on our tables. AAP has made every possible arrangement to make them feel welcome and comfortable,” he said. Revenue minister Kailash Gahlot instructed the divisional commissioner to make arrangements for water, mobile toilets and sanitation at the Nirankari ground, apart from ensuring adequate accommodation keeping in view the winter season and the pandemic situation. He also directed revenue officials to ensure that arrangements were made and strict protocol was followed for prevention of the spread of Covid-19. “The BJP-government used tear gas, water cannons, containers and even built trenches to prevent the farmers from marching towards Delhi for their rights. The right to protest is the hallmark of a free and democratic society, and the Arvind Kejriwal government will take every possible step to uphold this right,” Chadha said. Chadha added that DJB had appointed nodal officers to ensure proper supply of drinking water to the protesters through tankers. “All possible arrangements with respect to food and shelter have been made. In addition, every AAP MLA will take steps to help our farmers. The Kejriwal government supports the protesting farmers,” he said. “While the BJP government is using water cannons on those who are responsible for feeding each of us, the Kejriwal government has made arrangements of drinking water tankers for our farmers,” said the DJB vice-chairperson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-mlas-back-farmers-delhi-govt-ensures-facilities-in-burari/articleshow/79454679.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Kozhikode||Calicut University to commence private registration of students||KOZHIKODE: Calicut University has decided to commence private registration of students following the delay in obtaining UGC approval for offering courses under distance education mode. CU, which has the largest number of students in state under distance education mode at 1.5 lakh, had not applied for extending UGC recognition of its open and distance learning (ODL) programmes for the current academic year in view of the setting up of open university by the government. But, it decided to take steps to resume ODL courses after the high court stayed the provisions in Sree Narayana Guru Open University ordinance that prohibited other varsities from offering distance education courses. Following the impasse in commencement of courses by open university, government had granted tacit approval to Kerala University and Calicut University to offer distance education courses following which CU then submitted an application to UGC seeking approval for offering UG and PG courses for January 2021 academic session under distance education mode. UGC had in October granted continuation of recognition of ODL programmes of Kerala University for one more year from July 2020. CU syndicate has decided to resume private registration of students and they will be shifted to the distance education programme as soon as UGC nod is obtained. "We are proceeding with private registration to ensure that students will not lose their academic year. We are hopeful of getting UGC approval for our distance education courses and students admitted under private mode will then be shifted to distance education stream," said syndicate member Ugin Morely, who is also convener of the standing committee on distance education aid. He added that the private registration of students will commence in December.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/cu-to-commence-private-registration-of-students/articleshow/79453454.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Amritsar||Dhindsa writes to NHRC over use of ‘brute force’||BATHINDA: Shiromani Akali Dal (Democratic) president Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa has written to the National Human Rights Commission chairperson against the central and Haryana governments, accusing them of using force against the farmers who were heading towards Delhi to protest the three recent agricultural laws. Condemning the “brutality”, the Rajya Sabha member said on Friday the governments had denied the right of farmers to protest peacefully by sealing borders and obstructing their movement. “The farmers who were protesting peacefully suffered physical, as well as, financial loss as they were lathi-charged,” he alleged, adding that at many places, their tractor-trolleys and trucks were also impounded and many farmers were even implicated in false cases. In his letter, Dhindsa stated that the “immoral acts by the governments were in violation of human rights” and in view of these concerns action had been sought against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/dhindsa-writes-to-nhrc-over-use-of-brute-force/articleshow/79454666.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Trichy||Govt machinery intensifies cyclone damage assessment||Trichy: A day after Cyclone Nivar spared the central Tamil Nadu with mild damage; the official machinery intensified the process of assessing the extent of the damage caused by the rain and wind induced by the storm on Friday. The state government appointed monitoring officer for Nagappattinam and the recently bifurcated Mayiladuthurai districts C Munianathan, Nagappattinam district collector Pravin P Nair, special officer for Mayiladuthurai district R Lalitha visited the rain-ravaged Keelaiyur and Melaiyur in Poombuhar Taluk in Nagappattinam districts.Rain water inundated over 100 acres of paddy crops in Keelaiyur and Melaiyur villages, said Pravin Nair, adding that the necessary steps were being taken to drain out the excess water from the fields. The agriculture department came to the rescue of the farmers by extending help. The technical experts demonstrated practical solutions that can be applied to bring the rain affected crops back to normal. Teams have been constituted to educate the people on techniques to evade the attack of pests, said the district collector. Besides setting up teams to check the positions of the agriculture fields across the district, the district administration has also asked the teams to assess the extent of damage to the crops beyond redemption even after draining out the water in order to provide them with compensation. Being one of the few districts expected to be hard hit by the cyclone after its landfall in the early hours on Thursday, Nagappattinam was spared by the storm coupled with rain and wind. The coastal district evacuated over 50,000 people from the vulnerable areas and accommodated in the relief centres on Wednesday. The assessment of the damage to the agriculture fields and the materials in Thanjavur and Tiruvarur districts were also carried out. Unlike previous years, Perambalur district had to face the wrath of the cyclone to some extent. Huts of 13 residents in Kunnam taluk in the district were damaged in the wind. Under the state disaster management fund, the residents were given Rs 4,100 each totalling Rs 53,300 to restore the huts. A compensation of Rs 30,000 each to two milch cows and Rs 3,000 to a goat which were electrocuted and killed in wall collapse respectively on Thursday, were given to their owners by the district collector P Sri Venkata Priya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/govt-machinery-intensifies-cyclone-damage-assessment/articleshow/79456300.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Face-offs||Hyderabad: With only a few days remaining for campaigning, political parties have lined up interesting face-offs with their rivals. A look at distribution of roles in TRS, BJP and Congress indicate how big guns were given specific tasks. They were not only told to target a particular party or opposition leader but also up the ante in the run-up to the December 1 elections which analysts said is part of a calculated game. TRS working president KT Rama Rao is being billed as a ‘one-man army’ against the BJP. Right from roadshows to tweets, KTR has targeted the BJP. “KTR tries to match or go aggressive against the BJP on its Hinduva agenda and rebut charges on TRS-AIMIM alliance. Though ministers like Talasani Srinivas Yadav and V Srinivas Goud have also been raising their voice, it’s KTR all the way,” a political analyst said.  His sister and MLC K Kavitha has sharpened her attack on Congress party. Kavitha has been campaigning in Gandhi Nagar division. She is also active on Twitter countering statements of Congress leaders like Manikam Tagore. Though part of star campaigners’ list, Kavitha focuses on associations and communities. In the last few days, she met several community associations, including that of Munnur Kapu to which three faces of BJP — state chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar, Nizamabad MP D Arvind and former state president Dr K Laxman — belong. Minister Harish Rao is taking care of divisions that come under Medak segment. On the other hand, Sanjay and Arvind are leaving no stone unturned to highlight a strong Hindutva agenda. They also target the TRS and AIMIM. “Union MoS for home G Kishan Reddy talks to other parties’ leaders who are ready to jump into the BJP. He also attacks TRS on its failure to deliver 2016 poll promises,” a party leader said. Dr Laxman, MLC N Ramchander Rao and senior leader DK Aruna have been conducting roadshows. In the Congress, the most heard voice is that of Malkajgiri MP A Revanth Reddy. Though confined to his Parliament seat, Revanth asks voters to ensure party win in at least 30 divisions. To counter Revanth, BJP asked Dubbak MLA Ragunandan Rao to campaign in Malkajgiri. PPC chief Uttam Kumar Reddy’s focus has been to take on KCR, KTR and BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/face-offs/articleshow/79454684.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 28, 2020||Aurangabad||Accidents galore on new stretch of Solapur-Dhule NH||AURANGABAD: With the four-laning work along the entire stretch of the Aurangabad-Yedashi section of the Solapur-Dhule national highway (211) now complete, there have been many cases of over-speeding and road rages leading to road accidents, allege locals. Civic activists have pressed the need for deploying more speed-guns to discourage motorists from driving their vehciles at a high speed on the busy section of the new road, which has around 98 intersections. Santosh Nirmal, a resident of Malapuri village from Beed district that falls on the Aurangabad-Yedashi section, said both personal as well as commercial vehicles were driven at a very high speed. “I have never seen speed-guns operate on the busy road. Such poor vigilance encourages reckless driving,” he said. Civic activist Sharad Advant said the state highway police must swing into action before the Aurangabad-Yedashi section of NH-211 becomes another “death trap”. “There were many cases of overspeeding on the Pune-Mumbai expressway but now there are few such cases on that stretch due to the deployment of speed-guns. The authorities concerned must take quick steps before more human lives are lost,” he said. When contacted, superintendent of police for state highway, Pune range, Sanjay Jadhav said around 41,792 motorists have been punished so far since January this year for over-speeding and reckless driving on the aforementioned stretch. “The police personnel on the ground have been told to have zero tolerance for over-speeding. We have a few mobile units deployed on said stretch. More manpower will be deployed if the situation calls for it,” said Jadhav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/accidents-galore-on-new-stretch-of-solapur-dhule-nh/articleshow/79449595.cms||Prasad Joshi
November 28, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Stolen antique idols reinstalled in temple||TRICHY: The stolen antique metal idols of the Sri Rajagopalaswamy temple in Anandhamangalam in Nagapattinam district which were brought back to India recently from the the United Kingdom, were reinstated at the Ramar Sannathi of the temple on November 25. The idols of Ram, Sita and Lakshman were stolen more than four decades back and smuggled into the UK. The sannathi had been used for other idols after the three idols and a Hunuman idol were stolen from the temple in 1978. “We had kept the idols of alwars in the sannathi so far. After the return of the three idols, we have shifted them to some other location in the temple and kept this exclusively for Lord Rama,” executive officer of the temple S Sankareswari told TOI on Friday. She also added that the Hanuman idol will also be installed in the sannathi after its recovery from Singapore. On the safety of the idols, Sankareswari said that the number of security guards, surveillance cameras have been increased besides installing an additional burglary alarm in the temple. Co-founder of India Pride project S Vijay Kumar and his team were instrumental in tracing the three idols to a dealer in London. Acting on his inputs, the high commission of India (HCI) in London, Art and Antique unit of the London Metropolitan Police as well as the idol wing of Tamil Nadu police made efforts to bring back the idols. In fact, the HR&CE had planned to keep the idols in an iconic centre to avoid thefts. But, Kumar said that Anandamanglam residents have set an example by refusing to handover the murthis to the HR&CE. “They have shown better responsibility and understanding of our temple ecosystem than the so called custodians,” he said. Stating that a documented antiquity would be unsellable in the antiquity market, Kumar said, “A proper CCTV, strong room and security must be arranged as we cannot put our entire small village temple gods in icon centres fearing thieves.” On November 18, Union minister of state for tourism and culture (i/c) Prahlad Singh Patel handed over the idols to the additional director general of police (ADGP) idol wing CID of Tamil Nadu, Abhay Kumar Singh. The idols were taken to the temple on November 21. “In fact, we planned to hold a grand function but due to the Cyclone Nivar, limited number of people only turned up,” Sankareswari said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/stolen-antique-idols-reinstated-in-rajagopalaswamy-temple/articleshow/79456301.cms||Gokul Rajendran
November 28, 2020||India||BJP hails judgments; respect HC, says Sena||MUMBAI: BJP member Devendra Fadnavis said the judgments pronounced by the Bombay HC in Kangana Ranaut’s case and by the Supreme Court in Arnab Goswami’s case were “a tight slap” for the Maha Vikas Aghadi government, while BJP MLA Atul Bhatkhalkar, who is the party’s in-charge for the 2022 civic elections, said compensation to be given to Ranaut must be paid by CM Uddhav Thackeray. Fadnavis said the twin judgments “describe the hopeless journey of the MVA in its first year”. “This should be an eye-opener for the MVA government, which should realise it cannot suppress and silence every voice raised against it the way it did recently by abuse of power,” he said. BJP state president Chandrakant Patil said even if the government has been formed “by deceit and disregarding people’s mandate,” one must govern as per the Constitution and within the framework of law. “One cannot run the government with the mentality of a roadside goon. The chief of the alliance should take lessons from this verdict and stop issuing threats through his mouthpiece,” Patil said. Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Raut said, “The action taken by the BMC related to her (Ranaut) was not wrong. However, I respect the HC and do not want to comment on the order.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-hails-judgments-respect-hc-says-sena/articleshow/79456682.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Trichy||Traders rejoice, but residents upset with reopening of Gandhi market||Trichy: After eight months, the Gandhi market resumed operations on Friday after the Madras high court granted stay on the order shutting down the market. While the traders’ fraternity expressed happiness at the reopening, residents and citizens welfare organisations have charged political parties for aligning with the traders and compromising the city’s growth, with an eye on the ensuing assembly elections. “Market relocation was former CM Jayalalithaa’s dream project to develop Trichy city. It is sad to note that the government is now compromising the interests of the entire city,” M Sekaran, president, federation of consumer service organisation said. “Wasting taxpayers’ money for vote bank politics is condemnable. The integrated bus terminus was also shelved the same way,” H Ghouse Baig, secretary of consumer protection council, Ponmalai branch said. The delay in relocating the market has disappointed a section of government officials too. An official on condition of anonymity said that they will explain to the court, which has sought reports from the district administration and corporation, the efforts and fund spent in adding amenities to the Kallikudi integrated market such as cold storage facility. Earlier in the day, district collector S Sivarasu, tourism minister Vellamandi Natarajan and corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian inspected the cleaning work in the market. Sivarasu insisted the traders to comply with the rules and refrain from causing traffic snarls. “Compliance of traders in waste handling is poor. The dumping of waste on roads is the main cause of traffic snarls,” a corporation official said. With the resumption of business in the Gandhi market, the civic body added that the status of redeveloping the existing structure is unlikely to make progress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/traders-rejoice-but-residents-upset-with-reopening-of-gandhi-market/articleshow/79456305.cms||Deepak Karthik
November 28, 2020||Trichy||British-era water pipelines in Trichy to undergo a revamp||Trichy: A tender has been floated by the Trichy Corporation to revamp the old city’s drinking water supply network by utilising the smart cities mission funds. The British-era pipelines and valves will be removed and replaced with new ones in 17 wards at a cost of Rs 54 crore in the next two years.“The revamping work will be executed in six phases, for which a tender has been floated. The old iron pipelines shall be phased out, high-density polyethylene (HDPE) and ductile iron (DI) pipes will be used as replacement,” a senior corporation official told TOI.The project also covers overhauling the overhead water tanks in Rockfort, Chinthamani, Anna Nagar and Thillai Nagar localities and house service connections to ensure proper supply. Already, Rs 45 crore was sanctioned for augmenting the water yielding capacity of city’s borewells on Cauvery river, and by revamping the pipelines, the city’s drinking water infrastructure shall be modernised.The existing pipelines mostly in and around Rockfort vicinity covering Babu road and Allimal street were established at least a century ago. Public water taps commemorating the coronation of George V and Mary of Teck as Emperor and Empress of India, were introduced to the city in December 1911. Although many of the pipelines are still intact and rarely develop a snag, the civic body said that the revamp is imminent considering the future requirements. ‘As smart cities mission fund is still available, corporation officials said that they opted to utilise Rs 54 crore towards the upgrade of the pipelines running for more than 150km length in a 8.11sqkm. area of Trichy.Corporation added that the underground drainage work in localities identified for the pipeline project would be carried out simultaneously.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/british-era-water-pipelines-in-trichy-to-undergo-a-revamp/articleshow/79456302.cms||Deepak Karthik
November 28, 2020||Kochi||Kochi Metro’s average ridership touches 17,000 per day||KOCHI: The Kochi Metro’s average ridership has touched 17,000 per day. This is an increase from the average ridership of 8,000 per day recorded during the initial days of restarting the Metro services after the lockdown. The Kochi Metro Rail Ltd (KMRL) had resumed train services on September 7 and opened the stretch between Thykoodam to Petta for commercial operations. So, after a hiatus of 173 days due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Kochi Metro began operating services along the 25.612 km and 22 stations. According to Kochi Metro spokesperson, KMRL has taken every possible precaution for ensuring a safe journey. Even at a time when public transport is losing its sheen, Kochi Metro could win the trust of commuters. “Compared to all other forms of public transport, we maintain the highest standards of hygiene. There is no compromise when it comes to sanitization of trains and Metro premises. Moreover, KMRL ensures that commuters use sanitizers and masks and temperatures are checked before entering trains. These measures have created a positive vibe,” he said. At the same time, the Metro agency is cautious about large number of people entering the Metro premises. The pandemic has not yet been brought under control. Despite sharp criticism against the Metro for reduced passenger patronage, neither the state government nor KMRL are in a position to promote or encourage crowds to enter the Metro premises. “Such measures could be dangerous in the context of the pandemic. We can only go slow,” said a senior government official. Commenting on the demand to reduce ticket rates and bring in more commuters, he said: “In many places, we can see buses filed with passengers. But if Metro resorts to something of that kind in the present circumstances, it will turn out to be counterproductive. KMRL will come under fire.” Officials are of the view that it would take considerable time for Kochi Metro to touch the average ridership of 65,000 recorded during the pre-Covid times. Meanwhile, it is pointed out that the other Metros operating in the country are also going through a similar phase. Though these Metros are also getting passenger patronage, they are yet to catch up with the ridership recorded during pre-Covid days. Since restarting services, the Delhi Metro carries 14.75 lakh passengers along 389km with 285 stations. The Hyderabad Metro Rail (HMR) carries 1.34 lakh passengers along 69km and 57 stations, the Bengaluru Metro carries 68,716 passengers along 42km and 12 stations and the Chennai Metro carries 29,141 passengers along 45km across 32 stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/metros-average-ridership-touches-17000-per-day/articleshow/79452408.cms||Greeshma Gopal Giri
November 28, 2020||Salem||Mettur dam level touches 100ft for 4th time this year||The water level in the Mettur dam in Salem district touched the 100ft-mark for the fourth time this year on Friday. The last time the reservoir reached 100ft, against its full capacity of 120ft, was on October 24. Prior to that, the water level had touched 100ft on September 25 and October 13. After October 24, the water level gradually fell by a few feet as more water was released from the dam. But the water level began raising again as the inflow from the Cauvery increased. “The water level was at 99.8ft on Friday morning and the inflow was 8,111 cubic feet per second (cusecs). The water started rising steadily and by noon it touched 100ft,” said a Public Works Department official at Mettur. The official said they had to increase the outflow from 750cusecs in the morning to 1,250cusecs in the evening as the water level in the dam continued to raise. While the inflow came down to around 7,000cusecs by Friday night, the water level remained at 100ft. The rain in the Cauvery catchment areas has helped the dam to receive more water. This in turn has raised the hopes of farmers and fishermen in the delta region. PWD officials said the rise and fall in the water level in the Mettur dam above 100ft was a common phenomenon 10 years ago. Back then, the water level used to increase every time there was a heavy rain in the catchment areas. “It was not something unusual in the past. But in the past 10 years, due to erratic rainfall and regular release of water to the delta districts for cultivation, the fluctuation in dam level was not this pronounced,” the PWD officer said. In the past, he said, the water level had crossed the 100ft mark six times a year. While increase in the water level has always been a thing to cheer about for the farmers in the delta region, there is no much demand now owing to the rainfall brought by the cyclone Nivar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/mettur-dam-level-touches-100ft-for-4th-time-this-year/articleshow/79454696.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Kochi||KWA ropes in ‘Bandicoot’ robot to clean city sewers||Kochi: Deep cleaning of manholes in Kochi had come to a full stop six years ago after two migrant workers from Tamil Nadu engaged in manual scavenging in a canal near Canal Shed Road asphyxiated. None of the contractors or labourers were ready to engage in cleaning of canals after the incident. Now, Genrobotics Innovations (GI), a startup based in Kochi, has been roped in by the Kerala water authority (KWA) to clean the city’s sewers safely. On Tuesday, a manhole in the city was cleaned with the help of Bandicoot, a robotic drone developed by the GI, that has been assisting cleaning of sewer network in Thiruvananthapuram. KWA has recently found that waste deposits have increased by around 70% with objects like masks, gloves, medicine bottles and injection syringes turning the sewage waste deadly. “We had been using a suction machine at manholes but hard sediments and particles were quite difficult to clean. Manual cleaning was not possible because contractors and labourers were apprehensive of safety after the 2014 incident,” said KWA assistant engineer P Shajimon. The Bandicoot robot comprises a stand unit and a robotic drone unit which can dive into the manholes for operations like cleaning and unblocking. Objects like masks and cotton waste are found mostly in sewers near hospitals in the city, Shajimon said. “We currently operate only in Thiruvananthapuram but are planning to expand to Kochi, which is facing issues with respect to manual cleaning of manholes. We also have inquiries from entities like Cochin Special Economic Zone,” said CEO and founder of GI Vimal Govind. KWA in Kochi would soon enter a rental and operational maintenance contract with the GI to deploy Bandicoot to clean city sewers. “Once we enter into an agreement, a Bandicoot unit will be stationed in Kochi along with our staff,” said Govind.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kwa-ropes-in-bandicoot-robot-to-clean-city-sewers/articleshow/79452421.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Delhi||For second day, Delhi Metro’s link with NCR towns severed||NEW DELHI: For the second consecutive day, Delhi Metro services between the capital and NCR cities remained cut off on Friday due to the protests by farmers. Normal services are expected to resume on Saturday. A day earlier, thousands of commuters had been left in the lurch and faced a tough time travelling between Delhi and NCR cities like Gurgaon and Noida. A large number of office-goers preferred to work from home or take an off on Friday. “I didn’t expect that commuting would become such a huge hassle on Thursday. Though I managed to reach my office in Gurgaon, returning home was nothing short of a nightmare,” said Pankaj Sharma, a Lajpat Nagar resident. “I took leave from work today as commuting was not possible,” he added. Sameer Taneja, a Noida resident, said, “I had urgent work at office and had to come to Safdarjung Enclave, even though my other colleagues who live in the NCR worked from home. I somehow managed to reach New Ashok Nagar Metro Station on the Delhi border.” While trains services within Delhi operated normally on Friday, operations in the NCR cities were regulated since the morning based on a complex schedule devised by Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC). Commuters from Delhi were able to go to the stations in the NCR, but were not able to return to the capital using the Metro. DMRC didn’t allow movement of passengers from NCR stations to Delhi till 5.35pm, when normal services resumed on all corridors. While services on all sections outside Delhi was regulated, the NCR sections of Magenta Line (Botanical Garden-Janakpuri West) and Green Line (Inderlok-Bahadurgarh) were shut. At Tikri border, where protesting farmers had gathered at the Delhi-Haryana border, many stations on the Delhi section of Green Line were closed as a precautionary measure. DMRC had tweeted that entry and exit gates of Brigadier Hoshiar Singh, Bahadurgarh City, Pandit Shree Ram Sharma, Tikri Border, Tikri Kalan and Ghevra stations would remain closed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/for-second-day-metros-link-with-ncr-towns-severed/articleshow/79454699.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Kozhikode||Constitution of EFL inspection panel raises many questions||KOZHIKODE: The decision by the state government to constitute a joint inspection committee by including a representative of a private plantation which had sought getting back 219.5 acres of ecologically fragile land (EFL) in Kavilumpara village, in Vadakara taluk, vested by the government in 2000 has raised many eyebrows. Environmental organisations say that there is no role for the government to review EFL notification issued under provisions of Vesting and Management of Ecologically Fragile Land Ordinance 2000 or the Act of 2003 and that the review rights and settlement of disputes rest only with the tribunal constituted for the purpose and with the custodian of EFL lands. Acting on the request of Abhirami Plantations and Resorts Ltd, the deputy secretary of forest department has constituted a five-member committee for joint inspection of the 219.5 acre notified as EFL. The committee comprises a forest official authorized by the custodian of EFL, an expert in scientific sampling from Kerala Forest Research Institute (KFRI), an expert from Coffee Board, a scientist from agriculture department and a representative from M/s Abhirami Plantations. The land in question was part of 2,500 acres of forest land owned by Aakkiledath tharavadu and the private forest was vested to the government by virtue of the Kerala Private Forest (Vesting and Assignment) Act, 1971. After the owners approached the tribunal in 1975, an area of 343.6 acres was allowed to the applicants and area was restored. Abhirami Plantations later purchased 219.5 acres of the released land. But after the EFL ordinance came into force in 2000, the entire 343 acres, including land owned by Abhirami Plantations, were vested as per EFL notification. Though the firm approached the tribunal against the EFL notification in 2016 it withdrew the petition and directly approached the government in 2016 and then again on 2019. On the basis of a letter from the firm, the state government issued an order dated November 3, constituting a five-member committee for joint inspection of the land. “As per the provisions of the vesting and management of ecologically fragile land ordinance, 2000, or the Act of 2003 or by the rules of 2007 there is no role for the government to review the EFL notification which rests only with the tribunal constituted for the purpose and with the custodian of the EFL. The order is illegal and will have wide ramifications in other EFL related disputes, included the cases currently in SC challenging the Constitutional validity of the EFL Act. Also including a representative of the complainant in the inspection committee is unheard of," said N Badusha, president of Wayanad prakrithi samrakshana samithi. Earlier an application of the firm submitted in 2013 was forwarded to chief conservator of forest, Kannur and a committee had inspected the land and submitted a report in 2015 stating that the land was found to be predominantly covered with natural vegetation and has trees and floral species found in evergreen and semi-evergreen forests typical to the area. It said that the area qualifies as EFL to be maintained as natural forest for the ecological balance of the area and conservation of environment. The committee had also said that they could not find any cultivated plants in any stage of growth in the 10 sample plots in the disputed land and the Custodian of EFL had disposed the application. However the firm has been maintaining that the land was part of a larger vested forest land restored during 1977 to 26 applicants under Kerala Private Forest (Vesting and Assignment) Act 1971 and the then owners had clear felled the trees which existed there during 1977 to 1981 and planted the area with coffee, rubber, arecanut, etc. But they could not maintain the plantation and that the firm had bought a portion of such ill maintained plantation during 1995 and due to resistance from various quarters, the maintenance of it had to be abandoned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/constitution-of-efl-inspection-panel-raises-many-questions/articleshow/79453467.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Healthcare gasps as oxygen supply is hit||NEW DELHI: Many hospitals in Delhi went into panic mode on Friday as the farmers’ protests at the borders led to delay in supply of liquid medical oxygen. Delhi doesn’t have a single production unit, and all hospitals in the national capital source it from oxygen plants in Haryana and UP, among others. Oxygen therapy, as it is often called, is the mainstay for treatment of Covid-19 patients suffering from severe breathlessness. Sources said several trucks carrying the critical medical component were stuck for hours at the borders near Sonipat and Ghazipur due to the barricading put up by police to stop farmers from entering Delhi. “We had only a few hours of oxygen supply left. So, we were in extreme panic. I called all officials concerned at the state and central levels. By evening, we were assured that the trucks were moving in,” the chief executive director of a private hospital in Rohini said. The heads of Sir Ganga Ram and Apollo hospitals said they had a reserve capacity of four days and would have faced problem if the situation didn’t normalise by then. “At present, we have enough liquid medical oxygen,” said Dr D S Rana, chairman of board of management at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital. Saket Tiku, president of All India Industrial Gas Manufacturers’ Association, told TOI the daily need of liquid medical oxygen was around 200 tonnes. “Some trucks carrying medical oxygen were stuck at the borders. We informed the chief secretaries of Haryana, UP and Rajasthan to ensure clear passage for them. In some cases, the local authorities suggested taking another route to reach Delhi,” added Tiku, who was recently appointed to a committee set up by the Union commerce and industry ministry to ensure adequate supply of medical oxygen during Covid-19. Medical oxygen is needed for patients to treat or prevent oxygen deficiency in the body in situations such as severe lung and heart conditions, during anaesthesia, and for recovery following surgery, among others. According to Aakash Singh, sales manager of INOX Air Products — one of the largest manufacturers of industrial and medical gases in the country, the demand for medical oxygen has increased multi-fold across India since the onset of the pandemic, especially in places like Delhi with a high number of fresh daily cases. “Our production units in Greater Noida, Bhiwadi, Barotiwala and Modinagar are working in full capacity. Even then, there are supply issues at times if the demand goes too high,” Singh said. While big hospitals have higher reserve capacities, smaller ones have very low threshold and even hours of delay in supply can derail critical care management, he added. “We have requested several hospitals in Delhi to increase their reserve capacity to deal with any lag in supply due to high demand or exigencies such as this protest,” Singh said. Medical liquid oxygen, supplied and stored at very low temperatures, is converted into medical oxygen, a gas at normal temperatures, to use it for therapeutic purposes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/healthcare-gasps-as-oxygen-supply-is-hit/articleshow/79454740.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
November 28, 2020||Bhopal||On December 29, new MLAs to take oath; speaker, deputy to be elected in Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL: A three-day winter session of Madhya Pradesh assembly will be held from December 28 to 30 under strict Covid-19 protocol, during which 28 newly elected MLAs will take oath and the Speaker and deputy speaker will be chosen. The assembly is likely to witness a stormy session with the government planning to pass a bill against `love jihad' and the main Congress seeking a debate, said sources. A notification issued by the assembly secretariat on Friday stated that the session will be held from December 28 to 30 where some bills and supplementary estimates will be tabled. "Three-day winter session will begin at 11 am under strict Covid-19 protocol. On the first day, newly elected MLAs will take oath. The House will also take Question Hour, new and amended bills, apart from the budget estimates," stated an official communique. The election of Speaker and deputy speaker will be conducted on December 29. The BJP has decided not to offer the post of deputy speaker to Congress. During the previous government, the Congress being in majority decided to keep the post of deputy speaker, breaking the old tradition to offer the chair to the opposition party. With pro tem Speaker Rameshwar Sharma being a strong contender for the post, former Speaker Sitasaran Sharma, MLAs Girish Gautam, Nagendra Singh Nagod, and Yashpal Singh Sisodia are some of the strong claimants for the coveted post. On the last day, the BJP government plans to table a few bills including the Dharma Swatantrya (Religious Freedom) Bill 2020, to tackle `love jihad'. The government will also table budget estimates to meet up the finances amid Covid-19 pandemic. Sources said that in view of the pandemic, the government has decided to keep the proceedings short. "The winter session is very short, insufficient to discuss issues related to the public. The government is also unlikely to offer the chair of deputy speaker to the Congress. The government is trying to avoid debate on the bills including one against `love jihad' as the session will have to take up other business too in just three days," said former minister of Congress, Sajjan Singh Verma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/on-dec-29-new-mlas-to-take-oath-speaker-dy-to-be-elected/articleshow/79453459.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Trichy||Minister’s flight to Chennai cancelled||TRICHY: Chennai-bound Indigo flight from Trichy airport with 58 passengers, which included health minister C Vijayabaskar, had to be cancelled at the last minute due to operational reasons on Friday. The flight, scheduled for 8.45am, had to be cancelled after some of the passengers had boarded the flight. According to the airport authorities, the flight had to be cancelled due to operational reasons and alternative arrangements were made for the passengers. Vijayabaskar was supposed to travel to Chennai to receive the award from the Union health ministry for Tamil Nadu being the best among other states in organ donation through an online meeting in Chennai. He attended the meeting from Pudukottai district administration office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/ministers-flight-to-chennai-cancelled/articleshow/79456307.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Kolhapur||KMC to demolish illegal structures||KOLHAPUR: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) will conduct a drive to demolish illegal structures and remove encroachments on the open spaces owned by the civic administration. Municipal commissioner Kadambari Balkawade has given a week’s time for removing the encroachments and the illegal structures. The public works department and the town planning department of the KMC are drafting the list of the illegal structures. Netradip Sarnobat, the chief city engineer said, “A joint drive with police protection will be launched next week. The encroachments, which include additional construction done by the shop owners, hawkers encroaching on open spaces, private constructions carried out without permission or any such construction which obstructs traffic flow will be removed.” “Once we remove the encroachments, the articles that we confiscate will not be returned,” said Sarnobat. The KMC will also remove the abandoned vehicles lying on the roadside and in open spaces. The KMC had appealed to the owners to remove their vehicles. However, very few had turned up and the vehicles seized continue to be dumped at KMC’s workshop.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kmc-to-demolish-illegal-structures/articleshow/79449622.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC polls: BJP leaders will come anywhere to end corruption, says JP Nadda||HYDERABAD: Claiming that the time has come for TRS to go from the state, BJP national president JP Nadda on Friday said that his party leaders will come anywhere to secure a win for the party and end corruption. Addressing a road show organized between Nagole Chowrasta to Kothapet, he said “It seems some people are asking why the BJP national president is coming to campaign in GHMC polls, I am saying we will come anywhere to see our party win.” Aiming indirectly at TRS working president KT Rama Rao’s comments on BJP bringing a brigade of national leaders for local polls, he said, “We will go anywhere to end the corruption and make development happen,” he said. Thanking the large gathering despite the rain, he said, “The large crowd during the rain shows that it is time for TRS to go and BJP to come into rule in the state.” In his three-minute speech during the nearly one hour road show, he said that in every ward of the GHMC, BJP should win. Nadda appealed to the people to support the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the development of Hyderabad. “The country is racing in development under his leadership. We will take the development to new heights in the city,” he promised. Though the road show was organized for two hours, it was cut short due to the rain. The BJP national chief interacted with public by showering flowers on them during the show. BJP state chief Sanjay Kumar, Union minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy accompanied him during the road show.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nadda-bjp-leaders-will-come-anywhere-to-end-corruption/articleshow/79454708.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 28, 2020||Delhi||AAP alleges graft, seeks CBI probe against north corporation||NEW DELHI: AAP councillor and leader of Opposition in North Delhi Municipal Corporation Vikas Goel on Friday demanded a CBI investigation into the expenditure incurred by the corporation on the accommodation of health staff deployed at the Covid-19 ward from June 14 to October 17. Goel said that there was huge disparity in expenditure figures provided by the leader of the House of BJP-run north corporation, a senior Congress councillor and information received by him from the health department. The civic body had raised a bill of approx. Rs 3.3 crore for the accommodation of health and paramedical staff engaged in Covid-19 duty. On the contrary, Congress councillors shared a bill of Rs. 3. 7 crore in the House meeting, while the AAP councillor was given details of Rs 2.9 crore by the department concerned. “There is a variation in the number of staff members who were provided accommodation. According to Congress member Mukesh Goel, 719 doctors and paramedical staff were engaged at emergency ward dedicated for Covid patients in phase 1. However, according to us 836 workers were deployed at the ward,” said Goel. Goel alleged that as three people were given different details of staff and budget, there is huge corruption in the bill generation process and it is important to get the matter investigated by CBI. BJP councillor and leader of House Yogesh Verma, however, said that AAP has become habitual of making allegations without knowing the facts. “Variation in figures happened because three councillors asked three different questions from different departments. For example, Vikas Goel asked for the pending amount for payment. Since we have paid a bill of Rs 75 lakh, the department mentioned the remaining amount of Rs 2.9 crore, as the total bill was Rs 3.7 crore. The AAP councillor asked for figures from the health department and they might have added their staff also,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-alleges-graft-seeks-cbi-probe-against-n-corpn/articleshow/79454797.cms||Vibha Sharma
November 28, 2020||Kolkata||Likely delay of ICSE, ISC brings relief to students||Kolkata: The possibility of the Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) deferring the dates for its Class X and XII board exams in 2021 has brought relief to candidates who felt this would allow them enough time to prepare for national entrance tests and for studying abroad.Some school heads pointed out that a formal decision was yet to be taken by the council’s chief executive and secretary, Gerry Arathoon, but if dates for ICSE and ISC were pushed back, it would grant students time to revise. “Students are under stress due to the suspension of interactive classes. Online classes can’t replace on-campus teaching-learning system. The delay in holding exams will give students the chance to clear their doubts and more time to finish the syllabus,” said the principal of a school.But, Sujoy Biswas, principal of Ram Mohan Mission School, pointed out that if the board exams were held in June, Class XI session would have to be curtailed. “The council will have plans ready to counter any possibility of disruption caused due to the delay in holding ICSE and ISC 2021 exams. Covid cases are still rising and the situation is rapidly evolving. At the same time, most students and parents want pen-and-paper exams that can only be held after the situation improves and the council deems it fit to give the go-ahead to hold the tests on campus,” he said.ISC students planning to go to foreign universities for the “fall” session from August also welcomed a deferred boards date as that will give them time to prepare for Class XII exams as well as apply abroad. “We will give testimonial grades, which predict the expected score of a student as they apply to foreign universities. If the exams are delayed, hopefully, we will get an opportunity to hold some on-campus classes that will help even in lab work,” said T H Ireland, principal of St James’ School, adding 2021-22 year would have to be re-adjusted.But science students have to finish the entire syllabus by February, when JEE (Main) is likely to be held. “I will first prepare for national tests and then start studying for ISC,” said an ISC candidate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/likely-delay-of-icse-isc-brings-relief-to-students/articleshow/79454765.cms||Somdatta Basu
November 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Non-stop langar service for farmers||Ambala: The Haryana unit of Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has ensured uninterrupted langar service for protesting farmers up to the borders of national capital starting from Ambala in the past two days. Sources said outgoing SGPC president Govind Singh Longowal on Wednesday had announced that SGPC was committed to serve langar and medical services to farmers during their agitation. Following the instructions, the managements of SGPC-controlled gurdwaras, including Panjokhra Sahib and Manji Sahib in Ambala and Gurdwara Patshahi Chhevin in Kurukshetra, started preparing langar and serving the cooked food to farmers marching towards Delhi in their vehicles. Satnam Singh from Panjokhra Sahib said, “Following instructions from the senior officials of SGPC, we have been serving langar to farmers up to Delhi border besides providing any kind of medical aid they required. The langar is being prepared at the kitchen of our gurdwaras in Ambala and Kurukshetra and served to the farmers in our vehicles by our volunteers. The service will continue till the farmers are protesting in our region.” Longowal said, “The stubbornness of the government towards the anti-farmer laws is not in the interest of the country.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/non-stop-langar-service-for-farmers/articleshow/79454733.cms||Jaskaran Singh
November 28, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab: In letter to PM, call for ‘sincere dialogue’||BATHINDA: In the wake of obstructions put in place by state governments to stop farmers from reaching Delhi, members of Joint Farmer Morcha and All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Morcha members stated that a large number of farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Madhya Pradesh are marching towards Delhi. They said these farmers had to face unprecedented obstacles placed in their way by governments of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, which used all possible means, including sand-laden trucks, barbed wire fences, huge boulders, trenches, water cannons and tear gas shells to stop them. According to the morcha members, the situation has come about in the first place because the farmers were not heard or taken into account when the ordinances were framed and passed as acts in Parliament. They also noted that the PM has not replied to multiple representations by farmers and farm organisations. “At least now, the Government of India should stop its confrontational attitude of denying the large section of our society an opportunity to be heard and sincere dialogue should be initiated. It becomes meaningless for the government to offer talks and not create a conducive atmosphere for such talks to happen. “It is against this background that we write to you to urge you to urgently ensure that the farmers have a free and safe passage into Delhi. We should be allotted space like Ramlila Maidan where we can gather and also hold talks with the government. Call the all-India/regional platforms of farmers for sincere discussions with senior ministers of your cabinet on our demands to repeal the 3 Farm Acts and the Electricity Bill 2020,” they stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/in-letter-to-pm-call-for-sincere-dialogue/articleshow/79454718.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Coimbatore||4 tourists from Kerala fined Rs 40,000 for trespassing into MTR||Udhagamandalam: Forest officials on Friday detained four tourists from Kerala who were found clicking photographs inside the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) in the Nilgiris. While on routine patrolling, the forest field staff found a parked vehicle with Kerala registration on the Moyar Road. They conducted a search in the nearby area and found four tourists from Kerala inside the tiger reserve clicking pictures of herds of deer. The tourists were identified as Siju K, 48, R S Madhu, 40, both from Ernakulam, B Shamkumar, 46, from Kollam and T Sunil, 40, from Azhapuzha. “Trespassing into a tiger reserve is an offence under section 27 of the Wildlife Protection Act 1972. The four tourists were detained and inquired,” deputy director of MTR-buffer zone L C S Srikanth said. Their vehicle was also seized. A case in this connection was registered by the forest officials. “After inquiry, a compounded fine of Rs 40, 000 was levied on them. Later, they were released,” the forest official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/4-tourists-from-kerala-fined-rs-40000-for-trespassing-into-mtr/articleshow/79454760.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 28, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Will act after update on Raveendran’s health: Enforcement Directorate||KOCHI: The Enforcement Directorate will await a response from C M Raveendran before deciding on further action after the additional private secretary to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan failed to turn up for questioning, again, after fresh summons were issued by the agency, which is probing the money-laundering angle in the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case. According to agency sources, they were awaiting a response from Raveendran about his health status and further summons would be issued if he informs that he is fit to appear for questioning. Raveendran was supposed to appear at ED’s Kochi office, on Friday, but he skipped summons for a second time reportedly after getting himself admitted to the medical college hospital in the state capital. Apart from media reports about him getting discharged from a hospital where he got admitted the other day, ED is yet to get a formal communication on his health status, they said. After receiving an update on his health status he would be called in again, an official said. Though Raveendran was first summoned by ED in the first week of November, he failed to appear after reportedly testing positive for Covid-19. Key accused Swapna Suresh had, in a statement, told ED that Raveendran used to contact her occasionally on matters such as visa stamping and certificate attestation. The agency, according to sources, is checking if the communication between the two was purely official. Meanwhile, even as reports emerged of ED raids on some business establishments in Vadakara, sources refused to confirm whether these were in connection with the ongoing investigation. Customs questions trio The custodial interrogation of IAS officer M Sivasankar, in the gold smuggling case, and that of Swapna and Sarith P S, in the currency export case, by customs continued on Friday. The three were placed in customs custody on Wednesday and will have to be produced back in court on Monday. Apart from stating that Swapna had, in a statement given under Section 108 of Customs Act, revealed that Sivasankar was in the know and also abetted smuggling activities, customs is yet to present any details in court on how Sivasankar was also involved. ‘CM not above suspicion’Speaking to reporters in Alappuzha, minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan said the central government does not intend to target anyone who is not found to have a role in the gold smuggling. The government has not told investigative agencies to move against particular people,” he said, in direct reference to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Muraleedharan said the investigation is on track and the CM is still not above suspicion as his former principal secretary is a key target of the probe. I am also sceptical about the health condition of his additional secretary, he said. Raveendran discharged from MCH Thiruvananthapuram: C M Raveendran, additional private secretary to the chief minister, who was undergoing treatment at the medical college hospital, here, for post-Covid-19 complications, was discharged on Friday evening. Raveendran was admitted on Wednesday after he complained of respiratory problems. He has been advised rest and follow-up treatment. This had allowed him to skip ED summons for questioning – a second time -- on Friday morning. Opposition parties alleged that he was evading questioning out of fear that he might be arrested if he appeared before the agency. - With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram and Alappuzha||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/will-act-after-update-on-raveendrans-health-ed/articleshow/79453493.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Rs 25cr given for Mohali parks, still Rs 166cr short||Mohali: Rs 166 crore remains due but Gmada’s releasing Rs 25 crore has brought the municipal corporation some hope for the maintenance of parks. The cash-starved MC heaved a sigh of relief when Punjab cabinet minister and local legislator Balbir Singh Sidhu said on Friday that Greater Mohali Area Development Authority had released a part payment that will let the MC maintain its 594 parks as before and pay the resident welfare associations (RWAs) for the green belts that they preserve. Sidhu made the announcement during a meeting at MC Bhawan to review the development works in Sector 68. He said: “Besides this Rs 25 crore park maintenance money, funds for the upkeep of roads and other infrastructure have also come to the municipal corporation.” The Punjab local bodies department had cut Rs 141 crore from the MC budget for financial year 2020-21. It left the MC in no situation to pay up the RWAs for the maintenance of 149 parks. At Rs 2.45 for each square metre, the monthly maintenance fee to these associations for 56 acres comes to about Rs 6 lakh. The MC makes the payment by the seventh of each month but, since January, the RWAs haven’t got a penny, while the Covid-19 lockdown made the situation worse. Municipal commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg said: “We have sought Rs 40 crore from the Punjab local bodies department. After transferring the parks to us in 2017, Gmada had promised us Rs 50 crore a year for their upkeep but has since paid us only Rs 9 crore. It still owes us Rs 166 crore. Some part of Rs 25 crore received from Gmada will go into maintaining the parks and some will go to the RWAs for the parks under their care.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rs-25cr-given-for-mohali-parks-still-rs-166cr-short/articleshow/79453512.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Nagpur||Increasing Covid cases not a worry as Vid’s sample positivity rate declines||Nagpur: The daily count of fresh Covid-19 positive cases in Vidarbha has seen a significant growth in the last two weeks. Many might consider this as a fresh spike and even beginning of second wave in the region. But lately the number of tests has increased and in comparison, the number of positive patients (sample positivity rate) is low in 10 out of 11 districts.Nagpur has reported less than 6% positivity rate while most other districts around 10% positivity rate in the last 10 days. As compared to the pre-Diwali period, the sample positivity rate of six districts has reduced to half dues aggressive testing was done after the festivities. In Nagpur, 56,597 tests were conducted between November 1 and 13 while 70,056 tests were conducted from November 14 to 26, an increase of 20%. Similar trend is visible in other districts of Vidarbha. Akola conducted 7,453 more tests in the last 12 days as compared to previous 12 days, Amravati (10,471), Chandrapur (8,150), Yavatmal (8,706) and Gondia (5,232). According to authorities from state department of health services, aggressive testing is a part of strategy to ensure better control of infection during the expected post-Diwali surge. Experts said that increased testing and declining sample positivity rate indicates that the spread is still under control in Vidarbha and there is no need of lockdown. “These spikes will go on. The present one is related to onset of winter and people movement during Diwali. As far as Nagpur is concerned, if we are conducting 9,000 tests per day; we should continue with it as a public health measure,” said Dr Nitin Shinde, an infectious disease specialist. Districts having more rural population have been conducting more number of tests since Diwali. This is to ensure that rural population that got exposed to infection during Diwali mix-up can get tested earlier. Doctors said early detection will ensure treatment and recovery at home for Covid-19 patients and hospitalization rate will reduce, which means more beds will be vacant in hospitals. “Hospital occupancy rate can decide how much restrictions should be in place. If we have enough beds available, no administration will go for lockdown,” said Dr Shinde. DistrictBetween Nov 1 and 13 Between Nov 14 and 26 Tests Positive casesSample positivity rateTests DonePositive casesSample positivity rate NAGPUR5659733896.30%7005639655.45%AKOLA134123717.67%87945916.72%AMRAVATI52625069.61%157336854.35%CHANDRAPUR8683154717.8%16833187411%YAVATMAL44694339.68%131756715%GADCHIROLI480288918.5%94589029.53%BULDHANA124308427%131976555%GONDIA785983810.7%13091133310.2%Relief factor- Sample positivity rate (SPR) is one of the most important indicators of Covid-19 infection spread- Ideally, SPR should be under 10%; lower the SPR, better control on virus spread - Lower SPR also suggests aggressive testing by the authorities which is recommended - Since Diwali, tests have gone up significantly in Vidarbha, shows district-wise comparative data - SPR of 10 out of 11 districts in Vidarbha, except Wardha, has reduced in last 12 days - SPR of Akola, Amravati, Chandrapur, Yavatmal, Gadchiroli has reduced to half due to aggressive testing in these districts||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/increasing-covid-cases-not-a-worry-as-vids-sample-positivity-rate-declines/articleshow/79452495.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||October fliers’ figure crashes 62% in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: The Navratri season spurred no increase in the footfalls at Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International (SVPI) Airport in Ahmedabad, though the flight frequency had been boosted a month earlier, in September.  Owing to apprehensions about flying during the pandemic, fliers’ footfalls continued to remain low at the airport in October. Approximately 3.58 lakh domestic as well as international passengers travelled from SVPI airport in October this year against about 9.4 lakh in the same month last year — a slide of 62%. Tour operators suggested that while tourism did pick up pace after Navratri, most people preferred destinations they could reach in private cars. “People are scared of flying because of the pandemic. This is bound to impact passenger movement at airports,” said Manish Sharma, secretary, Travel Agents’ Federation of India (TAFI). With overseas travel hampered, merely 15,856 persons travelled on international flights in October. They were mostly foreign nationals and expats returning to their home countries. Very few people travelled for business despite the air bubble agreement with a few countries, confirmed sources. Besides, most airlines are not giving refunds, a factor that deters travellers from flying. “The majority of the airlines are issuing credit notes to passengers instead of refunding the money upon cancellation,” said an Ahmedabad-based travel agent. “Therefore, people are wary of making a booking unless they are really sure of travelling.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/oct-fliers-figure-crashes-62/articleshow/79454784.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh told to submit report on steps to promote e-vehicles||CHANDIGARH: The Union government has sent a fresh reminder to the UT administration and sought progress report from the Chandigarh administration on the steps initiated to promote electric vehicles in the city and also on electric vehicle charging stations. The Centre had sought the report from the UT administration in October. A fresh reminder was sent to the UT administration recently. In August 2019, the ministry had asked the UT administration to initiate steps. A senior UT official said the UT administration had recently succeeded in getting a nod of the Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC) for fixing power tariff plan for electric vehicle charging stations in the city. This was for the first time that the power tariff plan for electricity vehicle charging stations was fixed, he added. However, sources added that the vehicle charging stations, installed at different parking lots, are still non-functional. Such stations were installed in Sector 8 parking lot, Sukhna Lake parking lot etc. The UT administration is already working on promoting hybrid and electric vehicles. Recently, the Centre had sanctioned 80 electric buses for Chandigarh under the Phase-II of the FAME India Scheme. The department of heavy industries under the Ministry of Heavy Industries and Public Enterprises is administering the Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of (Hybrid) and Electric Vehicles in India (FAME India) Scheme since April 2015 to promote adoption of electric and hybrid vehicles in India. At present, Phase-II of FAME India Scheme is being implemented for a period of three years with effect from April 1, 2019 with total budgetary support of Rs 10,000 crore. Three years back, a team of the transport department had visited Nagpur to study charging stations’ set up in different parts of the city. Nagpur was the first city in the country to have in place electric vehicle charging stations. Chandigarh has the highest density of vehicles in India with around 12 lakh registered vehicles, including both two-wheelers and four-wheelers. The number of vehicles per house on an average is two and has led to a sharp deterioration in quality of air. At present, around 3,000 e-rickshaws are plying in the city. The ministry has also suggested initiatives to promote vehicles like waiving of toll charges, parking charges and issuing green registration number plates. The central government has already framed a National Electric Mobility Mission Plan, which aims at promoting hybrid and electric vehicles in the country. 1st charging station at Sector 42 lakeThe UT administration has planned to set up the city’s first charging station for electric vehicles at the New Lake, Sector 42. The Chandigarh Renewal Energy, Science and Technology Promotion Society (Crest) has planned to install 800 KW solar plant at the Sector 42 lake. Of these 800 KW, the UT administration will use 90 KW for charging station. After Sector 42’s charging station, the UT will implement the same project at sectors 15, 17 and 19 markets. The 90 KW charging station can charge around 65 cars in a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-told-to-submit-report-on-steps-to-promote-e-vehicles/articleshow/79453505.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC election news: Congress questions BJP, TRS in poll run-up||HYDERABAD: With union ministers and top leaders of BJP from other states coming to the city raising the political heat, Congress has launched a counter attack asking them to first explain the contribution of Prime Minister Narendra Modi-government for the development of Greater Hyderabad before seeking votes in the elections to 150 wards of GHMC. Congress also sought to know from chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao why cases were not booked and preventive arrests made if the state government had information that a conspiracy was being hatched to incite communal violence in the state. “Union textiles minister Smriti Irani came to Hyderabad seeking votes for BJP. Did she tell the people what has her ministry given to Telangana. Where were these BJP leaders when Hyderabad was flooded and a large number of colonies were marooned. People were suffering but the BJP government at the Centre did extend any flood relief,” said former minister Ponnala Lakshmaiah. AICC secretary and former MLA SA Sampath Kumar said, “Sanjay is a MP and should maintain some decorum. BJP leaders are trying to divide the voters on religious lines. The saffron party thinks it can sweep GHMC elections just because it has won a by-election,” he said. Congress leaders also criticised BJP for inviting Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath to campaign for GHMC elections. “It is better that BJP talks about how much funds it would be able to get from the Modi government to develop Hyderabad,” Lakshmaiah said. Sampath Kumar and Lakshmaiah said BJP, TRS and MIM have a tacit understanding but are projecting as rival parties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-questions-bjp-trs-in-poll-run-up/articleshow/79454787.cms||Roushan Ali
November 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris sees dip in fresh Covid cases||UDHAGAMANDALAM: The Nilgiris showed a dip in new cases of Covid-19 when it reported only 11 cases on Friday and the tally stood at 7,350. With 15 patients recovered and discharged on the day, 7,154 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in the district so far. Of the 155 active cases, 12 patients are being treated in government and private facilities in Coimbatore while 20 people are kept in home quarantine and monitored. The remaining cases are admitted at government hospitals in Ooty, Coonoor and Gudalur besides two Covid care centres. All the 11 cases, contacts of earlier positive cases, were reported from rural areas from across the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-sees-dip-in-fresh-covid-cases/articleshow/79454778.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 28, 2020||Dehradun||IIT-R team wins gold medal in ‘International Genetically Engineered Machine’ contest||Roorkee: A team of 13 students of the department of biotechnology at IIT Roorkee has won the gold medal in the ‘International Genetically Engineered Machine’ (iGEM) contest, a renowned synthetic biology competition that attracts entries from around the world. This year, the competition, based out of Massachusetts in the USA, witnessed the participation of 249 teams from 36 countries. There were 168 gold, 45 silver, and 26 bronze medals up for grabs for participating students. A communique from IIT-R said that their team worked on the project titled ‘Pyomancer: Novel Antimicrobial Drugs against MDR Infections’ to tackle WHO’s topmost priority problem of antimicrobial resistance and approached it from a multidisciplinary perspective. “This project focussed on designing new antimicrobials, called Seekercins, to kill drug-resistant bacteria with a mechanism inspired by other natural molecules,” it added. The team leader, Sanjeevani Marcha, a final year student, said, “We believe that through our concept and protein design, we can focus on the priority pathogens and urge the pharmaceutical companies to change the ways antibiotics are conventionally developed. By working on biological systems with an engineering approach, we could think beyond traditional methods in life sciences and implement a creative approach from an open mindset.” Besides Marcha, other members of the winning undergraduate team were — Muskaan Bhambri (4th year), Harkirat Singh Arora (4th year), Yash Aggarwal (3rd year), Pradum Kumar (3rd year), Kushagra Rustagi (3rd year), Nitish Verma (3rd year), Siddharth Suhas Fitwe (2nd year), Tishee Natani (2nd year), Kartikey Kansal (2nd year), Lakshya Jain (2nd year), Mihir Sachdeva (2nd year), and Kanishk Sugotra (2nd year). Institute officials said the team was also among the top five Indian teams that won funding support from the central government’s department of biotechnology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/iit-r-team-wins-gold-medal-in-international-genetically-engineered-machine-contest/articleshow/79451485.cms||Tapan Susheel
November 28, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata schools extend fee clearance deadline by a day||KOLKATA: Most city schools have decided to extend the deadline for paying fees by a day. The Calcutta High Court had set November 30 as the last date for clearing dues, but as Monday, being Guru Nanak Jayanti, is a holiday, schools will allow parents to pay up by Tuesday. “We are extending our deadline to December 1. We are accepting only demand drafts from our defaulting parents and since Monday is a bank holiday, we think it is only fair. Only 50% of our defaulting parents have paid so far,” said Krishna Damani, spokesperson for South Point and MP Birla Foundation. Apart from the usual online mode, most schools are offering parents the options of pay orders, demand drafts and even cash at their accounts offices. Schools prepared a tally of parents, who are yet to pay, till late on Friday evening. Calls will go out to them to inform them about the one-day relief. But many institutes, especially those accepting cash, will keep their accounts section open on Monday so that parents might be able to make the payments. Loyola High School is among the institutes that will take cash and keep its office open on Monday. The institute has seen less than 50% defaulters paying up till Friday. “We will keep our office open on Monday, hoping more parents will turn up,” said principal Father Rodney. “It is a norm that if a bank holiday coincides with a deadline, a day’s extension is given. We are accepting cash, cheques, drafts and all modes,” said Bridadier V N Chaturvedi, spokesperson for Birla High School for Boys and Girls. Loreto House is the only one among the six Loreto schools in the city that is accepting online payment only. So far, it has recovered 50% arrears. The rest of the Loreto schools are accepting cash. Loreto Education Board will decide on the extension this weekend. Shri Shikshayatan group of schools is finalizing its tally but confirmed the deadline extension. “Some have arranged for cash and need bank services to help them convert it into online payment. This extension will help them,” said spokesperson Bratati Bhattacharya. There are schools, like La Martiniere, where the management has decided not to extend the deadline. “We are going by the court order though we have received slightly over 50% arrears so far,” said secretary Supriyo Dhar. The school’s accounts office will be open on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/schools-extend-fee-clearance-deadline-by-a-day/articleshow/79454785.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
November 28, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Gopi Kottamurikkal to head first director board of Kerala Bank||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: CPM leaders Gopi Kottamurikkal and MK Kannan took over as the founding president and vice-president of the newly-formed Kerala Bank director board. Other members of the director board were sworn in at the bank headquarters on Friday in the presence of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, ministers Kadakampally Surendran and TM Thomas Isaac. LDF had swept all seats in the election to director board on Thursday. The bank, the new avatar of state cooperative bank, has presence in all districts, except Malappuram where UDF-led district cooperative bank refused to join hands with Kerala Bank project initiated by the government. In his address, Vijayan said Kerala Bank – touted as the second-largest bank in state – will soon become the number one bank. The CM also urged Malappuram district cooperative bank to join hands as its refusal would tantamount to the denial of services that Kerala Bank could offer to people in that district. Other members in the director board are S Shajahan (Thiruvananthapuram), G Lalu (Kollam), M Sathyapalan (Alappuzha), KJ Philip (Kottayam), KV Sasi (Idukki), MK Kannan (Thrissur), A Prabhakaran (Palakkad), P Gagarin (Wayanad), Sabu Abraham (Kasaragod) and Valsala Kumari (Kannur); all elected as representatives of primary cooperative societies. Gopi was elected as the representative of urban cooperative societies. S Nirmala Devi (Pathanamthitta), Pushpa Das (Ernakulam) and E Ramesh Babu (Kozhikode) had been elected earlier unopposed. The government nominees to the bank are V Raveendran, RBI’s former AGM (banking sector); KN Harilal, member, state planning board (finance), PA Ummar, former sate cooperative bank president (cooperation); Mani Vithayathil (legal), Jiju P Alex , Kerala Agricultural University (agriculture). After its inception on Nov 29, 2019, the bank has done business worth Rs 15,000 crore. Till Oct 31, 2020, the bank earned an operating profit of Rs 270 crore. The bank has 769 branches and 300 plus ATMs. Primary cooperative societies have 57% share in the bank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/gopi-kottamurikkal-to-head-first-director-board-of-kerala-bank/articleshow/79453523.cms||---
November 28, 2020||India||‘Civic officials made false statements on oath, brazenly misled the court’||Bombay HC on Friday pulled up civic officials and termed the action by one of them “dishonest”, leading to the demolition and subsequent justification for the same. “The conduct shows that designated officer Bhagyawant Late and his officers were at least since September 5 determined to cause damage to the bungalow by demolishing (it),” thus causing loss to the actor who owns it. “To achieve this end, Late and his team have not only ignored all provisions of law, as well as their own circular of March 15, 2012,” but have “by making false statements on oath… brazenly resorted to mislead this court”, The attempt was to justify that the construction was “ongoing” to attract section 354A of the MMC Act. HC said, “The object of 354A is stoppage of unauthorised ongoing work by a notice for its removal if despite such notice… unauthorised ongoing work (does not stop or authorisation produced within 24 hours). The purpose is not demolition of unauthorised work already carried out.” The mukadam who claimed to have inspected the bungalow had breached every requirement, including a mandatory entry in a detection register on inspection, said the bench. The HC, which questioned Late during the hearing, found his report replete with discrepancies and lacking in particulars. The reason, said the HC, was that Late and his officers were already aware that there were no ongoing unauthorised works as alleged by them and all works in the bungalow were existing. The court said, “We are of the view that the material before us makes a strong case for such declaration, since there is a clear case of ‘malice in law’.” Full report on www.toi.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/civic-officials-made-false-statements-on-oath-brazenly-misled-the-court/articleshow/79456702.cms||Swati Deshpande
November 28, 2020||Nashik||MNS stages protest against rise in electricity tariff||Nashik/Aurangabad: The Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) functionaries held demonstrations at many places in the state on Thursday seeking a rollback in the power tariff hike and waiver of bills issued during the lockdown period. In Nashik, they organised a march from the MNS party office at New CBS to the district collectorate. MNS workers, led by former mayor Ashok Murtadak and Dilip Dateer, said the protest march was to seek justice for people who were unnecessarily being harassed by the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL).“We have organised the march to make the government understand that power our bills are putting a burden on people at a time when they are already facing deep economic and financial distress. We want the government to immediately look into the issue and come up with a solution. We have also presented a memorandum to the collector. It has been addressed to the state government in a democratic manner,” said Murtadak.The party claimed that citizens received very high bills during the lockdown period and that the authorities were not paying attention to the complaints filed by citizens.Similar protests were held in Aurangabad and other parts of Marathwada by MNS representatives. The Aurangabad city police on Thursday detained several party members after they gathered at the Mahatma Phule Chowk in the city without permission.Over 200 workers and local functionaries of MNS were also detained in Thane city.MNS chief Raj Thackeray had earlier issued a letter appealing to the masses to abstain from paying inflated power bills. He had said that if the power supply companies disconnect the supply due to non-payment of bills and the MNS will ‘struggle’ against them.- With PTI inputs||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/mns-stages-protest-against-rise-in-electricity-tariff/articleshow/79449668.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 28, 2020||Goa||Seaplane to be in Goan waters for two days||Panaji: Spicejet has scheduled to conduct landing, refuelling, and take off their seaplane from Captain of Ports’ (CoP) floating jetty or alternatively at Chapora river on Saturday and Sunday. All vessels plying in the two rivers have been directed not to navigate in the notified area on the two days during arrival and departure of the sea plane. Arrival of the seaplane is scheduled on Saturday between 1.30pm and 2.30pm and it will depart on Sunday between 7.30am and 8.30am. In the Mandovi, the area for landing has been designated west of Mandovi bridges to Aguada sand bar. The alternative site in river Chapora has been west of Siolim bridge to the month of river Chapora. Mariners have been directed to follow on spot instructions of the patrolling boats and any violations will be viewed seriously.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/seaplane-to-be-in-goan-waters-for-two-days/articleshow/79455735.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Amreli doctor manipulates PMO mails, held||AHMEDABAD: The cybercrime cell of Ahmedabad Police on Friday held an Amreli doctor for faking his email ID to suggest that he was writing from the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO).  The accused, Vijay Parikh, sent the emails to senior officials of the Gujarat government directing them to act in a property dispute with another doctor. Parikh attached forged stationery of the PMO to tell the officials to make the other doctor vacate the property. According to the complaint lodged by police inspector R J Chaudhary of the cybercrime cell, Parikh has a clinic in Amreli. The FIR says Parikh is locked in a dispute with the other doctor over a property in Doctor House near Parimal Garden in Ahmedabad. As Parikh’s email ID seemed suspicious, the government called in the cybercrime cell. “We obtained information from the service provider which led us to Parikh’s mobile number,” said a cybercrime cell official. The cybercrime cell has registered an offence under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and the IT Act. The accused has confessed to his crime, the cell’s officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/doc-doctors-pmo-mails-held/articleshow/79454806.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Nagpur||14-day isolation for travellers from 4 states on testing +ve||Nagpur: If a person from Delhi, Rajasthan, Gujarat or Goa coming down for a brief visit to the city tests positive here, s/he will end up staying for 14 days in a Covid care centre in the city or a hospital. A senior official in the NMC’s health department said the protocol calls for isolation or treatment of everyone testing positive. There would be no relaxation even for those residing elsewhere, having no local contacts here and they cannot go back early, said the official.Those living in the city can isolate at their home. “But if the person is a resident of Delhi or any of the states, he will have to undergo the 14-day isolation if found positive. The rules will apply for persons travelling for shorter period or carrying a return ticket also,” said NMC’s health officer Dr Narendra Bahirwar as TOI sought a clarification.Travellers not having a Covid negative report are tested at the airport, railway station or entry points on road. Air travellers have to undergo the RT-PCR test that takes at least six hours for the results. For other travellers, it is rapid antigen test (RAT) that gives quick results.Bahirwar said after the samples are taken, the passengers are asked to give their contact details. Visitors who may stay in a hotel have to provide their phone number and disclose location. On being tested positive they will be contacted for further procedure.In case the person tries to give the authorities a slip, he can always be tracked through the cell phone. If needed the authorities in their respective state will be intimated. Three passengers who flew down on Thursday tested positive. A note shared by NMC officials said that they were not from Nagpur district. Their exact details were not readily available, said an officer.On Thursday, 81 passengers were tested by RT-PCR at the airport. This included 61 persons in a special flight from Jaipur. None in the Jaipur flights was found positive. On Friday over 50 passengers from the two morning flights were tested.Meanwhile, the NMC has asked airport operator Mihan India Limited (MIL) to insist the airlines that only passengers with Covid negative report are allowed to board the plane. Officials also agreed that there may be some practical difficulties for the last-minute travellers.A senior official in the district collectorate said none of the road or railway travellers was found positive. Here only those having symptom are tested. Apart from the railway station, there are check points at entry into district from Ramtek, Saoner and Katol, said a source. “Persons testing positive at any of these points are straightaway taken to CCCs in ambulances,” said resident deputy collector Ravindra Khajanji.The rules have evoked sharp criticism from the travel and hospitality industry. Tejinder Singh Renu, president of Nagpur Residential Hotels Association, said, “Mandatory isolation even for outsiders would be to taxing. Such persons can be allowed to go home with adequate precaution as they can get better health care in the place where they live.”“In order to avoid such complications, the state government should have testing facility right at the point of boarding,” said a hospitality professional requesting anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/14-day-isolation-for-travellers-from-4-states-on-testing-ve/articleshow/79452510.cms||Shishir Arya
November 28, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS, BJP top social media support index, Cong lags||Hyderabad: What is mostly debated on social media platforms Facebook and Twitter for GHMC polls? City-based political researcher Khalid Rahman, with the help of Canada based real-time public opinion research organisation Eyesover, found that in the past few days, the debate on GHMC elections has moved on to Hyderabad floods and state of roads. TRS, BJP and AIMIM have been the key parties on social media, having better support index than Congress on social media. The support index on social media, that measures positive support for a party, indicates TRS is leading with 37.5%, followed by BJP (31.5%), AIMIM (20.3%) and Congress (10.6%), in the last 24 hours on Friday. BJP’s share in daily conversation has been increasing steadily whereas that of TRS is fluctuating. In share of daily conversation, BJP stands at 38.2%, followed by TRS (30.2%), AIMIM (15.9%) and Congress (15.6%) on Friday. Sentiment score of all the political parties is above 50%. Daily sentiment, support for political parties and daily conversations are being tracked on real-time. Khalid Rahman said, “Eyesover provides a snapshot or real-time insight of social media. Based on this, we built myghmc.com by researching and identifying key political leaders’ Twitter and Facebook accounts, key issues, topics in English, Telugu and Urdu, political parties and their Twitter and Facebook accounts.” The technology pulls all the tweets, Facebook posts & news and allows analysts to calculate the share of each political party in daily conversations, support index and daily sentiment. If daily sentiment is above 50%, it is recorded as positive and if it is below 50%, it is recorded as negative. If a party is at 40%, then it is in real trouble” said Khalid. In terms of daily sentiment, TRS stands at 57%, followed by AIMIM (56%), BJP (54%), INC (53%). Researchers said in terms of sentiment, even 1% can make a huge difference. BJP’s figures have grown significantly from November 17 till date, with more people taking about it. In past four days, rains, floods, secretariat, drinking water, roads and development have been the identifier words in regards to GHMC elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-bjp-top-social-media-support-index-cong-lags/articleshow/79454813.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
November 28, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Kin allege manhandling of 85-year-old at nursing home||KOLKATA: The discovery of severe blood clots on the shoulder, hand and torso of an 85-year-old patient, who had successfully battled Covid-19 at a south Kolkata nursing home, led his family to allege that he was manhandled during his 17-day stay at the facility. The patient’s daughter feels it could also be a case of medical negligence, but the nursing home has denied the charges. Following a complaint from the family of patient Tapas Kumar Bir, cops from the Ballygunge police station have seized medical records and CCTV footage from the nursing home near Padmapukur on Sarat Bose Road. Police said they were referring the case to the state health panel for their opinion. Nursing home authorities said they had submitted all details of the patient and were open to inquiry by police but questioned the five-day delay in lodging the complaint after Bir’s release. According to the patient’s daughter, Nandini Dutta, who lives in the US, Bir was admitted to the Covid unit ICU of Health Point Hospital on October 31. He was discharged on November 15. Dutta, in her complaint, stated that there was no periodic health update of her father either from doctors or administration during his stay there. “The day he was released, two of my father’s attendants, Binoy Mondal and Bani, went to the hospital but were not allowed upstairs. After bringing him back home, they were changing his clothes when they found severe blood clot marks and swelling all over his body. When I called the hospital, they denied responsibility and hung up. Kindly take strong action against the negligent treatment of my father by the hospital,” Dutta wrote in her complaint filed through Kaunish Ghosh, who is representing her here. A senior administrative official of the nursing home denied the charge. “We received a summon from the Ballygunge police station on November 22 to hand all documents pertaining to Bir’s treatment and CCTV footage on the day of his release. We have provided them to police. Our hospital has been in service for 35 years. We want the law to take its course and are ready for any scrutiny. But we wonder whether any hospital will mistreat a patient in sound mental health and risk causing injury; and why it took the family five days (since the patient’s discharge) to report the injuries. As far as our clinical observations are concerned, there was no medical negligence,” said the official. Police said they were still ascertaining how the injuries happened. “We have collected all evidence and forwarded them to the health panel. We will act as directed by them. A probe has started but we have not filed an FIR yet,” said an officer from the southeast division.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kin-allege-manhandling-of-85-yr-old-at-nursing-home/articleshow/79454801.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 28, 2020||Kolkata||KMC mobilizes machines and 200 workers to repair 60-inch Tallah pipe||Kolkata: The Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) on Friday mobilized more than 200 workers and machines at Tallah to take up the repair of parts of a 60-inch water pipe which is considered a lifeline to the city’s supply system in north and central Kolkata. The workforce will swing into action after Palta water treatment plant and Tallah water reservoir are shut after the morning supply at 6.30am. Supply to entire north and central Kolkata and parts of south will be restored on Sunday morning, Mainak Mukherjee, the director-general of KMC water supply department, said. However, a section of the KMC officials on Friday conceded that repair of the pipe at Nilmoni Mitra Row off Tallah water reservoir would be a challenging task considering that the pipe is running below railway tracks and the workers would need to go down 30 feet below the surface level to get access to the pipe. This apart, releasing water from the pipe would pose a great challenge for even trained workers and engineers as a similar initiative by the KMC water supply department in March 2019 had gone in vain after the civic body failed to de-water the major pipe because of its disadvantageous location. “Despite planning in advance, we could not succeed in repairing the pipe as our workers took much time in accessing the pipe through a parallel sewer line. Though we could finally reach the breached part of the pipe, releasing water from it took abnormally long time and we decided to wrap up the operation as we needed time to resume services at Palta Waterworks and fill Tallah reservoir to start normal supply of water to large parts of the city the next day,” recalled a KMC water supply department official. According to a KMC official, formation of a crack team was necessary as this time the civic body would need to go all out and find leaks since this 60-inch water pipeline made of mild steel acts as the lifeline for the city’s supply system. “We depend heavily on this major water pipe to supply potable water to most parts of north and central Kolkata. This pipe connects to four major water booster pumping stations in north and central Kolkata. If we fail to repair the leak the risk to smooth water supply in north and central Kolkata will always remain,” said a KMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-mobilizes-machines-and-200-workers-to-repair-60-inch-tallah-pipe/articleshow/79454816.cms||Saikat Ray
November 28, 2020||Nagpur||Accused’s brother hands over Rs69 lakh to cops||Nagpur: Ranapratap Nagar police have, this week, recovered around Rs69 lakh from the relatives of Sunil Shrikhande, who is on the run in the alleged Rs100 crore multi-level marketing scam which had its span across India. Shrikhande is learnt to be mastermind Vijay Gurnule’s close aide in the ‘real trade’ business. Zonal DCP Noorul Hassan, addressing a press conference, said police have so far recovered properties worth more than Rs10 crore, including cash Rs1.24 crore, which included substantial cash and documents of immovable assets. “Gurnule’s diary had a mention that he was aiming at a business of Rs500 crores through various dubious means and spreading the network beyond India to Thailand and Dubai,” said Hassan. he informed that Inspector Vidya Jadhav would lead the investigation along with two sub-inspectors and others in her special team. “We have also roped in a chartered accountant and cyber experts,” he said.Earlier this week, Ranapratap Nagar police had seized around Rs48 lakh from Amravati where the amount was concealed under the ground. Police have so far arrested 11 persons, including Gurnule and his accomplice Devendra Gajbhiye, for their role behind duping around 10,000-15,000 people across different states of India. City police chief Amitesh Kumar is learnt to be closely monitoring the probe in the case regarding which even State home minister Anil Deshmukh has lauded the efforts of the city police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/accuseds-brother-hands-over-rs69-lakh-to-cops/articleshow/79452522.cms||Soumitra Bose
November 28, 2020||Nagpur||No coercive action against petitioner schools for recovery of fee: HC to edu dept||Nagpur: The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court has restrained authorities from taking coercive action against petitioner schools regarding recovery of fee, till further orders. Petitioner Unaided Schools Welfare Association Nagpur (USWAN) approached the court for relief from alleged harassment by education department through written orders and actions which are “not within the law”.USWAN, comprising around 40 private unaided schools in district, put before the court copies of letters from the education department which it called ultra vires (acting or done beyond one’s legal power or authority). The petition said that schools are being “harassed, intimidated and threatened by the respondents of coercive actions, fined, criminal proceedings and recovery, all being manifest abuse of power and authority, thus compelling the petitioner to approach the honourable court.”Petitioners argued that there is no government resolution which prohibits schools from recovering pending fees. It added that the petitioners have not hiked fee this year.The petition stated that, “Bombay high court passed three judgements and dismissed all the petitions filed by parents and parents associations and directed them to approach the state government to ventilate their grievances relating to relief from payment of school fee.”The bench, headed by justices Sunil Shukre and AG Gharote, noted that, “Having considered the contentions raised on behalf of the petitioner that the division bench at principal seat, Mumbai, in the bunch of writ petitions has taken up the prima facie view that GR dated May 8 is without jurisdiction, there being no power vested in the government to interfere with the affairs of private unaided schools which are run on permanently unaided basis and that schools are not insisting upon the payment of any fees by the students admitted under the provisions of RTE. It is directed that until further orders, no coercive steps be taken against the petitioners, in relation to recovery of fees.” Senior advocate Sunil Manohar, along with advocates Vishwas Kukday and Willson Mathew, appeared for the petitioners.Earlier this month, another CBSE school challenged the education department’s order to return fees to students. Ashish Sarkar, principal of Bhavan’s Girdhardas Mohta Vidya Mandir, said, “No details were given on how they arrived at that figure. Even after repeated communication education department did not respond, following which we sought relief from the court. On November 17 we received copy of the court order which said no coercive action can be taken by the department.” The petitioner school was represented by senior advocate MG Bhangde along with advocate Shajal Sarda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-coercive-action-against-petitioner-schools-for-recovery-of-fee-hc-to-edu-dept/articleshow/79452533.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
November 28, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: KS Sabarinadhan slaps privilege notice on additional chief secretary||T’PURAM: MLA KS Sabarinadhan filed a breach of privilege notice against finance additional chief secretary RK Singh alleging that he had leaked the CAG report. The responsibility of the additional chief secretary (finance) is to seek the permission of the governor to table the report in assembly once he receives it. However, he leaked the findings of CAG on KIIFB to CEO of KIIFB, alleged Sabarinadhan in the notice. Even finance minister Thomas Isaac has accepted the fact that the findings was communicated to KIIFB CEO. CAG report is a secret document until it is tabled in assembly. This official breached the secrecy that was to be maintained and has insulted and violated the rules and procedures of the assembly, added the MLA. Already Congress MLA VD Satheesan had moved a privilege notice against Isaac claiming that he had leaked the report to the media before tabling it in the assembly. Also, CPM MLA M Swaraj has given a complaint to the speaker against enforcement directorate alleging that it has violated the rights of the assembly by starting an investigation on CAG report before it was tabled in the assembly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/sabarinadhan-slaps-privilege-notice-on-addl-chief-secy/articleshow/79453562.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana Congress treasurer Narayana Reddy set to join BJP||HYDERABAD: Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) treasurer and senior leader Gudur Narayana Reddy, who enjoyed a close rapport with TPCC president N Uttam Kumar Reddy, is likely to join BJP soon. Top leaders of the saffron party are holding talks with him over the date of joining. Narayana Reddy confirmed to TOI that he is positively thinking about joining the saffron party ranks. However, he did not give reasons for deciding to leave the party he worked for nearly four decades since NSUI days. On the other hand, Congress leaders are trying to persuade Narayana Reddy to stay put in the party after he informed them about his willingness to join the BJP. Narayana Reddy is a member of All Indian Congress Committee (AICC) and has been with the party since his days in NSUI and the Youth Congress. Several Congress leaders, including ex-mayor Banda Kartika Reddy, have already joined BJP and more leaders from the grand old party are likely to join the saffron party before GHMC elections on December 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-congress-treasurer-narayana-reddy-set-to-join-bjp/articleshow/79454850.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Black Friday sales pick up as stores offer high discounts||KOLKATA: The first day of Black Friday sales went off well with buyers thronging malls and retail outlets across the city from Friday afternoon to avail of the special discounts being rolled out. This time, prices at brick-and-mortar stores have been kept lower than those being offered online, which prompted more people to visit stores, even as they maintained physical distancing and other Covid safety protocols. “I had to buy a 10-litre geyser as winter has set in. I had been checking online shopping platforms for the past three weeks and but were confused with fluctuating prices. On Friday, I visited an electronic goods store and bought it at 25% discount,” said Indira Sarkar, a schoolteacher. Pulkit Baid, director of Great Eastern appliances, said, “Indian consumers have always been deal-savvy and we saw a similar trend on Friday. Despite the Black Friday sale being just a week after Diwali, there was a sharp spike in sales on Friday. One of the reasons is that prices at stores are lower than that online.” Shops at malls expect sales to go up even further over the next three days as the discounts will be on till November 30. K Vijayan, Acropolis Mall general manager, said, “Sales are gradually picking up but they are yet to reach the peak. But we are expecting a spurt in business as brands have opened a floodgate of discounts. Many shoppers are making a beeline for winter collection. Almost all the leading brands, including Fabindia, Prapti, Global Desi, Fusion Beats and Colorbar, are offering heavy rebate.” Manmohan Bagree, vice-president of South City group, said, “The response on Friday was good. There was a descent crowd, but footfalls are likely to surge over the weekend.” “Sales have been better than expected. Compared to that on a regular Friday, the footfall increased as shoppers started coming in since early morning,” said Sanjeev Mehra, vice-president, Quest Properties India Limited. Shyamala Ramanan, business head of Mia by Tanishq, pointed out that their brand had exceeded last year’s record. “This indicates customer sentiment is positive as they want to splurge on fashion and jewellery products,” she said. Echoing her, Yashovardhan Gupta, MD of Torero Corporation, said, “With Sensex touching a record high and bonuses being offered by companies, a section of consumers are looking forward to a fresh start to 2021 with positivity. As the Black Friday sale started, we are seeing a demand in Cross leather journals, gifts and bags this time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/black-friday-sales-pick-up-as-stores-offer-high-discounts/articleshow/79454825.cms||Sarthak.G
November 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Ex-lover sends intimate images to woman’s children||AHMEDABAD: A 43-year-old woman, a resident of Ambawadi, lodged a complaint with the cyber cell of city police on Thursday alleging that her former lover, Mitesh Parmar, a resident of Vatva, sent intimate pictures of her to her daughter and son. The complainant stated that her husband had left her 15 years ago and she works for a catering agency to make a living. According to the complaint, she met Parmar at the agency a year and a half ago. “The FIR states that they fell in love and entered a relationship,” a cyber cell official said. During their relationship, the accused had clicked pictures of their intimate moments. After about three months, the complainant ended their relationship as she felt it could become an embarrassment, especially for her children. “The accused then threatened her saying if she didn’t do his bidding, he would publish the pictures on social media. The complainant remained defiant and ended her relationship with the accused,” a cyber cell official said. The FIR states that on October 25, the accused sent those pictures to the complainant’s son and daughter. A cyber cell official said they have registered an offence against the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ex-lover-sends-intimate-images-to-womans-children/articleshow/79454823.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Gang stabs man in the neck over mobile phone||COIMBATORE: A four-member gang stabbed a 24-year-old man to death near the airport here on Thursday night after their bid to snatch his mobile phone went in vain. Police said the incident occurred when Vignesh, a native of Theni district, and his roommate T Sujit, 30, a native of Valparai, were on their way to meet their friend at Ondipudur. According to a police officer, the two were staying at a rental house at Poonga Nagar near the airport. Vignesh, he said, was a supervisor with a private firm on Kalapatti Road in the city, while Sujit was a tractor driver with a private airlines. “When they neared SIHS Colony, the gang waylaid their motorcycle and threatened them at knifepoint to part with their mobile phones. Sujit handed them over his mobile phone, while Vignesh refused. Irked, one of the gang members stabbed Vignesh on his neck. Sujit, however, managed to escape from the spot,” the officer said. Sujit later returned to the spot along with his friends and took Vignesh, who was battling for life, to a private hospital on a motorcycle. Vignesh died in the hospital without responding to the treatment. Preliminary investigation revealed that the gang had also waylaid another man, identified as Kailash, of SIHS Colony, while he was heading to his house in a car via Poonga Nagar. “He had escaped from the gang and alerted the police control room. It was after that Vignesh was attacked,” the officer said. City police commissioner Sumit Sharan said they had formed four special teams to nab the gang.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/4-member-gang-stabs-man-to-death-for-mobile-phone/articleshow/79454831.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Online adalath for police officers begins||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: An online adalath of state police chief for addressing the grievances of police officers began on Friday. The adalath titled ‘SPC talks with cops’ is meant for addressing the personal as well as service-related grievances of the police officials, both serving and retired. Not only the police officials, but also their spouses can air their grievances with the state police chief. The state police chief will spend two hours every week to listen to selected complaints. The highlight of the facility is that the police officials of any rank can directly raise their grievances with the police chief without routing it through their immediate superior officers. In the first of such event on Friday, state police chief Loknath Behera listened to 23 grievances of police officials from Kannur and Idukki districts. He also instructed the superior officials of the complainants to take timely action and inform the complainants. In the next adalath scheduled on Thursday, the complaints of officials from Kochi city and Ernakulam rural will be considered. The petitions should reach the email address spctalks.pol@kerala.gov.in before Monday. They can also seek any information regarding the adalath through the helpline number 9497900243. The adalath will consider the petitions from two police districts every week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/online-adalath-for-police-officers-begins/articleshow/79453587.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Nagpur||Thieves have their tails up as cases of dognapping and illegal breeding see a sharp rise in Nagpur||Nagpur: Gangs of canine thieves and kidnappers, hand-in-glove with illegal breeders, are likely to be behind several domesticated dogs going missing from different localities of the city. Crying foul, animal activists have stated that legal assistance is seldom extended in such cases when an animal lover or owner lands up at any police station to lodge a complaint.The animal lovers and activists informed that they have found out through their personal efforts and investigations that some illegal breeders, especially at Martin Nagar in Jaripatka, are the recipient of these stolen dogs. The breeders then used these stolen dogs to produce puppies repeatedly for sale till the animals either die or fall sick. The ailing animals are then abandoned to die. It’s learnt that each dog is made to breed twice or thrice a year as by illegal breeders, against the licensing norms of once a year. Akshay Sahajramani, an animal lover from Jaripatka, said he did not receive any help after approaching police until a senior politician intervened. “Our family friend, who is a politician, had helped us to get the CCTV footage through which we managed to track down the stolen dog without any help from police,” he said.Khushi Dhakan, whose dog was stolen from Kachimet, did not receive any help from Wadi police station. “Some of our neighbours too have lost their dogs in the last few months. At Kachimet, such gang is active,” she said. The theft or kidnapping of her dog was recorded in her CCTV camera too but the police refused to help. Animal lover Karishma Galani said illegal breeders treat the dogs cruelly and make them breed beyond their capacity till they die. “We had a case where a thief had even tried to sell the stolen dog through online shopping portal. Gittikhadan police got ready to help after our repeated request but the cops are least sensitized about animal laws,” she said.It’s learnt that even noted animal activist Maneka Gandhi and her team have expressed their concern regarding the rise in thefts and illegal breeding of animal. Gandhi has also activated her networks across India to fight the menace.Dog lover Smita Mire said that the racket of dog thieves or kidnappers and illegal breeders is spread across Vidarbha with Bhandara, Wardha and such district places having such nexus thriving. “There is an active racket at Hingna which steals and sells dogs. Some students are engaged in such rackets for fast and easy money,” she said. Mire too sounded disillusioned with cops after MIDC police failed to take cognisance of her complaint.Addl CP, crime, Sunil Phulari, said the police station officers should take the complaints and act on it. “If the police station officers do not act, the citizens can always approach the senior officers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/thieves-have-their-tails-up-as-cases-of-dognapping-and-illegal-breeding-see-a-sharp-rise-in-nagpur/articleshow/79452558.cms||Soumitra Bose
November 28, 2020||Kolkata||Calcutta high court directs arrest in 2015 narco case||Kolkata: The Calcutta High Court has ordered immediate arrest of Jakir Hossain Gayen from Uttar Jugdia, Mograhat, South 24 Parganas, for his alleged involvement in a case relating to the possession of 64 kg narcotics. Gayen had moved the bench of Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Aniruddha Roy, seeking anticipatory bail in the case dating back to 2015. The bench was displeased on learning his two earlier applications for anticipatory bail had been rejected by the HC in 2017 and 2020. There was no mention of this in the petition. The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on November 7, 2015, raided a premises at Gocharan in Joynagar, South 24 Parganas, and seized the contraband. Gayen claimed he had nothing to do with the seizure and was being falsely implicated in the matter. Additional solicitor general Y J Dastoor, assisted by advocate Phiroze Edulji, appeared for the NCB and prayed for action against the accused. The bench noted the first para of the petition stated that Gayen had never moved any application for anticipatory bail and that this statement was false. Ordering Gayen to surrender and NCB to arrest him, the HC directed he should not to get bail till conclusion of trial. The HC also ordered legal action against his son, Rabiul Gayen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hc-directs-arrest-in-2015-narco-case/articleshow/79454838.cms||Jayanta Gupta
November 28, 2020||Nagpur||69% pvt hospitals miss deadline to list staff for free Covid vaccine dose||Nagpur: The general public is eagerly waiting for the Covid-19 vaccine, but 69% private hospitals are yet to submit a list of their health care workers to Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC). These workers will be among the first to get the vaccine free, whenever it is approved by the central government. The deadline to submit the list lapsed on October 28.On the directions of the ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW), municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B had written to all government and private hospitals on October 26 to submit a list of doctors, nurses and other staff on or before October 28. The hospitals were given the option to send the list via mail or upload on given website.The hospitals were to submit list of staff along with their identity card, PAN card and other details.The MoHFW had said health care staff at government as well as private hospitals and front-line workers of NMC will be provided vaccine first, whenever it is launched. It directed NMC to collect details and submit the list as soon as possible.As per NMC, the list of health care and front-line workers from the civic body is ready. Government-run hospitals have also submitted the list. However, only 200 of total 650 private hospitals have submitted the list. As of now, the list has around 13,000 staff.NMC additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi told TOI, “Remaining private hospitals are not submitting the list. Apart from letters from NMC, divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar held meeting with representatives of Indian Medical Association (IMA) and Vidarbha Hospitals Association (VHA), and asked them to submit the list. NMC also sent a reminder mail and also contacted representatives of all private hospitals on phone. Still, the lists are awaited from majority of private hospitals.”Joshi added NMC will have no option but to submit whatever list is available whenever the government asks for it. “Private hospitals which do not submit the list will lose the opportunity if the list forwarded by NMC to the government.”Convener of VHA Dr Anup Marar said, “Government has rightly decided to vaccinate health care workers with the anticipated first consignment of Covid vaccine. IMA and VHA had duly publicized the requisition of staff details as desired by NMC repeatedly to our members. It is unfortunate that only 200 of 650 hospitals have provided the details. All hospitals should to immediately give details of their manpower to NMC and state authorities, to allow for planning of doses for all hospital workers. Private practitioners running clinics have also demanded to be included in the list.”IMA president Dr Archana Kothari said, “Private hospitals were facing some technical problems in submitting the list to NMC. IMA held special camp for four days and also made available a system on daily basis. Still, many hospitals are yet to submit the list. We will encourage all to submit the list as soon as possible.”NMC sources told TOI, “Some private hospitals are afraid of submitting documents of all staff, as they will become part of official record. Also, they are worried since government has also asked for copy of PAN card etc.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/69-pvt-hospitals-miss-deadline-to-list-staff-for-free-covid-vaccine-dose/articleshow/79452543.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
November 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Hot demand: Red chilli prices up 30% in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Craving spicy hot curries this winter? Well, that may come at a dearer cost. With less harvest and more demand, the price of red chillies have skyrocketed by at least 30% in Ahmedabad. Estimates by Shree Amdavad Madhupura Mahajan (SAMM) suggest that wholesale price of red chilly has increased from Rs 120 per kg last year to Rs 170 per kg this year. Explaining the trend, Dinesh Patel, president, SAMM, said, “This time around the supply is less because of lesser harvest of chillies, not just in Gujarat but also from Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh too. At the same time, the demand in the export market has gone up significantly, especially in Bangladesh. With more demand and limited crop, the wholesale price of red chillies has gone up.” Madhupura market, which is known to be one of the oldest spices market of the city, currently sees at least 8-10 tonnes of chilli supply on a daily basis. The season for trading chillies has now begun and is expected to last over the next six to seven months till May. Chillies that are used in chilli powder are cultivated in northern part of Gujarat, mainly in Patan and Deesa. Citing reasons behind the poor harvest, Sagar Rabari, president, Khedut Ekta Manch, said, “The extended monsoon has caused a lot of crop damage for various vegetable crops including green chillies. Due to this, the harvest reduced drastically and the sowing for the current season has also been delayed.” “Moisture in the air usually affects the quality of crop also as a result of which the prices have declined,” Rabari further added. Sources said that amidst short supply and high demand, the red varieties of chillies are fetching good prices for the farmers. The chilli crop – which is a preferred cash crop – has been adversely hit due to prolonged incessant rainfall in Maharashtra as well as Madhya Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hot-demand-red-chilli-prices-up-30/articleshow/79454837.cms||Niyati Parikh
November 28, 2020||Kochi||Hand-chopping case: NIA special court to try 11 accused from April 16||KOCHI: The designated National Investigation Agency (NIA) court, here, on Friday announced that it will begin, on April 16 next year, the trial of 11 persons accused of chopping off the hand of a professor in Muvattupuzha. The special court framed charges against the accused on Friday. The case pertains to the incident of July 4, 2010, when the right palm of T J Joseph, then a professor with Newman College, Thodupuzha, was severed by assailants who alleged that he had ridiculed Prophet Mohammed in a Malayalam question paper for BCom students of the college. Charges were framed against Sajil, who was one of the seven who attacked the professor; M K Nazar, one of the key conspirators; Shafeeq, Najeeb, Asiz Odakali, Mohammed Rafi, Subair T P, M K Noushad, Mansoor, P P Moideen Kunju and P M Ayoob. The charges were read out in court and the accused pleaded not guilty. The court will decide the trial schedule on January 5 and commence proceedings on April 16. The first trial in the case, against 31 accused persons, had started in 2013. The 11 who are set to face further trial were arrested or had surrendered after the first trial began. There were around 51 accused and 45 were chargesheeted by NIA. As many as 31 persons faced trial and 13 were convicted in 2015. Savad, who had severed the palm, is the only accused still at large. There are around 306 witnesses, 963 documents and 227 material objects in the case. All these witnesses will have to be summoned as part of the trial. The incident happened when the professor and his family were returning from church. Their car was blocked by the seven-member gang near his residence in Muvattupuzha. The accused broke the vehicle’s glasses and assaulted the other family members. Joseph was pulled out of the vehicle before his hand was chopped off. Before carrying out the act, first-accused Savad is alleged to have said the professor had ridiculed Islam using his right hand, which he should no longer be able to use.#||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hand-chopping-case-nia-spl-court-to-try-11-accused-from-april-16/articleshow/79453625.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur DyCF seeks guidance on EC for MSETCL project in Ambazari||Nagpur: The deputy conservator of forests (DyCF) for Nagpur division, Prabhu Nath Shukla, on Thursday sought guidance from senior forest officials whether the Maharashtra State Electricity Transmission Company Limited (MSETCL) needs environment clearance (EC) for the linear project to install six transmission towers through the heart of Ambazari Biodiversity Park.As reported by TOI, the project was granted forest clearance in 2013 but the MSETCL did not start the project for the last seven years. The park was declared as a reserve forest in 2017 due to the criticality of the biodiversity around the Ambazari lake and also realizing the fact that it was important to protect such areas in an urban scenario for the future of saving our grasslands and water bodies. Over 1,000 trees will be felled for the project.Former honorary wildlife warden Jaydeep Das, who has decided to challenge the laying of towers, has drawn the attention of the forest department about the 30th meeting of the MoEFCC’s environment appraisal committee (EAC) on thermal power held July 12, 2019, under the chairmanship of Navin Chandra.The EAC, after detailed deliberations, recommended the need for EC for high tension power transmission (HTPT) lines. As per the minutes, the MoEFCC guidelines on mitigation of ecological impacts of linear infrastructure on wildlife in consultation with Wildlife Institute of India (WII) related to impacts on birds and other avian fauna due to transmission Iines should be followed by HTPT companies.The regulatory procedures for granting EC for linear projects places laying down of towers and HT lines in category B2 for which EC is not mandatory unless the towers and HT lines fall near water bodies, lakes with biodiversity importance and most importantly near habitats of migratory birds.“In such a scenario the project is upgraded to Category A, which makes it mandatory to get EC from MoEFCC. Considering the present HT line project falling right in the heart of Ambazari Biodiversity Park, with a lake playing host to migratory birds, environmental clearance should be taken,” says Das.Das says crores of rupees have been already spent in protecting the wilderness of Ambazari by way of plantations, soil and water conservation works. The electric transmission company should change the alignment or go for underground lines as it has done from Lendrapark to Ambazari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpur-dycf-seeks-guidance-on-ec-for-msetcl-project-in-ambazari/articleshow/79452575.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
November 28, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Churches to reopen with fogging machines, masks for Sunday mass||MUMBAI: As Catholic churches reopen for public masses after an eight-month Covid-19 lockdown on Sunday, the experience of community prayer will be altered by the pandemic. Worshippers will be seated far apart in pews, prayer books will be absent, and masks and sanitisers will be omnipresent. Holy Name Cathedral in Colaba, the seat of the Catholic Church where Cardinal Oswald Gracias officiates, can accommodate 125 people at one-third capacity. Fr Nigel Barrett, spokesman for archdiocese of Bombay, said, “Churches will follow all SOPs including foot pedal dispensers, thermal scanners, fogging premises and observing social distancing. There will be gaps between mass to allow volunteers to sanitise the church. We are increasing services to ensure only one-third capacity of the church is allowed.” Parish priest Rocky Banz of The Church of Our Lady of Victories, Mahim, or Victoria Church, said, “People got online mass during lockdown but missed communion. They are pleased to be back and receive communion of course, in the hand, not mouth. We will sanitise the church with a fogging machine, check people’s temperature at the entrance and provide masks should visitors forget.” Victoria Church will host 300 worshippers as against its capacity of 500. St Peter’s Church, Bandra, has arranged nine weekend masses to avoid crowding. Parish priest Dr Frazer Mascarenhas SJ said, “We will welcome parishioners aged 11 to 64 on a first-come, first-served basis. We have devised strict safety protocols like masks on at all times on campus, temperature monitoring and sanitising hands before entering, and sitting only on marked seats. Around one-fourth of normal seating will be available, that is around 250 people at a time. Choirs and hymn books are not allowed, but a singer and an accompanist will assist at mass.” At Gloria Church, Byculla, parish priest Dennis Gonsalves has arranged seven masses on Sundays and two on Saturday evenings, which are considered as Sunday masses. He said, “We can accommodate around 200 people by keeping physical distance. We have put fluorescent tapes to indicate seating. On the first bench two people will sit at extreme ends, on the second one will sit in the centre, and this way it will continue for other benches. Families can sit together in a pew.” In Belapur, Navi Mumbai, a display board inside St Joseph Church reads ‘Distance yourself from people not from God’. Parish priest Venancio Mascarenhas is putting the slogan into practice by increasing services to cater to all members. “Thermal checks, sanitising and social distancing protocol will be overseen by our parish council team. But senior citizens are upset at being left out of services,” he said. Most CNI (Church of North India) and Protestant churches started public masses from November 22. Cyril Dara of Anglican CNI denomination St Andrew’s Marathi Church, Agripada, said, “We held our first mass after lockdown without serving holy communion, without singing, and finished mass in 40 minutes, maintaining all protocol.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/churches-to-reopen-with-fogging-machines-masks-for-sunday-mass/articleshow/79454025.cms||Bella Jaisinghani
November 28, 2020||Bareilly||Found without mask, 44 people penalized in Pilibhit||PILIBHIT: At least 44 people were on Friday slapped with a fine of Rs 500 each for not wearing masks in public places in Pilibhit’s Puranpur town. The drive to penalize people not following Covid-19 norms was launched to break the transmission chain of novel coronavirus. “Our teams penalized as many as 44 commuters in Puranpur city who were not wearing the mask. Within a day or two, we will start another drive against the sale and use of polythene bags of less than 50 micron’s thickness. This will include both the shopkeepers and the customers,” said tehsildar Vijay Kumar Trivedi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/found-without-mask-44-people-penalized-in-pilibhit/articleshow/79452571.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC elections: It’s democracy vs dynasty politics, says BJP in-charge Bhupender Yadav||HYDERABAD: BJP incharge Bhupender Yadav described the upcoming GHMC elections as the battle between dynasty politics and democracy. Addressing the leaders and the cadre when Congress leader Vikram Goud joined BJP, Yadav said, “I hope people will support progressive politics. Our party is committed for the development of the poor.” The BJP has reportedly invited another employees union leader, Devisri Prasad, to join the party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/its-democracy-vs-dynasty-politics/articleshow/79454864.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Jaipur||Villagers uproot onion plants from agri centre||Udaipur: Anticipating limited stock of the onion plants that were put up on sale at Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) in Faloj under Dovda police station limits of Dungarpur district, hundreds of villagers who had gathered to purchase, uprooted them from the field and went away. Before the KVK staff could understand anything or stop the villagers, the plants had been uprooted. A police complaint has been filed against some 200 unidentified persons by the KVK in-charge. However, the scientists and the police believe the act was unintentional and not done with a motive of loot. “We have received the complaint and miscommunication seems to be the reason behind the act. The villagers didn’t come with the intention to loot. An investigation is underway. We will clarify on the policies of the KVK regarding plant sale,” Kalu Ram Ravat, Dungarpur SP said. According to sources, the KVK scientists had grown Agri Found Light Red (AFLR) variety of onion seedlings for the Rabi season. The seedlings were meant for sale to the local farmers on yard basis, i.e, some 600 to 750 seedlings were sold in a size of 3x3 feet yard. Farmers were invited to the farm for purchase, however, the number exceeded than expectations. “Hundreds of people walked in and we had to maintain the corona protocol of social distancing,” BL Roat, a scientist at the farm informed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/villagers-uproot-onion-plants-from-agri-centre/articleshow/79455777.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 28, 2020||Nagpur||No preparations for storage of vaccine||Though Mumbai is preparing necessary infrastructure for storage of Covid-19 vaccine, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is yet to take any initiative in this regard. The civic body is waiting for guidelines or directives from the central or the state government.Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has identified a building for storage of vaccine and is ensuring the required arrangements.NMC additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi told TOI, “We did not receive any guidelines from the government as to how much space and what temperature is required for storing the vaccine. The directives from the government to begin preparations are also awaited. We will ensure necessary arrangements as soon as we receive the guidelines and directives,” he said.Joshi added that the NMC has sufficient storage capacity up to -4 degree Celsius, which the civic body has been using to store pulse polio vaccines on its own, government and private premises for years now. “Some private laboratories have infrastructure to store vaccine up to -80 degree Celsius. Therefore, making infrastructure available for storage of vaccine won’t be a problem,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-preparations-for-storage-of-vaccine/articleshow/79452596.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
November 28, 2020||Jaipur||Delhi HC bans App from using Kota institute’s name||Kota: The Delhi High Court, giving interim relief to Kota’s Allen Career Institute, banned Telegram mobile application and five other defendants from broadcasting any material of any kind in the name of institute on any group or account. The single bench of Delhi High Court Judge Rajiv Shakdhar provided a list containing the names/links to the Telegram and 31 channels available on its platform which displayed the copyright study material/lectures of the Allen Career Institute. Shakdhar ordered defendant Telegram to immediately deactivate the channels/accounts and groups of Allen Career Institute containing copyrighted material with immediate effect. The other defendants Nitesh Bhaskar, Rahul Chaudhary, Sourav Kumar, Rupendra Kumar, telecommunication department, New Delhi, were ordered to stop uploading the study material/lectures/video lectures released by Allen Career Institute because it is the copyright of the first sight applicant. This affects the legal rights and professional interests of the applicant, Allen Career Institute, the Delhi High Court observed. The defendants are uploading a large number of copyright study material of the applicant through Telegram and various other links, which not only confuses the students but even mars their interest. The content is being broadcast via different groups through Telegram application. Director of Allen Career Institute Naveen Maheshwari said that no person has the right to publicise and disseminate the material in the name of Allen Career Institute. “It falls in the category of messing with the future of students, upon receiving any such information, legal action will be taken by the institute, considering it to be a criminal act,” he added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/delhi-hc-bans-app-from-using-kota-institutes-name/articleshow/79455780.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 28, 2020||Lucknow||Times summit to discuss ways to make Uttar Pradesh ‘water positive’||LUCKNOW: As UP readies to step out of the Covid-19 era and move towards greater industrialization, doubling farmers’ incomes and ensuring basic necessities for its population of about 24 crore, sustainable water practices will form the basis of the state’s development. On Saturday, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath will address the Times Water Summit where he will speak about the challenges faced by UP and his government’s plans for sustainable growth in the sector. Being held as part of the Make India Water Positive Campaign-2020, organized by The Times of India and partnered by Mantena Constructions, the Summit will look at the need for a robust policy on water to ensure resilient growth in the sector. The CM will be the chief guest at the event. Jal Shakti minister Dr Mahendra Singh will encapsulate the efforts made by his department in rolling out various central and state government schemes -- from Namami Gange to the Har Ghar Jal Yojana and the Atal Bhujal Yojana. After the inaugural address by the CM and other dignitaries, there will be a panel discussion on the role of policy and economics in building resilient water infrastructures, water outlook for UP, possible interventions and a roadmap to make UP water positive. Additional chief secretary (agriculture) Devesh Chaturvedi and Sham Chaudhary, director, Xylem Water Solutions India Pvt Ltd will be among those who will take part in the panel discussion. While UP faces a major challenge in the form of large water deficient areas like Bundelkhand and Vindhyanchal, it has started work on the Har Ghar Jal scheme through which these areas will be connected to piped water supply in the next two to three years. Revival of water bodies and irrigation channels is another major work undertaken by the government at gram panchayat level to address the problem of falling groundwater level and double whammy of groundwater contaminated by arsenic and fluoride in various parts of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/times-summit-to-discuss-ways-to-make-up-water-positive/articleshow/79455784.cms||Neha Lalchandani
November 28, 2020||Lucknow||10,700 MW solar power plants by 2022, says Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday announced that his government aims to set up 1000 MW solar power projects every year between 2021 and 2025. He added that the government has set the target of installing 10700 MW solar projects by 2022 and would electrify 1 lakh households with the help of solar power under Saubhagya Scheme. Addressing Renewable Energy Investor Meet and Expo-2020, Yogi said till date around 970 MW capacity solar power projects have already been set up in the state. ‘100% waiver of stamp duty on land acquired for solar power generation’“Under solar energy policy (2017), private players have been allocated generation of 1122 MW solar power. Of this, 500 MW is expected to roll out by March 2021,” he said. The CM said a 1200 MW ultra-mega park is proposed to be developed in Jalaun by UP New Energy Development Authority (UP Neda) and National Hydro-electric Power Corporation. He added that a 600 MW power plant each in Jhansi and Lalitpur were also in the pipeline. Outlining the steps already taken by the state government to promote solar power projects, Yogi said solar power projects were being set up in Bundelkhand and east UP region with the help of private players. “Besides establishing solar power parks in the state, solar power policy allowed third party open access. Already, a target of 10,700 MW capacity solar power projects has been fixed by 2022. Of this, solar power projects account for 6400 MW while rooftop solar power plants will contribute 4300 MW,” he added. Yogi said under solar power policy, the state government was providing various facilities to developers. “This includes 100% waiver in stamp duty on land acquired for the purpose of solar power generation, 100% waiver on electricity duty for 10 years, rebate on getting environmental clearance, 50% rebate on transmission charges on power generated for being distributed within the state,” he said. The CM added that the state government would also bear the cost of laying of transmission lines depending on the capacity of power plant. “To promote solar energy in Bundelkhand region, the state government has come up with green energy corridor for production of 4000 MW solar power. Under this, the state government will spend around Rs 5,500 crore for transmission lines,” he said. “The quantum of power generated and its consumption is the base of economic development in a state. Power consumption is the key in agriculture, industry, transport and employment generation,” he said, adding that UP was ahead in terms of geographical location and manpower, because of which development and industrialisation was being carried out with the help of renewable energy. Yogi said the state government understood the importance of energy generation, especially through solar energy and biofuel, which had unlimited potential in the state. “The PM Kisan Urja Suraksha Evam Utthan Mahabhiyan (PM-KUSUM) Scheme, envisaging setting up of power plant on barren land, is being implemented. The scheme is also being implemented to energise tube-wells,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/10700-mw-solar-power-plants-by-2022-says-yogi/articleshow/79455792.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Properties of 13 booked under NDPS Act frozen||MUMBAI: Smugglers and Foreign Exchange Manipulators (forfeiture of property) Act (Safema) authorities recently froze properties of 13 arrested for manufacturing and supplying 146kg of the banned mephedrone drug (meow meow or MD) worth Rs 58.5 crore. All were booked under NDPS Act. ATS had earlier filed a charge-sheet and shared intelligence about properties bought by the accused with the competent authority at Safema. It suspected the properties were bought from crime proceeds. Safema can, under NDPS Act, seize properties and auction them. An accused whose property is seized can approach a tribunal and courts but has to prove the property bought was from a valid source and not from crime proceeds. ATS’s Vikhroli unit had in 2019 arrested 13 and busted a factory in Panvel, used as a laboratory to manufacture MD. The accused were manufacturing the drug at Panvel and distributing it in Thane, Mumbai and Navi Mumbai. The case was investigated by inspector Girish Bane and his team. The properties bought include a 3,195 sq metre plot at MIDC Shirala (Sangli district), a flat at Akurli in Panvel worth Rs 35 lakh, a plot at Apategaon in Panvel worth Rs 12.7 lakh, another 1,600 sq metre plot at Apate, Panvel, worth nearly Rs 33 lakh, 1,132gm gold ornaments and 71gm silver ornaments totally worth Rs. 41.3 lakh, seven imported wrist watches worth Rs 3.2 lakh and foreign currency. Three high-end vehicles and Rs 1.6 crore were also seized. The cash was in 15 bank accounts in the name of accused. ATS said the order freezing properties had been sent to Safema. ATS said this was its first case where properties bought by accused using proceeds of drug-trafficking have been seized. Last year, police had intercepted five accused on Eastern Express Highway with 9kg MD. Later, more arrests followed and police found a factory where mephedrone was being manufactured. Police had earlier said the accused manufactured the drug in powder form and transported it to various areas for sale. The laboratory had sophisticated equipment, with one of the accused, Sardar Patil, a Science graduate, having knowledge of pharmaceuticals and chemicals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/properties-of-13-booked-under-ndps-act-frozen/articleshow/79454023.cms||Mateen Hafeez
November 28, 2020||Jaipur||20-year-old girl jumps into well in Baran||KOTA: Unhappy over her proposed marriage, a 20-year-old girl ended her life by jumping into a well in Bhanwargarh town of Baran district on Thursday. The police handed over the body to family members after postmortem and lodged a case of unnatural death under Section 174 of CrPC for further investigation. The girl was identified as Rachana Chandel, a resident of Bhanwargarh town, said Vijendra Singh, SHO, Bhanwargarh police station. The girl along with her mother had gone for defecation in the open on Thursday morning. While they were passing by a well, she pulled her mother aside and jumped into the well, he added. She had died by the time she was rescued from the well, he said. Initial investigation revealed that the girl was not happy with her proposed marriage and wanted to marry someone else who she was reportedly in love with, the SHO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/20-yr-old-girl-jumps-into-well-in-baran/articleshow/79455793.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Student who hacked into cafe’s payment system sent for counselling||MUMBAI: A 17-year-old student was on Thursday told by a juvenile court to go for counselling for two years after he admitted to hacking into the payment system of a cafe and transferring funds from other customers’ membership cards to his own. The court also told him to furnish a bond of good behaviour for a year. This is perhaps the first time a juvenile court here has ruled in a cyber crime case involving an under-aged accused. The boy is doing chartered accountancy and had cleared Class XII exams with over 80%. A coffee shop-owner lodged a complaint of cheating with cyber police on September 28. “The shop gives out membership cards which customers can load with money. The card can be used to make purchases and earn rewards. A customer asked the owner how funds from his card had been spent despite him not using the card,” said a police officer. The owner checked his payment system and spoke to other customers, many of whom had been similarly cheated. Police traced the IP address of the culprit to Orissa but it was a false lead. After technical surveillance, police zeroed in on a housing society here but they did not know which of the 36 flats was of the accused. After camping at the building for four days, sleuths confirmed the teen’s involvement and on Thursday filed a chargesheet before the juvenile court. The youngster had taken tips from YouTube and other sites to hack into the cafe’s system and divert funds, only to treat college friends. “The boy is from a middle class family. His parents were shocked when police landed up at their place. They did not know what their son was up to,” said DCP Rashmi Karandikar. The youngster had knowledge of the dark web. In the current case, he masked his identity using the internet and Sim cards under fake names. A probe showed he diverted several thousands from other cards to his own.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/student-who-hacked-into-cafes-payment-system-sent-for-counselling/articleshow/79454021.cms||Nitasha Natu
November 28, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC elections 2020: AIMIM woos all communities in Old City||HYDERABAD: In a bid to reach out to more voters, AIMIM candidates are now conducting meetings with members of Agarwal, Bengali and Sikh communities in the Old City. AIMIM strongholds Ghansi Bazar, Shali Banda, Charminar, Puranapul and Jambagh have a sizeable population of people from these communities. During their interaction with party leaders, the Agarwal Samaj stressed the need for better sanitation while the Sikh community demanded regular fogging in the Musi near the Ghansi Bazar. The Bengalis, who are predominantly employed in the jewellery business, wanted clean roads and better infrastructure in the residential and commercial stretches of Old City. All of them demanded a permanent solution to the traffic and parking woes. “Traffic has been a major problem for decades. Traffic de-congestion plan is our major demand,” said Sankeerth Agarwal from Ghansi Bazar ward. AIMIM contestant from Ghansi Bazar, Mohammed Ghouse, acknowledged their demands and said it is the duty of corporator and GHMC to resolve them. “The Marwadi/Agarwal Samaj told me they frequently organise events and good sanitation is their only demand,” said Ghouse. The aspirant from Pathergatti, Sohail Quadri, said traders want solution to traffic issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/aimim-woos-all-communities-in-old-city/articleshow/79454876.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Jodhpur||Girl, lover found hanging from tree in Jodhpur district||JODHPUR: Barely three days before her marriage, a girl was found hanging with a man from a tree on Thursday night here. Both used to live in houses opposite each other at Gau Ghati in Mandore area and were said to be having affair for some time. Girl’s father had given a missing complaint to the police on Thursday evening after she did not return home till night accusing the man of kidnapping her. The girl had left her house claiming she wanted to buy clothes. ACP Rajendra Prasad Diwakar said that the girl had left her house in the afternoon on Thursday with one Jeetu. “Her father had given a complaint to the police accusing Jeetu of kidnapping his minor daughter with a view to marry her on Thursday evening,” Diwakar said. “In the night, we received information about a couple hanging from a tree in a rocky area of Nimba Nimbari. When we reached the spot, they were identified as the same couple,” the official said. Though, the age of the girl according to her Aadhaar card was 18 years, but the family members have been insisting her to be a minor. “We are verifying her age through her school documents. The man, who was a daily wager, was in relation with the girl for the past some time and used to live in the same mohalla opposite the house of the girl,” said the official adding that both families used to visit each other as neighbours. The girl was to be married off on November 30. All the preparations for the wedding had been completed by her family and the invitation cards had already been distributed. But the gloom descended in the house as soon as the information about her death reached her house in the night. Police got the post-mortem of both done by a medical board on Friday and handed over the bodies to the respective families. The situation turned tense after the incident came to notice as both the families traded charges against each other. As a precaution police force was deployed in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/girl-lover-found-hanging-from-tree-in-jodhpur-dist/articleshow/79455791.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Jaipur||BJP playing negative & disruptive politics: Rajasthan CM||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot alleged that the BJP has been indulging in negative politics. The statement of many BJP leaders on corona management and the future of the government has lowered the level of political discourse. Gehlot said opposition leader Gulab Chand Kataria predicted that the life of the current government is only for six months, while former minister Arun Chaturvedi said there is all chance of a mid-term poll in the state. Union minister Arjunlal Meghwal said the state government has become shaky and Jaskaur Meena said for money the MLAs could go to any direction. The chief minister said these reflects an anti-democratic thinking of the opposition, Gehlot said in a statement. The BJP leaders’ statements indicate that the BJP is trying to destabilize the government by using money and muscle power, he alleged adding that the BJP tried it earlier also but due to the unity and commitment of Congress MLAs they had to face failure. He said the video of the Congress MLAs who joined BJP in Gujarat establishes that the MLAs were paid Rs 10 crore on joining the BJP. Gehlot said the opposition party is indulging in this kind of activities when the state government efforts in Covid management has been appreciated all over the country and by the prime minister himself. But the BJP leaders in the state has been trying to frighten the people with their scare-mongering statements which was very unfortunate, said the chief minister. He said the corona cases were shown an increase in the state due to increased interaction of the people during the Diwali festival, cold and marriage season. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-playing-negative-disruptive-politics-cm/articleshow/79455789.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Goa||Power dept awarded for use of technology||Panaji: Amidst the debate over the efficiency of Goa’s power model, the Goa electricity department has been conferred the GCloud and Data Centre Award 2020 for successful implementation of various IT projects. Goa bagged the award for undertaking power reforms and for introducing digital initiatives such as Bharat Bill Payment System and online services and other initiatives. Goa electricity department is the only electrical utility in the country to have received the award, said the state government in a statement. Chief electrical engineer Rajiv Samant received the award along with superintending engineer Mayur Hede and assistant engineer Anita Pai Raikar during a virtual award ceremony held recently. Power minister Nilesh Cabral congratulated the department for receiving the award and expressed happiness over the various IT processes implemented by them under the ‘Ease of Doing Business’ initiative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/power-dept-awarded-for-use-of-technology/articleshow/79455801.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Railway debars two candidates for life for hiring Munnabhais||LUCKNOW: Railway recruitment cell of North Central Railway, Prayagraj division, has debarred two candidates for life from appearing for railways jobs after a probe found that they had allegedly hired impersonators to appear in the examination. However, railway officials have not lodged an FIR against the two accused. Talking to TOI, Atul Mishra, deputy chief personnel officer, heading the recruitment cell, said, “Six candidates were called for their document verification and interview, out of which four were absent. The interview was conducted for rest two---and it was found that one candidate had hired an impersonator to write his computer based test, while another claimed himself to be 60 percent visually impaired and took the impersonator in the form of a scriber and gave an exam.” “The candidate who claimed himself to be visually impaired did not even have physically handicapped certificate to attribute his medical condition. Interestingly, the candidate was able to see everything when asked to identify things during the interview. For the interview he brought his brother as a scriber, but during the computer based exam he had taken another person as scriber,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rlys-debars-2-candidates-for-life-for-hiring-munnabhais/articleshow/79455798.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Jaipur||‘Legality of love jihad rests with judiciary’||Jaipur: Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla said the state assemblies were independent and empowered to pass legislation but the ultimate authority to decide the legality of such legislation rests with the judiciary. Birla said this while interacting with the media in response to a question on the law of ‘love Jihad’ (inter religious marriage) being proposed by many BJP ruled states. He said that the recent speakers’ meet in Gujarat had decided to introduce Constitution as a subject in universities and colleges to educate the youth on our constitutional rights and duties. He said that a committee will also examine the contentious Schedule X anti defection law as political parties have been found using many other means other than defection like resignation from the house to defeat the purpose of the law and the role of the assembly speaker in deciding such cases. He said the current unruly scenes witnessed in parliament and assemblies would reduce if the people were given opportunities and avenues to raise their concerns and efforts are made in such direction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/legality-of-love-jihad-rests-with-judiciary/articleshow/79455794.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 28, 2020||Udaipur||Leopard that dodged cages finally trapped in Udaipur||UDAIPUR: The forest department finally managed to trap a leopard which had killed a woman at Kewde-ki-Naal under Savina police station limits here 40 days ago. According to forest officials, the leopard had been visiting the cages frequently and despite getting inside, the animal managed to come out safely of these without being trapped. Understanding his tactics to avert the trap, the forest officials made alterations to the cages and applied new mechanism through which the leopard was finally caught. DFO Ajay Chittora said the leopard had mauled a 36-year-old woman on October 15 when the lady had gone inside the jungle to collect grass for making broom. Many cages were installed in the area and forest officials were keeping watch on the wild cat through cameras fitted in strategic locations. “We found that the leopard entered few cages, but every time he was careful enough not to hit the front door that would eventually cause the falling of the back door. Perhaps this leopard had fallen in a similar cage earlier and hence remembered the technique,” Chittora said. The department made special cages with some alternation based on weight mechanism so that the leopard need not hit the front door but as soon as his weight falls inside a particular part of the cage, the backdoor would drop automatically.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/leopard-that-dodged-cages-finally-trapped-in-udaipur/articleshow/79455797.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Act against BJYM national president Tejaswi Surya: TRS||HYDERABAD: TRS urged State Election Commission (SEC) to initiate action against BJYM national president Tejaswi Surya by issuing a show cause notice why he cannot be removed from his post and is not liable for legal consequences for violating the court orders and election code during his recent visit to Hyderabad. TRS general secretaries M Srinivas Reddy and Bharat Kumar Soma met state election commissioner C Partha Sarathi on Friday and said the BJYM national leader had addressed a public meeting at Osmania University on November 24, violating HC order againstpolitical meetings on OU campus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/act-against-surya-trs/articleshow/79454878.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Patna||Elephant kills mahout during wedding ceremony in Bihar's Siwan district||PATNA: An elephant ran amok and killed the ‘mahout’ during a wedding ceremony in Siwan district late on Thursday evening. Three other mahouts, who were called in from neighbouring places to control the elephant, received injuries in the process. The incident took place at around 9pm at Hariharpur Lalgarh village under Tarwara police station in Siwan district. A show of horses, elephants and camels was organized to mark the wedding of the daughter of one Parshuram Ram. A member of the marriage party burst crackers during ‘dwar’ puja, a pre-wedding ceremony. One of the two elephants ran amok as soon as crackers burst. People ran helter-skelter for safety as the elephant started damaging a portion of the community hall, a hand-pump on its premises and also some furniture. The mahout tried to control the elephant but in vain. The tusker became so furious that it crushed its mahout, identified as Munna Sai of Dumri village in Siwan district, leading to his instant death. As the situation went out of control, some residents informed the police about the incident. A police team somehow managed to divert the attention of the elephant with the help of guns and escorted it to the Yadavpur ‘chaur’ (wetland). Some mahouts like Madan Mian, Qurban Mian and Rohit Singh were called in from neighbouring places to control the elephant. However, three of them suffered injuries, one of them seriously, in the process and were rushed to the primary health centre at Jamo Bazar for treatment. Tarwara police station SHO Pramod Kumar said on Friday that a police team rushed to the spot after getting information from local residents. “The elephant’s owner also visited the spot and inquired about the incident. The family members of Sai took the body as they were not ready for postmortem,” he said over the phone. The locals said the marriage party had come from Sarari under Goreyakothi police station in Siwan district. Divisional forest officer of Siwan Sunil Kumar was not available for his comments. The SHO, however, said the use of horses, elephants and camels in wedding ceremony in rural areas is a common feature. When reminded of the Covid-19 pandemic, he said, “There is no any specific instruction from the government on the use of animals in the wedding ceremonies.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/elephant-kills-mahout-during-wedding-ceremony-in-siwan/articleshow/79452621.cms||Ramashankar
November 28, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Bus coming from Delhi gutted after coming in contact with live wire; 3 killed||JAIPUR: Three persons were killed and half-a-dozen injured when a bus caught fire after coming in contact with a high tension wire in Achrol area of city. The private bus was completely gutted. The injured are undergoing treatment at the hospital. The bus was coming from Delhi. The deceased were identified as Noor Mohammad (30), a resident of Alwar, Bhagwan Rathore (37), a resident of Nagaur and Sugna Devi (37) who was a resident of Dausa. TimesViewA live wire hanging dangerously on the road is the height of callousness and negligence by officials. To prevent tragedies such as these, all necessary precautions must be taken and timely maintenance of power lines must be carried out regularly. The power supply department must ensure accountability and take strict action against those employees who are not carrying out their duty.SP Jaipur Rural Shankar Dutt Sharma told TOI, “The incident occurred when the bus was trying to move back and hit a high tension wire. There were total 19 passengers in the bus out of which three died on the spot and others were taken to the hospital". Police are investigating as to why the live wire was there. "We have to find out why the high tension wire was let loose in the first place due to which the tragedy happened," said an official of Jaipur rural police station. Meanwhile, a 40-year-old man who was crossing the road was mowed down by a low-floor bus in Jaipur’s Chaksu on Friday evening. One person was injured who is undergoing treatment. The deceased was identified as Dharmendra Lalwani, a resident of Chaksu. The accident occurred around 6.30pm on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bus-gutted-after-coming-in-contact-with-live-wire/articleshow/79455800.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
November 28, 2020||Delhi||Turning barren plot into wetland: how aud gave back its lush look||NEW DELHI: Four years ago, Ambedkar University Delhi took possession of a barren plot used by people of Gopalpur village in northeast Delhi to learn driving or for religious gatherings. Today, it is a wetland with over 90 species of trees and 108 species of migratory birds, the miracle wrought on the 15 hectares by the students and teachers of AUD’s Centre for Urban Ecology and Sustainability (CUES). Believing as the CUES vision statement says, that “wetlands are essential for maintaining ecosystem balance and performing various ecosystem functions such as moderating micro-climate, providing habitat for aquatic and avian life, recharging aquifers and groundwater, and maintaining soil moisture” AUD collaborated with Delhi Development Authority to restore the Dheerpur wetland in Gopalpur village. Suresh Babu, director, CUES, said, “The project envisages ecological restoration of 25.8 hectares earmarked for wetlands over a period of five years. The wetland park will provide hydrological, regulatory, cultural and aesthetic benefits to the local communities of Mukherjee Nagar, Nirankari Colony, Gandhi Vihar and the AUD campus coming up at the site.” At the wetland, Babu recalled how the foundation plaque was put up by AUD in 2015 in an almost barren land. “The place looks absolutely different now, and the whole area is green with vegetation and waterbodies. Even the road has narrowed down with saplings growing well on the sides,” he said. At the CUES field station, university staffers, gardeners, students and researchers are carrying out some work. “We have skeletal staffing and much work is voluntary by students and teachers,” Babu said. “There are over 90 tree species like jamun, bamboo, willow and mulberry. The banyan tree planted by the Dalai Lama in 2017 is also growing well.” When the project began, the soil had been compacted by cars and religious gathering, squeezing out whatever water there was. “For water storage, we created ponds. Consequently, three big wetland expanses and four smaller ones, all interconnected, form during the rainy season. “These together have a surface storage area of 50,000 cubic litres and aid in groundwater recharge,” said Babu. The wetland is also home to over 108 bird species, monitored twice a month by AUD researchers. “These are mostly wetland birds like the red naped ibis, the greater coucal and the long-tailed shrike. Dheerpur has become a favourite with birders,” smiled Babu. Joggers and visitors from the nearby villages also gather in the luxuriant wetland. “Villagers have been able to collect over 7,000kg of fodder for their livestock in the past year. This contribution to the community makes the wetland all the more important,” Babu added. Anu Singh Lather, AUD vice-chancellor, described the wetland restoration project as a “prestigious outreach project of the university”. She was happy that the “dedicated effort of our team of researchers” has yielded excellent results in a short time. She noted, “While the project is still in the development phase and there still is some distance to cover, the wetland already serves as a unique model of participatory urban restoration involving volunteers, students, researchers and local community members.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/turning-barren-plot-into-wetland-how-aud-gave-back-its-lush-look/articleshow/79469008.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
November 28, 2020||Pune||After Bose & Raman discoveries, GMRT India’s 3rd IEEE Milestone||Pune: The Giant Metrewave Radio Telescope (GMRT) has been selected as an Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) Milestone facility. This is the third such IEEE Milestone recognition for an Indian contribution. The previous two (recognized in 2012) were the work done by Sir JC Bose to demonstrate the generation and reception of radio waves in 1895, and the Nobel prize-winning discovery by Sir CV Raman in 1928, the official release said. Harish Mysore, senior director of IEEE India operations, said India with its rich scientific achievements was still lagging behind in IEEE recognitions due to the lack of proper documentation. “IEEE has recognised 212 milestones all over the world for their scientific and engineering contributions with the US topping the chart. Many institutes in India have contributed for more than 25 years with many unique achievements but lack of proper documentation makes it hard to be recognised. Japan has 34 milestones because their society is much invested in the documentation process,” he added. Yashwant Gupta, centre director of NCRA, said it took them 12-14 months to get the paperwork in order, the inspections and scrutiny process to be completed and get the recognition. “It is also a fitting tribute to radio astronomer Govind Swarup, who was the driving force behind GMRT, and all the team members whose efforts over the last 30 years made the GMRT a reality. It culminated in the upgrade of the facility that we completed last year. From political to technological to geographical challenges, GMRT is the result of the hard work and vision of many great scientists,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/after-bose-raman-discoveries-gmrt-indias-3rd-ieee-milestone/articleshow/79453710.cms||Ardhra Nair
November 28, 2020||Kochi||Guerrilla Movement||Kochi: In Kerala, two Argentinians are quite famous, perhaps as good as anywhere else in the world. One was a doctor, who wore a beret cap with a lone star and waged armed revolution in Latin America. The other played football. Che Guevara and Diego Maradona have a cult following in this part of the world. That neither was directly involved in the socio-economic or political landscape of the region that is so far removed from their motherland only adds to the mysticism. Che symbols can be found throughout the state, in the form of murals, often endorsed by the cadre of the communist party. Maradona memories, meanwhile, emerge mostly during the time of the Fifa World Cups – he would show up alongside the current generation of football stars, such as Leo Messi, on flex hoardings and posters. Che being a youth icon all is understandable, but how did Maradonabecome so popular in this part of the world? It was all down to sheer timing. As in sport, where a player gets the better of an opponent by virtue of better timing – be it the timing of a defense-splitting pass, or the that of a tackle on the edge of the box or simply that of a chip shot just as when the goalkeeper advances to intercept –Maradona’s entry into the hearts of Kerala football fans was timed by the arrival of television coverage. “I was about 19 then,” remembered former India international footballer CV Pappachan. “The 1986 World Cup was the first sporting event that was televised widely in Kerala. It changed my life.” The former champion footballer of the Kerala Police says watching Maradona on a grainy black-and-white television at a friend’s house changed his concept of football. “Maradona opened my eyes to a style of football I had never seen before. Like most of the players of my time, I used to stop the ball to dribble. The idea of dribbling on the run was not in our curriculum. I adopted that into my game and I was transformed as a player.” Meanwhile, in Malappuram, an eight-year-old Asif Saheer had also witnessed the Maradona magic. The former SBT striker claims that the Argentine great’s craftsmanship over a football had an engraving influence on him. “Maradona gave a purpose to my life, to play like him to move like him on the pitch became my ambition and for that, I’ll forever be indebted,” said the player, who in his prime was dubbed ‘Kerala Maradona’ for his dribbling game. El Diego famously got a tattoo of Che on his right arm and on being asked about it, Maradona once reportedly said: It was time that the two greatest Argentines were united in the same body. Good old Diego probably didn’t know that the two emblematic Argentines were even otherwise merged in many minds in Kerala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/guerrilla-movement/articleshow/79453682.cms||Arun George
November 28, 2020||Jaipur||Groom, baratis fined for not wearing mask in Jaipur||JAIPUR: The vigilance branch of Jaipur Municipal Corporation, Greater, challaned eight wedding members for not wearing mask, including the groom on Friday. After receiving orders from the mayor, the vigilance branch challaned Rs 500 per person and recovered a fine of Rs 4,000 from the groom and his family members. On November 25, the wedding procession of Vidyadhar Nagar resident Vidit Agarwal reached Panigrahan marriage venue via Bhawani Singh Road. At that time, some people in the wedding procession, including the groom, were not wearing masks. The video of this procession reached mayor Soumya. After watching the video, she issued instructions to the deputy commissioner, vigilance, to take action. After collecting information from the wedding venue operator, the vigilance branch informed the groom’s father about the government guidelines which should be followed by the bride and the groom. The groom’s father admitted the mistake and promised to always wear mask.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/groom-baratis-fined-for-not-wearing-mask-in-city/articleshow/79454932.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Jaipur||Access to water, electricity key to fight Covid: Report||JAIPUR: The Physical Distance Readiness (PDI) Index issued by the Tata Institute of Social Science (TISS) has put Rajasthan along with 11 other states with a danger of repeat cycles of Covid-19 infections. The study conducted during all four phases of lockdown has stated that separate messaging/campaigns need to be drawn on the basis of living standards, caste and community behavioural. The parameters considered while marking the PDI includes access to drinking water, toilets, electricity, income levels and internet. The report says that pandemic has provided an important opportunity to revisit prevention aspects of disease control like housing, safe drinking water, sanitation facilities, waste management and sewerage systems. Commenting on the report, Rashmi Jain, head of the department of Sociology, RU, said that looking at the pandemic problem from the prism of caste, communities and living spaces are very important. “The manner in which people have responded to the norms like social distancing, washing of hands and wearing of marks make it clear a uniform approach would lead to debacle which we have been witnessing every day in India and in the state,” said Jain. Highlighting how the state policies combating Covid should be specific to uniform geography and consider the social etiquettes and economic wellbeing of caste and communities. “A densely populated region may require the tougher implementation of laws added with more medical aid as compared to areas with sparsely populated ones. The state has to make sure that areas with low-income levels should have an uninterrupted supply of water, electricity and cleanliness which would eventually help then in following the Covid protocols,” said Jain. The states in low readiness include Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Jammu and Kashmir, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka. States includes in medium readiness—Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Jharkhand, Maharashtra, Mizoram, Odisha, Punjab, Tamil Nadu and Telangana. While seven states are in high readiness—Chandigarh, Kerala, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Pondicherry, Tripura and Uttarakhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/access-to-water-electricity-key-to-fight-covid-report/articleshow/79454935.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Pune||Pune: No RT-PCR report with train passengers from 4 states||PUNE: No train traveller reaching the city during the past three days from Delhi, Goa, Rajasthan and Gujarat carried RT-PCR negative reports with them, making the civic officials’ task of screening the passengers at the station difficult. Two Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) staffers have been deployed near the stairs of the new foot overbridge used by the passengers to leave the station. One of the officials said four passengers were made to undergo the rapid antigen test and the results were negative. Nearly 2,500-3,000 passengers now reach Pune every day from the four states. “It’s an extremely difficult work to check so many passengers. Most of them are unaware that they are supposed to carry with them the RT-PCR negative test reports,” a PMC official said. Though the state government is yet to take a decision on the Centre’s request to defer till December 1 implementation of its new rules making a negative RT-PCR report mandatory for air, road and rail passengers from Rajasthan, Goa, Gujarat and Delhi, it has decided to grant exemption to the transit flyers. But people taking trains to Maharashtra from the four states are supposed to either carry the RT-PCR negative reports or undergo the rapid antigen test in case they have any flu-like symptoms. The PMC official said, “We have been told to check the passengers of trains either terminating or passing through the city. We are more careful when it comes to the trains from Delhi, Goa, Gujarat and Rajasthan. If a passenger’s body temperature is over 37.5ºF, he or she is made to go through the rapid antigen test and the report is provided within half an hour.” On testing positive, the officials contact an ambulance to shift the passenger to a jumbo Covid care facility. Sanjeev Wavare, a senior official of the PMC’s health department, said all norms were being followed. “Passengers entering the station need to carry a confirmed ticket and undergo thermal scanning. Railway Protection Force men are ensuring social distancing,” Pune railway division public relations officer Manoj Jhawar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-rt-pcr-report-with-train-passengers-from-4-states/articleshow/79453687.cms||Joy Sengupta
November 28, 2020||Pune||City traders against further lockdown||Pune: Traders here have expressed their strong opposition to any further lockdown in the city. Mahendra Pitaliya, secretary of Federation of Trade Association of Pune, said they suffered losses for nearly seven months after the lockdown was first imposed in March and that another lockdown will force many traders out of business. “Business is finally picking up after Diwali. Though footfall has increased, it’s only 50-60% of last year’s levels.,” he said. He said many traders struggled to pay rent, loan EMIs, staff salary and meet other expenses. “If anyone is found violating norms, strict action must be taken. Imposing a lockdown is not the solution,” he added. A trader from Karve Road said, “People are still reluctant to step out and another lockdown would set us back by six months, at least. I met my expenses with great difficulty and will be left with no choice but to shut shop if a lockdown is imposed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/city-traders-against-further-lockdown/articleshow/79453720.cms||Rujuta Parekh
November 28, 2020||Jaipur||Over 3,000 fresh cases in Rajasthan; Jaipur, Jodhpur lead||JAIPUR: The state recorded 3,093 Covid-19 infections on Friday taking the total tally in the state to 2,60,040 cases. The active caseload swelled to 28,183 with over 3,000 cases added this week in Jaipur alone. Both Jaipur and Jodhpur continue to lead in the daily chart with 643 and 531 cases respectively in the last 24 hours. Next in the line is Ajmer, which is registering an average of 300 cases since past five-six days and added 290 cases in its tally on Friday. The death toll is also increasing steadily in the last 20 days with 18 deaths recorded in the last 24 hours, with the highest 4 in Ajmer. The sudden spike in local cases along with referrals from across the state, have created a shortage of ICU beds in private hospitals in Jaipur. The free intrastate and interstate movement has resulted in a rise in critical Covid patients who have come for better treatment in Jaipur. Retired army personnel, Sajjan Kumar (60), a resident of Jhunjhunu died due to the virus on November 25 in want of proper care in Jaipur. His family ran from pillar to the post in search of a bed in private hospitals for two days before they admitted him to a hospital on the outskirts. “We were forced to admit my uncle in the hospital knowing the fact that it doesn’t have the capacity to handle patients down with the infection and multiple complications. He battled for four days before he died due to multiple organ failure,” said Mukesh Chaudhary, nephew of the deceased. In view of the situation, chief minister Ashok Gehlot has directed private hospitals to create more beds for Covid patients and dedicate extra space for them. Also, the state has made elaborate arrangements for oxygen cylinders in hospitals. The officials have claimed that they have expanded the supply of oxygen cylinders to meet any rise in requirements. Notably, health minister Raghu Sharma had said that state is likely to experience a peak in cases in December. Meanwhile, the state has said for no relaxation in the night curfews in eight districts until the marriage season ending on December 11. “In case the situation in any district sees a surge, the state will impose a curfew to control the situation,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-3k-fresh-cases-in-raj-jaipur-jodhpur-lead/articleshow/79454968.cms||Shoeb Khan
November 28, 2020||Ajmer||Over 3,000 fresh cases in Rajasthan; Jaipur, Jodhpur lead||JAIPUR: The state recorded 3,093 Covid-19 infections on Friday taking the total tally in the state to 2,60,040 cases. The active caseload swelled to 28,183 with over 3,000 cases added this week in Jaipur alone. Both Jaipur and Jodhpur continue to lead in the daily chart with 643 and 531 cases respectively in the last 24 hours. Next in the line is Ajmer, which is registering an average of 300 cases since past five-six days and added 290 cases in its tally on Friday. The death toll is also increasing steadily in the last 20 days with 18 deaths recorded in the last 24 hours, with the highest 4 in Ajmer. The sudden spike in local cases along with referrals from across the state, have created a shortage of ICU beds in private hospitals in Jaipur. The free intrastate and interstate movement has resulted in a rise in critical Covid patients who have come for better treatment in Jaipur. Retired army personnel, Sajjan Kumar (60), a resident of Jhunjhunu died due to the virus on November 25 in want of proper care in Jaipur. His family ran from pillar to the post in search of a bed in private hospitals for two days before they admitted him to a hospital on the outskirts. “We were forced to admit my uncle in the hospital knowing the fact that it doesn’t have the capacity to handle patients down with the infection and multiple complications. He battled for four days before he died due to multiple organ failure,” said Mukesh Chaudhary, nephew of the deceased. In view of the situation, chief minister Ashok Gehlot has directed private hospitals to create more beds for Covid patients and dedicate extra space for them. Also, the state has made elaborate arrangements for oxygen cylinders in hospitals. The officials have claimed that they have expanded the supply of oxygen cylinders to meet any rise in requirements. Notably, health minister Raghu Sharma had said that state is likely to experience a peak in cases in December. Meanwhile, the state has said for no relaxation in the night curfews in eight districts until the marriage season ending on December 11. “In case the situation in any district sees a surge, the state will impose a curfew to control the situation,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/over-3k-fresh-cases-in-raj-jaipur-jodhpur-lead/articleshow/79457141.cms||Shoeb Khan
November 28, 2020||Delhi||Borders still first choice, only a few move to Burari||New Delhi: Though the farmers of Punjab on a march to Delhi have been asked to stage their protest at the Nirkankari Samagam ground, most of them opted to stay put at the Singhu and Tikri borders. On Saturday, there were only a few hundred protesters at the ground in north Delhi’s Burari, despite Delhi government’s elaborate arrangements there for the demonstrating farmers. Jagdish Jagga of Faridkot, who reached the Singhu border with others in a tractor-trolley around 2am on Saturday was clear. “If we sit at the Burari ground for even four years, it will make no impact on the central government,” he declared. “Our demands for the rollback of the three new farm laws will be heard only if we hit the streets.” His fellow protester, Gurmeet Singh, added, “We will take a call on Sunday on whether to shift from here to Burari.” At the ground itself, farmers from Punjab and Haryana, equipped with rations, utensils, blankets and mattresses, claimed they were prepared to sit in protest for the next four to six months. Though Delhi government and some voluntary groups made arrangements for food at Burari, the farmers cooked their own meals and shunned the tents provided there, preferring instead their tractors. Busy chopping vegetables, Harvinder Singh of Bhaini village in Punjab’s Mansa district, said they were ready to protest for whatever time it took to get the government to repeal the new laws that left them vulnerable to private companies. Some farmers claimed to be at the grounds only to inspect the arrangements. Yashpal Chowdhury of Baghpat, UP, said, “We left our friends at the UP border and came here to check things out. We will now drive back to the border.” Amit Kumar, squatting alongside 20 others, said, “All of us, farmers from Haryana’s Fatehabad district, arrived in Delhi in 27 tractor-trolleys. Most have stayed at the border, but some of us decided to stage a protest at Jantar Mantar and went there in an auto-rickshaw only to have the cops stopping us. So we came to Burari, but will go back in the evening to join the rest at the border.” Social activist Medha Patkar was at Burari on Saturday. After meeting the protesters, she told TOI, “The farmers have not come to Burari ground in large numbers as their associations feel that this will become a camping site, instead of a struggle site. Discussions are under way to use Burari site for a protest because the farmers want a place where dialogues can take place in their favour.” AAP leader Sanjay Singh too visited the farmers. “We are satisfied with the arrangements here,” said farmer Hakam Singh. North Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Jai Prakash said efforts had been made to ensure the protesters did not face any inconvenience. He said 25 mobile toilets, three auto tippers, five waste bins and a JCB to manage the garbage had been placed and three generator sets provided illumination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/borders-still-first-choice-only-a-few-move-to-burari/articleshow/79469064.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
November 28, 2020||Jodhpur||Over 3,000 fresh cases in Rajasthan; Jaipur, Jodhpur lead||JAIPUR: The state recorded 3,093 Covid-19 infections on Friday taking the total tally in the state to 2,60,040 cases. The active caseload swelled to 28,183 with over 3,000 cases added this week in Jaipur alone. Both Jaipur and Jodhpur continue to lead in the daily chart with 643 and 531 cases respectively in the last 24 hours. Next in the line is Ajmer, which is registering an average of 300 cases since past five-six days and added 290 cases in its tally on Friday. The death toll is also increasing steadily in the last 20 days with 18 deaths recorded in the last 24 hours, with the highest 4 in Ajmer. The sudden spike in local cases along with referrals from across the state, have created a shortage of ICU beds in private hospitals in Jaipur. The free intrastate and interstate movement has resulted in a rise in critical Covid patients who have come for better treatment in Jaipur. Retired army personnel, Sajjan Kumar (60), a resident of Jhunjhunu died due to the virus on November 25 in want of proper care in Jaipur. His family ran from pillar to the post in search of a bed in private hospitals for two days before they admitted him to a hospital on the outskirts. “We were forced to admit my uncle in the hospital knowing the fact that it doesn’t have the capacity to handle patients down with the infection and multiple complications. He battled for four days before he died due to multiple organ failure,” said Mukesh Chaudhary, nephew of the deceased. In view of the situation, chief minister Ashok Gehlot has directed private hospitals to create more beds for Covid patients and dedicate extra space for them. Also, the state has made elaborate arrangements for oxygen cylinders in hospitals. The officials have claimed that they have expanded the supply of oxygen cylinders to meet any rise in requirements. Notably, health minister Raghu Sharma had said that state is likely to experience a peak in cases in December. Meanwhile, the state has said for no relaxation in the night curfews in eight districts until the marriage season ending on December 11. “In case the situation in any district sees a surge, the state will impose a curfew to control the situation,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/over-3k-fresh-cases-in-raj-jaipur-jodhpur-lead/articleshow/79457139.cms||Shoeb Khan
November 28, 2020||Udaipur||Over 3,000 fresh cases in Rajasthan; Jaipur, Jodhpur lead||JAIPUR: The state recorded 3,093 Covid-19 infections on Friday taking the total tally in the state to 2,60,040 cases. The active caseload swelled to 28,183 with over 3,000 cases added this week in Jaipur alone. Both Jaipur and Jodhpur continue to lead in the daily chart with 643 and 531 cases respectively in the last 24 hours. Next in the line is Ajmer, which is registering an average of 300 cases since past five-six days and added 290 cases in its tally on Friday. The death toll is also increasing steadily in the last 20 days with 18 deaths recorded in the last 24 hours, with the highest 4 in Ajmer. The sudden spike in local cases along with referrals from across the state, have created a shortage of ICU beds in private hospitals in Jaipur. The free intrastate and interstate movement has resulted in a rise in critical Covid patients who have come for better treatment in Jaipur. Retired army personnel, Sajjan Kumar (60), a resident of Jhunjhunu died due to the virus on November 25 in want of proper care in Jaipur. His family ran from pillar to the post in search of a bed in private hospitals for two days before they admitted him to a hospital on the outskirts. “We were forced to admit my uncle in the hospital knowing the fact that it doesn’t have the capacity to handle patients down with the infection and multiple complications. He battled for four days before he died due to multiple organ failure,” said Mukesh Chaudhary, nephew of the deceased. In view of the situation, chief minister Ashok Gehlot has directed private hospitals to create more beds for Covid patients and dedicate extra space for them. Also, the state has made elaborate arrangements for oxygen cylinders in hospitals. The officials have claimed that they have expanded the supply of oxygen cylinders to meet any rise in requirements. Notably, health minister Raghu Sharma had said that state is likely to experience a peak in cases in December. Meanwhile, the state has said for no relaxation in the night curfews in eight districts until the marriage season ending on December 11. “In case the situation in any district sees a surge, the state will impose a curfew to control the situation,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/over-3k-fresh-cases-in-raj-jaipur-jodhpur-lead/articleshow/79457140.cms||Shoeb Khan
November 28, 2020||Pune||5 in net on charge of bid to extort Chakan firm||Pune: The Pimpri Chinchwad police on Thursday arrested five men, who identified themselves as Mathadi workers and attempted to extort an auto-component manufacturing company in Kuruli village, Chakan. Assistant police inspector Pramod Kshirsagar said all five men were residents of Khed. “Ajay Kaudare (39), Pradip Sonawane (32), Ganesh Sonawane (32), Swapnil Pawar (29) and Hanumant Vadje (32) insisted that the company put one of them as a worker on its payroll and pay Rs22,000 per month,” he said. A company official submitted a complaint application at the Mhalunge police chowkey, alleging that the suspects have been harassing company officials since October 20. As per the complaint application, the suspects said they would not do any actual work and told the company to pay them “salary, levy and services charges”, Kshirsagar said, adding that they warned the complainant of dire consequences if their demand was not met. The complainant told the police that the suspects would be coming to collect the money on Thursday. “We laid a trap and arrested them. We have seized a motorcycle and a car,” he said. On Friday, a magisterial court ordered the five men’s remand in police custody till December 1. “Our investigation has revealed that these suspects have tried the same tactic at four other companies, which have approached us,” Kshirsagar. Recently, Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner Krishna Prasad, during a phone call with industry representatives, urged them to report instances of strong-arming and extortion by criminal elements posing as Mathadi workers, which is a major issue in the industrial belt. Prasad assured them that the police would take stringent action, including invoking provisions of the Maharashtra Control of Organized Crime Act (MCOCA). An officer from the Pimpri Chinchwad police crime branch said a few residents in the industrial belt have formed Mathadi organizations to extort industrial units. The officer said these force companies to grant them contracts to supply manpower, transport, food and drinking water. The officer said the companies shy away from lodging a complaint out of fear. “After the assurance from the commissioner, we expect more companies to come forward,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/5-in-net-on-charge-of-bid-to-extort-chakan-firm/articleshow/79453717.cms||Mihir Tanksale
November 28, 2020||Lucknow||ODF, smart schools and solar lights: Uttar Pradesh has 19 rurban villages||LUCKNOW: To bridge the gap between cities and villages, the state government managed to create 19 clusters of ‘Rurban villages’ till July 2020, while maintaining the basic form of rural life. In these villages, over 8,000 youths have been linked to employment. Under the Rurban Mission, a cluster of geographically contiguous villages with population of 25,000-50,000 in plain and coastal areas and with population of 5,000-15,000 in desert, hilly or tribal areas are being provided basic urban facilities. The objective of Rurban Mission is to stimulate local economic development, enhance basic services, and create well-planned ‘Rurban clusters’. A state government spokesperson said, “The state government has done construction work worth Rs 196 crore to provide basic facilities to villages. As many as 19 smart classrooms and 425 primary and upper primary schools have been upgraded in these villages.” Under the Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Rurban Mission, UP has received national award for overall performance and Rurban Soft Integration in Public Financial Management System in 2019-20 from the Centre. The spokesperson said RO plants had been installed in 110 schools and a CC road link of about 90 kilometres had been constructed. Every house in 19 clusters of rurban villages have been made open defecation free (ODF) through construction of toilets. Also, 21,500 public toilets have been constructed and clean drinking water is also being supplied in villages. Rurban villages have also been provided with over 4,300 solar street lights and 113 high mast solar lights under Critical Gap Funding (CGF). Besides, 18 multipurpose community buildings and 19 marriage halls have been constructed in these villages. Over 9,000 LPG connections have been provided to families living below poverty line. To promote digital technology in these areas, public convenience centres have also been opened and the state government is providing transport services in these areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/odf-smart-schools-and-solar-lights-up-has-19-rurban-villages/articleshow/79455807.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Pune||Trio held for abducting bizman||PUNE: The Yerawada police on Thursday arrested a 28-year-old labour supplier and his two accomplices on the charge of abducting a businessman and beating him up with belts to recover money which the latter had borrowed from the former for his tele-marketing business. The victim also alleged that before thrashing him with belts, the suspects had disrobed him and shot the entire incident on a mobile phone. “We did not find any video clip with the suspects,” Ravindra Alekar, assistant inspector, Yerawada police, said. The suspects are Avinash Kamble, Tanaji Jadhav and Hanumant Shelke from Vishrantwadi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/trio-held-for-abducting-bizman/articleshow/79453733.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Lucknow||Process to collect feedback on smart meters takes off||Lucknow: The Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Limited on Friday set the ball rolling for a statewide referendum on quality of smart meters, more than three months after power supply to thousands of homes having smart meters got snapped leaving the state government red faced. Following directions from energy minister Shrikant Sharma, UPPCL managing director M Devraj has issued a form for the power consumers to give their feedback on the smart meters, which help in arresting line losses and increasing revenue of the distribution companies. Around 12 lakh consumers in districts like Lucknow, Varanasi, Prayagraj, Bareilly Mathura, Kanpur, Meerut, Ghaziabad, Noida, Gorakhpur and Faizabad have installed smart meters in their homes and they are expected to participate in the exercise. In some houses in these districts, power supply had snapped on Janmashtami on August 12 this year, following which chief minister Yogi Adityanath had ordered a probe by the special task force. “The STF probe was necessary to assess if it was a mischief or a sabotage by someone working in the unified command centre situated in Lucknow or was it a technical glitch,” a senior UPPCL officer said. The detailed form issued by the UPPCL seeks feedback on whether consumers are satisfied with smart meters. They would be required to give reason for their feedback. The forms would be provided to the consumers by various distribution companies soon, sources said. UP Rajya Vidyut Upbhogta Parishad president AK Verma said the exercise is being carried out after a long struggle for the rights of consumers. The UPPCL has also been receiving complaints of load jumping and fast running of smart meters. Earlier this week, Sharma had ordered power officials to take feedback from consumers on smart meters. “We are appealing to consumers to give their feedback because that would help in removing the snags,” said Verma, who is also member of the state advisory committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/process-to-collect-feedback-on-smart-meters-takes-off/articleshow/79455808.cms||Pankaj Shah
November 28, 2020||Kolkata||Flight ops hit as power cut continues to plague airport||Kolkata: Departures from Kolkata airport were severely disrupted on Friday morning as the power outage that had occurred the previous evening — following a cable fault — continued to plague critical operations in the terminal building. While more than 30 flights were delayed by 30 to 60 minutes, many planes took off without the baggage, leaving hundreds of passengers fretting after reaching their destinations.Even as engineers and workmen from the airport, Metro Railway and power utility CESC struggled to repair the fault caused by the accidental severing of six high-tension power cables, the frequent tripping of heavy-duty backup generators added to the woes and frustrated attempts to normalize operations. An airline official said the worst period was between 7.30am and 10.30am on Friday when the diesel generator sets supplying power to the terminal tripped seven times. Aerobridges, baggage scanning and loading system, elevators and escalators stopped functioning and the central air-conditioning system was shut off since Thursday evening.The maximum disruption was in baggage transfer. With the conveyor belts functioning intermittently, luggage had to be physically transferred to the lower level before being dispatched to the respective aircraft. Since this took a lot of time and added to the flight delay, after a while airlines decided to fly out without the baggage. “Bags will be flown in subsequent flights,” an airline official said.Amit Raj, a passenger, tweeted seeking assistance for his relatives who couldn’t find their luggage after landing in Kolkata. “Need urgent assistance. Where is the baggage now? They are waiting at Kolkata airport. They have to travel from Kolkata to Dhanbad in a train.”The delays in flights also led to passenger build-up and crowding in the terminal, compromising distancing norms. It being a Friday when there is no embargo on flights between Kolkata and six high-traffic metro cities, the problem was accentuated as there were 40 more flights than Thursday and around 6,000 additional departing passengers.“The terminal was in a mess. There were too many people inside for comfort. And almost everyone I met appeared clueless on when the flight I was travelling in would operate. It was no different for other passengers,” said Anil Kumar, a businessman travelling to Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/flight-ops-hit-as-power-cut-continues-to-plague-airport/articleshow/79453737.cms||Subhro Niyogi
November 28, 2020||Goa||Immense opportunity available in defence shipbuilding: Shripad Naik||Panaji: With India’s maritime interests growing at a fast pace, in line with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision of a $5 trillion economy by 2025, the country’s shipbuilding will see increased focus and demand, minister of state for defence Shripad Naik said on Friday. Naik also said that the evolving geopolitical situation in India’s neighbourhood has also put a greater thrust on maritime safety and security, where Indian shipyards will have to contribute. “As seen in the past, it is easier to breach the vast coastline and we need to be on guard in the current geopolitical scenario around us as we remain surrounded by hostile neighbours. We need to keep our country safe,” Naik said. The Union minister was speaking at a virtual meet on shipbuilding opportunities at Goa Shipyard Limited (GSL) and Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders Ltd (MDSL) organised by Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). “To counter threats, India needs to keep its coastline and the waters around under constant surveillance. Proactive and preventive capabilities are essential and the maritime forces have to play a lead role in such interfaces,” Naik said. The ministry of defence is procuring over 140 new surface and subsurface vessels for the Indian Navy, the Indian Coast Guard and the marine police, and these contracts offer immense potential for MSMEs and shipyards, he said. “Defence shipbuilding sector will continue to see robust growth. There is 9.3% growth in the defence budget in 2019-20 and if you really see the same rate of growth for next 10 years and the amount of money that we are spending on capital budget, the amount provides a great opportunity between the government and private entities in the field in research and development,” chairman and managing director of GSL Cmde Bharat Bhushan Nagpal said. GSL and MDSL are looking to increase the number of MSMEs and suppliers for defence contracts. “MDSL is open to collaborate and jointly bid for contracts, both in the foreign market as well as domestic market. We request MSMEs who have not registered with us to register or reach out to us,” said Biju George, General Manager at MDSL. More than 60% of the Indian Navy’s budget is dedicated to capital expenditure and nearly 70% of this capital budget has been spent on indigenous sourcing amounting to nearly Rs 66,000 crore in the last five years. Naik, who is also the Ayush minister, said that expected orders for surface ships and submarines to be executed from 2020 to 2030 is to the tune of $51 Billion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/immense-opportunity-available-in-defence-shipbuilding-shripad-naik/articleshow/79455809.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 28, 2020||Pune||Minor girl gets obscene photographs, messages||PUNE: The city police are investigating a Kothrud resident’s complaint lodged on Thursday stating that a person sent obscene photos and lewd messages to his minor daughter on her cellphone. The Kothrud police are tracing the owner of the number from where the photos and messages were sent girl and have registered an offence under relevant sections of the POCSO and IT Acts. An officer said the complainant’s daughter (15) on November 24 received some photographs on her cellphone from an unknown number. “She alerted her parents. After sometime, she also received lewd messages,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/minor-girl-gets-obscene-photographs-messages/articleshow/79453739.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Pune||Valuables worth Rs 4.2 lakh burgled||PUNE: Thieve(s) unlocked a flat in Hinjewadi using a duplicate key and decamped with gold ornaments and cash, collectively worth Rs4.2 lakh, between November 24 and 26, when owner Vishnu Kangude (46) had gone to Konkan with his family. Police said the suspect(s) broke the cupboard and stole gold ornaments and a sum of Rs25,000. Sub-inspector N R Angaj of the Hinjewadi police is investigating the case. Chain snatched in KalewadiTwo motorcycle-borne men on Thursday night snatched a gold chain worth Rs78,000 of a woman (50) in Kalewadi. She later lodged an FIR with the Wakad police. The police said the woman was riding pillion on a scooter with her husband when the duo snatched her chain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/valuables-worth-rs-4-2l-burgled/articleshow/79453735.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Jaipur||‘Follow Dungarpur model to top cleanliness’||Jaipur: Rajasthan’s brand ambassador of Swachh Bharat Mission K K Gupta told the officials of JMC, Greater, how they had rejuvenated Dungarpur Municipal Council area and set an example.K K Gupta, former chairman of Dungarpur city council and brand ambassador of sanitation, said that if Jaipur wants to top in cleanliness, then the door-to-door garbage collection system has to reach 100% households. Along with this, the dry and wet waste segregation system has to be streamlined.Gupta said, "The cent percent system of collecting wet and dry waste separately from all the houses can be started from a colony or even from a small area. Later on, this can be successfully applied as a model across the city. For cleaning, the corporation area should be divided into several parts and one charge should be appointed on each part." "We have to first make public toilets/urinals, crematoriums and garbage yards very clean. People coming from outside Jaipur will feel connected to the city if these places are clean," he added.Gupta further said, "To make the city clean, it is necessary that we encourage rain water harvesting. All the wells, step-wells and reservoirs of the city should be cleaned and be made rainwater harvesting centres. Ground water can be recharged in this way. If trees are planted and one person takes the responsibility of plantation then the city will become green." Mayor Somya said that officers /employees of JMC, Greater, should learn from Indore and Dungarpur. She appealed to all officers / employees to work in unison with complete honesty. Acting commissioner Arun Garg and other officials were present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/follow-dungarpur-model-to-top-cleanliness/articleshow/79455016.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 28, 2020||Kolkata||Work-site flooding delays cable repair||Kolkata: Inundation of a work pit from an old drainage line delayed the restoration of damaged high-tension power cables to the airport terminal by over 20 hours. Though the repair location was identified on Thursday evening itself, the process of rejoining the six severed cables could begin only around 8.30pm on Friday after the continuous pumping reduced the water level and the 33KV cables had dried. Engineers from Metro Railway, Airports Authority of India (AAI) and CESC tried to tackle the inundation problem all night. On Friday morning, more heavy-duty suction pumps were deployed to drain the water. “More than the actual work of rejoining the cables, it was the site preparation that proved challenging. All timelines went haywire due to water incursion,” a CESC official said, adding that the supply to the terminal building is expected to be restored by Saturday morning. While the 100-strong CESC team worked at the site, AAI’s engineering team and technicians from the original equipment supplier worked at the control room to address repeated tripping of the generators at the airport. “There were multiple problems with both diesel generator sets and the synchronization panel through which power supply is transferred to the terminal. The snags were finally addressed around 9.30am on Friday, following which they did not recur,” an airport official said. While AAI will conduct an inquiry into the snags, there is also a probe from Metro Railway and CESC into the cause of the original cable fault. While a Metro official claimed it had asked CESC to divert the section to enable work on the Noapara-Airport tunnel, the power utility said the diversion was sought 60m ahead of the site where the damage had occurred and had been completed in the first week of October. CESC maintained an earthmoving equipment used by ITD Cementation had caused the damage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/work-site-flooding-delays-cable-repair/articleshow/79453746.cms||Subhro Niyogi
November 28, 2020||Kolkata||79 officers of Kolkata Police transferred||Kolkata: In the biggest transfers in the recent past of OCs and additional OCs of the city police, a t least 79 officers of Kolkata Police were transferred on Friday. The cops, all in the rank of inspectors, had mostly spent three or more years at the police stations. Sources said the transfers were seen as crucial steps to begin preparing for the elections by following set Election Commission of India norms. According to the published list, Santanu Sinha Biswas, OC Kalighat — where chief minister Mamata Banerjee resides — has been posted with special branch. Rabindra Sarobar OC Jayanta Mukherjee has been transferred as OC Kalighat. Similarly, Siddhartha Chakraborty, who was OC Bowbazar, has been posted at the Ekbalpore police station. Mukul Ranjan Ghosh, OC Jorasanko, is now posted with the detective department. Amit De Sarkar, OC Shakespeare Sarani, has been posted as OC Jadavpur, a post he held sometime back. Another inspector, OC Purba Jadavpur, Ram Thapa, has also been transferred to the special Branch. At several police stations, notably in Behala divisions like Parnasree, Sarsuna and Haridevpur, both OC and the additional OC have been transferred.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/79-officers-of-kolkata-police-transferred/articleshow/79453753.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 28, 2020||Jaipur||‘Jeevanu’ gets life for raping minor in Jaipur's Shastri Nagar area||JAIPUR: A Pocso court in Jaipur handed life sentence to Sikander alias Jeevanu for the rape of a seven-year-old girl last year in Shastri Nagar area on Friday. The convicted has to spend the rest of his life in jail. The rape survivor's father had filed an FIR at Shastri Nagar police station on July 1, 2019, alleging that his daughter who had gone to buy biscuits from a neighbouring shop and was intercepted by a youth on a motorcycle. He asked her about her whereabouts and took her with him on his bike towards the Amanisha Nulla and sexually assaulted her. After the assault, she was dropped near her house. The girl reached home crying and was found bleeding. She told her family about the incident. Police arrested the accused seven days after on July 7 after a manhunt and filed a chargesheet at Pocso court on July 24. The Police Commissionerate appointed Mahveer Singh Kishnawat as the special public prosecutor for the survivor and he took up the case under the case officer scheme. The prosecution produced 36 witnesses and 111 documents to support the case. The court completed the hearing on March 6, 2020, and, on Friday, sentenced the accused to life under sections 323, 341,363, 376, 376ab of the IPC and various sections of the Pocso Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jeevanu-gets-life-for-raping-minor-in-shastri-nagar-area/articleshow/79455030.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Kolkata||Bus drags bike for 50m, catches fire||Kolkata: A speeding private bus that had hit a biker from behind caught fire after the driver tried to speed away with the bike still trapped under the bus. As the bike grazed the ground, sparks flew. The oil tank was punctured and the bus caught on fire. None of the passengers was hurt. But although the biker didn’t come under the bus, he died after being taken to a hospital with severe head injuries.The incident happened on VIP Road near Dum Dum Park on Friday morning when an Ultadanga-bound private bus of route Dankuni-Garia hit Ashok Sarkar’s two-wheeler from behind. The impact was such that Sarkar was flung off his bike and fell on the side of the road. The bus continued to move, dragging the bike for nearly 50m underneath, resulting in the fire. “The incident took place around 9am when Sarkar was heading to work,” said a senior officer of Bidhannagar Commissionerate.Witnesses said the bus was almost packed when the accident happened and the passengers rushed out of the gate just on time. The bus driver and conductor, however, managed to flee from the spot. Even though locals initially tried to extinguish the flames, two fire tenders reached the spot and doused the flames in 45 minutes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bus-drags-bike-for-50m-catches-fire/articleshow/79453765.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Lucknow||Rs 62cr for Kanhar Dam project in 2nd instalment||Lucknow: After initiating a multi-crore drinking water supply project for Sonbhadra and Mirzapur, the state government has given a budgetary push of Rs 62 crore to Kanhar Dam project, considered crucial for mitigating water crisis in Vindhyan region. This was the second instalment of total Rs 180 crore sanctioned for the project in the 2020-21 state budget. Earlier in July, the irrigation department had released the first instalment of Rs 25 crore for the project. According to a government order (dated November 23) issued in this connection, the irrigation department will have to follow guidelines of finance department in spending funds while provisioning labour cess for it. The department will also be required to submit expenditure certificate to the state government. The order further said the irrigation department would ensure quality and timely construction. Under the project, a 39-metre high and 3.2km long dam will be constructed to store 0.15 million acre feet of water. It also includes construction of 121 km long canals to irrigate more than 35,000 hectares of agricultural land which will benefit 108 villages in Duddhi and Chopal development blocks of Sonbhadra. The initial cost of Kanhar Dam, which was initiated in 1976 by then Congress government, was about Rs 28 crore which has escalated to over Rs 2,000 crore due to delay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rs-62cr-for-kanhar-dam-project-in-2nd-instalment/articleshow/79455834.cms||Pankaj Shah
November 28, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Clerk fails to join duty in JMC Heritage, suspended||JAIPUR: Taking action against the employees who haven’t reported for duty after being transferred to Jaipur Municipal Corporation, Heritage, a lower divisional clerk (LDC) was suspended on Thursday.  Moreover, around 30 workers have been served show-cause notices for not joining JMC Heritage office after 25 days of its inauguration. Avinash Kumawat, the LDC, was suspended and 30 workers are some people who are reluctant to join JMC Heritage for unknown reasons. To discuss about the staff crunch, a meeting of all the JMC Heritage officials were called on Friday. Arun Garg, deputy commissioner of JMC Heritage, said that action will be taken against the employees who are not taking charge of their duties. “It is serious issue that employees are not reporting for duties. Some are even trying to get their transfer cancelled. If further delay occurs, we will take severe action against such employees,” said Garg. Office of JMC Heritage is still struggling to stand on its feet. Control room, helpline centre, room for officials to sit and computer system of the officials are yet to start. Vehicles to catch stray cattle are yet to be divided between the two corporations although letter have been sent by the Heritage officials to UDH for dividing the same. “There is a big issue of stray cattle in the JMC Heritage area as they are creating traffic problems. We are not able to resolve the complaints in Walled City on time,” said an official of animal husbandry department in JMC Heritage. Meanwhile, Somya Gurjar, mayor of JMC Greater, has alleged that there has been a partiality while dividing the resources and manpower between both the municipal corporations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/clerk-fails-to-join-duty-in-jmc-heritage-suspended/articleshow/79455031.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Kochi||When the Argentine superstar had Kannur at his feet||Kannur: Diego Armando Maradona dribbled his way into the hearts of football lovers with his mesmerizing football skills at the 1986 World Cup in Mexico. Twenty-six years later, he came to Kannur on October 24, 2012, six days before his 52nd birthday, to inaugurate a jewellery showroom, for which he was the brand ambassador. He didn’t play the game he liked the most but he showed that his skills aren’t limited to football alone on that visit. Fans had thronged the Kannur Municipal Stadium since early morning to catch a glimpse of the footballing legend. He didn’t spend much time at the stadium but in the 20 minutes he was there, the Argentine superstar did just enough to leave his fans spellbound. “Like everyone else, I was a fan of Maradona. When I was in Dubai, I went to click a picture with him. But that chance encounter transformed into a healthy relationship. And that helped me in bringing Maradona to Kannur. I was excited and pretty nervous about bringing Maradona to Kerala as he is known for his mood swings. But he surprised me with the way he carried himself on stage,” said Bobby Chemmannur, the man who facilitated Maradona’s Kannur visit. As soon as he arrived, Maradona extended his tattooed arms to blow kisses to the crowd before getting hold of the football that was thrown towards him. He dribbled the ball a little and then tried to juggle the ball with his head before kicking it towards his fans. When the theme song of the 2010 South Africa World Cup, ‘Waka Waka’, played in the background, Maradona broke into a jig. He soon summoned Ranjini Haridas, anchor of the show, to dance with him. He was as quick with his dancing shoes as he was with his foot on the playing field that even Ranjini found it difficult to match the Argentine’s dancing skills. Next up was the turn of I M Vijayan with whom he played a round of ‘headball’. The organizers had made a cake in the shape of a football ground with a ball at the centre to celebrate his approaching birthday. Kochi-based musician Charles Anthony played the guitar and sang ‘happy birthday’ in Spanish. The moment he heard the Spanish song, his eyes lit up. Along with Charles, Maradona sang the popular Spanish song ‘Besame Mucho’ (kiss me a lot). He returned to cut the cake but refused to cut the ball and the ground and took a portion from the side before taking a bow before the crowd. For one final time he screamed his lungs out “I love India, I love Kerala” before walking off stage. The Maradona show was over. “I consider bringing Maradona to Kannur as one of my greatest accomplishments in life. He was a much-misunderstood person. For me, he was a very straight-forward, innocent guy. I have lost a dear friend with whom I shared a special bond,” added Bobby.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/when-the-argentine-superstar-had-kannur-at-his-feet/articleshow/79453767.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Jaipur||Two youths perish in road mishap||Jaisalmer: Two youths were killed on Friday when their car hit a trailer coming from the opposite direction. The two youths were returning to Barmer after buying a new car from Jodhpur. The accident took place in Kalyanpur police station area in Barmer district. Kalyanpur SHO Mahesh Dhaka said Agrendra (22) resident of Rateu Barmer and Khemaram (22) resident BOF Bhojasar, were working at Pachpadra refinery and had come to Jodhpur to buy a new car. They drove the new car to Pachpadra when the collision took place with a trailer near Aarba village. The trailer driver managed to run away. Police have seized the vehicle. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-youths-perish-in-road-mishap/articleshow/79455066.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Lucknow||State’s start-up ecosystem gets a major boost||Lucknow: Additional chief secretary, IT & electronics, Alok Kumar on Friday said that the growth of the MSMEs will play a major role in job creation and wealth creation. Speaking at a CII conference on electronics, software and information technology, Kumar said that currently the state has 3,800 registered start-ups and 16 incubators. “To give a thrust to the state’s start-up ecosystem, the government is targeting raising 100 incubators in the next five years,” he said. The ACS pointed out major changes that the new start-up policy offers includes inclusion of all sectors rather than just IT and electronics across Uttar Pradesh and a corpus of Rs 150 crores to nurture start-ups. He said that SIDBI is the partner for disbursements under this policy. Kumar said that Bareilly and Jhansi would also have IT parks soon apart from the existing IT parks in Lucknow, Prayagraj and Gautam Budh Nagar. Also, there is a second centre of excellence proposed in the state in Noida based on artificial intelligence, proposal for which has been received. Special secretary, IT and electronics Neha Prakash, noted that the IT start-ups are an integral part of the start-up ecosystem. She also highlighted that an entrepreneur should have the crowd fund raising module to grow their business. The pandemic has opened up a wide array of opportunities for start-ups. The latest start-up policy 2020 of the UP Government has made it easy for entrepreneurs to invest and set up their infrastructure to expand and grow their business while providing employment to the youth of the state. Nalin Kohli, chairman, CII northern regional committee on start-ups and entrepreneurship pointed out that India is the world’s third largest start-up ecosystem after the US and China. Of this, 70% of the start-ups are IT related. He pointed out that UP could be the next IT hub with its target of 1,00,000 crore worth of export in the next five years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/states-start-up-ecosystem-gets-a-major-boost/articleshow/79455870.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 28, 2020||Delhi||Farmers' protest: Singhu border on knife’s edge as farm fire rages||NEW DELHI: Singhu border saw tussles between protesting farmers and police personnel through Friday. In anticipation of caravans of farmers coming from Punjab, the Delhi-Haryana crossing had been fortified with concrete barriers, barbed wires and trucks laden with sand. Tensions were high in the morning when thousands of farmers gathered there, leading to a round of tear gassing at 9am. The situation flared up again after lunch. Police announced that the protestors had received permission to gather at the Burari Nirankari ground, but a section of farmers charged the barricades and a youngster tried to drive away the sand trucks. To deter stone pelters, police resorted to a cane charge and then lobbed tear gas shells. Read AlsoAfter day of clashes, farmers offered protest site at Delhi's BurariConcrete slabs, concertina wire, trucks filled with sand and edgy cops firing teargas rounds kept the agitating farmers stalled at Singhu border on the Delhi-Chandigarh highway till late Friday afternoon.Protest organisers appealed to farmers not to engage in mischief or abuse the cops. “Our differences are with the central government, not police. We are here for peaceful protests, not rowdyism,” exhorted one of the speakers. Baldev Singh, 54, of Kapurthala, complained that the farmers were being treated like terrorists. “Roads were dug up to impede our progress and bridges were barricaded. Don’t we have a stake in Bharat? Is Delhi not our capital too?” the Sikh farmer asked. Perhaps apprehending police action, the farmers were accompanied by doctors and ambulances. Gurwinder Singh Sarpanch of Munak Kalan village in Tanda, a Sarbat Da Bhala Society’s ambulance sewak, claimed, “Twelve protestors were injured at Singhu border in police shelling and lathi charge. Two people broke their arms and others suffered head and body injuries.” Read AlsoDelhi: Travel borders on madness amid protestsFrom office goers and families that needed to reach Indira Gandhi International Airport or New Delhi Railway Station, people crossing the borders of Delhi from and into NCR cities were hit by a triple whammy on Friday:Anil Kumar, 42, from Karad village in Haryana, expressed solidarity with his fellow farmers from Punjab. “We won’t become slaves to corporate houses,” Kumar said heatedly. “The Centre should include a guarantee on minimum support prices in the new laws. The mandis in Haryana and Punjab will be destroyed by these Acts.” Also expressing dismay, Dhanpat Singh, 65, of Panipat said, “If the government stops buying our crops, we won’t be able to feed their families. The private companies will force us to sell at low prices.” Pargan Singh from Nabha said states like Bihar had already ceded the mandis to private operators. “We don’t want to go the Bihar way,” he said. Baljinder Singh, 52, from Kapurthala rued, “Even the courts are not coming to our rescue.” After the farmers were given permission in the evening to congregate at the Burari Nirankari ground, police eased the restrictions. But many were wary of the proposal. Read AlsoAAP MLAs back farmers, Delhi govt ensures facilities in BurariAAP MLAs on Friday extended their support to the farmers who are protesting against the Centre new farm laws, while Delhi government made arrangements at Sant Nirankari Samagam ground in north Delhi’s Burari where the farmers have been allowed to protest.Shamsher Singh said that everyone knew that the protest sites were Jantar Mantar or Ramlila Maidan. “Why should we go to Burari?” he asked defiantly. Another farmer was apprehensive about collective detention with the ground at Burari turned into an open prison. Yogender Yadav, president of Swaraj Abhiyan, attempted to build consensus among different farmers’ organisations about shifting to Burari. “We wanted this face-off to end,” Yadav explained to TOI. However, irked by the police high-handedness, the majority of farmers decided to stay put at Singhu, and a langar was organised around 8pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/border-on-knifes-edge-as-farm-fire-rages-tension-high-in-the-air-after-two-rounds-of-tear-gas-shelling-at-singhu-border-farmers-stay-put-through-the-night/articleshow/79455070.cms||Paras Singh
November 28, 2020||Kolkata||Tram to turn into gallery on wheels||Kolkata: WBTC will shortly launch an art gallery on wheels. Conceived by the West Bengal Transport Corporation, the Kolkata Tram Art Gallery is a unique initiative. The art tram has been readied by the in-house team at Nonapukur workshop of WBTC. The Tram Art Gallery has been modified in a way that paintings can be easily displayed. On days when the tram is booked by artists, their paints will be available for display in the tram. And on days when there is no booking, WBTC will display a collection of old archival tram photos so that the tram runs daily and people can enjoy the art. “ The idea of the Tram Art Gallery is to make art exhibitions accessible, especially for students, who will get great concessions,”said MD WBTC Rajanvir Singh Kapur. The tram will travel the entire city, but will be parked at Esplanade, Shyambazar and Gariahat for a few hours daily or on alternate days, according to the artist’s desire.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tram-to-turn-into-gallery-on-wheels/articleshow/79453773.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: UDH nod to construction of buildings above 32 metres||JAIPUR: Increasing population and land rates in the cities have forced the government to allow the construction of multi-storey buildings up to 32 metre and above. The Urban Housing and Development (UDH) department on Thursday issued orders in this regard. According to orders of the Rajasthan High Court in 2018, no new high-rise building permit can be given till the municipal corporation gets Aerial Hydraulic Ladder Platform equivalent to 32 metre or above. The ladder is used by the fire department to control blaze in high-rise buildings. According to government sources, Jaipur fire brigade already has 42 metre of ladder and a proposal of 70 metre has been given. According to fire brigade officials, in February 2021, they are expecting to get the 70-metre ladder for Jaipur city. Chief fire officer Jagdish Phulwari said, “Once we will get the ladder, security of high-rise buildings won’t be an issue. Till then, we have a 42-metre high ladder which will be sufficient.” Apart from Jaipur, order also includes cities like Jodhpur, Kota, Ajmer, Bikaner, Udaipur and Bharatpur high-rise buildings can be constructed. This 42-metre ladder is also available in Kota and Jodhpur. Similarly, in Kota, Jodhpur, Udaipur and Bhiwadi proposal to purchase a 60-metre ladder is also made. These cities are slowly turning into metropolitans and with the rising population government has decided to prepare for the future. There is, however, some criticism for the order in the department. A senior UDH officer said that this order should have included that at least two such ladders must be purchased by the municipal corporations or else it will be difficult to handle if there is a fire in more than one buildings in the city. In cities where buildings above 32 metre are to be constructed, then a written permission has to be obtained from the government. There have been many incidences in the past where illegal constructions of buildings have taken place. If in a city, a ladder above 32 metres is not available, then the construction company has to give it in writing that they will construct further only when the ladder become available in their municipality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/udh-nod-to-construction-of-bldgs-above-32-metres/articleshow/79455046.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Jaipur||Three killed as car hits road divider in Nagaur||Jaipur/Jodhpur: Three persons killed and three others injured in a road accident in Nagaur on Thursday night when they were returning from a wedding.Initial investigation suggests that the car hit the divider after trying to avoid hitting stray cattle. The deceased were identified as Sumit Kumar (15), Rakesh Valmiki(37) and Rakesh Kumar.“The persons were going from Mundwa after attending a wedding when the incident happened and the three persons died on the spot while three others were injured. The deceased included a minor boy as well,” said a police official.The incident happened on Thursday night and initial investigation revealed that they were trying to avoid hitting a stray cow due to which they hit the divider and three persons died on the spot. Out of the three persons injured, two were referred to Jodhpur for further treatment.Officials claimed that the accused driver was possibly at a high speed because of which he could not brake in time to avoid hitting the ambulance. After the police was informed, the locals along with the cops rescued the injured persons while the bodies of the deceased were kept in the mortuary and handed over to the families after post-mortem. Cops will try to get the CCTV footage to get more details about the accident. A cement block lying on the road turned out to be fatal for three persons, who lost their lives when their car collided with it on Thursday night near village Singhani in Nagaur. They had been returning from a wedding ceremony in Mundawa and belonged to Baori in Jodhpur. Three others were seriously injured have been admitted in the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/three-killed-as-car-hits-road-divider-in-nagaur/articleshow/79455071.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: 3 held for assaulting man over noise protest||KOLKATA: Three persons were arrested from Tangra on Friday after they allegedly assaulted a 40-year-old musical instrument-maker after he objected to loud music being played outside his house during Jagaddhatri Puja Dashami and immersion in the early hours of Thursday. The incident was reported from DC Dey Road. Apart from instrument maker Sanjoy Mondal, two others in his family were also assaulted. All three had to be taken to hospital and were later released. This is the second incident of Puja organizers’ excess reported in the city this year. The first case was reported from Haridevpur where the victim was assaulted and his money snatched after he refused to pay Rs 10,000 for the local Kali Puja. There were a few other DJ music-related excesses in the city in the past 72 hours, including one at Purba Barisha and another in Kasba. In the incident in Tangra, Bapi Thakur, Soumen Adhikary and Vicky Bhowmick have been arrested. “The assailants are neighbours whom we have known for years and there were others whom we know by face. The music being played was too loud and the songs were being repeated. My husband asked them to tone it down. Around 12.45am, several of them started pelting stones, bricks and glass bottles at our house. When my family members came out, they were assaulted. We are still living in shock and fear,” claimed Mondal’s wife Karuna. “The case was started on the basis of a complaint by Mondal. The three FIR-named accused (later arrested) had aided and abetted each other and assaulted the complainant and his family members — Sonu Mondal and Surojit Gunin — by throwing bricks and bottles and also damaged the tiles of the complainant’s house over the issue of protesting against loud music,” said an officer. A case under IPC sections pertaining to hurt and mischief has been started, but cops plan to slap stricter charges under specific clauses. The state had earlier complied with the National Green Tribunal’s 2017 order and issued a gazette notification last year, banning the use of DJs, sound boxes and loudspeakers without sound-limiters. A sound-limiter will cut out noise above 55dB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/3-held-for-assaulting-man-over-noise-protest/articleshow/79453783.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 28, 2020||Jaipur||CM Gehlot bats for organ donation||Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot called for a mass movement in support of organ donation and to remove various misconceptions in the society. Gehlot was addressing the inauguration ceremony of Angadata memorial built in Jaipur under the aegis of Mohan Foundation Jaipur Citizen Forum (MFJCF) on organ donation on Friday. Gehlot said at present the rate of organ donation in India is only 0.08 per million populations, while in Spain, it is 35.01, in America 21.9, in Britain 15.5 per million. Every year, about 2 lakh people in the country need kidney, equal number of people need liver and 50,000 people need heart transplant. Due to lack of awareness about organ donation, very few people can get organs transplanted. We need to work more devotedly in the field of organ donation and organ transplantation, he said.Gehlot said all possible efforts are being made in the direction of organ transplant in the state. Last year at Sawai Man Singh Medical College, the Human Organ and Tissue Transplant Center and the Cardiothoracic Heart Transplant Operation Theater and Intensive Care Unit were inaugurated. This centre is also working to motivate people for organ donation, he said. He lauded the chairman of Jaipur Citizen Forum Rajeev Arora and the convener of Bhavna Jagwani MFJCF for bringing social awareness to organ donation. Urban development and housing minister Shanti Dhariwal said it was not easy to encourage people to donate due to social beliefs, but efforts should be made in this direction. Medical and Health minister Raghu Sharma said there is a revolution in field of organ donation and organ transplant, which could save lives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cm-gehlot-bats-for-organ-donation/articleshow/79455079.cms||---
November 28, 2020||India||Kerala’s fight against Covid draws praise from Niti Aayog||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Kerala’s effort in fighting the pandemic has found special mention in a Niti Aayog report on Covid-19 mitigation and management. It has lauded the state, especially for the route maps prepared for contact tracing, bringing in behavioural change with the “Break the Chain” campaign, and the police video on sanitising hands. “The Mitigation and Management of Covid-19 — Practices from India’s States and Union Territories”, published by Niti Aayog, has also mentioned innovations carried out by districts in Kerala. It highlights how Wayanad proactively trained doctors, nurses and other frontline workers in Covid management using virtual platforms in the early phase of the pandemic. “This enabled the district to boost its health system preparedness,” it says. The report has also lauded the communication strategies adopted by the state to reach out to a large number of people in migrant-dominated areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/keralas-fight-against-covid-draws-praise-from-niti-aayog/articleshow/79456722.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh: Atal Tunnel to open once a week for vehicles carry petroleum products||MANALI: Vehicles carrying petroleum products including petrol, diesel, kerosene and LPG can now use Atal Tunnel as the Centre has given nod to open the tunnel for inflammable products under certain standard operating procedure once a week. The 9.02-km-long tunnel was opened to general traffic on October 3. But the vehicles carrying inflammable products and explosives were not allowed to use the tunnel due to security reasons. These vehicles were bound to use the old highway via Rohtang pass which consumes 3 to 4 hours extra travel time. Now, Rohtang pass has been closed after heavy snowfall and will open next year, the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) has said that petroleum products can be transported through the tunnel once a week. Most of the petroleum supply to Ladakh and Lahaul has already been sent via Rohtang pass. Only a few vehicles will be plying through the tunnel till the next summer season. Letting petroleum vehicles through tunnel will ensure adequate supply in Lahaul valley even after snowfall. A BRO official said Wednesday has been fixed as a day when vehicles carrying petroleum vehicles can ply through the tunnel. “As per directions from the Centre, petroleum vehicles can also use the tunnel. Movement of such vehicles will be regulated according to the state’s standard operating procedure,” he said. According to sources, vehicles ferrying the petroleum products will have to park vehicles near the tunnel with its engine switched off so that temperature of the engine is brought down. This will minimize the chances of fire hazards inside the tunnel. All such vehicles will be sent in the mid-day in presence of fire vehicles and some local officials. This practice will continue until further order from the ministry of defence. Meanwhile, BRO has cleared snow from the Manali-Atal tunnel and Sissu-Atal tunnel highways. The deposit of black ice will allow movement of only four-wheel-drive vehicles. BRO officials said that vehicular movement through the tunnel will be allowed even in night time after first week of December.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/atal-tunnel-to-open-once-a-week-for-vehicles-carry-petroleum-products/articleshow/79455084.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Jaipur||Constable dies in Jhalawar accident||Kota: A constable was killed on the spot after an unidentified vehicle hit his motorbike near Ralayata village on highway under Jhalawar Sadar police station on intervening nights of Thursday and Friday. The body was handed over to the family members after post-mortem. The deceased has been identified as Mukesh Chopdar (30), a resident of Singaniya village of Jhalawar district. He was posted at Jhalawar police line. Chopdar, on his motorbike, was returning to his home at around 2 am on the intervening nights of Thursday and Friday when an unidentified vehicle hit his vehicle, killing him on the spot, SHO at Jhalawar Sadar police station Babulal said. The police lodged a case of negligent driving against the driver of unidentified vehicle and initiated an investigation into the matter. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/constable-dies-in-jhalawar-accident/articleshow/79455089.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Doctor hires man to impersonate himself||NEW DELHI: A man posing as a doctor who had been allegedly attending patients and working as a junior resident at LNJP Hospital in central Delhi has been arrested. Police said that the fake doctor was hired by a junior resident to work on his behalf. He was paying the fraud Rs 2,000 per day as a salary. The arrested man has been identified as Rashid Khan. Police said Khan earlier worked as a nurse and has basic knowledge about medicine. The doctor who had allegedly hired Khan has been identified as Vishwajeet. Deputy commissioner of police (central) Sanjay Bhatia said on Thursday the hospital staff reported catching a fake doctor at the hospital. Some doctors found Khan’s behaviour suspicious and asked for ID card. On looking up records, the staff discovered that the man was impersonating Vishwajeet. The DCP said that Khan also attended serious and critically injured patients. “He also said that he used to wear face mask all the time to not get caught. He also used to don a white coat and a stethoscope to avoid any suspicion. He would work during Vishwajeet’s shifts and kept his attendance updated,” the officer said. Police are now looking for Vishwajeet to corroborate facts as revealed by Khan. Probe is also on if other hospital staff is involved in the fraud. “We are conducting an inquiry into the matter. The case involves a junior resident doctor. Because the impersonator was wearing PPE most of the time, we are yet to ensure how often he worked in place of the doctor. This is a very serious matter and the strictest possible action will be taken against the culprit,” said a senior official from the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/doctor-hires-man-to-impersonate-himself/articleshow/79455099.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Lucknow||Software, online applications to curb corruption in PWD||Lucknow: The state government has adopted a two-pronged strategy to curb corruption in bidding process in Public Works Department (PWD) and land use conversion of agricultural plot. While the bidding process in PWD is being monitored by a hi-tech software, ‘Prahari’, the revenue department has started online application for conversion of land use from agriculture to non-agricultural. A state government spokesperson said ‘Prahari’ software has completely dismantled the role of middlemen in PWD. “The number of complaints related to bidding in the department has come down to zero, which is indicative of the measures taken by the state government to check corruption,” he said. “Ths software, which is in use since September 15, assesses documents pertaining to bidding process, banks and even machines. Applicants are able to upload their documents on their own and official interference has been completely curtailed,” the spokesperson said. Likewise, the state government has managed to check corruption in conversion of use of agricultural land. “Farmers will not require help of middlemen or officials and will be able to file applications online. Officials who have to change land use will be under government scanner. They will have to get the application cleared within 45 days. An application will be deemed as approved if it is not processed within a set timeline,” he said. The spokesperson said the step would not only help government in bringing down corruption but would also help investors seeking to purchase land from farmers to set up industries. “This will expedite industrialisation and help in increasing employment opportunities,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/software-online-applications-to-curb-corruption-in-pwd/articleshow/79455906.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Kochi||Maradona gave Kerala singer a new identity||Kochi: “Adios Diego Maradona, Goodbye Diego Maradona, Your hands were blessed to conquer the world, Your hands became the hand of God, Your hands and hugs touched me a lot, Your love with a smile will never die.” Charles Antony says these words were the very least he could come up with to pay tributes to the man, who in a way, changed his life. Charles’ proficiency to sing in as many as 16 foreign languages, including German, French, Arabic, Italian, African, Korean, Japanese, Spanish and Mexican, had very few takers till October 24, 2012. But all that changed when Maradona visited Kerala and enthusiastically sang the popular Spanish song ‘Besame Mucho’ along with him, in an enthralling spectacle in Kannur. “Maradona gave me a new identity. I had been a solo singer for many years, mainly singing in hotels. But not many people knew I could sing in so many languages. From that day in 2012, people started recognizing me as the person who sang with Maradona and that opened up a lot of new avenues for me and now I travel around the world with my music,” said the 47-year-old Kochi-based singer, who took inspiration from Elton John’s ‘Candle in the Wind’ for Princess Diana to compose the goodbye song for Maradona. Maradona’s singing capability was revealing for Charles. “We all know him as the best footballer. But he was a blessed singer too. He sang beautifully. He hit the right pitch and was always in sync,” said Charles who was the only person, apart from Bobby Chemmannur, let in by Maradona to his room in Kannur as they bonded over music. In 2017, when Maradona visited Kolkata, Charles again got the opportunity to share the stage with him thrice. Maradona had not forgotten the man who sang ‘happy birthday’ for him in the previous India visit. “In Kolkata, I was already on the stage singing while he was entering. There were so many dignitaries on the dais. But he came straight to me and shook my hands. What else could I ask for?” said Charles. “He wanted me to sing whenever he saw me, whether it’s in the hotel lobby or the restaurant. He liked old classics in Italian, Spanish and Cuban,” said Charles who recently composed a song for Maradona’s 60th birthday. “There is no one else to replace Maradona. Even his name is special. A very down-to-earth person, he did not know how big he was. Sadly, he is gone too soon,” added Charles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/maradona-gave-kerala-singer-a-new-identity/articleshow/79453787.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Hooch tragedy: SIT given 4 more weeks to submit report||Chandigarh: The Haryana government on Friday gave four more weeks to the special investigation team (SIT) probing hooch deaths. The SIT has been asked to submit its report by December 26. Deadline for submission of the report ended on November 25. More than 30 persons are alleged to have died after consuming spurious liquor in Panipat and Sonipat districts. Soon after the incidents were reported in the first week of November, home minister Anil Vij ordered the probe by SIT headed by additional director general of police Shrikant Jadhav. Besides Jadhav, other members of the team included inspector general (Ambala Range) Y Puran Kumar, superintendent of police (Kurukshetra) Rajesh Duggal, SP Karnal Ganga Ram Punia and SP Mewat Narender Bijania. Sources said Yadhav has sought extension of four weeks as a few reports like viscera, sampling report of hooch deaths etc have not been received yet. Besides, the team has not yet received certain documents as it has broadened the jurisdiction of investigation in the state. On Friday, the proposal reached the office of home minister Anil Vij, who gave the go-ahead for extension. SIT will also look into all complaints received in this regard and take measures to check the illegal sale of liquor in the state. The government has announced ex-gratia compensation of Rs two lakh each for kin of those who died in the tragedy. SIT has started the probe and police in Sonipat and Panipat has arrested 20 persons in this regard so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hooch-tragedy-sit-given-4-more-weeks-to-submit-report/articleshow/79455090.cms||Manvir Saini
November 28, 2020||Jaipur||63.18% voter turnout in second phase of panchayat elections in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: In all, 63.18% voters exercised their franchise in the second phase of elections to the posts of panchayat samiti and zila parishad members in 21 districts across the state. The highest turnout was recorded at Bagidora panchayat samiti in Banswara district where 77.62% voters cast their votes. The lowest turnout was at Jaitaran panchayat samiti in Pali district at 45.29 per cent. State election commissioner P S Mehra said of the 58.86 lakh voters in 8,403 polling booths, 37.18 lakh voters exercised their franchise to decide the fate of 3,472 candidates. Till 10 am, the overall turnout was 10.90 per cent. Polling percentage reached 25.68 per cent by noon. By 3 pm, the percentage had gone up to 48.30 per cent and at 5 pm the turnout was 60.98 per cent. In the second phase, elections were held to the posts of 1137 members in 59 panchayat samitis. Mehra thanked voters for following Covid guidelines while casting their votes. “In the second phase, elections have been completed successfully with the cooperation of voters and dedication of district election officers, police officials and all the personnel involved in the election work,” said Mehra. Meanwhile, in Tonk district, technical glitches were seen in Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs) in four polling stations. Later, the machines were changed and the elections were conducted at these polling booths. Polling was held in Ajmer, Banswara, Barmer, Bhilwara, Bikaner, Bundi, Chittorgarh, Churu, Dungarpur, Hanumangarh, Jaisalmer, Jalore, Jhalawar, Jhunjhunu, Nagaur, Pali, Pratapgarh, Rajsamand, Sikar, Tonk, and Udaipur districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/63-18-voter-turnout-in-second-phase-of-panchayat-elections/articleshow/79455085.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Lucknow||UP can become a hub of food tourism, say experts||Lucknow: The Uttar Pradesh Travel Now virtual round-table discussion was held by the Times of India Group and Worldwide Media on Friday during which an array of specialists discussed the steps being taken by Uttar Pradesh to revive tourism in the state for not just domestic visitors but, as and when possible, international visitors as well. The panel included Shiv Pal Singh, special secretary (tourism) and MD of the Uttar Pradesh State Tourism Development Corporation, who spoke about plans to make Ayodhya a Vedic city and the upcoming UP Film City which is being developed on the lines of Universal Studios Hollywood. Other participants included Veena Patil, managing director of Veena World; Mohit Kanwal, general manager of Renaissance Lucknow; chef Pankaj Bhadouria, winner of MasterChef India Season 1; Philippa Kaye, expert at Indian Experiences, and Shifa Merchant, travel influencer at Sassy Shif Says. Singh also talked about the major initiatives being taken by the state government to encourage development that will encourage tourism. The panelists also discussed experiences that can only be found in Uttar Pradesh, sanitization and safety protocols put in place by the hospitality industry during the Covid-19 pandemic, hidden gems across the state which are yet to be showcased and how the state could greatly benefit from food tourism.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-can-become-a-hub-of-food-tourism-say-experts/articleshow/79455910.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 28, 2020||Pune||Rupee Bank licence gets extension till Feb-end||PUNE: The administrators of the Rupee Cooperative Bank on Friday said the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had extended its banking licence till February-end, with its pending merger with the Maharashtra State Cooperative Bank (MSCB) still under consideration. The MSCB and the Rupee Bank made a joint, mutual proposal to merge to the RBI in January. However, the RBI asked the MSCB and the Registrar of Cooperative Societies to re-submit the proposals in line with the relevant RBI circulars and compliance requirements. “The revised proposal for the merger has already been submitted,” Sudhir Pandit, administrator of Rupee Bank, said. The state government’s enquiry into the bank’s finances and allegations of irregularities and lack of due diligence against its former directors, under section 88 of the Maharashtra Cooperative Societies Act, 1960, was also pending. “The hearing of all appeals has been completed, but a the decision has been awaited for some time now. But, it has been delayed because of the pandemic,” Sudhir added. In a statement, the administrator said the bank had now managed to earn an operating profit in each of the last four years, now standing at Rs53.19 crore, while managing to refund around Rs361 crore to over 91,000 depositors. The cumulative losses now add up to nearly Rs632 crore, the statement said. The bank also recovered over Rs330 crore from defaulters. Its outstanding loans/advances are now at Rs297 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rupee-bank-licence-gets-extension-till-feb-end/articleshow/79453810.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
November 28, 2020||Jaipur||Issue order for REET exam after polls: SEC||Jaipur: The state election commission (SEC) has returned the file pertaining to REET examination to the education department on Friday. They informed the department that the order for the exam could be issued after the completion of all the elections on December 11. “It has been told to the department that it would be better to issue the order to conduct REET examinations only after the completion of the elections. Therefore, it has been urged not to issue the order now to hold the examinations as it would have influence on a large number of people who are on election duty. The last election is on December 11, so it is only a few days away,” said an official. Earlier, the education department had sent the file to the SEC seeking its clearance in view of the model code of conduct that is currently in force. The elections to 50 urban local bodies in 12 districts will be held on December 11. The chief minister had also asked education minister Govind Singh Dotasara to conduct the examination at the earliest.Online citizenship certificates for 30 Pak migrants: The state government has issued online citizenship certificates to as many as 30 Pakistani migrants through the Indian Citizenship Portal in November.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/issue-order-for-reet-exam-after-polls-sec/articleshow/79455097.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Dalit teen not allowed to enter temple||Hisar: A 15-year-old scheduled caste boy was allegedly stopped from entering a temple at Dhani Kendu village near Hansi in Hisar district by four youths, who told him that the temple would become “impure” and evil will befall them if he did so. The incident happened on November 24 but Hansi Sadar police station registered a case on late Thursday night. Based on the boy’s complaint police have booked the four youths, all residents of Dhani Kendu, under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint), 34 (common intention) of the IPC and sections 3(1)(r) (intentionally insults or intimidates a member of a SC in any place), 3(1)(s) (abuses a member of a SC in any place) and 3(1)(za)(c) (abstracts to entering any place of worship which is open to the public to a member of a scheduled caste) of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dalit-teen-not-allowed-to-enter-temple/articleshow/79455096.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan civic polls: 10,191 file nominations for 50 bodies||JAIPUR: In all, 10,191 candidates have filed 13,183 nomination papers for elections to 50 municipal bodies in 12 districts. The elections will be held on December 11. The 12 districts that are going to polls are — Alwar, Baran, Bharatpur, Dholpur, Dausa, Ganganagar, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Sawai Madhopur, Karauli and Sirohi. There are 1,775 wards in these districts. The scrutiny of nomination papers will be done on December 1. Candidates can withdraw their applications till December 3 and the election symbols will be allotted on December 4. Around 14.32 lakh voters will cast their votes at 2622 polling stations across 12 districts. The elections for posts of chairmen will be held on December 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/civic-polls-10191-file-nominations-for-50-bodies/articleshow/79455093.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Jaipur||Villagers in Chittorgarh boycott polls||Udaipur: Some 200 residents of Chhota Kheda revenue village under Begu block of Chittorgarh district refrained from exercising their voting right for electing the Zila Parishad member from the area. They have boycotted the elections for the second consecutive year.The villagers said that the village earlier fell under Motipura Gram Panchayat which was included in some other panchayat recently. The new panchayat is 11 kilometres away from the village. With the polling booth being so far away, none of the people from Chhota Kheda village went to to cast their votes. Their area falls under ward number 11 which has more than 200 voters. Last year, the entire village boycotted two elections that took place. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/villagers-in-chittorgarh-boycott-polls/articleshow/79455100.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 28, 2020||Goa||Airport to get more counters, larger terminal: Goa minister||VASCO: Power minister Nilesh Cabral said the government is firm on keeping it’s promise of operating Dabolim airport along with Mopa airport. The public hearing on December 4, for airport expansion, is an indication that the government is working on ways to make Dabolim airport more passenger-friendly. Cabral was attending the inauguration of renovated washrooms at Dabolim airport on Friday. Cabral said that people’s apprehensions will be heard during this virtual public hearing and that all the details of the type of expansion to be done have been mentioned on the website. “Former chief minister Manohar Parrikar and chief minister Pramod Sawant have kept their promise of running both the airports, giving employment to people,” he said. Airport director Gagan Mallik said, “We will only expand 86 sq m. We are going to have a bigger domestic terminal than the international one. Where we have 64 checking counters we are going to have another 32.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/airport-to-get-more-counters-larger-terminal-cabral/articleshow/79455937.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh seeks effective plan for power evacuation from Chenab basin, Spiti||SHIMLA: The Himachal Pradesh government has requested the Union government to ask the Power Grid Corporation to prepare an effective plan for power evacuation from Chenab basin and Spiti of the state. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur made this request while addressing the chief ministers’ plenary session of virtual 3rd Global Renewable Energy Investment Meeting and Expo, ‘RE-Invest 2020’, which was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday. About 25,000 delegates participated in this event virtually across the globe. Thakur said the state government has identified renewal energy of 6,000 MW in Chenab basin as well as Spiti area. He said power projects have been allocated for execution to SJVNL, NTPC and NHPC on Chenab river basin. He said in addition to this, 880 MW mega solar park has been allocated to SJVNL in Spiti for development. He said that effective evacuation plan was required to evacuate power from both these areas. The CM said the state government is also working on ‘Green Gaushala’ scheme, in which self-sufficient biogas would be produced by fully harnessing solar power. He has requested the Centre to help the state government in this regard. He said Himachal Pradesh has immense potential for biomass which include lakhs of tonnes of biomass every year in form of pine needles and lantana in the forests of the state. “For exploiting this potential for power generation, we have started ‘Pine Needle Based Briquettes’,” he added. He has also requested the Union minister of state for power and renewal energy R K Singh for sanctioning power equipment manufacturing hub for the state. He said the state government would provide the manufacturers power at attractive rates besides other utilities. He has asked the Union minister to provide grant for common facilities and infrastructure. Thakur said the state had about 24,000 MW power potential, which was about 40% of the total potential of the country. He said till date, 10,596 MW had been harnessed and the state government has set up a target of harnessing another 10,000 MW in the next 10 years. Union minister of state for power and new & renewable energy and skill development R K Singh in his address assured the chief minister of providing all possible assistance to the state on ‘Green Gaushala’ scheme, setting up of power equipment manufacturing hub and power evacuation from remote areas of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/hp-seeks-effective-plan-for-power-evacuation-from-chenab-basin-spiti/articleshow/79455098.cms||---
November 28, 2020||India||SC: Courts mustn’t allow use of law to harass citizens||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday spoke firmly about the sanctity of personal liberty and said it was the sacred duty of courts to ensure that the state did not use criminal laws as a weapon to selectively harass citizens while considering the case relating to an FIR registered by Maharashtra government against TV anchor Arnab Goswami. “Courts must be alive to the need to safeguard public interest in ensuring that the due enforcement of criminal law is not obstructed. The fair investigation of crime is an aid to it. Equally, it is the duty of courts across the spectrum — the district judiciary, the HCs and the SC — to ensure that criminal law does not become a weapon for the selective harassment of citizens,” a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and Indira Banerjee said. The bench came down on the Bombay HC for not seeing the context of the case and said it had abdicated its constitutional duty as a protector of liberty. The SC said Goswami would be protected from arrest for four weeks even if the HC did not quash the FIR against him. The SC’s observations came in the case relating to the FIR for abetment to suicide against Goswami. The bench reiterated its November 11 decision granting interim bail to Goswami and said prima facie there was no connect between the complaint leading to the FIR and the suicide charge abetment against Goswami. “Prima facie... it cannot be said that Goswami was guilty of having abetted the suicide,” the bench said while criticising the Bombay HC for abdicating its duty to grant relief to the accused and failing to evaluate charges with evidence. Writing the judgment, Justice Chandrachud offered an overview of previous judgments and penned a critique on human liberty and role of courts. He said, “Courts should be alive to both ends of the spectrum — the need to ensure proper enforcement of criminal law on the one hand and the need, on the other, of ensuring that the law does not become a ruse for targeted harassment.” “Liberty across human eras is as tenuous as tenuous can be. Liberty survives by the vigilance of her citizens, on the cacophony of the media and in the dusty corridors of courts alive to the rule of (and not by) law. Yet, much too often, liberty is a casualty when one of these components is found wanting.” “The writ of liberty runs through the fabric of the Constitution.” He further said, “In the present case, the HC could not but have been cognisant of the specific ground which was raised before it by the appellant that he was being made a target as a part of a series of occurrences which have been taking place since April. The specific case of the appellant is that he has been targeted because his opinions on his television channel are unpalatable to authority.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-courts-mustnt-allow-use-of-law-to-harass-citizens/articleshow/79456710.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
November 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab govt posts IPS officer on IAS cadre home secretary’s post||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab government has posted 1995-cadre IPS officer G Nageswara Rao as secretary in the department of home affairs and justice, which is an IAS cadre post. 2004-cadre Punjab Civil Service (PCS) officer Dalwinderjit Singh has been posted as additional director (administration) in the DGP office. As senior IAS officers Kalpana Mittal Barua and R Venkat Ratnam are superannuating on November 30, two IAS officers have been handed over additional charge of the departments. Principal secretary of the transport department, K Siva Prasad has been given additional charge as financial commissioner cooperation and principal secretary medical education and research, D K Tiwari has got additional charge of secretary jails department. The state government has taken away the charge of animal husbandry, dairy development and fisheries from additional chief secretary Kripa Sankar Saroj, who had earlier indicted cabinet minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot in the alleged muti-crore post matric scholarship scam. He has now been left only with the NRI affairs department. Saroj’s batchmate and additional chief secretary Vijay Kumar Janjua, who heads the labour department, has been given the charge of animal husbandry, dairy development and fisheries department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-govt-posts-ips-officer-on-ias-cadre-home-secys-post/articleshow/79455101.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana high court notice in rape charge against Simarjit Singh Bains||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday issued a notice to the Punjab government, Ludhiana police commissioner and LIP’s Atam Nagar MLA Simarjit Singh Bains on a plea filed by a widow against delay in registration of FIR in rape case against the legislator. Justice Gurvinder Singh Gill issued the notice after taking cognisance of a plea filed by a 44-year-old widow from Ludhiana district. The petitioner has sought directions for registration of FIR for rape against the MLA and directions to the Punjab Police not to harass her by calling her repeatedly to the police lines Ludhiana. Apprehending threat to her life and liberty, the petitioner has also sought directions to produce the action taken report from Ludhiana police on the complaint submitted by her in the matter. According to the petitioner, taking advantage of her social and economic vulnerability, Bains raped her repeatedly on the pretext of helping her. When her ordeal continued and the MLA’s brother also started making repeated calls and numerous WhatsApp messages soliciting physical relationship with her, she met the Ludhiana police commissioner in his office on November 16 and handed over a handwritten statement for registration of FIR against the MLA. “On November 19, the petitioner was taken to police line by the local police and produced before the joint commission of police, Ludhiana. To add insult to the injury, instead of taking action on her complaint, the petitioner was demeaned and humiliated, impetuously interrogated and made to answer shameful questionnaire. The petitioner, being a helpless widow, fully cooperated and provided all answers and also the WhatsApp chat between the petitioner and the MLA and his brother,” her counsel submitted before the HC in the petition. According to the petitioner, her brother and father are being constantly threatened on the phone and also approached personally by the MLA’s close aides. Alleging that no action has been taken on her complaint, the petitioner submitted that the Punjab government and police are providing patronage to the MLA due to his political clout, as he is close to a prominent and powerful cabinet minister of Ludhiana and other leaders of ruling party in Punjab. She also submitted that despite the fact that Bains is facing around 12 FIRs, and his anticipatory bail applications in some of the cases have been declined, yet he continues to roam freely. The matter has been fixed for April 23 for further hearing. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-notice-in-rape-charge-against-bains/articleshow/79455103.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Centenary celebrations leave behind memories to cherish||LUCKNOW: For Aditya Pandey, 17, the first year on Lucknow University campus couldn’t have been more special. Starting his educational journey as a BA student at a time when LU is completing 100 years of existence, Aditya says it’s a proud moment for him to be associated with an institution which has produced many stalwarts. Aditya was among the students who took part in the ‘kavi sammelan’ on the concluding day of the week-long centenary celebrations of the university. “Main raat ka hi raahi hoon, ujaalon me mera raasta kahan, din se mera vaasta kahan, kalam ki syaahi hoon, main raat ka hi raahi hoon,” Aditya recited at the kavi sammelan. “After seeing so many successful alumni returning to their campus on Tuesday, I wish one day I also make my alma mater proud,” he says. Like Pandey, many students from various faculties came together to make the event a success. TOI spoke to a few students who gave performances during the week-long celebrations and their experiences on being a part of the legacy. Prashant Chaubey, a PG student, who participated in four nukkad nataks with his fellow team members of ‘Adamya’, presented another play ‘Aurat’ on Wednesday. “There is no better place than a university, which has so many young minds, to raise your voice against evils in society. We met several former students too. Salim Arif sir promised our team that he would direct a play with us soon,” says the post-graduate student. BCom student Gauri Todaria, who presented three dance performances on November 21, feels that the present students are special because LU’s centenary celebrations is a history in making and it won’t repeat itself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/centenary-celebrations-leave-behind-memories-to-cherish/articleshow/79455925.cms||Aditi Singh
November 28, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi administration to check mask usage, will ask violators to undergo Covid test||RANCHI: With many residents disregarding Covid-19 norms by not wearing masks in public, the district administration has decided to appeal to such violators to get themselves tested for the virus if they are found showing symptoms of the disease, besides encouraging them to wear masks. A decision in this regard was taken by Ranchi DC Chhavi Ranjan after a meeting of the district disaster management cell on Wednesday. The meeting was attended by senior officials from the administration as well as those from the police and health departments, including Ranchi SSP Surendra Kumar Jha, SDO Sameera S and civil surgeon Dr V B Prasad. Talking to TOI, Ranchi DC Chhavi Ranjan said: “Wearing of masks is not only mandatory but it is also an obligation towards public health. On a few occasions, we have found people not wearing masks in public places. So we have started a program wherein our health workers will ask violators to wear masks and undergo Covid-19 test if they have symptoms of the disease.” Ranjan added: “One centre each has been set up at the Sainik Market, Zila School campus and the interstate bus terminus in Khadgara. A mobile unit will also camp in different areas to encourage people to follow Covid guidelines.” The administration has also roped in traffic police to check usage of masks among the commuters and has asked them to penalize the violators under the Motor Vehicles Act. “The traffic police officials have already been briefed in this regard,” Sadar DSP Prabhat Ranjan Barwar said. As per a statement released by the district administration, the Ranchi traffic police have already issued challans — amounting to Rs 1.65 lakh (as of Thursday evening) — to 330 people for not wearing masks. The exercise was co-ordinated by four traffic police stations across the city. “A total of 330 people were penalised under Section 179 of the MV Act,” the statement read. Meanwhile, Ranchi SDO Sameera S said the district administration will organize mass testing drives on Saturday and Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ranchi-admin-to-check-mask-usage-will-ask-violators-to-undergo-covid-test/articleshow/79453355.cms||Gaurav Pandey
November 28, 2020||Jamshedpur||Jharkhand records 1 death, 189 new Covid cases in 24 hours||RANCHI: Jharkhand on Friday reported 189 fresh cases of Covid against 195 recoveries. Meanwhile, casualties dipped to just one from East Singhbhum district, taking the toll to 962. The casualty rate in the state stands at 0.88%. As many as 19 districts reported fresh infections in single digits while Chatra, Khunti and Koderma clocked zero cases. Ranchi and East Singhbhum reported 71 and 24 cases, respectively. The other districts reported less than 20 cases together. As many as 1,08,577 people have been infected till date and 1,05,453 have recovered from the viral infection, taking the recovery rate up at 97.12%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/jkhand-records-1-death-189-new-cases-in-24-hrs/articleshow/79458482.cms||Gaurav Pandey
November 28, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand police prepares handbook to educate people on cybercrime||RANCHI: In its multi-layered drive to curb cybercrime in the state, Jharkhand police have come up with a 36-page handbook on various types of cyber incidents and measures to prevent them. The book, titled ‘Cyber Security Awareness Handbook’, explains a wide range of cybercrimes and the safety measures in both Hindi and English. Some of the crimes mentioned in the book are OTP sharing fraud, UPI phishing fraud, fraud using Google Docs app, deceit related to OLX, fraud through fake cashback offers, SIM card swapping fraud, deception using fake social media account, sextortion on Facebook, cyber bullying, cyber stalking, ATM clone fraud and online job fraud, among others. The book also contains dos and don’ts for children, parents and women. For instance, parents have been advised to keep a tab on their kids’ social media usage, besides discussing cyber security measures with them. Women have been advised to be selective in disclosing their personnel details online. IG Praveen Singh said, “We are planning to promote the book on social media, including WhatsApp and Twitter, on print and electronic media. Besides, our officers would also visit schools to create awareness among the students regarding the handbook.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/police-prepares-handbook-to-educate-people-on-cybercrime/articleshow/79453198.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Ranchi||Potato trader robbed of Rs 6.82 lakh in Hazaribag; Rs 50,000 looted from Lohardaga liquor shop||HAZARIBAG/GUMLA: Three unidentified criminals looted Rs 6.82 lakh from Nawan Kumar Sao, a potato trader from Bihar’s Gaya, near Khas river in Daliya village under Ichak police station limits on Friday. Sao had reached the village in his two-wheeler to purchase potato from traders and had locked his money in the bike’s side-luggage holder. As he spoke to farmers, the men, who had been following him, broke the holder’s lock and tried to run away with the money. When Sao raised an alarm, village residents chased the looters on their backs. In retreat, the miscreants opened fire from an unlicensed gun, injuring Ashok Kumar Mehta, a local. Mehta was admitted to Hazaribag Medical College & Hospital with bullet wounds in his chest. “A special investigation team has been constituted to arrest the criminals, who escaped through Lobhri. Meanwhile, two motorcycles have been recovered,” Hazaribag SP Karthik S said. Meanwhile, two armed criminals looted over Rs 50,000 cash from a wine shop at Kuru block headquarters of Lohardaga district on Thursday night. The incident took place when three staff members of a government license holding wine shop were pulling their shutter down around 10.30pm.  Anil Oraon, the officer in-charge of Kuru police station, said the shop was located at a desolate place in Bazartarn area of Kuru. No FIR was filed till Friday evening as the staff were matching their stocks at the shop till the afternoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/potato-trader-robbed-of-rs-6-82l-in-hbag-rs-50k-looted-from-lohardaga-liquor-shop/articleshow/79454286.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Rajkot||Supreme Court roasts Gujarat govt over frequent fires||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday expressed deep disappointment with state governments for not taking concrete measures against the spread of coronavirus infections in the country and said "the situation in the last three weeks has gone from bad to worse". Solicitor general Tushar Mehta said the Union government was constantly monitoring the situation and issuing guidelines regularly to meet the dynamic situation but slackness in implementation of the guidelines, both precautionary and preventive, at the state level had brought about the present situation. He said just 10 states accounted for a vast majority of Covid-19 cases in the country. The Union government in its affidavit said, "Ten states contribute almost 77% of the active Covid-19 caseload for the country. These are Maharashtra (18.9%), Kerala (14.7%), Delhi (8.5%), West Bengal (5.7%), Karnataka (5.6%), Uttar Pradesh (5.4%), Rajasthan (5.5%), Chhattisgarh (5.0%), Haryana (4.7%) and Andhra Pradesh (3.1%)." A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R S Reddy and M R Shah said, "In the last three weeks, states have not taken concrete steps despite the increase in Covid cases. The situation has gone from bad to worse. The states should rise above politics and tighten their belts. The Union government issuing guidelines asking people to mask up and maintain social distancing is fine. But look at what is happening on the ground. People either do not wear masks or wear it improperly. There are social gatherings without observing safe distance. More stringent steps are required to be implemented vigorously to prevent gatherings." The Centre’s affidavit said, "As most countries are observing resurgence of Covid cases, given the size and density of our population, the country has done remarkably well in restricting the spread. Our recovery rate has gone up to 93.76%, with almost 8.6 million recoveries made. The average cases per day has reduced by 50% since the past eight weeks. "Currently, only two states have more than 50,000 cases and they contribute almost 33% of the overall active cases. Our case fatality rate (CFR) remains low at 1.46%, when compared to a global average of 2.36%. We stand at a total death count of 0.13 million. We will continue making efforts to bring our CFR down to less than 1%, and accelerate our efforts to reduce the positivity rate, which stands at 6.9%." The bench took suo motu cognisance of the fire in Uday Shivanand Hospital in Rajkot in which five Covid-19 patients in the ICU died. Justice Shah said fire in hospitals was a recurring event and it was strange that no one cared for the safety of patients. "These incidents keep recurring. States institute an inquiry and then the entire episode is brushed under the carpet without any preventive mechanism being put in place. There should be some provision for fire safety in hospitals and staff to constantly monitor the mechanism," he said. Responding to the anguish expressed by the bench, especially Justice Shah, the solicitor general said the Union home secretary will convene a meeting of state officials concerned within 24 hours to put in place fire safety mechanisms in hospitals. The bench asked the Centre and states to file affidavits by Tuesday on this issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/supreme-court-roasts-state-govt-over-frequent-fires/articleshow/79453877.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
November 28, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi farmers march to Raj Bhawan against Centre’s farm laws||RANCHI: Farmers’ bodies under the banner of Kisan Samanvaya Sangharsh Samiti on Friday took a rally from Sahid Chowk to the Raj Bhawan in Ranchi to protest the alleged anti-farm policies of the Centre and demand a special session of the Vidhan Sabha to annul the laws. The organisations — Akhil Bhartiya Kisan Sabha (ABKS), Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sabha, Kisan Mahasbha and Kisan Sangram Samiti — also held a meeting near the Raj Bhawan. Speaking on the occasion, former MP and president of ABKS Bhuwaneshwar Mehta said, “Lakhs of farmers are on the streets all over the country to protest the farm and labour laws. The NDA government is trying to prevent farmers from holding marches to Parliament by barricading routes and resorting to lathicharge. Jharkhand farmers are standing in solidarity with the protestors.” He also said that the new laws will turn farmers into labourers while capitalists will take control over the land. He alleged the government aims to grab agriculture land for the capitalists at throwaway prices. CPI(M-L) MLA Binod Singh said the Modi government violated the constitution by resorting to lathicharge on farmers on Constitution Day. He said, “The attempted corporatisation of the agriculture sector by the Centre will impact independence of farmers. The small farmers of Jharkhand will also be affected by the law.” The protestors submitted a memorandum to the Governor demanding the state government to call a special session of the Vidhan Sabha to pass a resolution against the new farm laws. The memorandum also sought immediate formation of the farmer’s commission, implementation of the Land Acquisition Act, 2013, formation of farmer clubs in the villages, removal of middlemen in purchase of paddy and withdrawal of the anti-labour laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/farmers-march-to-raj-bhawan-against-centres-farm-laws/articleshow/79453310.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Ranchi||Was able to limit the coronavirus within urban pockets, claims Jharkhand CM||RANCHI: Chief minister Hemant Soren on Friday commended the government machinery for largely limiting Covid-19 cases in the urban pockets of the state but urged the people to exercise caution ahead of a possible second wave of infections. Speaking at an event held at his native Nemra village in Ramgarh’s Gola block to mark the 63rd death anniversary of his grandfather Sobran Soren, Hemant said: “We were able to contain the viral infection in urban areas. That is why Jharkhand’s rural areas did not witness much Covid-19 cases. But there should be not let up as experts are predicting a second wave of infections soon.” As on Thursday night, Jharkhand had recorded 1.083 lakh Covid-19 cases, of which nearly 39,000 cases were reported from Ranchi and East Singbhum districts. On November 27, 1957, Sobran was allegedly murdered by moneylenders in the village. This famously led Shibu, second of the five brothers, into activism. “You all know what happened on this day, I do not need to tell you about it,” Shibu told the audience.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/was-able-to-limit-the-virus-within-urban-pockets-claims-hemant/articleshow/79453291.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: CJ convoy meets with accident, 2 policemen injured||KODERMA: Two cars, which were a part of the convoy in which Chief Justice of Jharkhand high court Ravi Ranjan was travelling, collided with each other near Gumo under Telaiya police station area on the Ranchi-Patna Road on Friday afternoon. The accident left two cops injured. “Justice Ranjan was not travelling in any of the aforementioned (those that collided) cars,” police said. SDPO Rajendra Prasad said, “The accident occurred when the gypsy car in the convoy rammed into the vehicle in front while crossing a speed breaker.” The injured cops — Yuvraj Kumar and Prakash Thapa — were admitted to sadar hospital after being administered first-aid at a private clinic in Telaiya. Dr Ranjan Kumar, the deputy medical superintendent at the hospital, said, “They both came with injuries to their heads and chests, but were stable and were discharged after a while.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cj-convoy-meets-with-accident-2-policemen-injured/articleshow/79454268.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand records 1 death, 189 new Covid cases in 24 hours||RANCHI: Jharkhand on Friday reported 189 fresh cases of Covid against 195 recoveries. Meanwhile, casualties dipped to just one from East Singhbhum district, taking the toll to 962. The casualty rate in the state stands at 0.88%. As many as 19 districts reported fresh infections in single digits while Chatra, Khunti and Koderma clocked zero cases. Ranchi and East Singhbhum reported 71 and 24 cases, respectively. The other districts reported less than 20 cases together. As many as 1,08,577 people have been infected till date and 1,05,453 have recovered from the viral infection, taking the recovery rate up at 97.12%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jkhand-records-1-death-189-new-cases-in-24-hrs/articleshow/79454315.cms||Gaurav Pandey
November 28, 2020||India||Trip of hundred envoys to Pune vax facilities put off for now||PUNE: The visit of ambassadors and high commissioners of 100 countries to two local vaccine manufacturing facilities, scheduled for December 4, has been cancelled. Pune collector Rajesh Deshmukh said the external affairs ministry informed the district officials of the cancellation through a letter without specifying any reason. “We only received the letter of cancellation on Friday. Maybe they would reschedule the trip,” Deshmukh said. The cancellation came just a day after divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said the envoys’ tour — described as a daylong ‘familiarization visit’ — was confirmed by the MEA. The trip was originally scheduled for November 27 before it was postponed to December 4. The envoys were to fly in from New Delhi and visit Serum Institute of India (SII) and Gennova Biopharmaceuticals. Meanwhile, the administration said it has made all the preparations for PM Modi’s visit to take stock of development of the vaccine at SII today.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/trip-of-hundred-envoys-to-pune-vax-facilities-put-off-for-now/articleshow/79456737.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi govt's lax enforcement led to Covid surge, Centre tells SC||NEW DELHI: The Centre on Friday told the Supreme Court that the AAP government's "laxity" in enforcing Covid-19 guidelines and precautionary measures, "failure" to keep specific commitments on improving healthcare infrastructure and "inability" to increase testing capacity had led to a huge surge in infections in the capital. AAP reacted strongly. "It is extremely unfortunate that the central government has chosen to play dirty politics at this critical hour. The affidavit (filed before the court) seems to have been drafted by a BJP spokesperson rather than by the Centre, which is meant to work in collaboration with states at the time of a pandemic. The affidavit is also factually incorrect," the party said. Govt seeks to cap Ola, Uber surge price at 1.5x base fareCab aggregators such as Uber and Ola will not be allowed to charge more than 1.5 times of their base fare as surge price during peak demand and less than 50% of the base fare during non-peak period, according to a set of guidelines issued by the Union road transport ministry to regulate the ride-hailing services. Commercial car-pool platforms, which will also have to comply with these norms, now need licence to operate. The aggregators need to give an option to women passengers to book rides only with other women in case of cab sharing. The regulations, which will be applicable when states notify them, enable the governments to allow attaching personal passenger vehicles to the aggregators. Delhi govt ignored our repeated pleas to ramp up testing: CentreIn the affidavit, the Centre said CM Arvind Kejriwal had on November 19 informed that “the expert committee headed by Dr Vinod Paul in their Revised Covid Response Strategy has projected a requirement of 20,604 Covid beds including 6,432 ICU beds in Delhi in November-December”. However, Delhi government currently has 3,652 ICU beds, which could be increased to 5,128 ICU beds by November 30. The CM requested the Centre to make good the shortfall of 1,214 ICU beds in central government hospitals like AIIMS, Safdarjung, LHMC, RML etc. In its affidavit filed before a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R S Reddy and M R Shah through solicitor general Tushar Mehta, the Centre further said the CM had committed that Delhi government would increase non-ventilator beds by around 2,680. However, in his November 19 letter to the home minister, he had "expressed his inability to enhance ICU beds in Delhi (state government and private) hospitals by more than around 912, and has asked the central government to create the additional 1,700 ICU beds. Furthermore, it was only after the review meeting of Union home minister on November 15 that it was decided that RT-PCR tests would be enhanced to around 60,000 by the end of November, and that of RAT tests to around 60,000, thus leading to a doubling of the total tests being conducted in Delhi", it said. Listing what it termed as failings of the state government, the Centre told the SC, "The Delhi government was aware that the confluence of winter, festival season and pollution were likely to cause a surge in cases. This foreknowledge ought to have led to strict enforcement and IEC measures being instituted well in time. However, this was not done. "It is also extremely crucial to note here that in a survey of 114 private hospitals in Delhi, which was carried out by the ministry of home affairs during November 17-18, it was found that observance of discharge policy and prescribed clinical management protocol was very lax, thus leading to a large number of patients not being given proper treatment. Delhi government has now been asked to strictly comply with the prescribed protocols in this regard." In the same vein, it highlighted that the state government ignored the Centre's repeated exhortations to increase testing capacity, "particularly for RT-PCR which remained static at around 20,000 for a long time”. The state government drew criticism for other measures as well. "The containment measures, as prescribed by the health ministry, including house to house surveillance, contact tracing, quarantining and clinical management, were also not done properly, which has led to the spread of infection. Patients who were under home isolation were not properly traced and/or their contacts were also not traced effectively," it said, adding these shortcomings led to huge surge requiring constant monitoring of the situation by the home ministry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-govts-lax-enforcement-led-to-covid-surge-centre-tells-sc/articleshow/79456748.cms||Dipak K Dash
November 28, 2020||Delhi||After day of clashes, farmers offered protest site at Delhi's Burari||NEW DELHI: Concrete slabs, concertina wire, trucks filled with sand and edgy cops firing teargas rounds kept the agitating farmers stalled at Singhu border on the Delhi-Chandigarh highway till late Friday afternoon. By the time the administration relented and offered the Nirankari Samagam grounds at Burari, resentment against police action and the fear of being corralled and grounded virtually on the outskirts of Delhi made the protesters opt to spend the night at the barricades. About 50km away, at Tikri border, farmers were tackled with water cannon when they drove their tractors into the trucks blocking their way. ‘Willing to brave the cold to make govt hear us out’Late in the afternoon, some had decided to quietly move to the Burari grounds but changed their mind when news reached them that the protesters at Singhu border had decided to stay put for the night. Though police reported late in the night that a small group of farmers had reached Burari, it was obvious that the attempt to end the stand-off had not entirely succeeded. Delhi Police officials said they were not letting their guard down. They have formed around 12 teams under DCP-rank officials which will maintain vigil through the night. Most of the farmers’ organisations from Punjab — about 30 — are in favour of moving to Burari but the younger lot is resisting and was behind the decision to settle down at Singhu border. There is a lot of resentment against the repeated teargassing by police. Some feel that Ramlila Maidan or Jantar Mantar would have given them a better platform. However, the senior leadership hopes to bring them around by Saturday. Swaraj India chief Yogendra Yadav told TOI that this was an “avoidable stalemate”. He described the move to let the farmers enter Delhi with their tractor trolleys as a “historic” decision, recalling that it was happening three decades after the 1988 Bharatiya Kisan Union agitation. He said there was no need for any provocation and “thankfully, there has been no violence”. The Centre had earlier invited the farmers for talks on the farm bills on December 3. The decision to let them enter the capital came after discussions with the ministry of home affairs, the Delhi lieutenant governor and intelligence agencies, said sources. Delhi Police had on Thursday evening stepped up deployment at all the borders in order to stop the farmers from entering the city at all costs. The entire police brass, including police commissioner S N Shrivastava, was out on a night-long vigil. The jostling at Singhu border led to police using mild force and teargas shells — some farmers had tried to breach the barricades and pelt stones. There were clashes at Tikri border, too, where, according to a senior police officer, 200 tractors were parked on the other side. Meanwhile, work was on to set up essential facilities at the Nirankari grounds in Burari with portable toilets, water tankers, a mobile dispensary and a langar service being provided for the farmers. The venue was also being fumigated. The national convener of the All India Kisan Sangarsh Coordination Committee, V M Singh, inspected the area and asked for 300-400 toilets and arrangements for food. AAP MLA Raghav Chadha also visited the site and announced that the Delhi Jal Board had appointed nodal officers to ensure drinking water was available to the farmers. “All possible arrangements for food and shelter have been made. In addition, every MLA of the Aam Aadmi Party will help our farmers,” he said. The BJP-led north corporation said they had deployed teams for sweeping the venue, collecting garbage and fumigating the area. In addition, volunteers from the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee had set up a langar at the site. Sunita Rani, a member of Punjab Istri Sabha, who had travelled all the way from Fazilka district in Punjab along with five other women to support the farmers, said it had taken them two days to reach Delhi. She said they had camped on the roadside despite the cold, but reaching Delhi was important so that they could raise their voice against the farm bills which were hurting lakhs of farmers across the country. “Each and every voice counts. We are willing to brave the cold so that the government understands the magnitude of the problem,” said Rani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/after-day-of-clashes-farmers-offered-protest-site-at-delhis-burari/articleshow/79456754.cms||---
November 28, 2020||India||7 days more on parole for Rajiv case convict||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday extended parole of AG Perarivalan, one of the convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi asssination case, by one more week to enable him to undergo medical treatment and asked Tamil Nadu government to provide police escort to him. A bench headed by justice L Nageswara Rao passed the order after Perarivalan’s lawyer Gopal Sankaranarayanan informed the court that his client was having kidney ailments for which he needed to consult a doctor. Granting him relief, the bench made it clear that his parole would not be extended further and he would have to go to jail a week later. Advocate Balaji Srinivasan told the bench that CMC Vellore is only 25 kilometers away from the jail in which Perarivalan is lodged and he could be taken to that hospital in case of any medical necessity. “... we extend the parole of the petitioner by another week and it is needless to state that the state of Tamil Nadu shall provide necessary police escort to visit the hospital of his choice. No further application shall be entertained for extension,” the court said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/7-days-more-on-parole-for-rajiv-case-convict/articleshow/79456758.cms||---
November 28, 2020||India||Govt overlooking tribunals’ orders is disturbing: SC||NEW DELHI: Expressing concern over “a disturbing trend” of the government not implementing directions of tribunals and thus undermining their independence, the Supreme Court on Friday directed the setting up of an independent National Tribunals Commission to supervise appointments and functioning of tribunals. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao, Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhat passed a slew of directions to streamline the process to fill up vacancies in tribunals and make the quasi-judicial bodies independent from government interference. There are 19 tribunals comprising around 475 members. “To ensure that tribunals should not function as another department under the control of executive, repeated directions have been issued which have gone unheeded forcing petitioner to approach this court time and again. It is high time that we put an end to this practice,” the court said. It said dispensation of justice by the tribunals can be effective only when they function independent of any executive control and it will render them credible and generate public confidence. “The Union of India shall constitute a National Tribunals Commission which shall act as an independent body to supervise the appointments and functioning of tribunals, as well as to conduct disciplinary proceedings against members of tribunals and to take care of administrative and infrastructural needs of the tribunals. Till the National Tribunals Commission is constituted, a separate wing in the ministry of finance, government of India shall be established to cater to the requirements of tribunals,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-overlooking-tribunals-orders-is-disturbing-sc/articleshow/79456762.cms||---
November 28, 2020||India||Karnataka puts Lingayat OBC plan on hold||BENGALURU: The Karnataka cabinet on Friday deferred a decision on recommending the inclusion of Veerashaiva-Lingayat community in the Centre’s list of Other Backward Classes (OBC) after BJP’s not-so-subtle message that the issue should be discussed in the party fora first to study its feasibility. “This is a very important issue that needs to be discussed with the party’s top brass. I will meet them in Delhi in two-three days,” CM BS Yediyurappa said and admitted that Union home minister Amit Shah has called him to Delhi in this regard. Sources said the CM made a U-turn after a Union minister called him, saying any decision involving the state and the Centre should be taken collectively after thorough discussions. “Otherwise, it would reflect badly on the party and its governments,” the minister is reported to have told the CM. Sources said the cabinet deferred the decision since a few ministers said several other smaller sects of the dominant communities, including Kunchatiga-Vokkaligas, should be included in the OBC list. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/karnataka-puts-lingayat-obc-plan-on-hold/articleshow/79456766.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Delhi||Can't use stadiums to detain farmers: Delhi health minister||NEW DELHI: Delhi government on Friday rejected Delhi Police's request to use nine stadiums as temporary prisons in view of the farmers' "Dilli Chalo" protest. Asserting that Delhi stadiums would not be converted into jails, home minister Satyendar Jain said the government was against the logic behind arresting farmers and putting them in prisons. The minister said the farmers' demands were legitimate and the Centre should immediately accept them. "Putting them in prisons is not a solution, he said. "The protest was peaceful and non-violent. It is the constitutional right of every law-abiding citizen of the country. The farmers, who were leading a peaceful protest, should not be locked in prisons, therefore, I have rejected the proposal," Jain wrote. Before the request was officially rejected, several AAP MLAs had requested the government to deny the permission. "I think it's the most inhuman thing we can do to our farmers. Delhi Police should stop calling themselves- 'dil waali police'," AAP MLA and chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardawaj tweeted earlier in the day. AAP MLA Raghav Chadha's tweet also urged the government to deny permission for setting up temporary prisons. "The farmer of our country is neither a criminal nor a terrorist. Right to protest peacefully is enshrined in the Constitution's Article 19(1) and protests are the hallmark of a free, democratic society," he said. A senior member of the party's Punjab unit and Leader of the Opposition in Punjab Vidhan Sabha, Harpal Singh Cheema, also welcomed the decision and expressed gratitude to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cant-use-stadiums-to-detain-farmers-delhi-health-minister/articleshow/79456768.cms||---
November 28, 2020||India||CWC pays Patel & Gogoi tribute, calls for unity||NEW DELHI: Amid continued rumblings, Congress members urged unity and discipline as the party got together to pay tributes to Ahmed Patel and Tarun Gogoi, who passed away this week. At the Congress Working Committee meeting, led by party chief Sonia Gandhi, senior members said the real tribute to Patel and Gogoi would be to work together and strengthen the party. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said party members should set aside their differences. She said Patel had three qualities — he was discreet, loyal and delivered on his word. Ambika Soni, stressing on Patel’s loyalty, is learnt to have said that party members should forget the past and work unitedly in future — a clear reference to the recent dissonance. Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot mentioned the need for party leaders to leave the past behind. He urged Rahul Gandhi to assume the leadership. Ghulam Nabi Azad, who heads the dissident group, did not touch upon the subject, sources said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cwc-pays-patel-gogoi-tribute-calls-for-unity/articleshow/79456771.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Bengaluru||On party’s nudge, Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa puts Lingayat OBC plan on hold||BENGALURU: The Karnataka cabinet on Friday deferred a decision on recommending the inclusion of Veerashaiva-Lingayat community in the Centre’s list of Other Backward Classes (OBC) after the BJP’s not-so-subtle message that the issue should be discussed in the party for a first to study its feasibility. “This is a very important issue that needs to be discussed with the party’s top brass. I will meet them in Delhi in 2-3 days,” chief minister BS Yediyurappa said and admitted that Union home minister Amit Shah has called him to Delhi in this regard. Sources said the chief minister made a U-turn after a Union minister and party strategist called him, saying any decision involving the state and the Centre should be taken collectively after thorough discussions. CM seeks attorney general’s view on Lingayat OBC planThe minister is reported to have told the CM: “Otherwise, it would reflect badly on the party and its governments.” Though many senior Karnataka ministers were in Delhi to attend the inauguration of newly appointed BJP national general secretaries, the CM held an emergency cabinet meeting here to clear the proposal bringing the Veerashaiva-Lingayat community under the Union government’s OBC list. Considered the BJP’s core vote bank, the community is estimated to form 18 per cent of the state’s population and decides the fate of candidates in 110 of Karnataka’s 224 assembly constituencies. On cabinet colleagues’ suggestion, the CM has referred the matter to the attorney general, who will submit his opinion from a legal perspective. Speculation is rife about a change of guard in Karnataka ever since Yediyurappa initiated steps last week to set up a Veerashaiva-Lingayat development corporation and followed it up with a promise to release Rs 500 crore to woo the community. Two days ago, the chief minister appointed BS Paramashivaiah, a loyalist, as the chairperson of the corporation. Yediyurappa named two dozen chairpersons for boards and corporations in the past three days. Sources said he was doing this to seek the community’s support and pressure the party leadership to defer its plans — if any — to replace him and give approval for cabinet expansion. Sources said the cabinet deferred the decision since a few ministers said several other smaller sects of the dominant communities, including Kunchatiga-Vokkaligas, should be included in the OBC list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/on-partys-nudge-karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-puts-lingayat-obc-plan-on-hold/articleshow/79456773.cms||---
November 28, 2020||India||Pro-Lashkar graffiti found on wall in Mangaluru||MANGALURU: Mangaluru police have launched an investigation after a compound wall near Kadri in the city was found graffitied with a pro-terror statement on Friday morning. The incident has since gone viral on social media. According to police, the graffiti read: “Do not force us to invite Lashkar-e-Taiba and Taliban to deal with Sanghis and Manuvedis #LashkariZindabad.” The graffiti was removed soon after it was brought to the notice of police. “Unidentified miscreants sprayed the graffiti with an intention to disrupt the law and order situation on Thursday night. We are checking CCTV footage in and around the area for any clues,’’ said Vinay Gaonkar, DCP (crime and traffic), Mangaluru. When asked as to how it went unnoticed despite vehicles passing through the area round-the-clock, Gaonkar said the location was not properly illuminated. A case has been registered at the Mangaluru East police station in this regard, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pro-lashkar-graffiti-found-on-wall-in-mangaluru/articleshow/79456779.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Goa||Academic year extended, more time to finish portion||Panaji: Due to disturbances in the academic schedule caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, the directorate of education (DoE) has extended the academic year 2020-21 by eight additional days. The circular states that the added time has been given to be able to complete the portion for the year. DoE has said that the final examination results can be declared on or after May 8, 2021, for Classes I to IX and Class XI. In a normal year, these results are to be released on or after April 30. “In view of Covid-19 pandemic situation, some of the schools had difficulty in online teaching due to poor internet connectivity. Some schools have done regular assessment of the students either online/offline. Some schools may need additional time where either assessment was done partially or not done at all,” the circular reads. Schools have also been permitted to hold the first summative exam again. DoE’s circular states that the first summative exam for the academic year can be held from January 15 for Class I to XII. In a regular year, the first summative exam is completed before the Diwali vacation begins. “The schools will be free to do the fresh assessment as per these dates, even if it is already done,” Amonkar has said. The final exam for Class I to IX is to be conducted from last week of April 2021. The second summative exam from Class X to XII should be held at the end of March 2021, director Santosh Amonkar has said. Following this exam, the students in Class X and XII will be facing the public exam. Dates for the public exams will be released separately by the Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education, he has said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/academic-year-extended-more-time-to-finish-portion/articleshow/79455473.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Goa||Face shields allowed at varsity PhD entrance test||Panaji: Candidates can wear only masks, the Goa University has said in the SOPs for the PhD entrance test to be held from December 1 to fill around 300 doctorate seats. “Candidates to be allowed entry only if using transparent face shield/masks. The transparent face shield/mask has to be worn at all times inside the test centre,” the SOPs stated. “Use of alcohol-based hand sanitisers (for at least 20 seconds) can be made wherever feasible. Respiratory etiquettes to be strictly followed. This involves strict practice of covering one’s mouth and nose while coughing/sneezing with a tissue/handkerchief/flexed elbow and disposing off used tissues properly,” the SOPs stated. Candidates will only be allowed to carry with them inside the exam hall, admit card along with valid government issued photo ID proof, water bottle, hand sanitizer (50 ml) and mask and gloves. GU-PhD Entrance Test or GU-PET will be held on December 1, 2 and 4. esults will be declared on December 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/face-shields-allowed-at-varsity-phd-entrance-test/articleshow/79455495.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 28, 2020||India||PM-Kisan data shows northeast & Kerala lead in bridging gender gap, Punjab has just 61 women beneficiaries||NEW DELHI: New Delhi: Government data on the Centre’s flagship scheme PM-Kisan, as per a RTI reply, shows that almost one-fourth of beneficiaries among landholder farmers in the country are women with northeastern states and Kerala taking lead in bridging the gap of gender disparities. Surprisingly, the most dominant agricultural state, Punjab, is figured at the bottom where the women beneficiaries account for the lowest percentage at 0.003%. Only 61 out of 23.28 lakh beneficiaries in the state are women. Similarly among all UTs, Chandigarh accounts for the smallest number of women beneficiaries at 52 (11.35% of the total 458). If we look at the nationwide figures, 2.46 crores (24.25%) are women beneficiaries while 7.70 crores (75.75%) are men. The PM-Kisan scheme, launched in February last year, was initially meant for only marginal and small farmers having land holdings up to 2 hectares (nearly 5 acres). Its ambit was, however, expanded to all farmers, with certain exclusions, under Modi 2.O. Accordingly, over 14 crore landholder farmers in the country are eligible to receive Rs 6,000 each per annum in three equal instalments of Rs 2,000 directly into their bank accounts. The figures on women beneficiaries are part of the response of agriculture ministry to a wide ranging RTI application filed by human rights activist Venkatesh Nayak. The RTI reply also shows that there is no provision for a separate category of "persons with disabilities" under PM-Kisan scheme. So, no information about them is being collected separately by the ministry. Nayak cites the gender wise data to point that in the column on transgender farmers there is a "0" marked for every State and UT. As per the RTI data till September 7, total 10.05 crore beneficiaries in 27 states and 11.14 lakh in nine UTs received money into their bank accounts. This data does not include West Bengal as the state has still not joined the scheme. The northeastern states are clearly showing the way on gender parity while big states like Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra and Bihar are lagging behind. Out of the 1.64 lakh beneficiaries in Meghalaya, 63.51% are women. The women not only outnumber men in this north-eastern state, Meghalaya also has the highest percentage of women beneficiaries among all states and UTs. In Nagaland (52.61%), Manipur (54.35%) and Arunachal Pradesh (51.98%) also women accounted for more than 50% of the beneficiaries. Far away from the northeast, Lakshadweep sends out a strong message as women make up a significant 49.41% of the total 1789 beneficiaries. Among other states, Kerala is the only one that accounts for over 40% women beneficiaries. The women beneficiaries in the state account for 44.20% of the over 33.46 lakh beneficiaries. There are 11 states and UTs including Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra that have less than 20% women beneficiaries. Overall, UP has the maximum number of beneficiaries (1.89 crores men and 42.72 lakh women) followed by Maharashtra (82.83 lakh men and 19.87 lakh women). In 9 states and UTs including Bihar, Telangana, Gujarat, Karnataka, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh and Dadra & Nagar Haveli and Daman & Diu, women accounted for anywhere between 20% to 30% of total beneficiaries. In 7 states and UTs including Mizoram, Puducherry, Andaman & Nicobar Islands, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Assam and Tamil Nadu women accounted for anywhere between 30 to 40% of total beneficiaries - it means more than the national average.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-kisan-data-shows-northeast-kerala-lead-in-bridging-gender-gap-punjab-has-just-61-women-beneficiaries/articleshow/79456787.cms||Ambika Pandit
November 28, 2020||Vadodara||Probe into September 8 ICU blaze in Vadodara still incomplete||VADODARA: The state-run SSG Hospital (SSGH) in Vadodara witnessed chaos and panic late in the evening on September 8 as fire broke out in a Covid-19 intensive care unit (ICU) where 38 patients were admitted. While the resident doctors and volunteers stood up to the occasion and ensured that no lives were lost, there seems to be no sense of urgency in completing the investigation into the incident at the central Gujarat’s biggest government hospital. The fire broke out in the ICU located on the first floor of the trauma centre that has been converted into a Covid-19 hospital. All patients were evacuated in the nick of time by resident doctors. Other staffers and volunteers also rushed to the floor and ensured that the fire did not spread and all patients were shifted from the affected floor. The patients brought out of the building on stretchers and beds with oxygen cylinders were initially kept in the parking area opposite the building. They were then shifted to other hospitals for further treatment. Visuals available later and details gathered in fire officials initially indicated that fire broke out in a Dhaman ventilator. However, subsequently officials have been reluctant to name the brand. The probe ordered immediately after the incident is yet to be completed. Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) deputy municipal commissioner S K Patel who is heading the probe said that the probe was not complete as forensic experts were yet to give their report. “I had asked for the report before Diwali and have sent a missive to the police today too,” said Patel on Friday. When asked if the probe so far had revealed the involvement of a Dhaman ventilator, Patel said that he could not comment on it at this stage. “We will have to wait for the FSL report,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/probe-into-sept-8-icu-blaze-in-vadodara-still-incomplete/articleshow/79454145.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Goa||Sakhali civic body awards ‘clean’ tags||Bicholim: In a bid to encourage Sakhali residents to keep their surroundings clean, the Sakhali municipal council (SMC) held a contest, where ‘cleanest’ tags were awarded in three categories to schools, commercial and government premises in the town area. SMC carried out the ‘cleanliness’ inspection between October 1 and November 20. The idea came from the municipality’s chief officer Pravinjay Pandit, who roped in technical staffers of the Goa Waste Management Corporation to carry out the cleanliness survey. “This was a unique effort, the first of its kind, to encourage people to maintain cleanliness,” Pandit told TOI. Miranda Building, Government Higher Secondary, Sakhali, Hotel Mahalaxmi, Desai Dental Clinic and the PWD office were among the winners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sakhali-civic-body-awards-clean-tags/articleshow/79455501.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Goa||Goa: Two casino staffers among 150 new infections on Friday||PANAJI: Goa reported 150 cases of Covid-19, 152 recoveries and one death, taking active cases to 1,312 and mortalities to 687, on Friday. Two employees of two different offshore casinos were among those found positive. Both were shifted to a Covid care centre. Last week, several casino employees had tested positive. A 70-year-old man from Chicalim, who suffered from comorbid conditions, succumbed to the virus at a private hospital in South Goa. With 2,645 covid tests conducted, the state’s case positivity rate dropped to 6% on Friday as against 8% reported a day earlier. The recovery rate stood at 96%. Since March, 45,492 people have been cured of coronavirus. Porvorim primary health center saw a slight increase in infections and its tally rose to 107 while that of the Panaji urban health centre was 85 with an addition of six new infections. Active cases of the Margao urban health centre increased to 112 and of Ponda to 96, the two centres in South Goa have a high caseload vis-a-vis other centres. Health officer of the Ponda primary health centre, Dr Smita Parsekar, said that since Diwali they have seen a slight increase in new infections. However, less than 10 fresh cases are reported per day.  Since the recovery period has been enhanced from ten to 17 days, Parsekar said the count also appears high. Situation has nonetheless been under control, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/2-casino-staffers-among-150-new-infections-on-friday/articleshow/79455503.cms||---
November 28, 2020||India||SAD’s Jagir Kaur wins SGPC chief post for 4th time||AMRITSAR: Bibi Jagir Kaur was on Friday elected for the fourth time as president of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) — the Sikhs’ single largest representative body — during its annual general house session at Teja Singh Samundari Hall in Amritsar, reports Yudhvir Rana. She replaces Gobind Singh Longowal, who faced a couple of controversies, including the case of missing saroops, during his three years as the gurdwara body president. Jagir Kaur, who is also president of the Istri Akali Dal — women’s wing of SAD — was elected thrice as SGPC president before this. Her first tenure was from March 16-November 22, 1999, when she became the first woman to be elevated to the post. She was re-elected in November 1999 and resigned from her post in 2000 when she was accused of killing her daughter but was later acquitted. Her third term was from September 29, 2004, to November 22, 2005. Surjit Singh Bhittewind and Baba Buta Singh were appointed as senior and junior vice-presidents, respectively, while Advocate Bhagwant Singh Sialka became the general secretary of SGPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sads-jagir-kaur-wins-sgpc-chief-post-for-4th-time/articleshow/79456790.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Goa||‘Tourism policy lacks data on state revenue’||Panaji: The Centre for Responsible Tourism (CRT), a church supported body, has stated that the recently released Goa Tourism Policy, 2020, lacks the basic empirical data on tourism in the state and is devoid of realistic statistics of tourists — foreign and domestic — who visit the state. The CRT statement called the tourism policy a mirage which won’t benefit Goa and its people. It has submitted two booklets — ‘People’s charter for tourism’ and ‘People over profit’ — with a request to include them in the tourism policy. The policy fails to reflect the revenue generated and how much of the revenue is re-invested in the state, the statement read. The government has displayed its complete disconnect and ignorance about the present status of tourism in the state and the challenges faced by the stakeholders and local communities involved in tourism-related activities, it stated. “Vague terms like world class need to be qualified. The vision needs to envisage a just and equitable tourism with ‘people’ as the focus,” it stated. This policy is an attempt to constitute another instrument, Goa Tourism Board, it stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tourism-policy-lacks-data-on-state-revenue/articleshow/79455509.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 28, 2020||Goa||Dental PG students against ‘unreasonable’ hike in fees||Panaji: The students of Goa Dental College (GDC) who have enrolled for various post graduate courses have written to the government not to implement the revised fee structure for which an order was issued on November 6. The fees have been hiked from Rs 12,000 per semester to Rs 1 lakh per semester. The increase is “unjustified and arbitrary”, the students said. The hike, which has been implemented with retrospective effect, is not only contrary to the terms of the contract, but it is also against the principles of promissory estoppel, a doctrine in contract law that stops a person from going back on a promise even if a legal contract does not exist. Many of the students seeking admission to dental courses have financial constraints, which are even more pronounced owing to the challenges thrown up by the prevailing pandemic and its consequent impact. At this juncture particularly, it would not be possible for many of the students to afford this unjustified fee raise, students stated in their letter to the health department. They said they opted for various post graduate courses based on the fee and stipend structure displayed during counselling and they presumed the same would continue. The increase in fee, they say, is not only arbitrary and unreasonable, but is also totally unfair for the students who have spent years preparing for the national eligibility cum entrance test (NEET). The students stated that at no point during the entire admission process were they alerted about possible rise in fees or given any notice about substantial rise in fees. Goa Medical College’s fee structure, they said, is more reasonable and students were given prior notice when fees were hiked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dental-pg-students-against-unreasonable-hike-in-fees/articleshow/79455534.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Goa||Rise in college fee unjustified: Cong||Panaji: Describing the hike in the fees for postgraduate courses at the Goa Dental College (GDC) as “unreasonable and arbitrary”, Congress on Friday demanded that health department should immediately rollback the fee hike to the old fee structure. The party also said that the government should explain the sudden need for the steep hike in fees. Congress said that the increase in the fee structure for dental courses is a “nefarious design” to deter weaker sections of the society and backward classes including SC, ST, OBC from pursuing courses in medical and dental sciences. “We also question whether the MBBS course fees will be hiked next, as this government hides its ill intentions and springs such nasty surprises on poor and middle-class people who cannot afford private medical colleges education,” said Dr Ashish Kamat. Congress said that the department of health appears to be moving towards the Haryana model for medical education by bringing in steep hikes in course fees. “If this issue is not resolved within 10 days, we will go to any extent. We will go to the health minister Vishwajit Rane’s house,” said the Congress party’s student wing president Ahraz Mulla. The party said that the GMC website and the GDC has not justified the reason for the fee hikes and has not provided a break-up for the fee structure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rise-in-college-fee-unjustified-cong/articleshow/79455558.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 28, 2020||Mumbai||Instead of joining hands to tackle the pandemic, Opposition is making plans to topple the govt: Uddhav Thackeray||MUMBAI: Uddhav Thackeray, 60, will complete a year in office on Saturday, a period marked by frequent predictions from the Opposition that the threeparty coalition government would not last. However, Thackeray now exudes confidence that his government will complete five years in power. The resource crunch and pandemic notwithstanding, the CM says he is confident his regime enjoys popular support. Thackeray spoke to a group of newsmen at his official residence on Friday. Excerpts: Q: Completing one year in office, what are your major achievements? It was a difficult year owing to Coronavirus cases across the state. We had to put our entire machinery to work. I will not claim that government has resolved it completely, but it has been able to put up a brave front. Notwithstanding such a situation and the fiscal crisis, we have been able to attract an investment of Rs 52,000 crore, waive loans of Rs 19,644 crore of 30.77 lakh farmers and provide 2.5 crore meals to poor people during Covid-19. Q: Any plans to start local trains?Local trains cannot be nonoperational for an indefinite period. We are in constant touch with railways. We fear that if there are uncontrollable crowds in the trains and on stations, it will be difficult. We will work it out, but no deadline can be set. Q: There have been frequent warnings from the BJP that your coalition government will not last.It reflects the Opposition’s mentality. Instead of joining hands with government to tackle the pandemic, they are drafting plans to topple it. Our legislators are with us, they have no desire to leave the three-party front. I am firmly in the saddle, people are with the Maha Vikas Aghadi government. We will ensure that assurances given are implemented in letter and spirit. We never gave false assurances of Acche Din, nor did we promise Rs 15 lakh in bank accounts. We have only given assurances which we can fulfil in a timebound manner. The prestigious Coastal Road Project and Nagpur-Mumbai expressway project are moving in the right direction, I am personally reviewing both. Q: You are at loggerheads with the Governor over nominations to the legislative council.I don’t have any personal enmity with the Governor. We submitted all relevant papers long ago, along with the decision taken by the cabinet. We are not indulging in a game of one-upmanship, we feel the Governor should respect the Constitution and take a decision within a reasonable period. Q: BJP is gearing up for the BMC polls in early 2022.We are also ready to take on the BJP. We will contest the elections jointly with Congress and NCP under the banner of Maha Vikas Aghadi. Q:Central agencies, like the Enforcement Directorate have stepped in and initiated action against Shiv Sena and NCP activists.I am not surprised...but I am not scared. There is no end to the gross abuse of Central agencies. I am sure all of Maharashtra will oppose such moves, it will never accept the politics of revenge. I just want to warn the central agencies…to take perverse pleasure by initiating action against family members. You too have family, our upbringing is cultured, we are observing restraint. Q: Central agencies are targeting the film industry too, there is a sudden spurt in raids.Film industry will not move from Mumbai, members of the industry are settled in the city. They do not want to leave… while residents of border districts in Karnataka are keen to return to Maharashtra. Q: Is the NDA government treating Maharashtra in a step-motherly manner? It appears so. We asked for financial assistance for floodaffected areas in Konkan and Vidarbha, but meagre aid was released. We have written several letters, but there is no response. Even on GST compensation, the response is dismal. Our outstanding is Rs 38,000 crore. When the GST proposal was introduced for the first time, Shiv Sena had opposed it tooth and nail. Even Arun Jaitley opposed it strongly. If the NDA government feels there are flaws in the GST system, it should take immediate steps for improvement, otherwise most states will turn bankrupt. Q: Opposition says you have failed to tackle Covid-19...I am surprised. We have made all possible efforts to tackle the virus, provided the best medicines, set up thousands of ICU beds, state-ofthe-art infrastructure. If opposition offers some practical solutions, we will certainly accept them. Q: You are new in administration. So how is your experience of it?I am not new, I was associated with the BMC for a long period. In Mantralaya, it’s a learning experience. The bureaucracy is cooperating to provide result-oriented administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/instead-of-joining-hands-to-tackle-the-pandemic-opposition-is-making-plans-to-topple-the-government/articleshow/79456805.cms||Prafulla Marapakwar
November 28, 2020||Goa||Shantadurga temple shut for visitors after five staffers, including priests, test positive||PONDA: After five staffers of Shree Shantadurga Temple at Kavlem, Ponda, contracted Covid-19, the temple’s managing committee has resolved not to allow anyone other than a priest inside the temple. With priests also among those to be infected, a replacement has been brought in from Marcela. The temple committee also got the temple premises sanitised on Friday. Temple authorities said that they had already tied up with a company from Panaji to carry out the sanitisation of the temple premises at regular intervals, as several people from different areas had started visiting the temple since it opened its doors during the pandemic. The temple officials said the same company carried out sanitisation of the temple on Friday. After few of the temple staffers began showing symptoms such as fever and dry cough, the temple management had asked them to get tested for Covid-19. A priest of the temple from Marcel, who was away during this infection episode, has been called to perform daily mandatory worship rituals, said the secretary of temple committee, Deelip Gaitonde. He said, except the new priest, neither any mahajan (member of temple) nor devotees will enter the temple premises. “Actually, we were following the SOPs strictly, but don’t know from where they acquired the infection,” Gaitonde said. All of the infected persons have been home quarantined and the temple will remain closed until all of them are cured, he added. The temple had remained shut for almost three-and-a half months for visitors post March 22 and it was subsequently decided to allow devotees from July. The centuries-old temple has devotees scattered in India and abroad, and most of them along with their family members visit the temple during festivities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/shantadurga-temple-shut-for-visitors-after-five-staffers-including-priests-test-positive/articleshow/79455582.cms||Suraj P Kaisuvker
November 28, 2020||India||‘Sena, NCP & Cong to fight BMC poll jointly’||MUMBAI: Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray announced on Friday that the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress will contest elections to the country’s richest civic body in early 2022 together. “The three parties have come together and formed the government under the banner of the Maha Vikas Aghadi. In the BMC too, we will contest elections jointly,” he said in response to a question about the Aghadi coalition’s strategy against a combative BJP in local body polls. Thackeray’s statement comes amid speculation about the inner workings of the coalition. It was believed that the Sena may choose to contest polls to BMC, where it is the largest party, on its own. The decision to present a common front in local polls is in response to BJP’s growing assertiveness in Mumbai. In the present house of 227, Sena has 96 members, followed by BJP (82), Congress (30), NCP (8), SP (6), MIM (2), MNS (1) ABS (1) and one independent. Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis has also spoken of his ‘Mission Mumbai’ plan to eventually wrest BMC from the Sena. “We welcome the firm stand taken by the Chief Minister. We will contest the elections together. We will soon work out the seat-sharing and ensure the MVA emerges a winner,” NCP spokesperson and skill development minister Nawab Malik said. In an interaction on the eve of completing one year in office, the CM also castigated central agencies for creating political instability. “ED has launched action against a Shiv Sena legislator, it is gross abuse of power. Shockingly, ED has now reached the families of politicians to derive pleasure, you should not forget that you too have family,’’ he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sena-ncp-cong-to-fight-bmc-poll-jointly/articleshow/79456812.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
November 28, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: BJP spends year snapping away at heels of Shiv Sena||MUMBAI: In the past one year, the BJP has not missed a single opportunity to directly target chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, his cabinet minister son Aditya, and the BMC, where the Shiv Sena holds sway in the civic house. The Shiv Sena decision to insist on the chief-ministership and, for that reason, break up with the BJP to form a coalition government with the NCP and Congress set the tone for future relations between the former allies. The Covid-19 lockdown has been used aggressively by the BJP to claim shortcomings in the CM. While BJP state unit president Chandrakant Patil said this was the first time the state had a CM who does not step out, opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis visited Covid-19 hot spots and held meetings with officials on the handling of the situation. The government had to pull out a GR issued by the earlier, Fadnavis government directing officials not to attend meetings called by the opposition leader. Be it the cyclone Nisarga that hit the Konkan coast or the floods that ravaged Vidarbha, Marathwada and western Maharashtra, Fadnavis visited affected areas to highlight Thackeray’s preference to hold video-conferences. He cited the government refusal to raise loans and provide relief to farmers. Aaditya was dragged into the controversy over the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput and was forced to issue a statement dissociating himself from the matter. From accusing the BMC of not carrying out enough Covid-19 tests to raising charges of corruption in the setting up of the jumbo Covid centres and the move to acquire land in the eastern suburbs for an infectious disease hospital, the BJP has been highly vocal in criticising the Sena. In the BMC, BJP corporators moved court against the denial of the post of opposition leader. They lost the case. The BJP also regularly approached governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari with grouses. The shifting of the Metro 3 car shed from Aarey to Kanjurmarg also became a prestige issue for the Sena and BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-bjp-spends-year-snapping-away-at-heels-of-shiv-sena/articleshow/79456815.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Mumbai||Sena will contest BMC polls with Congress & NCP: Uddhav Thackeray||MUMBAI: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced on Friday that the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress would contest elections to the country’s richest civic body in early 2022 together, reports Prafulla Marpakwar.“The three parties have come together and formed the government under the banner of the Maha Vikas Aghadi. In the BMC, too, we will contest elections jointly,” he said in response to a question about the Aghadi coalition’s strategy against a combative BJP in local body polls. Thackeray’s statement comes amid speculation about the inner workings of the coalition. It was believed that the Sena may choose to contest the BMC elections on its own. In the present House of 227, Sena has 96 members, BJP (82), Congress (30), NCP (8), SP (6), MIM (2), MNS (1) ABS (1) and an independent. The CM also castigated central agencies for creating political instability. “ED has launched action against a Shiv Sena legislator, it is gross abuse of power. If you come after families and children, then remember you have families and children too. You are not clean. We know how to set you straight, roast you,” Thackeray said in an interview to Saamna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sena-will-contest-bmc-polls-with-congress-ncp-uddhav-thackeray/articleshow/79456783.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid-19 in Karnataka: Poor contact tracing in 11 districts a concern||BENGALUR: The state’s Covid-19 management team is at its wit’s end as primary contacts of patients infected over the past few weeks across several districts have not been traced and screened. For instance, in Ballari, 65% of those found positive between November 17 and 23 have no primary contacts. Trace, test and treat are cornerstones of Covid management in Karnataka, but contact tracing has taken a beating, experts admit. From an epidemiological perspective, one positive case generally has at least 2-3 primary contacts. Of 11 districts on the radar where the pandemic situation is worsening, Ballari reported the most nil contacts, according to data tabled before the chief secretary at a recent review meeting. It was followed by Haveri (53.1%), Raichur (32.5 %), Tumakuru (31.4 %), Kolar (29 %) and Uttara Kannada (28 %). Dakshina Kannada has the least cases of zero contacts with 8.7% nil primary contacts. Dr Giridhara R Babu, epidemiologist and member of the state’s technical advisory committee on Covid management, said in the early months of the pandemic, Karnataka was known for its contact tracing with up to 42 contacts traced for every infected person. “If 100 positive cases are detected, there must be a minimum 300 primary contacts,” Dr Babu said. “Tracing primary contacts is an index of how active the surveillance and review system is in the district. Any district with more than 20% of patients with nil primary contacts is a problem.” Experts say it’s possible for a few patients to have no primary contacts, but not a staggering 65% of them. Explaining possible glitches, Dr Babu said: “First, when people are tested in random locations like bus stops and worksites, their addresses may not be recorded and this can hamper contact tracing. Second, workers may not have recorded addresses correctly due to laziness and third, infected people may not have given accurate details at the time of testing.” However, Pankaj Kumar Pandey, commissioner, health and family welfare department, put it down to timing. “Data shows the swiftness in contact tracing. Some districts may trace late or may be entering the data late,” he said. But another expert said a delay can lead to a lag at every stage. “More test positive when contact tracing is done efficiently. A sense of lethargy has set in among workers,” the public health expert said. Nakul, Ballari district deputy commissioner, said a recent transition in the district’s Covid management team may have led to the problem. “Earlier education department officials were doing contact tracing, but the health department was recently given the responsibility. I think the data has been obtained but has not been uploaded due to technical issues,” he said. The issue is also raising concerns about the quality of data in the state. For instance, Haveri district authorities say only 63 cases were reported between November 17 and 23 as against 98 cases reported by the health department. Data shows 53.1% of patients in the district had nil contacts. “The figures are incorrect,” said Dr Rajesh Doddamani, Haveri health officer. “This has been brought to the notice of senior authorities. Only in eight patients, primary contacts are still being traced. The number of patients with nil primary contacts is only about 5%.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/contact-tracing-goes-haywire-no-trail-for-65-fresh-covid-cases-in-ballari/articleshow/79456833.cms||Sunitha Rao R
November 28, 2020||Chennai||No stay of LVB-DBS merger, but Madras HC order a relief for shareholders||CHENNAI: Shareholders of Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) tasted consolation win in Madras high court, which refused to stay its merger with DBS Bank India but directed DBIL not to take any further actions prejudicial to LVB shareholders. Making it clear that the Centre and the RBI are free to proceed further with the merger as per the scheme, the court said: "Even if the authorities have the power to reduce the share value during an amalgamation under Section 45 of the Banking Regulation Act, reducing it to zero prima facie cannot be done without very very compelling reasons." A division bench of Justice Vineet Kothari and Justice MS Ramesh also directed the DBIL to furnish an undertaking to compensate shareholders of LVB in case the court rules so at a later stage. DBIL has also been directed to create a separate reserve fund in its books of account to the extent of the face value of shares of LVB and maintain the same subject to further orders. The court, however, rejected pleas for an interim stay of the merger proceedings, saying: "No blanket interim order can be granted against the merger as the scheme has already come to operation." The court passed the order on Friday, on the plea moved by AUM Capital Market Pvt Ltd challenging the merger. Earlier, appearing for AUM, Senior Advocate Arvind Datar argued that the entire capital of over 97,000 individual investors had been wiped out overnight by way of the amalgamation scheme. Datar said that in cases of amalgamations, Section 45 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and Section 237 of the Companies Act provided for shareholders of the transferor company to be given corresponding shares and voting rights in the transferee company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/no-stay-of-lvb-dbs-merger-but-madras-hc-order-a-relief-for-shareholders/articleshow/79456850.cms||Suresh Kumar
November 28, 2020||Nagpur||Save Nagpur’s Aarey: Activists to env min Aaditya Thackeray||Nagpur: City’s environment activists have sought the intervention of state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray to save ‘Nagpur’s own Aarey forest’ at Ajni, which is to be cleared for a proposed inter modal station and transport hub.TOI had recently reported that thousands of age-old trees will be chopped off for the Rs 1,288.81 crore project coming up on Central Railway land, which is a thriving biodiversity habitat for birds and animal species. To be executed in two phases, the project will involve redevelopment of Ajni railway station, development of a bus port and other connected facilities, while phase two will involve commercial projects. Taking objection to the loss of the greenery, honorary wildlife warden of Nagpur Jaydeep Das has raised the issue with Thackeray, requesting his immediate intervention.In a letter written to the young minister, Das has said that the proposed project area has over 4,000 trees planted by the British before independence. According to the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI), which is the implementing agency for the project, 1,200 large trees will be cut for phase 1. “The second phase, which will come later, will also require cutting down of thousands of trees, exact number is not yet specified,” Das wrote.The activist pointed out that taxpayers’ money was being utilized in an unplanned manner. “Infrastructure is being created right in the heart of the city, which not only has the potential to create traffic congestion but also lead to large-scale environmental damage. This area is one of the last few remaining green patches in the city,” he said. Das further stressed that alternate sites for the project, especially on the outskirts of the city, with smaller green patches, are not being considered by the policymakers. “Nagpur is one of the most polluted cities in the country and a hub of coal-fired thermal power plants, which have led to immense toxicity in the air. Coupled with this, the last few years have seen rampant concretization and multi-layered infrastructural growth,” he said.Along with the letter, Das has also submitted a study by Indian Space Research Organization’s (ISRO) Regional Remote Sensing Centre (RRSC), which revealed that from 116 square kilometres in 1999, the city’s green cover went down to 76 square kilometre by 2018.The activist has appealed to the minister to save the green lung, which is now getting popularized as ‘Nagpur’s Aarey’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/save-nagpurs-aarey-activists-to-env-min-aaditya-thackeray/articleshow/79453779.cms||Manka Behl
November 28, 2020||Nagpur||NMC incurred Rs 562cr loss in water supply in 8 yrs: RTI||Nagpur: Information obtained under the Right to Information (RTI) Act has revealed the cash-strapped Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) incurred financial loss of Rs562.3 crore in city’s drinking water supply in eight years. NCP state vice-president Vedprakash Arya blamed private water operator Orange City Water Private Limited (OCW) appointed by NMC for the loss. TOI on July 8 had reported that NMC was losing around Rs70 crore per annum but OCW is in profit. OCW’s profit after taxation was Rs8.23 crore in 2018-19.Arya obtained the information about revenue and expenditure of NMC for drinking water supply between 2012-13 and 2019-20. As per the RTI reply, the civic body spent Rs1,518 crore while revenue was Rs955.6 crore during this period. The NMC paid Rs795.6 crore to OCW.The RTI information also revealed NMC was in profit till 2010-11. Profit was around Rs3 crore in 2010-11.It is for the first time official figures about loss being incurred by NMC from drinking water supply have come to fore.Arya in a press release said, “NMC spent over Rs1,000 crore obtained from the central and state governments under JNNURM scheme for strengthening water infrastructure. A current office-bearer used to work in one of the two private companies that formed OCW between 1992 and 2007. The office-bearer roped in OCW from April 1, 2012, to benefit the two companies.” “NMC would have earned profit of Rs447 crore in these eight years had it not engaged OCW,” said Arya.He further said OCW failed to complete 24X7 Water Supply Project costing Rs388 crore and yet no action was taken by the NMC. “As per JNNURM scheme, NMC was supposed to complete the project on March 31, 2012. As per the work order issued by NMC, OCW was supposed to complete the project on March 1, 2017,” he said. Instead of ensuring round the clock water supply, Arya said, OCW further deteriorated water supply. “Still, NMC approved One Time Settlement Scheme causing another loss of around Rs400 crore,” he said.The NCP neta submitted a memorandum to municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B on Friday demanding immediate ouster of OCW and recovery of losses. He also warned of agitation if the demand is not fulfilled.OCW did not respond to TOI’s messages.NMC standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke said Arya is playing politics during election period. “Arya’s allegations regarding the office bearer are baseless. I will come up with a detailed reply,” he said.-------------------------------------------||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-incurred-rs-562cr-loss-in-water-supply-in-8-yrs-rti/articleshow/79453796.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
November 28, 2020||Nagpur||Coolies slam CR for contract to pvt co||Nagpur: The decision by Nagpur division of Central Railway (CR) to rope in a Haryana-based private company to book passengers luggage has not augured well with the coolies. They said the move is to privatize the carrying baggage business depriving them of the only livelihood. The 147-odd coolies at the Nagpur and Ajni railway stations have got support from NGO ‘Together We Can’ who have promised all legal help and support to the coolies contemplating to challenge the decision in the court. The CR on November 12 entered into an agreement with Bookbaggage.com India Private Limited, Gurugram, under which the company shall provide comprehensive luggage and parcel logistics solution from the first mile to last-mile connectivity. It will pay the railways an annual fee of Rs 5.50 lakh. The company will process the collected bags at 300sqft space allotted to them at the station. Per bag charges for 10km will be Rs 125; Rs 300 (20km), Rs 400 (20-30km) and Rs 600 (30-50km). These rates will be up to maximum of 5 pieces of baggage and above that new cycle of Rs 50 per bag will start. “Under the garb of earning non-fare revenue, the entire idea is to pass on the benefit to a private company, which was incorporated in July last week and got GST number in August. Surprisingly, the baggage proposal was submitted on October 29 and the work order was issued on November 12,” said Suraj Meshram, president of Janshakti Coolie Union. Coolie leader Abdul Majid said, “Earlier, CR offered sanitation contract to the same company and virtually poor passengers are charged Rs 10 per baggage for sanitization even if they are not keen. As part of the process, no tenders were invited from multiple parties. How one firm is getting a contract should be investigated.” Majid said, “Nowhere across the Indian Railways has such a proposal been moved officially. We are licensed coolies and are quasi railway employees getting healthcare and travel concessions. The decision was taken without taking us into confidence.” ACM & railway spokesperson SG Rao said, “The agreement is in favour of coolies who will get assured luggage and will be paid by the company. The firm will collect baggage from passengers and drop them at the station from where coolies will carry luggage to trains.” “The agreement has been done under NFR which doesn’t require any tendering. The company has the experience and is working air luggage. The contract is for one year and can be extended. This is an innovative idea to benefit passengers,” said Rao. However, the coolie leaders said nowhere in the work order it is mentioned that coolies will pick up the luggage. “Why the scheme is being implemented at Nagpur when no railway station is implementing it,” they asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/coolies-slam-cr-for-contract-to-pvt-co/articleshow/79453828.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
November 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Cabinet approves border limits for new Vijayanagara district||BENGALURU: Despite some protests against the plan to split Ballari district, BS Yediyurappa’s cabinet on Friday approved the borders of the new Vijayanagara district. Hospet will be the capital of Karnataka’s 31st district, which will comprise six taluks carved out of Ballari. On November 18, the chief minister had given an informal nod for the formation of Vijayanagara and directed officials to draw up boundaries before moving the file for official approval. Law and parliamentary affairs minister JC Madhuswamy said that Vijayanagara district would include Hospet, Harappanahalli, Hoovinahadagali, Hagari Bommanahalli, Kotturu and Kudligi taluks. “Hospet, which is located about 12km from Hampi, will be the district headquarters. We will issue a notification soon,” he added. The government has defended the decision to bifurcate Ballari, saying two small or mid-sized districts are easier to manage and develop than one large region. The move will provide a political boost to mining baron and forest minister BS Anand Singh, who had championed the cause for a separate Vijayanagara district. In September last year, Yediyurappa had acknowledged Singh’s proposal. The Kalyana-Karnataka Horata Samiti had observed a Ballari bandh against the bifurcation proposal on Thursday, but it received a poor response. Meanwhile, the cabinet has cleared a grant of Rs 52.5 crore for the Maski Nala Yojana ahead of the anticipated assembly bypoll in the constituency. The date for the vote has not been announced yet. The cabinet also approved tender proposals of insurance firms HDFC, SBI and AIC in connection with the crop insurance scheme for three financial years, 2020-21, 2021-22 and 2022-23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cabinet-approves-border-limits-for-new-vijayanagara-district/articleshow/79456859.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Nagpur||Forest dept arrests 3 for tiger poaching||Nagpur: Twelve days after a tiger was found dead under mysterious circumstances, Gondia forest officials have arrested three persons for electrocuting the big cat. The accused have been identified as Roshanlal Baghele, his son Mukesh, both residents of Lodhitola village, and Balchand Rane from Chutia. All three have confessed to committing the crime, said officials. They have been remanded to forest custody remand (FCR) till November 30. The highly decomposed carcass was found on November 15 at Lodhitola, 140km from Nagpur. Many body parts were strewn in the vicinity of agricultural lands in Gondia range. While post mortem could not be conducted due to the putrefied state of the carcass, forest officials retained some body parts to probe the cause of death. The tiger was killed on the intervening night of November 6-7 in the farm of Nirmala Dhekwar. The foresters learnt about the incident after 12 days. “We summoned all those on whose farms the body parts of the tigers were strewn. During interrogation, all confessed to the crime. One of the accused, Mukesh, on November 25 showed the spot and agriculture fields of other farmers where the body parts were dumped. He also handed over the axe used in the crime,” said Gondia deputy conservator (DyCF) Kulraj Singh. On November 26, the accused disclosed some more spots from where tiger hair and material like barbed wires and sticks were seized. Investigating officials including ACF RR Sadgir and RFO SK Akre said the involvement of more accused cannot be ruled out as tiger nails, whiskers and skull were missing. Lodhitola police patil Indubai Rahangdale, Gajanan Kawle, and Satpuda Foundation’s Mukund Dhurve helped forest officials in the probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/forest-dept-arrests-3-for-tiger-poaching/articleshow/79453859.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
November 28, 2020||Nagpur||Clerk in centre of Rs 17L fraud in GMCH||Nagpur: A clerk in Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) was allegedly transferring an amount entitled to an on-contract doctor into his own account since 2015. The clerk is said to have credited about Rs 17 lakh in his account during this period. As per the state government’s provisions, many doctors work in government medical colleges on 11-month contracts. When one such doctor completed his contract and left the job in 2015, the said clerk did not inform it to the GMCH administration and started transferring doctor’s salary amount into his own account. Recently, as per government directives, all salary accounts of doctors, nurses and staffers of government medical colleges in state are being shifted to another nationalized bank. Officials of the new bank realized this fraud during shifting process. GMCH dean Dr Sajal Mitra has taken a serious note of this alleged fraud. An internal enquiry committee has been formed which is expected to submit its report in the next two days. The clerk has been transferred to another department. “The committee will conduct a detailed inquiry and submit its report after which we will take further action. Strict action will be taken on persons responsible for the scam,” said Dr Mitra. As soon as the committee started enquiry, the said clerk deposited the entire amount back in the account of GMCH. The committee is now inquiring whether other officials are involved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/clerk-in-centre-of-rs-17l-fraud-in-gmch/articleshow/79453844.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Nagpur||Grad polls: BJP’s Joshi, Cong’s Wanjari campaigning hard||Nagpur: With just a few days left for voting for Nagpur division graduate constituency polls, the front-runners — mayor Sandip Joshi and his Congress rival Abhijit Wanjari — are campaigning hard. Besides these two, Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi (VBA) candidate Rahul Wankhede and Independent candidate Atul Khobragade are also pulling out all the stops. Other than holding small public meetings, the candidates are aggressively campaigning on social media including Facebook. Wanjari, who hails from Teli community, is covertly using the OBC card against Joshi who is a Brahmin. The Congress candidate is being supported by Baban Taywade who is a prominent leader of OBCs. BJP is countering the OBC card by pointing out to voters that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is a Teli himself and has given ticket to Joshi. A host of Teli leaders like former minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule, Wardha MP Ramdas Tadas, former MLA Charan Waghmare etc are campaigning for Joshi. Bawankule is, in fact, the poll in-charge of Joshi. BJP leaders say that Taywade had unsuccessfully played this card in past two elections. Wanjari has been enrolling voters since last two years. However, BJP worked very hard in the last three months to enrol voters and has nullified the Congress candidate’s early bird advantage. Congress is facing a challenge in containing the rise of Wankhede and Khobragade. Poll experts say these two may get significant support from Dalit voters. If this happens, Wanjari’s chances will be dented. BSP, which fielded a candidate every time for these polls, has not done it this time. However, VBA has jumped into the fray by fielding a former senior officer of Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB). Khobragade has emerged as a strong candidate to trouble Congress. Political experts say that this is essentially a Congress versus BJP contest because even though NCP and Shiv Sena are supporting the former, the hard work is mainly being done by Congress leaders. NCP was, in fact, planning to field a candidate against Wanjari but was persuaded not to do so. Some 81,000 old voters are not in the electoral rolls. Congress leaders say that this will damage BJP as most of the voters, who are missing from the list were saffron supporters. BJP leaders say that supporters of both parties are missing from the rolls and hence it will not affect them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/grad-polls-bjps-joshi-congs-wanjari-campaigning-hard/articleshow/79453878.cms||Ashish Roy
November 28, 2020||Ranchi||Jubilations junked as Lalu Prasad fails to get bail||RANCHI: A pall of gloom descended on RJD party workers who reached outside the paying ward of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) on Friday in anticipation that their leader Lalu Prasad will be granted a suspension of sentence by the Jharkhand high court in a fodder scam case related to fake withdrawals from the Dumka treasury. Since this is the last case that keeps the 72-year-old ailing politician in custody, RJD workers started gathering at Rims since early morning. However, around noon, when news of the court deferring the case to December 11 came in, the dejected supporters’ crowd started thinning away from the hospital. One among the supporters, an ardent fan of the incarcerated RJD chief, failed to control his emotions and broke down before mediapersons, all the while holding on to a photograph of Lalu Prasad. Wiping off his tears, Kedar Yadav, a regular at Lalu-Rabri’s residence in Patna, said, “I was expecting that our leader will get bail today (Friday), but then no one has control over the functioning of the judicial system and we have full faith in it that our beloved neta will come out of jail soon.” Meanwhile, the youth wing of the party’s state unit had organised a membership drive on Friday and had planned celebrations if the decision went in their favour. However, they too joined the group of the disappointed. The youth wing had organised a luncheon in Bariatu area in anticipation that Lalu Prasad would be out on Friday. “We were hoping that our leader will get bail today (Friday), but then there is a system in place and we think he will get justice soon,” said Ravi Prakash Jaiswal, state spokesperson for RJD’s youth wing. The development on Friday came a day after Lalu was hurriedly shifted to Rims paying ward from the hospital director’s official residence at Kelly’s Bungalow after BJP raised allegations of horse-trading against the RJD chief from within the confines of custody. A few days ago, BJP’s Sushil Modi had also released an audio clip where Lalu was heard luring saffron party’s MLA Lalan Paswan. On Thursday, Paswan also filed an FIR against Lalu for allegedly trying to lure him into the opposition’s folds. After filing the FIR, Paswan had said, “I might be poor, but not for sale.” Reacting to the fiasco over Lalu’s audio clip, chief minister Hemant Soren said, “I have nothing to say on this issue.” While he dodged questions on Lalu, Hemant said he will take strict action against government officials if found involved in corruption.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jubilations-junked-as-lalu-fails-to-get-bail/articleshow/79454066.cms||Gaurav Pandey
November 28, 2020||Ranchi||Hearing on Lalu Prasad’s suspension of sentence plea deferred to December 11||RANCHI: The Jharkhand high court on Friday deferred a petition for suspension of sentence of RJD chief Lalu Prasad after he made an appeal to the court in this regard over his conviction in a fodder scam case related to fake withdrawals from the Dumka treasury. The court set December 11 as the next date of hearing. This comes a day after his hurried shifting from Kelly’s Bungalow, the official residence of the director of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences, to the hospital’s paying ward after Sushil Modi released an audio tape where Lalu was heard luring a Bihar MLA into the opposition’s folds. Meanwhile, the horse-trading charges were denied by Rashtriya Janata Dal both in Bihar and Jharkhand. The court of Justice Aparesh Kumar Singh posted the petition for a later date and sought details of Lalu’s custody, which will be produced by the next date of hearing by his counsel. While arguing before the court, Lalu’s counsel Prabhat Kumar told the bench that the politician has completed three-and-a-half-years of his seven-year sentence by a special CBI court, Ranchi, which was hearing a trial into the fodder scam case and thus he should be granted a suspension of sentence as per a verdict of the Supreme Court of India. However, since the details related to the total custody undergone by Lalu were not available, the case has to be posted for the next hearing date. Lalu has been convicted and accused of allowing fake withdrawals from the Dumka treasury of unified Bihar to the tune of Rs 3.13 crore. “Lalu, who was the then chief minister of unified Bihar and also the finance minister of the state must have been fully aware of the excess withdrawals made by the animal husbandry department and was a party to the whole conspiracy,” the CBI said. Lalu is also convicted in cases related to withdrawals from the Chaibasa and Deoghar treasuries. Another case of the Doranda treasury is at the stage of trial before the special CBI court in Ranchi. Lalu has been granted bail in the two cases of Chaibasa and Deoghar and securing a bail in the Dumka treasury case would enable him to come out of custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hearing-on-lalus-suspension-of-sentence-plea-deferred-to-dec-11/articleshow/79454144.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Kolkata||TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee case: Delhi court sets aside orders||KOLKATA: A New Delhi district and sessions court on Friday set aside two lower court orders that had taken cognisance of a petition challenging facts put by Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee in his Lok Sabha election affidavit in 2014 and issued summons to him. “Both the orders were set aside after hearing,” said Banerjee’s lawyer, Sanjay Basu. The complaint filed in October 2018 challenged that Banerjee had declared that he had completed his MBA from a Delhi-based institute. The Delhi High Court has restrained this institute from using the name of the degree in its courses and programmes. The petitioner claimed by mentioning so, Banerjee had violated poll rules. Banerjee, Basu said, moved court against a Delhi court summons in August 2019. The next day, the court stayed the earlier orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/abhishek-case-delhi-court-sets-aside-orders/articleshow/79455713.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Jamshedpur||Admin concerned over fall in sex ratio in E Singhbhum||JAMSHEDPUR: A recent internal report tabled before the East Singhbhum administration has noted an alarming fall in the district’s sex ratio. DC Suraj Kumar said that at present the male to female sex ratio in the district was 1000:922. As per the last census conducted in 2011, the ratio was 1000:949. The DC expressed concern over the apparent decline but said the actual figures would come only after the census survey. Kumar, however, instructed the administration to keep a close vigil on small nursing homes and diagnostic clinics where ultrasound facilities are available. There are many such clinics in the city and also in the rural pockets. Kumar said there were chances that many such shady clinics were conducting illegal prenatal sex determination tests and abortions, leading to a fall in the male to female sex ratio. DSO Dr Sahir Pal, too, on Friday expressed concern over the fall in the number of girls. Sources said the DC has asked the civil surgeon to make a list of the ultrasound clinics in the city and find out about the doctors working in those clinics. He also instructed the owners of the clinics to appear at the civil surgeon’s office as soon as possible. He reminded that earlier, too, such a circular was sent but hardly any owner turned up and 81 owners were show-caused. Sources said that teams were being formed to carry out surprise checks at the nursing homes and clinics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/admin-concerned-over-fall-in-sex-ratio-in-e-singhbhum/articleshow/79454138.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Kolkata||Home turf Nandigram stands sharply divided||Kolkata/Nandigram: Rebel Trinamool leader Suvendu Adhikari’s opting out of the Mamata Banerjee cabinet has created a flutter in the state like never before, with opposition leaders Dilip Ghosh and Adhir Chowdhury calling it a “watershed” in Bengal politics. An adept organizer and second great crowd-puller after the Trinamool chief, Suvendu turned out to be the ruling party’s face in quite a few districts such as East and West Midnapore, Bankura, Jhargram and Murshidabad. The rebel leader also made his presence felt in rural Hooghly and Howrah, and developed a network in Trinamool circles across the state as evident from the “Dadar Anugami” posters making an appearance from Shyambazar to Kurseong. Quite a few party MLAs, from Mihir Goswami to Niyamat Shiekh in Murshidabad, sympathized with Suvendu, who became the rallying point of the disgruntled in Trinamool. Suvendu inherited politics from his father and veteran Congress-turned-Trinamool leader Sisir Adhikari, who had been the Contai Municipality chairman for more than 25 years before becoming an MP. But Suvendu didn’t sit idle on his father’s fief. He extended his influence beyond East Midnapore, reach- ing out to people through cooperative banks — Contai Cooperative Bank and Vidyasagar Central Cooperative Bank — of which he is the elected chairman. The rebel Trinamool leader has been chairman of Contai Cooperative Bank since 2010, and that of Vidyasagar Cooperative Bank since 2014. These banks have branches spread over Jangalmahal, and even parts of Hooghly and Howrah. Suvendu has been nursing bank beneficiaries all the while creating an independent constituency for him beyond Trinamool. This personal vote bank makes him different from other MLAs and ministers. On his own turf East Midnapore, 7 of the total 16 MLAs are known Suvendu loyalists. They include Trinamool’s Khejuri MLA Ranjit Mandal, Nandakumar MLA Sukumar De, Uttar Kanthi MLA Banasree Maity, Moina MLA Sangram Doloi and MLAs from other parties such as CPM’s Haldia MLA Tapasi Mandal and Purba Panskura MLA Sheikh Ibrahim. They are all keeping a watch on future political developments. Suvendu’s resignation from the cabinet has sharpened polarization between his loyalists and baiters, led by Trinamool’s Ramnagar MLA Akhil Giri, former Haldia Municipality chairman Debaprasad Mandal and Sheikh Sufian in Nandigram. Even loyalist Abu Taher is in two minds. “Suvendu Adhikari’s decision is his own. People who fought for Nandigram will take a decision after holding talks. At the moment, there is no alternative to Mamata Banerjee in the state. We also badly need Suvendu Adhikari,” Abu Taher said, indicating that all the leaders in Nandigram might not blindly follow Suvendu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/home-turf-nandigram-stands-sharply-divided/articleshow/79455580.cms||Suman Mandal
November 28, 2020||Kolkata||Rahul Gandhi chairs meet for Bengal poll preparations||KOLKATA: Rahul Gandhi took stock of poll preparations in Bengal with senior state Congress leaders in Delhi on Friday in the presence of the party’s Lok Sabha leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury. Chowdhury proposed seat adjustments with the Left in Bengal in order to make a dent in Narendra Modi’s and Mamata Banerjee’s support base, particularly after the BJP won 18 seats in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, mostly from north Bengal. The BJP bagged seats in the erstwhile Congress bastions of Uttar Dinajpur and Malda while Trinamool made dents in Murshidabad. Chowdhury, however, retained Behrampore. At the meeting, the Congress high command took special note of the depleting vote share of the party, which came down to 6.29% in 2019 against BJP’s 40% and Trinamool’s 43%. Chowdhury, who is also Pradesh Congress president, proposed a tie-up with arch-rival CPM and other Left parties, which had recorded a 7.59% vote share. Even though seat adjustments were not smooth in preceding elections — 2016 assembly polls and 2019 Lok Sabha polls — Congress reaped benefits in terms of seats because it had a high concentration of voters in select constituencies of north Bengal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rahul-chairs-meet-for-bengal-poll-preparations/articleshow/79455658.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Kolkata||Rumour mills agog over Suvendu’s political future||Kolkata/Haldia: There was intense speculation all of Friday over Suvendu Adhikari’s next political destination after he resigned from the Cabinet and two state-run bodies, the Hooghly River Bridge Commissioners and Haldia Development Authority. Though Suvendu is still a Trinamool Congress MLA and an active member of the party, the flow of things point to his looking for different political shores. There are four options before Suvendu — stay back in TMC with increased power, float a new political platform, join the Congress as its Lok Sabha leader (Adhir Chowdhury has been wooing him) or take the plunge for BJP. Sources in HDA hinted that the rebel leader indicated to his loyalists at a closed-door meeting he would join the saffron camp. Suvendu has been weighing options all these days increasing his district outreach through party-less platforms, trying to carve out an identity away from his party portfolios. Some of Suvendu's friends in TMC became enemies while he gained new friends in the process. The rebel leader was busy making a balance sheet of the gains and losses. One reason for his dilemma could be that Suvendu is an MLA from Nandigram that has a heavy Muslim presence. His core supporters come from a Congress-Trinamool background, a section of which doesn’t like the leader joining BJP. The rebel leader is not very sure how Nandigram voters would react if he joined BJP despite his secular credentials. In that case, floating a new platform was an option for him. But Suvendu loyalists say he was not very confident of making much headway at a time Bengal’s politics has taken a bipolar shape centering round Narendra Modi and Mamata Banerjee. With an independent platform, Suvendu might have had to tie up with either BJP or Congress for survival. Chances of the latter also became remote after the Congress high command chose to go with Left in Bengal when the Adhikari family is known for its diehard anti-Left stance. Bengal BJP was not sitting idle. Its leaders reached out to East Midnapore like never before to win over “Amra Dadar Anugami” loyalists by targeting Mamata and her nephew Abhishek. Kailash Vijayvargiya and Dilip Ghosh held a number of rallies in the two Midnapores, putting indirect pressure on Suvendu to come out of his “ambivalence”. Trinamool, while continuing to talk to him, dropped former chairman of Midnapore Municipality and Suvendu loyalist Pranab Basu from the board of administrators, sending out clear signals on what was in store. Mamata took Trinamool senior and MP Kalyan Bandyopadhyay to the Bankura administrative meeting and also made him the HRBC chairman days after the latter hit out at the “Adhikari dynasty’s rule” in East Midnapore, narrowing down Suvendu’s chances to keep the guessing game going on for some more time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rumour-mills-agog-over-suvendus-political-future/articleshow/79455507.cms||Saugata Roy
November 28, 2020||Ranchi||FJCCI asks Jharkhand govt to create database of sick industries on verge of shutting down||RANCHI: The Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI) has suggested the government to create a database of sick industrial units in the state which are on the brink of closure owing to the economic slump caused by the Covid-induced lockdown. “If it is willing, FJCCI can help prepare a database of such industrial units which can be revived. This, in turn, will directly help in the state’s revenue collection,” FJCCI president Kunal Ajmani said. FJCCI claimed that close to 10,000 units have either closed down or are on the brink of closure and are in urgent need of financial assistance from the government to stay afloat. “The government must enquire why these units are on the brink of closure,” Ajmani said. He added that the revival of the existing industrial units will help jump start the state’s economy. “Although discussions are going on to bring new investment here, it will not help unless the existing industries in Jharkhand are revived,” he said. Expressing concern over recent reports claiming that the state’s treasury is almost empty, FJCCI secretary Dheeraj Taneja said, “The reports on Jharkhand’s treasury are having an adverse effect on the state’s investment environment. For development, a committee must be formed with representatives from FJCCI.” Meanwhile, Ajmani claimed that entrepreneurs are being heckled upon the instructions of chief factory inspector. “As per provisions, factory inspectors are supposed to send random notices before their inspection. But at the behest of chief factory inspector, entrepreneurs are being heckled in the name of inspection. How will entrepreneurs go about their business under such circumstances,” he said. He also claimed that new factory licenses are not being issued and the renewal process of existing ones have stopped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/fjcci-asks-govt-to-create-database-of-sick-industries-on-verge-of-shutting-down/articleshow/79454111.cms||Dhritiman Ray
November 28, 2020||Kolkata||North Bengal MLA Mihir Goswami defects to BJP||COOCH BEHAR: Cooch Behar Dakshin MLA Mihir Goswami defected to BJP on Friday, saying he had resigned from all Trinamool Congress organisational posts on October 3. Goswami, 66, said he chose to switch sides over north Bengal’s neglect and after he “saw” his former party embracing “contractor raj and corruption”. He held several key party positions — and administrative posts — including helming Jaigaon Development Authority and North Bengal State Transport Corporation. TOI had reported that the MLA was on the way out of Trinamool. Goswami had indicated this on Thursday evening in his Facebook post when he wrote: “I gave up my party posts on October 3. I am ready to resign from MLA (post) if the Trinamool chief wants me to do so. I feel that I am a burden to the party and am willing to sever ties with Trinamool. During my stay I have been let down in the organization from time to time with tacit indulgence from the state leadership. The situation didn’t change for the better even after informing the party chief.” TMC had made a last-ditch attempt to placate the rebel by sending senior minister Rabindranath Ghosh to talk with him. This didn’t yield results. Goswami, who reached the BJP headquarters in New Delhi on Friday morning with party MPs Nishith Pramanik and Arjun Singh, was handed the party flag by BJP’s national general secretary and Bengal observer Kailash Vijayvargiya. The senior BJP leader said Goswami — who was with Congress earlier and had been a respected Trinamool leader who was elected to the Bengal assembly in 2016 — will add strength to the party. Goswami said: “At this stage of my career, I want to work for people with the vision of PM Narendra Modi.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/north-bengal-mla-mihir-defects-to-bjp/articleshow/79455532.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Ranchi||Displaces apprentices protest outside BSL headquarters, demand jobs||BOKARO: At least 100 displaced agitators demonstrated in front the headquarters of Bokaro Steel Limited (BSL) on Friday. They also entered into a scuffle with the security personnel when the latter resisted their entry into the building, following which, the protesters sat on a dharna on the road, disrupting traffic in front of the Ispat Bhawan gate for several hours. The protesters under the banner of Displaced Apprentice Association shouted anti-BSL slogans and demanded employment. A member of the union, Arvind Kumar said that they had pursued apprentice training at BSL, a unit of Steel Authority of India Limited. The move had come after the BSL management had said that displaced people cannot be directly employed and jobs can be given only after becoming an apprentice. Kumar said, “It has been a long time since we have completed our apprenticeships, but they have not provided us with jobs. We were left with no choice than to protest amid the pandemic in order to get their attention. We will intensify our agitation if our demands are not fulfilled.” Chief of communication, BSL, Manikant Dhan said they are looking into the matter. Although the area within 100 metre in front BSL’s headquarters is a prohibited ground, it has turned into an agitation ground of late. In the last one month, at least half a dozen small and big demonstrations took place in the spot, creating hurdles for commuters and employees. Friday’s agitation was the fourth in the current week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/displaces-apprentices-protest-outside-bsl-headquarters-demand-jobs/articleshow/79454125.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Rajkot||Five coronavirus patients dead in Rajkot hospital fire||RAJKOT: Five coronavirus patients, all of them male senior citizens, died in a massive fire that broke out in the intensive care unit (ICU) of a Covid-designated hospital on Mavdi Road after Thursday midnight. A short-circuit in one of the ventilators is suspected to have triggered the fire, which spread so fast that it was too late for Mavdi fire brigade, which is barely 300m from the hospital, to save their lives. The incident happened at around 12.40am at the 54-bed Uday Shivanand Hospital, which was designated for Covid treatment about two months ago. There were four staff in the ward including a doctor, but they could not use the fire extinguishers despite being trained, due to the rapid spread. In all, there were 33 patients in the four-storey hospital and 28 of them were shifted to facilities on Kuvadva Road and Vidhyanagar Main Road. The condition of all patients is said to be stable. There were 11 patients in the ICU ward located on the first floor. Three of them died on the spot due to severe burns while two others, who suffered minor injuries, succumbed to breathing problems when they were being shifted to another hospital. The facility runs in a building owned by Shivanand Mission Trust and is operated by Gokul Life Care Pvt Ltd, popularly known as Gokul Hospitals. The hospital runs in a residential society. The Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) has designated 24 private hospitals for Covid treatment. Municipal commissioner Udit Agrawal said, “There was some spark, but we are yet to ascertain whether it was in a ventilator or some machinery.” The dead were identified as Nitin Badani (61)from Morbi, Ramsinh Loh (62) a retired assistant sub-inspector from Jasdan, Rasik Agrawat (68) from Gondal, Keshubhai Akbari(50), a resident of Shakti Society in Rajkot and Sanjay Rathod (57), who lived in Prahlad Plot area of Rajkot city. Expressing grief over the incident, chief minister Vijay Rupani announced a compensation of Rs four lakh to the kin of each deceased and ordered a probe that will be headed by additional chief secretary, AK Rakesh.  The hospital had the mandatory fire NOC and all the firefighting equipment was installed, deputy chief minister Nitin Patel claimed. Police have registered a case of accidental death. Rajkot police commissioner Manoj Agrawal said, “This is a very serious incident and whoever found responsible will not be spared.” Dr. Tejas Karamta, director of Gokul Hospital said, “It’s an extremely unfortunate incident. I reached there immediately on getting the news and myself tried to rescue the patients. Three staffers also suffered minor injuries while shifting the patients.” Chief fire officer BJ Theba said, “The fire was controlled in about half-an-hour. Ambulances of the hospital, fire department and 108 emergency services were deputed to shift the patients.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/five-coronavirus-patients-dead-in-rajkot-hospital-fire/articleshow/79453925.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
November 28, 2020||Pune||898 fresh cases push PMR count above 3.4 lakh, 9 dead||PUNE: The Covid-19 caseload surged above 3.4 lakh in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Friday, with the addition of 898 new infections. Among the new cases, the Pune municipal limits recorded reported 406, followed by the rural areas (257) and the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal areas (235). As many as 674 patients recovered in the region on Friday, taking its total discharged above 3.21 lakh. Both the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal areas as well as the rural areas recorded fewer recoveries than new cases even on Friday. Higher cases and lower recoveries pushed the active patient count in the region to 11,170. Of these, as many as 6,799 patients were in home isolation and 4,371 admitted in various hospitals. The region has recorded a steady rise in active cases since last week when the tally of active patients was below 10,000-mark. The report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that as many as nine patients succumbed to Covid-19 in PMR on Friday. While the PMC areas recorded two deaths, the PCMC limits and rural parts reported four and three deaths, respectively. The region has so far reported 8,362 deaths, of which 4,615 deaths have been reported in the PMC limits. The region tested 10,571 samples on Friday, which pushed the total tests beyond 16 lakh to 16.06 lakh. The PMC has done over 8.08 lakh tests so far, which is highest in the region, followed by the tests in the PCMC limits (4.63 lakh) and the rural areas (3.33 lakh). After the rise in Covid-19 cases in the rural parts, Pune zilla parishad’s chief executive officer Ayush Prasad on Friday reviewed the situation in Maval and Khed tehsils. “As of now, these tehsils have adequate health infrastructure and we want the situation to stay under control with apt public support in adhering to the safety norms and reporting symptoms at early stage,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/898-fresh-cases-push-pmr-count-above-3-4-lakh-9-dead/articleshow/79456888.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: 26 private hospitals fleeced govt patients, says BBMP||BENGALURU: More than two dozen (26) hospitals in BBMP south zone have been accused of overcharging patients referred by public authorities. The hospitals in areas like Banashankari, Hosakerehalli, Girinagar and Vinayakanagar, were found to have collected nearly Rs 1.4 crore from patients who availed government quota beds and the civic agency has now asked these facilities to refund Rs 96.4 lakh. Officials said patients who were fleeced are complaining to the civic body. In late June, the state government had ordered private hospitals to earmark 50% of their beds for patients referred by public authorities. The government had undertaken to foot the bill for these patients in accordance with tariffs agreed on: Rs 5,200 per patient per day for general ward, Rs 7,000 for high dependence unit, Rs 8,500 for ICU without ventilator and Rs 10,000 for ICU with ventilator. “But many private hospitals are generating bills according to their whims and fancies,” BBMP officials said. “Besides raising the bill with the government according to the prescribed tariff, they are also collecting money from patients citing reasons like extra treatment expenditure and comorbidities.” Rajendra Cholan, special commissioner, health and IT, BBMP, said every individual case is being vetted and calculated. “Many patients who are being treated under government category are being charged unnecessarily,” Cholan said. “We are questioning only these cases and not those who visit on their own. Many people who were treated in general ward were charged Rs 1.5 lakh to Rs 2.5 lakh, citing various heads. This defies all explanations.” However, private hospitals say government agencies are crunching the wrong figures. “Government agencies are harassing us,” a hospital official said. “We regret having converted our hospitals into Covid facilities. Health officials do not know their math. We are expected to treat patients in ICU who have comorbidities. How can everything be accommodated in such a small amount?” The owner of another private hospital said, “If officials are actually cracking down on us, then they need to hear our side of the story as well. Just issuing notices won’t help.” However, Dr Prasanna HM, president, Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA), said: “We issued an advisory to our members and specified the charges. If hospitals have violated it, we cannot stand by them. We support whoever is right.” Munish Moudgil, coordinator for BBMP south zone, said: “Hospitals are trying to hide their mistakes.” BOX: ‘THEY REFUSED TO DISCHARGE ME’Renuka (name changed), who was referred by BBMP to a private hospital in Girinagar, said she had to cough up Rs 1.4 lakh. “I was diagnosed with Covid-19 on November 2 and was admitted to the general ward. I had no comorbid conditions. When I was discharged six days later, I was made to pay Rs 1.4 lakh,” she said. When Renuka asked staff why she was being charged although she was a patient referred by the government, she was told she was given multi-vitamin injections for which she had to pay. Another patient, Rathna Gowda, who was treated at a private hospital near Hosakerehalli said that she was charged Rs 2.5 lakh. “I had diabetes and was in the ICU for four days before I was shifted to the general ward. When we questioned authorities about the bill, they threatened my son saying I would be discharged only if we clear the bill,” Rathna said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-26-private-hospitals-fleeced-govt-patients-says-bbmp/articleshow/79456879.cms||Nithya Mandyam
November 28, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Shutters of Poondi reservoir opened after five years||CHENNAI: Inflow touched 10,254 cusecs (cubic feet per second) at Poondi on Friday, and PWD authorities released water at 1,000 cusecs from the reservoir after five years. PWD chief engineer S Asokan told TOI that heavy rainfall was reported in the catchment areas of the reservoir which led to the increased inflow. Added to this, rainfall in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh is filling rivers such as Nagari and Nandhi and water from these rivers are flowing into the catchment areas of the Poondi reservoir, contributing to the increasing water levels in the reservoir, he said. Another official said the depth of the Poondi reservoir is 34ft. "The reservoir got filled till 32.9ft. When the levels touch 33ft, excess water is released. The levels touched 33ft in the evening," he said. Initially, about 1,000 cusecs of water will be released and depending upon the inflow the release of water will be increased. Later on Friday evening, with the inflow steady at 10,000 cusecs, the authorities maintained discharge levels at 1,100 cusecs. The maximum level of discharge will be at 3,000 cusecs, the official said. The Tiruvallur district administration and police authorities have been alerted about the release of water from Poondi. People living in the low-lying areas have been asked to move to safer places, said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-shutters-of-poondi-reservoir-opened-after-five-years/articleshow/79456892.cms||P Oppili
November 28, 2020||Chennai||Cyclone Nivar in Chennai: Storm gone, stagnation remains||Two days after cyclone Nivar made landfall near the city, several streets struggle with stagnation even as the main roads and many neighbourhoods are back to normal. In many places, residents are wading through 1ft-2ft of water. More than 50 houses at CRR Puram in Virugambakkam are marooned as water is yet to drain off the streets. Many residents have been using buckets to drain water onto the streets and say this is the situation every year. Until noon on Friday, the corporation had not pumped out water, said V Mahesh. “The drain water is seeping inside our houses and we are getting skin infections. Despite being near the main bus terminus in the city, we have been facing this situation.” Read Also15 mechanised boats sink at Chennai's Kasimedu during NivarNearly 15 mechanised boats tied to finger jetties at the Kasimedu fishing harbour have sunk following heavy rain triggered by Cyclone Nivar. The boats were anchored between two trawlers.The neighbourhood is a low-lying area and water from nearby Ilango Nagar is drained here, say residents, pointing to the callous response from the civic authorities. In Kilpauk, V Narsimhan is forced to walk through knee-deep water every time he has to step out. “It has been two days since the civic agency or the highways department cleared stagnated water. We approached all departments. Poonamallee High Road is in the heart of the city and major hospitals are located here. Sewage is getting mixed with rainwater and can become a major health hazard,” he said. Read AlsoRs 12 lakh CM, PM relief for kin of 4 Tamil Nadu Nivar victimsAnnouncing compensation and relief package for bereaved families and for loss of livestock and damage to dwellings in the wake of Cyclone Nivar, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on FridayResidents of neighbourhoods in many other areas including Velachery, Choolaimedu, Adyar, Vadapalani, KK Nagar, Choolai and Arumbakkam were also struggling on Friday. Read AlsoCyclone Nivar in Tamil Nadu: Police inspect rain-hit outskirts, distribute reliefPolice commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal on Friday visited Mudichur and nearby areas in Tambaram and distributed relief material to those affected in the rain brought by cyclone Nivar. He visited a relief centre where residents of Selaiyur, Laskshmi Nagar, Astalaakshmi Nagar were put up.Senthil Kumar from Choolai said that apart from water stagnation residents of the area were also without power. “There is no action from any department,” he said. Greater Chennai Corporation officials, however, continued to maintain that only 58 locations had water stagnation issues. “Of them, we have cleared 54 so far,” said deputy commissioner (works) Meghanath Reddy. He added that each area had a specific problem. “Once we clear all the complaints, we will do a detailed analysis on the reasons for water stagnation in these neighbourhoods and resolve them permanently,” he said. Roads at Dharan Singh Colony in Vadapalani and Jai Nagar in Arumbakkam had up to one feet of water, leading to traffic snarls. “While all main roads are inundation free, these interior roads are in very bad shape,” said Senthil Kumar, a resident of Choolai. Residents of areas on the outskirts too faced the same problem. In places like Iyyapanthangal, Zamin Pallavaram and neighbourhoods in the western suburbs, water had not drained off. At Kaatupakkam in Tiruvallur district, volunteers had to wade through knee-deep water to supply food and groceries to residents. “In Mudichur too, residents preferred staying indoors and wanted us to provide them with rations and other supplies,” said an official with Tambaram municipality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cyclone-nivar-storm-gone-stagnation-remains/articleshow/79456890.cms||Srikkanth D
November 28, 2020||Gurgaon||MCG to change payment rules for consultants||GURUGRAM: The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has decided to change the rules of payment for consultancy charges for the preparation of estimates and detailed project report (DPR). According to officials, 50% of the consultancy charges will be given after administrative approval and rest after submission of drawings. “It has been decided that 50% payment for consultancy charges for the preparation of estimate or DPR will be released to the consultant only after the administrative approval to the estimate or DPR and rest amount will be released on the submission of all drawings and DNIT and other necessary documents,” read an order issued by MCG chief engineer Raman Sharma. The official added that there are instances when the project estimates or DPRs prepared by the consultants are not approved. “In that case, if we have already made the entire payment to the consultants, it would be a loss for us. So, we have decided to make the payment in parts,” he added. The issue was recently raised in a meeting held with the MCG officials and councillors. According to sources, the estimate of a community centre in Kanhai village was made by the consultant and it was estimated to Rs 4 crore, which was also approved by the state government. However, the consultant was asked to revise the estimates to include the provision of a library in that community centre. The consultant revised the estimate to Rs 12 crore from the previous estimate of Rs 4 crore for just one library. “I had raised the issue in a meeting held recently. Consultants have also been making inflated estimates to mint more money as consultancy charges for a project,” said councillor RS Rathee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/mcg-to-change-payment-rules-for-consultants/articleshow/79456038.cms||Vishakha Chaman
November 28, 2020||Chennai||15 mechanised boats sink at Chennai's Kasimedu during Nivar||CHENNAI: Nearly 15 mechanised boats tied to finger jetties at the Kasimedu fishing harbour have sunk following heavy rain triggered by Cyclone Nivar. The boats were anchored between two trawlers. One of the boat owners, A Raghupathi, said the boats were made of wood and were around 45 feet long. "They were about 15 years old. A new boat of this size will cost at least Rs 60 lakh now. Those that sank in the harbour had cost around Rs 15 lakh each," he said. "These boats go up to 30 nautical miles (55km) in the sea. In a year, the owners go to the sea for four months." K Bharathi, president of South Indian Fishermen Welfare Association, said many other boats tied to the finger jetties were damaged after ramming against one another. A few deep sea trawlers were also damaged, he said. Bharathi said nets and engines in the boats were also damaged. "The fisheries department should begin the work of assessing the damage immediately and provide compensation to the fishermen whose boats sank," he said. A senior official from the fisheries department said soon after the rainfall subsided, officials inspected the damaged and sunken boats at the harbour. A committee has been formed by the department to assess the damage and the number of sunken boats. Depending upon the damage and value of the sunken boats, compensation will be provided to the boat owners, the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/15-mechanised-boats-sink-at-chennais-kasimedu-during-nivar/articleshow/79456918.cms||P Oppili
November 28, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Niti Aayog is all praise for Kerala’s Covid management||THIRIVANANTHAPURAM: Kerala's efforts in fighting the pandemic has found special mention in a Niti Aayog report on Covid-19 mitigation and management. It has lauded the state especially for the route maps prepared for contact tracing, bringing in a behavioural change with the ‘Break the chain’ campaign and the police video on sanitising hands. The Mitigation and Management of Covid-19 – practices from India’s states and Union territories, published by Niti Aayog, has also mentioned innovations carried out by districts. It highlights how Wayanad proactively trained doctors, nurses and other frontline workers in Covid management using virtual platforms in the early phase of the pandemic. “This enabled the district to boost its health system preparedness,” it says. Report lauds strategies to reach out to peopleOn the methodology adopted for contact tracing in the state, the report says, “field teams, consisting of ASHA workers, junior public health nurses, medical officers and block-level officials are in place for finding primary and secondary contacts. These teams are responsible for assessing CCTV footage on the basis of approximate time frames as well as checking the records of various places an individual might have visited, including hotels, hospitals and homes of people.” The route maps are prepared on the basis of details collected from patients as well as their primary contacts. Such graphic representations have proved to be effective as they help with the identification of primary or secondary contacts who might have been missed by the field teams. Once the information about location and timing is shared, several people also come forward on their own to get their health status evaluated, it says. The report has also lauded the communication strategies adopted by the state to reach out to a large number of people in migrant dominated areas. The technique of transmedia storytelling involving content that engages large numbers of people by permeating their daily lives has won special mention in the report. “A video was produced by Kerala Police’s media centre showing a group of policemen dancing to a popular song while demonstrating the correct handwashing technique,” it says. The facilities to assess the needs of individuals in home quarantine and to ascertain whether or not they are adhering to the requisite guidelines are the other initiatives highlighted in the report. The management of isolation wards, providing real-time information to citizens, telemedicine facilities and delivery of essentials are some of the other strategies lauded in the report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/niti-aayog-is-all-praise-for-keralas-covid-management/articleshow/79456911.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Chennai||Cyclone Nivar in Tamil Nadu: Police inspect rain-hit outskirts, distribute relief||CHENNAI: Police commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal on Friday visited Mudichur and nearby areas in Tambaram and distributed relief material to those affected in the rain brought by cyclone Nivar. He visited a relief centre where residents of Selaiyur, Laskshmi Nagar, Astalaakshmi Nagar were put up. The previous evening, he inspected areas in Mudichur and held talks with officials of other departments to speed up relief work. He urged them to ensure clogged drains were cleared and roads made motorable. The commissioner urged officials involved in relief work to expedite action to pump out stagnant water from roads and ensure that people left on roads are accommodated in relief centres. Earlier, he had formed 12 teams of the State Disaster Response Force under sub-inspectors of police and armed reserve police. The inspectors were advised to coordinate with officials of Greater Chennai Corporation, revenue department, Metrowater and Tangedco for relief work. In an emergency, members of the public can contact them on 9498181239. Police have thanked volunteers who helped remove uprooted trees and shift people from low-lying areas to corporation shelters and marriage halls. At least 350 volunteers from north Chennai were honoured by joint commissioner V Balakrishnan, while 275 people in the west zone, 325 in the east zone, and 375 in the south zone were honoured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cyclone-nivar-police-inspect-rain-hit-outskirts-distribute-relief/articleshow/79456913.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: Throats slit of 4 sisters aged 8 months to 7 years; mom a suspect||GURUGRAM: Four sisters, the youngest an eight-month-old toddler and the eldest just seven, were found murdered on Friday morning in their house in Nuh’s Piproli village. They were killed in the same manner – their throats had been slit and they bled to death. Their mother, the prime suspect, is currently in hospital after she slashed her throat with the same kitchen knife that she allegedly used for killing them, police said. The gory crime took place in a single-room house in a crowded neighbourhood. Most of the 600 families that stay in the village share a wall with each other, yet the cries of the children strangely went unheard, pointed out a police officer. The accused, Farmina (35), lived with her husband Khurshid Ahmed, a mechanic, whom she married in 2012 after separating from her first husband, with whom she had a daughter. Khurshid and Farmina had four daughters – Muskan (7), Miskina (5), Alsifa (3) and an eight-month-old, who was yet to be named. The couple, according to neighbours and family members, never had any arguments and seemed to be leading a ‘happy and normal’ married life. On Friday, several villagers had gathered to mourn the death of three members of a family, including a pregnant woman, in a road accident a day earlier. “Some of us had gone to the house of the deceased while my wife and children were at home. Around 3am, I returned to the house but found that it was locked from the inside. Despite repeated knocks, no one opened. I looked through the ventilation window and saw my wife trying to slit her throat,” said Khurshid. After Khurshid raised the alarm, his neighbours and his brother’s family, which lives on the adjacent plot, rushed to the spot. Khurshid’s nephew Sabir Khan, a truck driver, broke open the gate. “Farmina was slitting her throat while the children were lying in a pool of blood on two cots. I was too shocked to react initially, but then snatched the knife from her and threw it out. I then called a relative and we took her to the hospital,” said Khan. While the four girls were declared brought dead, Farmina is critical and currently undergoing treatment at Nuh’s Sahid Hassan Khan Medical College. Santosh Kumar, SHO, Punhana police station, said the murder weapon was found outside the house. “We have recorded the statements of their neighbours and families. The matter is being investigated,” he said. SP (Nuh) Narender Birjania said, “It is not yet clear what led to the killing of the children. We are waiting for the woman to record her statement. She is unfit to do so right now.” Sabir Khan said from the time the couple got married, “Farmina used to be a little disturbed, but we ignored it as she was otherwise fine”. On the basis of Khurshid’s complaint, a case has been registered against Farmina at the Punhana police station under IPC Section 302 (murder).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/four-sisters-found-murdered-youngest-a-toddler-eldest-7/articleshow/79456057.cms||Bagish Jha
November 28, 2020||Business||Birla-Lodha cross petitions at HC||Kolkata: Late Priyamvada Devi Birla’s ‘Will probate’ issue took a new turn on Friday when Aravind Newar of Birla group filed five contempt petitions against Harsh Vardhan Lodha and others namely S K Kothari, R C Tapuria and Vikram Swarup before the division bench of Chief Justice T B N Radhakrishnan of the Calcutta high court alleging violation of a single bench of the high court. The Calcutta HC single bench of Justice Shahidullah Munshi on September 18, 2020, had passed an order restraining Lodha from acting as the chairman of Birla Corporation. On Friday, the bench of the chief justice directed Newar to serve the copy of contempt petitions to all the opposite parties with direction that if the opposite parties think, they can file their respective submission in the form of an affidavit. In another development, the Birla group has filed eight appeals against Birla Corporation, Harsh Vardhan Lodha, Aditya Vikram Lodha, Meenakshi Periwal, Universal Cables, Birla Cables and Vindya Telelinks. The Bench will hear all those appeals on January 6 and 7, 2021. “We have always maintained that Justice Munshi’s verdict violates several provisions of law and that the two administrators of the Priyamvada Devi Birla Estate had completely ignored the modifications made by the Hon’ble division bench,” said Debanjan Mandal, partner, Fox & Mandal, representing Lodhas. “We remain confident that our client will get adequate redress.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/birla-lodha-cross-petitions-at-hc/articleshow/79454411.cms||Subrata Chattoraj
November 28, 2020||Delhi||Night curfew in Delhi: Positivity rate to decide future course, says health minister Satyendar Jain||NEW DELHI: Health minister Satyendar Jain on Friday said Delhi government would take a decision on night curfew keeping in mind the trend of positivity rate of Covid-19 cases, which is declining. Delhi has been recording less than 7,000 fresh cases for a week and on Friday, 5,482 new cases were reported from 64,455 tests, including 28,100 RT-PCR ones, in the past 24 hours, with a positivity rate of 8.5%. On Friday morning, Jain said the positivity rate on the previous two days had been below 9% despite a high number of tests being carried out. On Thursday, Delhi government had told the high court it would soon take a call on imposing night curfew, which had been permitted in the latest central guidelines on November 25. The Centre told the court that these guidelines allowed states and Union territories to impose local restrictions, including night curfews, based on their assessment of the Covid situation on the ground, especially in containment zones. "We are monitoring all aspects and whatever actions have to be taken will be based on that. We are also monitoring the trend of positivity rate, which is difficult to analyse in one day but for two days, it has been less than 9%," Jain said on Friday. The government is monitoring if the positivity rate keeps declining, stagnates or reverses, he added. The minister said that compared with the high of 15.2% on November 7, the positivity rate had been consistently declining. "Not only the overall positivity rate but even the positivity rate of RT-PCR tests has gone down from 30% on November 7 to 15.8% now. The positivity rate of rapid antigen tests, too, have come down from 8.3% on November 7 to 2.6% now, which is one-third," he said. Jain said that Covid testing in Delhi was four times compared with that carried out in other parts of the country. He said RT-PCR tests had already reached a saturation point and people had to wait for more than a day for results due to the high number of tests. "We carried out a door-to-door survey of 57 lakh people, out of which around 13,000 suspects had come but only 1,100-1,200 tested positive. So it seems the positivity rate is going down in Delhi," he said. "In the past seven days, less than 7,000 cases have come every day, which, too, is a positive indicator," Jain said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/night-curfew-in-delhi-positivity-rate-to-decide-future-course-says-health-minister-satyendar-jain/articleshow/79456961.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Rajkot||Palanpur: Banas Dairy registers new procurement record||PALANPUR: The Banaskantha District Cooperative Milk Producers’ Union Ltd (BDCMPUL) popularly known as Banas Dairy registered highest single day procurement on Friday. Asia’s largest milk co-operative procured 73.93 lakh litres per day (LLPD) milk – up against last year’s single day peak which was 73.71 LLPD. “This became possible because of the hard work of our women dairy farmers,” said dairy’s chairman Shankar Chaudhary. Chaudhary said that Sanadar in Deodar taluka has turned into highest milk supplier to Banas Dairy as the centre has collected 30 LLPD. “Sanadar has benefited due to its strategic location on Rajasthan border. We are planning to add Sanadar centre as a dairy unit,” he said, adding that work on setting up a dairy plant worth Rs 400 crore will be completed within a year and a half. Terming dairy industry as lifeline of 4.50 lakh milk producers, who are registered members of the milk union, Chaudhary assured that the dairy will never observe a milk holiday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/banas-dairy-registers-new-procurement-record/articleshow/79454079.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Surat||First victims of 26/11 attack are last to be compensated||SURAT: Their wait for 12 years finally resulted in receiving payment of Rs 5 lakh compensation, but conditions apply for the kin of three Kuber fishermen who were killed by Pakistan terrorist in 2008 Mumbai attack. The amount they received on Friday has been paid in the form of a fixed deposits (FD) that cannot be withdrawn for a period of three years! TOI has been raising the plight of these families since the terror attack. Unhappy family members rue that the amount that they had been struggling to get for so many years will come in hand only after 15 years of death of their kin. The families, however, are allowed to withdraw the interest of the FDs. While all of them barely live on hand-to-mouth existence, two families are hanging by the thread, literally. Since the death of these families’ only breadwinners 12 years ago, the kin are having to move heaven and earth to eke a living. “I am not sure if I will be alive to see the money after three years. They should have given some amount that could have been used by the family immediately,” lamented Lakshmiben Rathod, grandmother of deceased Mukesh, one of the three fishermen who were killed by the terrorists, while talking to TOI. Aged 90, Lakshmiben lives in a dilapidated hut with her family and suffered untold injuries while representing their plight to government offices for compensation money in Ahmedabad and Navsari. Similarly, Dharmishtha Rathod, wife of Natwar alias Natu Nanu, is unhappy with the limit of three-year lock-in period. “Had I received some portion now, my children espcially my son could have continued with his studies,” said the mother who wanted her 18-year-old son to study further. An upset Damyanti Tandel, wife of Balvant, said, “It is already 12 years now since my husband died. By locking in the money for three years in fixed deposit, the government has extended our misery to continue for three more years.” The families have been supported in raising the matter through the High Court by lawyer Anand Yagnik for free. Earlier Jashiben Bambhania, wife of another deceased fishermen Ramesh from Junagadh, had approached the high court in 2016 through Yagnik. In an interim order the court instructed the government to pay Rs 5 lakh compensation. During the course of proceedings Yagnik also raised the delay in payment of compensation to the three Navsari families as well. Natwar, Mukesh of Vansi and Balwant of Machhiwad villages in Navsari were the first victims of Pakistan terrorists in the November 2008 Mumbai attack aboard the hijacked fishing trawler Kuber along with its captain Amarsinh Solanki, a resident of Valsad and another fisherman, Ramesh Bambhania. The trawler was hijacked by 10 Pakistan terrorists off Jakhau coast near Gujarat to reach Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/first-victims-of-26/11-attack-are-last-to-be-compensated/articleshow/79453282.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
November 28, 2020||Rajkot||‘Fear of getting trapped paralyzed me’||RAJKOT: It was a close shave for 65-year-old Nayna Visrolia but the traumatized sexagenarian could barely recount the horrific details of the past midnight to TOI. Visrolia, a resident of nearby Ambaji plot, who had successfully battled Covid-19 and was supposed to be discharged on Thursday was kept a day more after she complained of headache. Therefore, she stayed under doctors’ observation in the facility’s second floor while fire broke out on the first floor of the Uday Shivanand hospital at Mavdi road. “I was admitted in this hospital 10 days ago after I tested positive with the virus. Like in the past nine days I talked to my son, daughter and son-in-law over phone after dinner and then went to sleep. At around midnight I heard severe screaming. I, at first, couldn’t understand why there was so much confusion and smoke everywhere outside my window. I tried to see, but without my spectacles, I couldn’t see anything clearly. Then suddenly, some nursing staff started screaming fire, fire! Someone also asked me to vacate the bed. But I was unable to do it immediately as I could not see nor locate my glasses. Also the fear kind of paralyzed me — I was very scared that I will not be able to get up from my bed or walk out to safety. I thought I will die. However, somehow I managed to drag myself towards the entrance to go outside,” she said. While recounting her tale Visrolia’s eyes mirrored the fright she experienced and her voice shook with exhaustion. After pausing for a minute, she showed her blackened palms and soot-stained clothes and continued, “I didn’t understand what happened in that fraction of seconds. When I reached the entrance, someone, ,may be some staff or fire brigade personnel, helped me go down the stairs. I will never ever forget the scene downstairs where some charred bodies were lying on the first floor. It was like travelling through hell...” However, Visroliya could inform her son who had already rushed to the hospital. “I was asked to sit in an ambulance but I saw my son standing there. I told him to take me home and not to any more hospitals. But they assured me that I will be taken to a safe place and I sat in the ambulance,” said the elderly woman staring uncertainly at the unseen future. Others rushed to the terrace Rahul Karingiya (35), a resident of Keshod town in Junagadh district, was admitted to this hospital’s second floor just two days before. “As fire broke out we were asked to go to safer place and we climbed to the terrace to save ourselves from the suffocation and smoke. There were nearly 10 to 12 patients with me on the terrace. We were later rescued by fire department officials,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/fear-of-getting-trapped-paralyzed-me/articleshow/79454038.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Vadodara||14th edition of Prerna to be held online||VADODARA: Prerna — touted to be Asia’s largest festival for the disable — will be held online this year due to prevailing Covid-19 situation. The event organised by engineers of M S University’s Faculty of Technology and Engineering (FTE) every year has received patronage from UNESCO for the fourth consecutive year. This year, for the 14th edition, FTE students have invited four time gold medalist at Indian open para swimming championship Mohammad Shams Aalam Shaikh and social entrepreneur Prateek Khandelwal as guest speakers on Saturday. “Along with the main event, Alfaaz – an inspirational talk show - will be conducted online,” said Keshav Dadhich, media coordinator for Prerna’20. “Disability cannot conquer you if you carry hope in your mind. With determination, you can make the impossible possible. Nothing can deter you from following your dreams,” said Shaikh, who also holds the record for the longest open sea swim by a paraplegic person. Shaikh, who has over 40 gold medals, was a black belt holder in karate. But in 2010 he was diagnosed with a tumour in his spine and his carefree life took a U-turn. As he underwent various surgeries in 2010, he became paralysed from below the waist. He took the challenge of swimming, his childhood passion, after his paralysis and the rest is history. “Society must understand that accessibility is not a special privilege but a basic human need,” said Khandelwal, who is on the mission of making an inclusive and accessible India for physically challenged people under his start-ups - RampMyCity and I Break The Barrier. “We will be organising an online event in which various activities like best out of waste, drawing, etc will be conducted. As our moto is to provide a platform to the differently abled people to showcase their talent,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/14th-edition-of-prerna-to-be-held-online/articleshow/79453439.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Bengaluru||BS Yediyurappa urges MPs to pursue Karnataka’s causes||BENGALURU: Chief minister BS Yediyurappa had called a meeting of MPs from Karnataka on Friday, but many couldn’t attend it because the invite was reportedly a bit last minute. There are 29 BJP members from the state in Parliament. Fifteen BJP MPs, including some Rajya Sabha members, were present at the gathering, where Yediyurappa urged them to help Karnataka get more sops and funds in the Union Budget 2021-22. He said that there was a need to create synergy between MPs and the state government, so Karnataka could get more assistance and projects. “Yediyurappa urged the MPs to lobby for Karnataka with greater emphasis on the projects that need clearances from the Centre. He told them that it was impractical for the chief minister or other cabinet members to visit Delhi with requests each time,” said an official in the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO). Some MPs who attended the meeting said that it was normal for the chief minister to discuss issues with Lok Sabha members before the Parliament session. Such sessions are held every quarter or once in six months. Some BJP functionaries claimed that by calling MPs on Friday, Yediyurappa had planned to put pressure on the Centre over the issue of including Lingayats in the Other Backward Classes. He changed the agenda after Union home minister Amit Shah’s prod. BOX: Cabinet expansion in 2-3 days: BSYChief minister BS Yediyurappa on Friday extended the deadline for cabinet expansion, saying the process would be carried out in two to three days. “I have discussed the issue with Amit Shah. The final list of candidates will be ready in two days. After that, an announcement will be made,” he said. During a visit to Mysuru earlier this week, Yediyurappa had said that he would expand his cabinet in two to three days. This is the fourth time he has revised the deadline since the last cabinet exercise in February.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bs-yediyurappa-urges-mps-to-pursue-karnatakas-causes/articleshow/79456970.cms||---
November 28, 2020||Mumbai||BMC demolition of Kangana Ranaut’s bungalow illegal, mala fide: HC||MUMBAI: Terming BMC’s act of razing parts of Kangana Ranaut’s bungalow as “mala fide,” the Bombay high court said, “Illegal and colourable action on part of the state or its agencies vis-à-vis a citizen, is far too serious and damaging to society to be overlooked.” Rejecting BMC’s contention that the work demolished was “ongoing,” the HC in its 166-page judgment set out photographs and said the work was “pre-existing”. The HC said civic officials invoked Section 354A of the BMC Act— meant for ongoing illegal construction, with a notice of just 24 hours, unlike Section 351which offers 7 days’ notice—for a “more sinister” purpose, “mainly to prevent her from taking legal recourse”. “The whole attempt of the BMC and its officers was to somehow present the petitioner (Ranaut) with a fait accompli,” said the court, accepting her senior counsel Birendra Saraf’s submission that demolition notice of September 7 and order were ex-facie illegal and deserved to be quashed. “We would be perfectly justified on the basis of law stated by Supreme Court-...to order compensation,” it said. The demolition, the arrangement for which, the HC noted, had begun even before the H/ West ward officer pasted his order at 10.35am, “was nothing but malice in law”. In other words, intentional damage sans any excuse. The actor, 34, had petitioned HC for urgent intervention within hours of a police squad and civic team landing at her bungalow. Ranaut had sought Rs 2 crore as damages, a claim which BMC through its senior counsel Aspi Chinoy, Anil Sakhare and advocate Joel Carlos had dubbed as “bogus”. Saraf said BMC’s actions had an “ulterior motive.” The HC agreed. “An administrative authority....should never act with improper or ulterior motives,” the HC said. The Justice Kathawalla-led bench had immediately on September 9 stayed what it observed even then was civic action “smacking of mala fides”. In its final judgment it deprecated BMC’s “delaying” tactics that day when hearing was scheduled at 12.20pm, to ensure “40%” of demolition was carried out. Saraf said structural work on Ranaut’s bungalow was completed in May 2019, and in August last year, she received permission from her society to carry out renovation and waterproofing work. Renovation work was complete in January 2020, he said. The BMC case was that she “unlawfully” constructed “a toilet and pantry in parking area on the ground floor, two toilets in the open chowk on the first floor with brick masonry and number of partition walls to create additional rooms”. The BMC said she was “in fact seeking to use public controversy created by her statements… to cover up the fact that she unlawfully carried out substantial alterations and additions”. Justice Kathawalla said, “We make it clear that this court does not countenance unauthorized construction.” But HC noted, “There is material... indicating that the action of demolition smacks of malafides.” The HC permitted Ranaut’s plea to be allowed to make her bungalow habitable again and said she is “within her rights to reconstruct” demolished portions which were as per “approved plans.” The HC recorded no finding on whether construction in the bungalow was authorised or unauthorised. It directed Ranaut can also apply to BMC to carry out restoration of demolished work, according to sanctioned plan, and on her plea, BMC has to decide it within four weeks. For portions undemolished, BMC can still take action by issuing notice under Section 351(7 days’ notice. The HC said the actor is also allowed to apply for regularization of any undemolished portion and if she does, BMC has to first decide such plea before issuing any razing notice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-demolition-of-kangana-ranauts-bungalow-illegal-mala-fide-hc/articleshow/79456996.cms||Swati Deshpande
