November 29, 2020||India||CoBRA officer killed, 9 commandos injured in IED blast triggered by Naxals in Chhattisgarh||RAIPUR: An assistant commandant of Central Reserve Police Force’s elite unit CoBRA (Commando Battalion for Resolute Action) was killed while nine other personnel were injured in an IED blast triggered by Maoists in Chhattisgarh's Sukma district on Saturday night. A joint anti-Naxalite operation was launched by troops of CoBRA, Special Task Force and District Reserve Guards from the base camps of Chintalnar, Burkapal, Chintagufa on November 28. Bastar range inspector general of police P Sundarraj said that the improvised explosive device blast took place in the Arabrajmetta hills in Chintagufa at around 8pm. “Assistant commandant Nitin Bhalerao succumbed to his injuries and breathed his last at around 0330 hrs Sunday morning at Raipur hospital. Bhalerao was native of Nasik in Maharastra,” Sudnarraj told TOI. All the injured were immediately evacuated from the spot to Chintalnar field hospital and later in the night all the injured were airlifted to Raipur for better treatment, IG said. Condition of other injured personnel is stable as they are under treated in Raipur and are said to be out of danger. Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel condemned the incident and has expressed condolences to the martyrdom of Assistant Commandant Nitin Bhalerao.“I pay tributes to the sacrifice of our CoBRA commandant and extend deep condolences to the bereaved family,” Baghel said. Chief minister has wished the wounded personnel a speedy recovery. Watch Maoist attack: CoBRA officer killed, 7 commandos injured in IED blast in Chhattisgarh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/chhattisgarh-five-crpf-commandos-injured-in-ied-blast/articleshow/79468473.cms||Rashmi Drolia
November 29, 2020||India||Pakistan desperate to push in terrorists, says Army chief||NEW DELHI: Terrorists from across the border in Pakistan are making desperate attempts to infiltrate into Jammu & Kashmir to disrupt normal democratic processes, said Army chief General M M Naravane on Saturday. “With the ongoing situation on our western borders, terrorism continues to be a serious threat. That is not abating in spite of all the efforts being made,” said Gen Naravane, speaking after reviewing the passing out parade at the Indian Naval Academy at Ezhimala in Kerala. With the onset of winter and the mountain passes set to be soon snowed under, last-ditch attempts are being made to push terrorists across from “launch pads” along the Line of Control, he said. “It is because of this that they (terrorists) have also started moving southwards and are now attempting to infiltrate through lower regions, including through tunnels across the international border,” he added. As earlier reported by TOI, the Pakistan Army has also cranked up ceasefire violations (CFVs) along the 778-km long LoC, with as many as 4,100 of them already being recorded this year, the highest such number since 2003. The spike in CFVs, which are also often used to give “covering fire” to infiltrating terrorists, comes amidst the ongoing military confrontation with China in eastern Ladakh. The Indian Army, of course, retaliates to every CFV with precision strikes. The total number of CFVs along the LoC stood at 971 in 2017 and 1,629 in 2018. The number jumped to 3,168 in 2019, with spikes being registered first after the Balakot air strikes and then the nullification of Article 370 and bifurcation of J&K. At the naval parade, the Army chief said, “Today, the country is facing challenges from all sides, some home-grown and some from outside. The armed forces are the strongest pillar in the defence of the country. While everything else may fail, we simply cannot.” Watch Terrorists desperate to disrupt democratic process in J&K: Army Chief||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pakistan-desperate-to-push-in-terrorists-says-army-chief/articleshow/79468629.cms||---
November 29, 2020||India||Farmers' protest is a conspiracy hatched by Congress: Keshav Prasad Maurya||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya on Saturday appealed to farmers to withdraw their protest and alleged that the agitation was "nothing but a conspiracy hatched by the Congress". "Being the son of a farmer, I want to say to the farmers of the country and Uttar Pradesh that this type of protest is nothing but a conspiracy hatched by the Congress. It is an anti-farmer, anti-poor party by birth. Congress is playing with the emotions of farmers. I appeal to the farmers to take back this protest," Maurya told ANI. Maurya said efforts were being made to increase income of farmers and improve their living standards. "Prime Minister Modi is sincerely working to uplift the downtrodden and the backward. The farm laws brought by the central government will help the farmers," he said. Earlier in the day, farmers reached at Ghaziabad-Delhi border in support of 'Delhi Chalo' protest march. The farmers have embarked on 'Dilli Chalo' march to protest against the three farm laws. The Tikri border has been opened to enable farmers to proceed to the ground marked for their protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farmers-protest-is-a-conspiracy-hatched-by-congress-keshav-prasad-maurya/articleshow/79468714.cms||---
November 29, 2020||World||UN calls for restraint after killing of Iranian nuclear scientist||UNITED NATIONS: The United Nations urged restraint Saturday after tensions rose in the Middle East with the assassination of a top Iranian nuclear scientist. Iran has blamed Israel for Friday's killing of Mohsen Fakhrizadeh and vowed revenge. "We urge restraint and the need to avoid any actions that could lead to an escalation of tensions in the region," a UN spokesman said. "We condemn any assassination or extrajudicial killing."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/middle-east/un-calls-for-restraint-after-killing-of-iranian-nuclear-scientist/articleshow/79468833.cms||---
November 29, 2020||India||Covid-19: 70,000 vaccinators, another 30,000 from private sector, to give shots||NEW DELHI: The government is preparing a list of vaccinators required to administer the Covid-19 vaccine —first to an estimated 30 crore priority population in the initial months of 2021 and gradually to others. While there are around 70,000 vaccinators in the public sector, the private sector is likely to contribute around 30,000 more, including doctors, nurses and lab technicians who can innoculate people once a vaccine against SARS-CoV2 is approved in the country, official sources said. A well-trained vaccinator along with a facilitator can administer an average of 20-25 shots per hour, though they may actually be called on to do less than that, an official said. The 70,000 vaccinators in the public sector are currently part of the Universal Immunisation Programme. Majority of them will be in action in the first phase of Covid immunisation when the focus will be on healthcare and other frontline workers. The National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 has recently reached out to FICCI, CII and some of the large hospital chains asking for estimates on availability of vaccinators who can be dedicated for Covid immunisation. “We have asked our members to indicate the resources they can dedicate. However, we have also asked the expert group to tell us whether some specific criteria or training is required for such innoculators,” a senior official in CII said. Once the list of vaccinators for Covid-19 is ready, it will also be updated on the Covin database being prepared by the Centre to streamline vaccine procurement, distribution and administration processes, an official said. Coronavirus live updates“The existing vaccinators in the public sector may not be enough to inoculate such a large population against Covid-19. Therefore, private sector participation is important and there are doctors and vaccinators in the private sector who can be roped in for the purpose,” said Dr Suneela Garg, director professor at the department of community medicine in Maulana Azad Medical College. The official said the government is also looking at the digital iGOT platform to train new vaccinators. The categories may include MBBS, paediatricians, nurses, ANMs and lab technicians. The integrated training portal is a platform for capacity-building of frontline workers to handle the pandemic efficiently. The portal has added many new courses since the beginning of the pandemic to cater to the new human resource demand in healthcare. Watch Covid-19: 70,000 vaccinators, another 30,000 from private sector, to give shots||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-70000-vaccinators-another-30000-from-private-sector-to-give-shots/articleshow/79469068.cms||Sushmi Dey
November 29, 2020||Business||Sebi bars Roys of NDTV from securities mkt; duo to appeal||MUMBAI: Markets regulator Sebi late on Friday barred Prannoy and Radhika Roy, promoters of NDTV, from the securities market for two years for insider trading between 2007 and 2008. It also asked it to disgorge what it claimed were illegal gains of nearly Rs 17 crore, along with interest at 6% simple rate for a little over 12 years. The Roys have questioned the order and said they'll file an appeal. “The promoters have informed the company that their lawyers… hold that the Sebi order is based on an inaccurate assessment of facts and will not withstand scrutiny in appeal. The appeal will be filed immediately,” NDTV said in a stock exchange filing on Saturday. In separate orders, Sebi also barred seven other entities, also for insider trading in NDTV’s shares. Some of these entities have been ordered to disgorge “illegal gains” made from those trades. The orders follow a probe into allegations of insider trading by Sanjay Dutt of Quantum Securities. Sebi officials alleged that during the probe, they stumbled up cases of insider trading by several other entities, including the Roys between 2007 and 2008. All the entities have violated Sebi’s Prohibition of Insider Trading Regulations, the regulatory orders said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sebi-bars-roys-of-ndtv-from-securities-mkt-duo-to-appeal/articleshow/79469438.cms||---
November 29, 2020||India||Work from home has made workday of Indians 32 minutes longer||As if hurried lunches and endless video meetings were not proof enough, a new study shows that the work-from-home day for Indians got much longer during the pandemic. A survey of 65 countries by workplace software developer Atlassian found that people across the world were starting remote work earlier and logging off much later. Israelis added 47 minutes to their average workday while Indians spent 32 minutes more at work in April and May as compared to the beginning of the year, as did Australians and Americans. While work from home (WFH) has taken away long commutes, it hasn’t really added to me-time as much as people had imagined. Hyderabad-based IT professional Puneet Srivastav, who always enjoyed flexi-timing, says earlier WFH was a euphemism for ‘work for home’ and used as an opportunity to finish chores, or squeeze in a doctor or school visit. “Now I am chained to the desk. We are always supposed to be available for meetings,” he says. The study also indicates that while working remotely, people finished higher amounts of work in the mornings and evenings while productivity dipped during the afternoon. This could indicate employees were taking advantage of the extra flexibility of WFH but that it could be encroaching on what would have previously been free time. This shows how boundaries between home and office blurred during the pandemic. The study noted, “Even those without caregiving responsibilities reported struggling to delineate between work time and personal time, and were prone to working long hours without pausing for a break. Over half of respondents said it’s harder now to maintain work-life boundaries than before the pandemic, and 23% reported thinking about work during their off-hours more than they used to.” As is the case with a west Delhi-based corporate executive who calls WFH “work full hours”. She logs in a 12-hour day and after a break for dinner files a daily report till 2am. “There is no break from work like commute time or the small tea breaks we had in office. Our family — all working or studying from home — has resorted to readymade chapatis and packaged food because no one has no time to cook,” she says. Watch Covid-19: Work from home has made workday of Indians 32 minutes longer||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/work-from-home-has-made-workday-of-indians-32-minutes-longer/articleshow/79469643.cms||Himanshi Dhawan
November 29, 2020||India||Scrap foreign content note, Editors Guild of India tells Press Council of India||NEW DELHI: The Editors Guild of India has asked the Press Council of India to withdraw its “ominous sounding advisory” cautioning print media against “unregulated circulation of foreign content”. The PCI had, on November 25, issued an advisory to Indian newspapers in which it said “unregulated circulation of foreign content is not desirable”. The advisory, which said it was in response to references received from the government about the “responsibility of Indian newspapers in publishing foreign contents”, advised media to “publish foreign extracts in Indian newspapers with due verification as the reporter, publisher and editor of such newspapers shall be responsible for the content irrespective of the source from which it is received.” In response, the EGI on Sunday said it was “perturbed by the unprovoked advisory”. “...It appears that the Council, which swears by self-regulation of media and believes that any government interference would be destructive to press freedom, is lending its weight towards a step that could bring in some form of censorship and punitive action against those organisations that publish content, which in its view is seen as “not desirable”, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/scrap-foreign-content-note-editors-guild-of-india-tells-press-council-of-india/articleshow/79469655.cms||---
November 29, 2020||India||Ready to back Paswan’s wife if LJP fields her for RS bypoll, says RJD||PATNA: The Lalu Prasad-led RJD said on Saturday that it would extend “unconditional support” to LJP if it fielded Reena Paswan, widow of former Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan, as its candidate for the lone Rajya Sabha seat in Bihar. A byelection to the seat will be held on December 14. The RS seat was vacated due Ram Vilas Paswan’s death on October 8 this year. On Friday, BJP had named former Bihar deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi as its candidate for the byelection to the RS seat. A day after BJP declared its candidate, the opposition RJD also urged LJP chief Chirag Paswan to field his mother as his party’s candidate for the RS seat. “RJD strongly feels that the late Ram Vilas Paswan was a big leader from Bihar. It would have been a befitting tribute to him if the NDA would have named his wife Reena Paswan as its candidate for the Rajya Sabha seat vacated by his death. But BJP opted for Sushil Modi,” RJD spokesperson and former MLA Shakti Singh Yadav told TOI on Saturday. However, LJP is yet to take a decision. A RJD politician said if LJP failed to decide, the Mahagathbandhan would put up a candidate for the RS bypoll. The name of Paswan Sr’s son-in-law Anil Sadhu, who heads RJD’s SC/ST cell, is also under consideration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ready-to-back-paswans-wife-if-ljp-fields-her-for-rs-bypoll-says-rjd/articleshow/79469755.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Business||Punjab also agrees to GST option 1; only Jharkhand & Chhattisgarh yet to decide||NEW DELHI: Punjab has agreed to go for the option provided by the Centre on market borrowing to meet the revenue shortfall arising out of implementation of the GST. The number of states which have chosen this option has gone up to 26. All three UTs with a legislative assembly which includes Delhi, J&K and Puducherry have also decided in favour of Option 1. Earlier Kerala and West Bengal, two of the bitter opponents of the Centre’s plan on borrowing to compensate states for the GST revenue shortfall had also accepted Option 1 proposed by Centre, marking an end to the stand-off on the issue. The states and UTs which choose Option 1 are getting the amount of shortfall arising out of GST implementation through a special borrowing window put in place by the Centre. Now, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh are the only states that are yet to decide on the issue. The GST Council had debated the issue and had held a special session to discuss and arrive at a consensus on the borrowing plan to compensate states for the revenue shortfall. These states had argued that the Centre should borrow the money from the market as it would get a better rate while borrowing by the states would put a burden on their debt servicing and also they would have to borrow at a higher rate. The borrowing window has been set up since October 23, 2020 and the Centre has already borrowed an amount of Rs 24,000 crore on behalf of the states in four instalments and passed it on to the states and UTs, which chose Option 1on 23rd October, 2020, 2nd November, 2020, 9th November, 2020 and 23rd November, 2020. Now, Punjab will also receive funds raised through this window starting from the next round of borrowing, as per a finance ministry statement. Under the terms of Option 1, besides getting the facility of a special window for borrowings to meet the shortfall arising out of GST implementation, the states are also entitled to get unconditional permission to borrow the final instalment of 0.50% of gross state domestic product (GSDP) out of the 2% additional borrowings permitted by the government, under the Atmanirbhar Abhiyaan on May 17, 2020. This is over and above the special window of Rs.1.1 lakh crore. On receipt of the choice of Option 1 from the government of Punjab, the Centre has granted an additional borrowing permission of Rs 3,033 crore to the state government of 0.5% of Punjab’s GSDP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/punjab-also-agrees-to-gst-option-1-only-jharkhand-chhattisgarh-yet-to-decide/articleshow/79469924.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Business||FDI inflows up 15% in H1, Mauritius slips to 4th place||NEW DELHI: Foreign direct inflows went up almost 15% during the first half the current financial year. The period also saw Mauritius slip to the fourth spot as the preferred source to route funds into India with the US and tax haven Cayman Islands overtaking it. Latest data released by the department for promotion of industry and internal trade showed that FDI inflows topped $30 billion during April-September, compared to $26 billion the corresponding period last year. While the company-wise break up was unavailable, investments into Mukesh Ambani’s two outfits, Reliance Jio and Reliance Retail , by a host of investors are seen to be the main reason for the spurt in flows. Among the top 10 sectors tracked by DPIIT, during the first half, $17.5 billion were invested in the computer software and hardware space, with inflows into the other nine sectors declining. Among the states, it was Gujarat, which cornered over half the FDI with inflows pegged at $16 billion with traditional leader Maharashtra slipping to the third place behind Karnataka. In fact, bulk of the flows came during the September quarter resulting in some celebrations in the government, especially as it comes a day after latest numbers showed that the economy shrank by 7.5% during the second quarter of the fiscal year. “Despite Covid-19, FDI doubles year-on-year… Indicating global investors’ preference for India’s enabling environment under PM Narendra Modi ji, FDI increased from $14.1 billion to $28.1 billion in the July-September quarter,” commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal tweeted. Watch FDI inflows up 15% in first half, Mauritius slips to 4th place||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/fdi-inflows-up-15-in-h1-mauritius-slips-to-4th-place/articleshow/79469955.cms||---
November 29, 2020||India||Covid-19: Delhi, northern states see a dip in fresh cases||NEW DELHI: The country reported around the same number of fresh Covid-19 cases as the previous day, even as several states in north and central India where the pandemic had surged in recent weeks showed signs of the virus receding. India reported 41,927 new infections on Saturday, a slight increase from the 41,504 cases recorded the previous day, as per data collated from state governments. Daily cases have decreased marginally in the past two days, with no signs yet of the feared second wave in the country following the festive season. Daily cases were dropping gradually in several states across north and central India. These states — Delhi, Rajasthan, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh — were among those that appeared to be leading the surge in the pandemic in the past two-three weeks. In Delhi, fresh cases had decreased to 4,998 from a high of 8,593 recorded on November 11. Rajasthan reported 2,765 new cases on Saturday, down from a peak of 3,314 four days earlier. Similarly, Madhya Pradesh’s daily count had dropped to 1,634 from 1,798 on November 22 while the number dropped to under 2,000 in Haryana (1,967) after 12 days. The state had logged a peak of 3,104 on November 20. Likewise, Uttar Pradesh registered 2,170 new infections on Saturday, down from a November peak of 2,858 recorded eight days ago. Himachal Pradesh too reported a drop from a high of 948 cases recorded on November 24 to 650 on Saturday. However, the infection appeared to be still surging in Gujarat. The state recorded 1,598 cases on Saturday, close to its peak of 1,607 reported just a day earlier. After three days of recording 6,000-plus new Covid-19 positive cases, Maharashtra witnessed a marginal dip with 5,965 cases on Saturday. Mumbai, however, continued with its seemingly new stable number of little over 1,000 cases (1,063) for the fourth consecutive day. While state officials added 75 deaths to the state toll, which is now 46,986, BMC officials said 17 deaths were reported in Mumbai in a 24-hour period. The toll in Mumbai since March is 10,847 deaths so far. The post-Diwali impact due to intermingling was also apparent in the rising number of active cases, both in the state and city. The active cases in the state increased by 10,000 plus from 79,873 (November 21) to 89,905 on Saturday. In Mumbai, the corresponding rise has been 2,500 – from 12,397 on November 21 to 14,979 now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-delhi-northern-states-see-a-dip-in-fresh-cases/articleshow/79469967.cms||---
November 29, 2020||India||Khattar links Punjab CM’s office to farmers’ agitation||CHANDIGARH: The relationship between Punjab and Haryana has touched new lows over the ongoing farmers’ protest against the Union government’s three contentious agri-marketing laws. The already tense ties worsened on Saturday when Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar claimed in Gurgaon that the farmer protests were sponsored by political parties in Punjab and that they were led by office-bearers of the Punjab chief minister’s office. Khattar also alleged that some unwanted elements had raised pro-Khalistan slogans during the farmer protests. “We’ve reports and will disclose (them) once it’s concrete. They raised such slogans,” he said. The Punjab CM, Captain Amarinder Singh, in turn, demanded an unequivocal apology from his Haryana counterpart for inflicting brutality on farmers. He also accused Khattar of spreading lies and sticking his nose into a matter in which his state had no role to play. “Khattar is lying that he tried calling me earlier and I did not respond. But now, after what he has done to my farmers, I will not speak to him even if he calls me 10 times. Unless he apologises and admits that he did wrong with Punjab’s farmers, I will not forgive him,” said Amarinder. Criticising Khattar for making allegations that he was instigating the farmers and provoking them to agitate, Amarinder said: “I am a nationalist to the core, I run a border state and will never do anything to create a law and order problem.” He added that for 60 days the farmers had been blocking Punjab’s railway tracks, causing more than Rs 43,000 crore in losses to the state. “I will not take this nonsense from Khattar. Don’t I have better things to do than to incite farmers,” he said, adding that “sometimes they say it’s Khalistanis who’re managing the protests and sometimes they accuse me of doing it… let them make up their minds.” Amarinder declared that no political party was involved in the farm protests. Terming as ludicrous Khattar’s claim that Haryana farmers were not part of the “Delhi Chalo” agitation, Amarinder said Punjab’s intelligence department had showed that 40,000-50,000 farmers from Haryana had joined the march.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/khattar-links-punjab-cms-office-to-farmers-agitation/articleshow/79469975.cms||---
November 29, 2020||India||Goswami case: Maharashtra home minister vows a ‘strong chargesheet’||NAGPUR: Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh said on Saturday that he wanted to give the late architect Anway Naik and his family justice by filing a “strong chargesheet” in the abetment to suicide case that was “wrongly closed by the previous government.” Republic TV’s editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami is one of the three persons named as accused in the case. NCP’s Deshmukh said the case against Goswami and two others was reopened following a court order. “Our investigation into Goswami’s and other accused’s roles in the case is underway. The deceased had left behind a suicide note saying the reason for taking the extreme step was non-payment of Rs 80 lakh by Goswami towards the construction of a studio,” the minister said. “The reason behind our taking the case to its logical end and filing the chargesheet is that we are trying to help the Naik family get justice,” Deshmukh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/goswami-case-maharashtra-home-minister-vows-a-strong-chargesheet/articleshow/79469986.cms||Soumitra Bose
November 29, 2020||India||Covid-19: Cheaper, faster test from CCMB set to hit market||HYDERABAD: Even as clinical trials on Covid-19 vaccine have reached the final stage, city-based Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) has developed an RT-PCR-based test to detect the pandemic virus easily and effectively. The new method, which got the final approval of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and is ready for release in the market, is simple and fast. Instead of the “wet” method now used for RT-PCR tests, the CCMB model is Dry Swab-Direct RT-PCR. This brings down not only the cost of the RT-PCR test, but also reduces the time taken for the result. The Dry Swab-Direct RT-PCR method involves collecting and transporting the nasal swab in dry state (as opposed to using the viral transport medium) which makes transportation and handling of the samples easy and less prone to spillage. CSIR director-general Dr Shekhar C Mande said that the Dry-Swab method is easy to implement with existing kits and current manpower can perform this with no additional training and hence could make a significant contribution to ramping up the testing capacity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-cheaper-faster-test-from-ccmb-set-to-hit-market/articleshow/79469990.cms||---
November 29, 2020||India||MHA advises NGOs on switch to new FCRA regime||NEW DELHI: The home ministry, in a bid to ease the transition of NGOs and associations to the new FCRA regime flowing from recent amendments to the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) and rules thereunder, has put out an advisory for compliance depending on whether these NGOs have already applied for FCRA registration, prior permission or renewal or are yet to submit these applications. As per the advisory issued on Friday, the three basic compliances that the NGOs and associations must meet following the latest changes in FCRA, 2010 and Foreign Contribution Regulation Rules, 2011, (FCRR) relate to obtaining a DARPAN ID from NITI Aayog portal; opening the main FCRA account in SBI Parliament Street branch, New Delhi; and seeding aadhaar details of all office bearers or key functionaries. In a table put on the FCRA website on Friday, the home ministry spelt out the requirements needed to be fulfilled under the amended Act and rules for four different categories of NGOs and associations; ones that have already submitted renewal application; ones who have already submitted application for FCRA registration or prior permission; which are yet to submit application for renewal of FCRA registration; and ones that are yet to submit application for FCRA registration or prior permission. On getting a Darpan ID from NITI Aayog portal, the home ministry said NGOs that have already applied for registration/prior permission/renewal, are being given access to their applications to seed the Darpan ID from NITI Aayog Darpan portal. The Darpan ID should be entered in Form 3C/3A/3B at specified place in FCRA portal. Associations that are yet to submit application for FCRA registration or renewal will be automatically prompted to first obtain Darpan ID during online registration/renewal. As regards opening of FCRA account in SBI New Delhi main branch, associations that have already applied for FCRA registration/renewal are being given access to their applications to seed FCRA account in SBI main Branch at Parliament Street. For ones that have not yet applied, they must open FCRA account in SBI Main branch before they initiate online application process for FCRA registration/renewal. The NGOs must also enter Aadhaar numbers of all office bearers & key functionaries in specified form on FCRA portal if they have already applied for registration or renewal. NGOs who are yet to apply for registration or renewal of FCRA licence, need to enter aadhaar number of office bearers while filling up online forms on FCRA portal. “Every person/association is, therefore, requested to carefully peruse and familiarise itself with all the amendments in the Act and the Rules and related contents….to ensure thorough compliance. NGO’s proactive response would facilitate a quick and smooth transition to the amended legal regime,” the home ministry said in the advisory issued on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ngos-must-meet-3-terms-for-fcra-nod-home-ministry/articleshow/79469994.cms||Bharti Jain
November 29, 2020||Business||Uber, Ola drivers can work only 12 hours a day||NEW DELHI: No driver attached to the passenger vehicle aggregators such as Uber and Ola would be allowed to drive their vehicles for more than 12 hours a day even if they are attached to more than one aggregator, according to the guidelines issued by the road transport ministry. The aggregators would have to develop the mechanism on their apps for this purpose and would ensure every driver gets at least 10 hours rest. Putting safety as the highest priority, the guidelines also mandate five-day training to drivers before attaching the vehicles to their platforms and would also need to provide two-day annual refresher training to their driver partners. Moreover, drivers who have less than 2% score from riders will need to undergo a mandatory “remedial training programme”. The aggregators would have to ensure compliance on the part of drivers, which include valid proof of identity, driving licence, minimum driving experience of two years and police verification. The drivers attached should not have been convicted within the past three years for driving under the influence of alcohol or any cognisable offence including fraud, sexual offences, use of a motor vehicle to commit a cognisable offence, a crime involving property damage or theft or acts of violence. The guidelines for regulation of such aggregators issued to the states specify that the vehicles attached to the aggregators must ensure installation of vehicle tracking and monitoring systems with panic buttons and this has to be connected to their control room for live monitoring. It has also prescribed that the cabs must disable child lock mechanisms and must have provision for manual override for the central locking system. The template also says the aggregators would be required to resolve criminal grievances in 24 to 72 hours. For protecting the interest of driver partners, the aggregators would need to ensure at least Rs 5 lakh health insurance and a minimum Rs 10 lakh term insurance with base year 2020-21 and increased by 5% each year. According to the guidelines, the aggregators would have to allow attaching city taxis provided they comply with the laid down norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/uber-ola-drivers-can-work-only-12-hours-a-day/articleshow/79469999.cms||Dipak K Dash
November 29, 2020||India||Mamata Banerjee plans holding op on Suvendu’s turf||KOLKATA: As Trinamool Congress rebel Suvendu Adhikari quietly prepared for his first political rally since resigning from the Mamata Banerjee cabinet on Friday, almost the entire party machinery got cracking to arrange a December 7 roadshow planned by the CM in his pocket borough Midnapore. Mamata’s primary objective is to quickly quarantine her party ranks from the “rebel” bug as she focuses on taking on BJP and CPM in the battle for the Bengal assembly, sources said. The flurry of activity in the Trinamool camp included party seniors meeting representatives of West Midnapore, Malda and Murshidabad ahead of the CM’s meet with the party’s district heads on December 4. While TMC described the meetings as “routine”, the buzz was that the party has been shaken and stirred by Adhikari’s resignation as transport and irrigation minister, although he remains a Trinamool member for now. All three districts where TMC is trying to set its house in order are those where Adhikari was the party observer. Trinamool state president and MP Subrata Bakshi was in Midnapore on Saturday to take stock and oversee arrangements for the CM’s rally. Bakshi and other TMC seniors didn’t utter a word against Adhikari, who is being wooed by BJP and cheered by Congress. At least four senior Adhikari loyalists from Midnapore were conspicuous by their absence at the meetings. Trinamool MP Abhishek Banerjee on Saturday held talks with the party’s Malda district leadership at his south Kolkata office. At Mahishadal in Nandigram, decorators were busy giving finishing touches to the dais from which Adhikari will address a crowd on Sunday. (With inputs from Sujoy Khanra, Suman Mandal, Sukumar Mahato and Subhro Maitra)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mamata-banerjee-plans-holding-op-on-suvendus-turf/articleshow/79470006.cms||---
November 29, 2020||India||Covid-19: Authorities still mum on month-old adverse event during vaccine trial||More than a month and a half after an adverse event occurred in a clinical trial in India of the AstraZeneca vaccine, the Central Drug Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO), the regulator for vaccine trials, has not issued any statement on the occurrence. It also did not respond to queries about whether it has completed its investigation to determine if the trial participant’s illness was related to the vaccine. Serum Institute, which is partnering the pharma MNC and Oxford University for producing the vaccine in India, has also refused to comment. This is in sharp contrast to AstraZeneca and Oxford University going public when one of the trial participants in the vaccine trial in the UK fell ill and halting the trial till an independent safety monitoring board and UK’s regulatory authority gave safety clearance. Information about the occurrence of the serious adverse event (SAE) during the vaccine trial in India came from the family of the trial participant, which has sent the company and the regulators a legal notice. Serum Institute merely stated that it would issue an official statement next week. AstraZeneca had issued a statement within days of the trial participant in UK falling ill and halted the trials across the world in the UK, Brazil and South Africa. The trial was resumed within a week after the independent safety review committee and national regulators gave clearance. The Indian Council of Medical Research is a co-sponsor of the trial along with Serum Institute. Dr Samiran Panda, who heads the Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases (ECD) division of the ICMR, stated that the protocol was for the principal investigator at the trial site to first investigate why the adverse event had occurred followed by an enquiry by the Institutional Ethics Committee of the trial site, Sri Ramachandra Medical College (SRMC), Chennai. “We cannot intervene as we are one of the sponsors of the trial and it should not seem like we are trying to influence the process, which would be inappropriate. We have informed the drug controller general of India (DCGI) about the development and the DCGI’s report on whether the adverse event was related to the vaccine is awaited,” explained Dr Panda. According to the ICMR, it is for the DCGI to take a call on whether or not to halt the trial. The DCGI heads the CDSCO. The 40-year-old trial participant, a business consultant with an MBA from New Zealand who says he took part in the trial deeming it his duty to help such an important venture, was administered the vaccine at SRMC on October 1. Eleven days later, he woke up with a severe headache, and progressively lost his memory, showed behaviour changes, became disoriented and was unable to talk or recognise his family members, according to the legal notice. As soon as he fell ill he was admitted to the ICU in SRMC. “We did a battery of tests to find if there was any linkage to the vaccine, but we did not find any. We provided all medical care free of cost till October 26 when the family said they were dissatisfied with the treatment and got him discharged and took him home. They brought him back a couple of times for follow up but have not been in touch after that,” said Dr S R Ramakrishnan, the principal investigator at the trial site. He added that the institutional ethics committee also did not find any connection to the vaccine, but admitted that they were unable to determine why he had become so seriously ill. The family has questioned how a healthy person declared fit enough to take part in the trial could become so severely ill if it was not due to the vaccine. “Though the legal notice we have served talks of a compensation of Rs 5 crore, our focus is not on monetary compensation. It was sent just last week, more than a month after the occurrence when we saw that none of the authorities was making the adverse event public. They ought to have warned other participants so that they could watch out for similar symptoms. We want to know why the occurrence of the adverse event has been kept under wraps and why the trial was not halted like it was done in the UK. Is an Indian life of less value than that of an UK citizen?” asked a close family friend who has been helping the family cope with the illness. In India, the trial for the study to check the safety and immune response of the Covishield vaccine is happening across 17 sites. It enrolls only healthy volunteers and enrolment started in the last week of August.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-authorities-still-mum-on-month-old-adverse-event-during-vaccine-trial/articleshow/79470012.cms||Rema Nagarajan
November 29, 2020||Patna||Chirag asks party to be prepared for ‘mid-term’ polls||PATNA: LJP chief Chirag Paswan on Saturday asked his partymen to be prepared for a likely mid-term poll in Bihar. “I have asked party functionaries and workers to be ready for an election. It can happen in Bihar any day. The way the new government is functioning here, a mid-term election can happen any time and our party should be prepared to contest on all seats,” Chirag told reporters on the sidelines of his party’s foundation day function at the LJP state headquarters here. Speaking on the occasion of the foundation day of the party founded by his father the late Ram Vilas Paswan in 2000, Chirag said LJP was offered only 15 seats by NDA, following which the party decided to contest 135 seats. Asked about BJP nominating former deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi to the Rajya Sabha seat fallen vacant following the death of his father, Chirag said, “It is for BJP to decide as the seat belongs to the party.” “Election can happen in Bihar before 2025 and we should start preparing on all 243 seats from now itself,” Chirag stated in a letter issued on LJP’s foundation day explaining why his party went alone in the recently concluded Bihar assembly polls and the way forward. “LJP fought the first assembly election in Bihar without my father the late Ram Vilas Pasan Ji. The party had two options before heading to the polls. First, to contest on only 15 seats despite having six members in Lok Sabha and one in Rajya Sabha. The second option was to enter in a friendly fight on majority seats. The parliamentary board of the LJP chose the second option and the party fielded 143 candidates in the election,” Chirag wrote. Deliberating on the performance of the party, Chirag wrote: “I am proud that the party fought this election alone and generated immense support from people. LJP got 24 lakh votes and voting percentage of 6%, which has reflected in the expansion of the party.” He added: “The party had set a target of getting 1 crore membership and all workers contributed to getting 50 lakh members. LJP got 24 lakh votes on its own and without any star campaigner, which is also an achievement. Everyone, including new faces, got an opportunity to contest the election on LJP’s symbol, which further strengthened the party.” Elaborating on the vision of his late father, Chirag stated, “Papa always wanted that LJP should contest the elections alone, so that foundation of the party could be strengthened. The 2020 Bihar election proved that LJP has strong support from people, which will take the party to new heights in the coming elections. The party has made inroads in every district and votes have increased on every seat.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/chirag-asks-party-to-be-prepared-for-mid-term-polls/articleshow/79467617.cms||Piyush Tripathi
November 29, 2020||Patna||Saran admn intensifies mask-checking drive||CHHAPRA: The Saran administration has intensified the mask checking drive in view of the rising number of Covid positive cases in the district. Saran SP Dhurat Sayali Savlaram said 1644 people without mask were fined a total of Rs82,200 on Friday. Besides, 27 persons were tested positive for Covid-19 through rapid antigen testing. Many private bus owners are not following the fresh government guidelines of allowing only 50% passengers against the seating capacity in the vehicles. Chhapra Sadar SDO Arun Kumar Singh and SDPO M P Singh jointly conducted drive at different places and fined the violators with Rs50 each for not wearing mask. They also provided masks to them. “The campaign would continue. Besides the commuters, the business entities, vendors and eateries would be monitored during the campaign. The commercial establishments will be asked to strictly follow the provisions of Covid-19 protocol, like providing sanitisers or facilities of handwash at the entrance or maintaining social distancing,” he said. Singh said separate teams have been formed to keep watch on the rule violators and ensure that government instructions are implemented in marriage ceremonies, religious places and other social gatherings. Marhaura DCLR-cum-SDO Ravi Shankar Sharma along with DSP Indrajit Baitha jointly conducted a mask-checking drive at Mashrakh and collected penalty from more than 50 persons on Friday. Similar campaigns were conducted at Derni and Parsa as well. The total number of Covid patients in the district has gone up to 6527 on Saturday, out of which 6337 have been cured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/saran-admn-intensifies-mask-checking-drive/articleshow/79467696.cms||H K Verma
November 29, 2020||Patna||50 more beds at PMCH for Covid-19 patients||PATNA: The rising number of the Covid-19 cases in some states has alerted the Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH), which has identified 50 more beds to include in its 100-bed Covid ward and started assigning duty of medical teams there. PMCH principal Dr V P Choudhary on Saturday said the expected further dip in temperature, arrival of people with asymptomatic infection from other states and gatherings at wedding venues may worsen the situation. So, the biggest hospital of the state needed to be more vigilant, he said. “Though we have only 25 patients admitted in the Covid ward, the hospital has already kept ready oxygen and other medical appliances for use in the cottage ward,” he said. All heads of the departments have been directed to ensure regular presence of doctors and staff on duty and maintain sanitation in their wards. He said the winter temperature also threaten to increase respiratory and cardiac diseases, which weaken the immune system. So, the chances of infection increase considerably. Head of the PMCH medicine department, Dr Madan Pal Singh, said if the state government’s directions on gatherings at wedding functions, travel in public transport and unfailingly use of mask are strictly followed, there was the least chance of any spike in the Covid cases in Bihar. He, however, stated that the doctors and paramedical staff of the department were ready for any challenges, be it the Covid, dengue or seasonal infections. Singh cautioned the elderly persons to be more careful as any laxity may incidentally put them down with diseases. The trauma and emergency wing of the PMCH has also geared up to handle cases of road accidents, which jumped with the dip in temperature. Dr Abhijit Singh, chief casualty medical officer, said though the number of trauma cases due to road accidents has increased after Chhath, further rise in this number was expected in foggy weather conditions. “In cases of accidental emergency, our first job is to save life. We conduct the rapid antigen test on the patient and if found Covid-19 positive, he or she is referred to the Covid ward,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/50-more-beds-at-pmch-for-covid-19-patients/articleshow/79467676.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Patna||State CPI to stage protests on December 2||PATNA: The state CPI on Saturday decided to observe December 2 as the ‘protest day’ to expressed their solidarity with the agitating farmers of Punjab and Haryana. The farmers of Punjab and Haryana have been agitating against the three ‘Kisan kanoon (Acts)’ framed by the Centre, besides demanding written directive and assurance that their agricultural produce would be purchased at the minimum support price (MSP) rates announced by the Centre itself. The state CPI discussed the farmers’ agitation at a meeting attended by its state secretary Ram Naresh Pandey, MLCs Kedar Nath Pandey and Sanjay Kumar Singh and MLAs Ram Ratan Singh and Suryakant Paswan, as well as state secretariat members Janki Paswan and Ram Babu Kumar. The CPI secretary said demonstrations would be organized at the block and district headquarters on December 2. If the parties of the grand alliance and civil society organizations also decide to join their programme, they would be welcome. The state CPI also demanded from the state government 19 lakh jobs for youths, equal pay for equal work for the contract teachers and job and tenure guarantee for the contract staff in various government departments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-cpi-to-stage-protests-on-december-2/articleshow/79467590.cms||Abhay Singh
November 29, 2020||Varanasi||‘DDUGU planning to make Gorakhpur cleanest city’||Gorakhpur: The vice chancellor of DDU Gorakhpur University Prof Rajesh Singh on Friday inaugurated a machine which converts degradable waste into bio-fertilizer.“The university is preparing a blueprint of how it can make Gorakhpur one of the cleanest cities of the country. We plan to adopt the best practices of other cities like Indore. We will approach Gorakhpur Municipal Corporation to seek their support in providing resources and workforce in order to manage the waste of the city in a better way,” said the VC whlie inaugurating the machine.The university plans to set up five more machines in its hostels, Heerapuri Teachers’ Colony, and a bigger machine on the main campus by the next month, he added. Prof Singh further said that to make it waste management a sustainable process, the university is going to launch the first non-profit organization that will make and also promote the use of the bio-fertilizers.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/ddugu-planning-to-make-gorakhpur-cleanest-city/articleshow/79469705.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 29, 2020||Rajkot||Sex racket busted in Rajkot spa, owner held||Rajkot: A spa owner was held for allegedly running a prostitution racket at his spa and three women were rescued from 150-feet Ring Road near New Jalaram Society, Mavadi Road in Rajkot on Friday.Police said the accused, Dipen Rawal (22), was allegedly running the racket. “Apart from detaining Rawal, we rescued three women who had come from Manipur, Delhi and Rajasthan,” said M S Ansari, sub-inspector with anti-human trafficking unit. “Apart from Rawal, involvement of one of his accomplices has also been revealed during the investigation, following which we have launched a manhunt for Sandeep,” added Ansari. During his interrogation, Rawal told the cops that he used to collect Rs 2,300 from each customer, of which he used to share Rs 1,500 to the sex worker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/sex-racket-busted-in-rajkot-spa-owner-held/articleshow/79469181.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Patna||18 special trains to run till Dec 31||PATNA: With a view to coping with post-Chhath Puja rush, the railways will run 18 pairs of special trains, which either originate from or pass through the jurisdiction of the East Central Railway (ECR) in Bihar, till December 31. According to ECR’s chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar, the Bhagalpur-Jammu Tawi (05097/05098), Gorakhpur-Kolkata (05049/05050, 05047/05048), Patliputra-Lucknow (05029/05030), Gorakhpur-Hatia (02527/02528), Patna-Vasco da Gama (02741/02742), Yeshwantpur-Bhagalpur (02253/02254), Gwalior-Barauni (04185/04186), Gaya-New Delhi (02397/02398), Rajendra Nagar Terminal-Jayanagar (03225/03226), Rajendra Nagar Terminal-Saharsa (03227/03228), Rajendra Nagar Terminal-Durg (03287/03288), Sambalpur-Manduadih (08311/08312), Patna-Puri (08449/08450) and Jayanagar-Puri (08419/08420) specials will run till December 31. “The Gorakhpur-Shalimar (05021/05022), Gorakhpur-Kolkata special (05051/05052) and Anand Vihar-Bhubaneswar (02819/02820) specials, on the other hand, will run till January 1, 2021,” the CPRO said. Weekly train: The railways has decided to run a weekly special train (05001/05002) between Muzaffarpur and Dehradun from December 7 to 28. It will leave Muzaffarpur at 2pm every Monday and reach Dehradun the next day at 1.50pm. On its return journey, it will leave Dehradun at 3.20pm every Saturday and reach Muzaffarpur the following day at 1.55pm. Meeting held: At a meeting held on Friday, ECR general manager L C Trivedi and railway officials discussed different ways to provide better amenities to the passengers at all stations. They also talked about the construction of more foot-overbridges, renovation of platform areas as well as track doubling and conversion works. Several senior officials were present in the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/18-special-trains-to-run-till-dec-31/articleshow/79466703.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Demand for flu vaccines surges as winter sets in||LUCKNOW: As wait for Covid-19 vaccine continues, the demand for seasonal flu shots has risen among city residents to protect themselves from other respiratory illnesses in the wake of winter season which sees rise in influenza or flu cases caused by several viruses including swine flu. The vaccines in demand include those for swine flu and pneumonia . Times ViewThe rush for flu shots reflects a sense of panic among a section of people, whereas there are many who are taking Covid-19 casually. Those panicking need to keep patience and consult doctors before going for the flu vaccine or any other medication, while those not taking due precautions need to realise that they can check the second wave of the pandemic simply by following safety protocols.While private dealers say the demand in November has shot up by 20-30%, doctors in government hospitals say an increasing number of patients are coming with requests for anti-flu vaccines. The reason, say dealers and doctors, is that many people think that taking anti-flu shots will not only protect them from seasonal influenza and swine flu, but also against novel coronavirus. Though such vaccines cannot prevent Covid-19, people feel that protecting themselves from influenza will help in checking Covid-19 complications in case they catch the novel coronavirus infection. Jai Arora, a wholesale supplier of medicines in east UP, said, “The demand for anti-flu vaccines always increases in winter — from October till February. Until last year, we used to sell around 80-100 vaccines daily, but this year above 100 vials per day were sold in October and the number grew to average 150 daily in November.” Satpal Singh, a Chowk-based medicine retailer, said, “We are getting demand of 40-45 vials every week in November in comparison to 20-25 last year.” Dr Vikram Verma, a private medical practitioner in Indiranagar, said, “There is no evidence so far that anti-flu shots will check Covid-19, but this year an increasing number of people are coming for getting their kids and themselves vaccinated at the start of the winter season. Until last year, the number of such people used to be less. Earlier hardly any older people used to get themselves vaccinated, but now many in their 50s or above are coming for the shots.” Dr Kalyan Malik, pulmonologist in a private hospital in Thakurganj, said they are getting requests for flu vaccines from people suffering from bronchial asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and diabetes. In government hospitals too, patients suffering from respiratory viruses are coming for flu and pneumococcal (for pneumonia) vaccines. Dr Himanshu Chaturvedi, medical superintendent at Balrampur Hospital, said, “There has been an increase in seasonal flu patients. Many of them ask for vaccination hoping that it would at least provide protection from swine flu and other influenza viruses if not Covid-19.” Dr Vikram Singh, medical superintendent at Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences, said that awareness about vaccines has gone up which is good sign because it will protect people from flu. We are also advising vaccination to patients, especially elderly, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/demand-for-flu-vaccines-surges-as-winter-sets-in/articleshow/79469741.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
November 29, 2020||Patna||Many students, teachers and parents favour delayed exams||PATNA: Amid the growing anxiety over the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic and its repercussions on study, many students and their parents want the Class X and XII board and competitive examinations early next year to be postponed for some time. Union minister for education Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank on Friday invited the views of students, parents and teachers on how and when to conduct these exams. “Dear students, I understand that 2020 hasn’t been the best year for you & you have been worried about your future. I will be meeting you live on Dec 3 to discuss the upcoming competitive & board exams. Share your concerns/suggestions with me using #EducationMinisterGoesLive (sic),” he tweeted. Adeeba Obaid, a Class XII student of Notre Dame Academy, said the board examinations should be slightly postponed in view of the pandemic. “The syllabus is about to complete, but we need time for revision. I think the exams should start from March- end and the competitive exam after the board exams,” she said. Pragya Narayan, a Class XII student of Patna Central School, also favoured exam postponement. She said the board examinations as well as the competitive exams like NEET and JEE should be postponed to May or June, so that students may get more time for study. Vikram Aditya of DAV Public School said, “The syllabus is reduced. But we still need more time to prepare for the board exams, as we are only done with 60-65% of the syllabus. In online mode, the teachers are teaching at a slower pace compared to offline classes. We also need time for the practical to understand the topics,” Aditya said. “The 30% reduction in syllabus was not very helpful. Only the easy topics were removed while we still have to study all the complex topics, which take time to understand,” said, Aditya Kumar, a Class X student of Gyan Niketan. A resident of Gola Road, Pradeep Sen’s daughter Divya studies in Class X. “As the session was delayed due to the pandemic, the kids need time to prepare for the board exams, which should be slightly postponed keeping the delay of session in mind,” he said. Farhat Hasan, directress of International School, said the exams should be conducted as per the pandemic situation. “The exam dates should be extended, if the situation is bad, because the kids are the super-spreader and the situation may turn worse. If the situation is good then extra precaution should be taken for the containment of the virus,” she said. Abha Chaudhary, a chemistry teacher at Notre Dame Academy, said the exams should be delayed by a month but the syllabus should not be reduced. St Joseph’s Convent High School teacher Alka Choudhary Jha, however, said the examinations should be held on time unless the whole session is delayed. “The syllabus has already been reduced and online classes are going on. Students also get time for self-study at home,” she argued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/many-students-teachers-and-parents-favour-delayed-exams/articleshow/79467523.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 29, 2020||Patna||New cabin ropeway at Rajgir likely to be ready by year-end||BIHARSHARIF: After a delay of almost two and a half years, the new cabin-type eight-seater ropeway at Rajgir is expected to be operational by the end of this year. Nalanda DM Yogendra Kumar Singh said on Saturday that the mechanical works have already been completed. “Altogether 22 cabins imported from Austria and the wheels have been attached to the cables. Some minor civil works, including construction of platform and ticket cabin, are expected to be completed by December 25,” he said. The new ropeway was initially slated to be inaugurated by President Ram Nath Kovind on October 25 last year, when he opened the 50th anniversary of Vishwa Shanti Stupa atop Ratnagiri hill. But it was deferred due to a rock that hindered the movement of the ropeway during trial run on October 15, 2019. It took the construction company months to clear it. Chief minister Nitish Kumar had laid the foundation stone for the ropeway in 2015. RITES, an executing agency of Indian Railways, undertook construction work in 2016. The project is being looked after by Bihar State Tourism Development Corporation Limited, in partnership with Nalanda district administration, with an estimated outlay of Rs18 crore. It was originally slated to be completed in June, 2018. Once the new cabin ropeway becomes functional, children below age 10 and elderly and frail persons, who till now don’t use the existing chairlift ropeway fearing risk, would be able to enjoy the ride to the Vishwa Shanti Stupa. Also, the existing 1,000 feet long chairlift ropeway and the oldest in the country with 101 chairs attached to it will get a heritage status. The existing ropeway gifted by Fujii Nichidatsu, popularly called Fuji Guruji, a Japanese Buddhist monk and founder of the Nipponzan-Myohoji order of Buddhism, soon after the then President V V Giri inaugurated the Vishwa Shanti Stupa (World peace pagoda) in 1969.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/new-cabin-ropeway-at-rajgir-likely-to-be-ready-by-year-end/articleshow/79466663.cms||Farrukh Nadim
November 29, 2020||Patna||35 vehicles seized on Day 1 of eviction drive||PATNA: The district administration squads removed encroachments and seized 35 vehicles for illegal parking in different areas of the state capital on the first day of the drive on Saturday to ensure smooth traffic on the roads. They collected Rs1,02,600 as fines from the violators in Boring Road, Kankarbagh, Station Road and Raja Bazaar areas. Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal, along with DM Kumar Ravi, municipal commissioner Himanshu Sharma and traffic SP D Amarkesh, carried out the drive from Boring Road. Agarwal instructed the executive engineer of the road construction department (RCD) to take necessary action to widen the road from Boring Road roundabout to Pani Tanki and also construct a footpath after the encroachments were removed. “The road has become narrow due to encroachment. We have asked the civic body to remove the debris as well. The district officials have to submit a report within 2 days regarding the same,” he said. He also directed the officials concerned to create vehicle parking space on the municipal land situated on the west side of Pani Tanki diversion. “Around 3 acre land has been earmarked for parking of vehicles near Pani Tanki. It will also ensure smooth traffic flow on Boring Road as people often park their vehicles on road,” Agarwal said. Agarwal also asked the officials concerned to remove the dysfunctional transformers and electric poles from roads which are obstructing the traffic flow. A show-cause notice was served on a branded apparel shop in Boring Road area for illegal parking and littering garbage on the road. Besides, a special drive was conducted to penalize the violators for flouting the Motor Vehicles Act. The drive was also conducted in Saguna Mor, Raja Bazar, Station Road, Anisabad, Kargil Chowk and Hartali Mor areas. The motorists were also caught for flouting the Covid-19 safety norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/35-vehicles-seized-on-day-1-of-eviction-drive/articleshow/79467545.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Patna||Man arrested for raping 16-year-old girl||PATNA: A Class X student was allegedly raped by a youth when she was alone in her house under the Kajra police station area in Lakhisarai district on Friday. Police arrested the accused, Sunil Kumar, from his suspected hideout on Saturday. The 16-year-old girl told her parents about the incident when they returned home from their agricultural field in the evening. They immediately informed the Kajra police and later lodged a complaint at the women’s police station. The girl’s father told police that six other people, who are absconding, helped Sunil and were present on the spot at the time of the incident. The girl was sent to the Lakhisarai sadar hospital for medical examination. Her statement will be recorded in the court later. Illegal weapons seized: The Kaimur police unearthed a minigun factory on Saturday and seized one countrymade gun, two pistols, six rounds of ammunition, six semi-finished pistols and raw materials used in making illegal weapons. SP Dilnawaz Ahmad said a blacksmith, Ram Dular Sharma, of Tenara village had been running the gun factory since 1976. Man robbed: A gang of armed miscreants allegedly looted Rs 40,000, two cellphones and a laptop from one Amrendra Kumar near Balidani Durgasthan on the NH-31 under the Town police station area in Begusarai on Friday. The incident took place when the victim, a resident of Bagmara village, was on way to a local hospital to meet his relative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/man-arrested-for-raping-16-year-old-girl/articleshow/79467600.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Patna||Kidnapped JE released, 1 held||PATNA: One Mukesh Kumar Bharti, a junior engineer (JE) who was kidnapped for a huge ransom on Tuesday evening, was released near Bhartiya Nagar in Saharsa district on Friday night. His family informed police who reached his house and recorded his statement on Saturday on the basis of which Bharat Yadav, a resident of Mansi in Khagaria district, was arrested. SP Rakesh Kumar told mediapersons on Saturday that the JE was released due to police pressure. “Raids were carried out on the suspected hideouts of the criminals who thought it was better to release the captive,” he claimed, but denied that any ransom was paid to the kidnappers. Saharsa (sadar) DSP Santosh Kumar said the victim was dropped near Bhartiya Nagar, adjacent to the railway station, around 12.30am on Friday night. He informed his family who rushed to the spot and took him to his native village Sakrauli under the Simri Bakhtiarpur police station area of the district. “Raids have been launched to arrest the three accomplices of Bharat Yadav,” the DSP added. Sour Bazar police station SHO Jaishankar Prasad said the JE’s statement would be recorded in the court in a day or two.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/kidnapped-je-released-1-held/articleshow/79466686.cms||Ramashankar
November 29, 2020||Rajkot||Addl CS AK Rakesh mulls upgraded technology for Covid hospitals’ safety||Rajkot: A day after five Covid patients were killed in the fire that engulfed the ICU of Uday Shivanad hospital on Mavdi Road on Wednesday midnight, additional chief secretary A K Rakesh, who has been entrusted with the inquiry into the incident conducted an on-the-spot survey of the hospital on Saturday. Rakesh also held various meetings with police officers and municipal corporation officials in the circuit house and is expected to suggest several changes in the fire safety norms of Covid hospitals in the state. Talking to TOI, Rakesh said, “Generally all hospitals are equipped to fight fire exigencies. However, in case of Covid hospitals, what makes it even riskier here is the much higher use of oxygen, looking at the nature of the disease. Hence, oxygen being highly inflammable,once there is an electrical spark and the oxygen pipelines catch fire, it spreads very rapidly making it immensely difficult to control spread. We need to have some ultra modern facility where the moment temperature goes beyond a particular limit, it should start on its own without any human intervention. I am going to suggest this in my report.” Elaborating on his visit and about the statement of the hospital administration, the officer said, “The response was pretty quick, required permission is in place including fire NOC. They (hospital authorities) were using less load than then the power connection they had taken.” Uday Shivanand hospital is using nearly 10 ventilators including Dhaman-1. The other vantiltors under operation were manufactured by BHEL, Hamilton and Purtan Bennett 840. Altogether 24 private hospitals and the civil hospital is treating Covid-19 patients. According to the figures of Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC), 37 people are on ventilators and 208 on oxygen support as on Saturday. Vice president of Gujarat Pradesh Congress Committee, Dr Hemang Vasavda said, “We are suggesting the government to make new guidelines of fire safety for Covid hospitals. The equipment in Covid ICU functions non-stop for 24 hours and also carries a high dose of oxygen level. So the machinery needs to be rested periodically. For that, there should be surplus machinery in the ICU. The electric connection and wiring too should be strong.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/addl-cs-ak-rakesh-mulls-upgraded-technology-for-covid-hospitals-safety/articleshow/79468929.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Surat||SGCCI, SDA organise rally for Covid awareness||Surat: In a bid to spread awareness among the diamond workers on following the Covid-19 guidelines, the Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) and the Surat Diamond Association (SDA) jointly organised a rally covering Varachha and Mahidhapura diamond markets on Saturday. A ‘corona demon’ walked in the rally attended by the office-bearers of SGCCI and the SDA in the lanes and by-lanes of diamond markets with message to wear masks, maintain social distancing and undergo rapid antigen testing for various Covid-19 symptoms. The public awareness rally kick started from the SDA office at Mini Bazaar in Varachha where the members of the SGCCI led by its president Dinesh Navadiya, SDA president Nanu Vekariya and the industry stakeholders walked through the Choksi Bazaar and Varachha Road. Nanu Vekariya, president of SDA said, “A special appeal was made during the rally to the diamond workers to not hang out at the paan shops and avoid spitting on the roadside.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/sgcci-sda-organise-rally-for-covid-awareness/articleshow/79468007.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Patna||Patna reports 267 new Covid-19 cases||PATNA: Bihar reported 713 new coronavirus cases and five more deaths in the past 24 hours, taking the overall tally to 2,34,553 and toll to 1,253 on Saturday. The state’s recovery rate, however, was 97.08% as there were 5,586 active cases only. Of the new cases, 267 were reported from Patna, taking the district’s tally to 41,781. With 39,614 recoveries, there were 1,845 active cases in the district. Substantial number of fresh cases were also reported from Muzaffarpur (33), Katihar (25), Saharsa (24), Darbhanga (22), Supaul (22) and Vaishali (21). Patna officially reported two more deaths, taking the toll to 322, as per the state health department. One death each was reported from Aurangabad, Bhagalpur and Gaya. “Dr Siddheshwar Prasad Sinha of Munger is on the ventilator support. Former parliamentarian Dr C P Thakur’s health showed improvement and PMCH’s former superintendent Dr Lakhinder Prasad is stable,” said AIIMS-Patna nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar. AIIMS-P reported five deaths on Saturday. The deceased included a 20-year-old female from Phulkaha Chainpur in Kishanganj, a 40-year-old woman from Kirtan Bhawan Road in Madhubani and three men aged 60, 62 and 65 from Kurthol in Patna, Islam Nagar in Araria and Lal Bazaar in Purvi Champaran respectively. Dr Sanjeev said 18 new patients were admitted to the hospital and 17 got discharged. There were 162 Corona patients undergoing treatment at the hospital. NMCH reported no Covid casualty. Health minister Mangal Pandey said 1,36,770 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. “Altogether 668 people recovered from coronavirus in 24 hours,” he tweeted on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-reports-267-new-covid-cases/articleshow/79467709.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 29, 2020||Patna||Patna: Amid fresh curbs, couples ready to host intimate 100-guest weddings||PATNA: In the wake of a spurt in coronavirus cases and the consequent curbs imposed in the state, couples and their families are gearing up to host intimate 100-guest weddings. Some have even decided to postpone the ceremony. According to a fresh order issued by the state home department on Thursday, only 100 people are allowed at marriage functions instead of 200. Use of masks, thermal screening and hand sanitisation of guests at the entrance of the venue are mandatory, but ‘baraat’ processions are not permitted during weddings. Besides, the managers of marriage halls and hotels have to ensure safe disposal of masks, face covers and gloves. Gautam Singh, who is set to tie the knot with his fiancée on Monday, revised the guest list as soon as the new guidelines were issued by the government. “Since it is quite difficult to postpone the wedding now, we have requested our guests to send only one member from their families,” Gautam told this reporter on Saturday. Animesh Chaturvedi, who is also getting married on Monday, has decided to invite 100 guests each to his wedding and reception ceremonies. He said, “All arrangements have been made and cards distributed. It is too late to cancel the events.” Bride-to-be Meghna Jha has decided to take all precautionary measures at her wedding function on Monday. Many of her friends, who cannot attend the wedding due to the pandemic, will join the event virtually via videoconferencing. With the introduction of fresh guidelines, the staff of banquet halls and hotels, caterers and photographers are also making necessary changes. The manager of a city-based hotel, Nischit Sinha, said, “We allow only 100 guests in one hall. If a client has invited 200 people, we give them two halls.” The manager of another hotel, Kanchan Sharma, claimed that all the staff would wear PPE kits and ensure that everyone used masks. “We have also asked our clients to reduce the number of guests so that we can abide by the new guidelines,” she added. Bhubaneswar-based photographer Akhil Ranjan, who has been hired for a wedding in Patna, will take only a few team members to the function. “We do not want to violate the rules by exceeding the guest limit,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/amid-fresh-curbs-couples-ready-to-host-intimate-100-guest-weddings/articleshow/79467727.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Varanasi||Photos: Kashi ghats decked up for majestic festival||VARANASI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will celebrate Dev Deepawali in his parliamentary constituency on November 30 when the banks of holy Ganga will be illuminated with lakhs of diyas (earthen lamps) and façade lighting, presenting a spectacular view. Dev Deepawali, also known as the ‘Diwali of the Gods’ is celebrated in Varanasi on a grand scale. It is believed that gods descend on the earth on this day to bathe in the holy Ganga. The festival falls on the auspicious day of Kartik Purnima, 15 days after Diwali. The entire stretch of the banks of Ganga is illuminated with innumerable earthen lamps to welcome the gods and pay respect to Maa Ganga. After celebrating Diwali this year with soldiers at the border post of Longewala, PM Modi will be celebrating Dev Deepawali with the people of his constituency. Dev Deepawali festival is also a major tourist attraction, and the sight of lakhs of lamps, some floating in the Ganga, lighting the ghats and river in vivid colors has often been described by visitors and tourists as breathtaking. As the PM is visiting the city to take part in the festivities, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has himself taken command of the event and he visited the city on Friday to take stock of the preparations. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said, the 7.5km stretch of the river bank will be illuminated with 11 lakh earthen lamps, colourful electric lights and façade lights. The sand arts created on the opposite bank will also be illuminated with façade lights. Besides, cultural activities will also be held at 15 ghats adding grandeur to the festival. Arrangements have been made for live telecast of all the events during PM’s visit through LED screens. While briefing officials, the CM asked them to make the festival grander this time as the PM is visiting the city after nine months. He asked the officials to make zero-error arrangements for the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/varanasi-all-set-for-a-grandspectacle-on-dev-deepawali/articleshow/79469681.cms||Binay Singh
November 29, 2020||Varanasi||Four murders within 24 hours rock UP's Ballia district||VARANASI: Panic gripped Ballia as four murders rocked the district in 24 hours. A 56-year-old retired Indian Navy personnel was killed at his residence in Kotwali area on Friday night. A Dalit woman and her daughter were murdered at their house in Bhimpura police station area, while a 16-year-old girl was killed by a young man in Sikanderpur police station area on Friday. The police are investigating the murders. According to reports, the retired serviceman Ramesh Pratap Singh was found murdered in the lawns of his house in New Baheri locality of Ballia on late Friday night. His throat was slit by a sharp-edged weapon. Senior police officials reached the site after being informed. The dog squad was called and the CCTV footage are being checked to work out the case. Ramesh’s body was sent for postmortem. An FIR was lodged against unidentified persons under Section 302 of IPC. Ballia SP Devendra Nath said that the matter was being investigated. In another incident, a 16-year-old girl Ritika Sahani was allegedly murdered by a youth identified as Sayyad Ali in broad daylight in a field in Narayanpur Mathiya village in Sikanderpur area of Ballia. The villagers caught the youth and handed him over to the police. The SP also visited the village to take account of the incident. Heavy police force has been deployed in the village to avert any untoward incident. Two women Surjawati Devi (54) and her daughter Rani (21) were also found murdered in the Dalit basti of Ahirauli village in Bhimpura area of Ballia on Friday. Surjawati’s husband Virendra Ram lives away in Varanasi as he is posted in Varanasi’s electricity department. A villager found Surjawati and Rani murdered and informed the police. The police sent the bodies for postmortem. According to Ballia SP, they were killed with a blunt object. Police have detained a few persons for interrogation. Further investigation is underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/four-murders-within-24-hrs-rock-ballia-dist/articleshow/79469704.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Madurai||Overgrown hyacinths removed from Vaigai||Madurai: Following complaints from residents and activists, the Madurai Corporation and the public works department (PWD) on Saturday took up work to clean the hyacinths from the Vaigai river. The overgrowth of hyacinths had been increasing in the last few weeks and covered the entire river between Puthupalam and Obulapadithurai. This obstructed the movement of water especially in the wake of the recent rains. Residents from Alwarpuram complained that mosquito menace has increased in the area due to the overgrowth of hyacinths. “We could not sleep peacefully at night due to the swarming mosquitoes and the days are no better. Children develop allergies due to mosquito bites,” V Valliammal, a resident said. Members of Vaigai Nathi Makkal Iyakkam said that untreated sewage water is mixing in the Vaigai river. Hyacinth is hindering the movement of sewage mixed water, resulting in the stark bad smell emanating from it. It took many days for the officials to act on the issue, although they had raised it long back, they said. A PWD official said that the only issue caused by hyacinth is decreased oxygen level in water, which affects aquatic species. There is no connection between hyacinths and increased mosquito menace in residential areas, he said. “The issue crops up every year. It is the responsibility of Madurai Corporation to clear it. Although they used to do it regularly, they have not taken up the work recently, resulting in overgrowth,” he said. While the hyacinths at the check dam at Obulapadithurai were cleared by opening the dam, six earthmovers – two provided by the corporation and four by the PWD - involved in cleaning work near Puthupalam. Most of the hyacinths were removed in the work, which lasted till the evening, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/overgrown-hyacinths-removed-from-vaigai/articleshow/79469327.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Rajkot||Three injured in group clash over love affair in Jamnagar||Rajkot: Three persons were injured in a clash between two groups that erupted over an issue of a love affair between a youth and a girl in Lalpur of Jamnagar district on Friday.Police said the accused, Akram Halu, Aslam Halu, Gulmamad, Amad, Sabir Hussein and Harun, allegedly attacked Razak Ibrahim, Arif Solanki and Majid Solanki at Husseini Chowk locality of Lalpur.While Ibrahim received a fracture injury in his left leg, Arif and Majid received injuries on different parts of their bodies. The assailants fled from the spot after Arif's uncle Osman Sama fired in the air from his 12 bore gun.“According to the complaint lodged by Arif, the attack was the result of a love affair between his cousin and a girl from the family of the accused,” said an official from Lalpur police station.“The accused were against the relationship between Arif's cousin and their daughter, and, according to Arif’s complaint, had picked up a fight with Arif and his family members in the past,” added the official.Meanwhile, the police have launched a manhunt for the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-injured-in-group-clash-over-love-affair-in-jamnagar/articleshow/79469208.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Patna||Alarm bells ring as hospitals flout Covid waste norms||PATNA: At a time when the state health department is gearing up to tackle a possible second wave of Covid-19, hospitals in the city, including PMCH and NMCH, have been found littered with discarded PPE kits and bio-medical waste such as syringes, empty saline bottles, used masks and gloves. Dr Harendra Kumar, a junior doctor at PMCH, said one can easily spot the pile of biomedical waste in the open area near the post-mortem house and the hostel for junior doctors. “We have earlier protested against the untreated medical waste and pile of garbage, but no action has been taken. Even the pile of garbage has increased aid the pandemic,” he said. Several patients and visitors are moving around at the hospital without any protective gear. One such patient from Hajipur, said, “I’m here for treatment, but the situation here looks pathetic. I use my face-mask at public places but since I’m at the hospital I thought it was not necessary.” Dr Vidyapati Choudhary, PMCH’s principal told this newspaper that the hospital has an incinerator to safely dispose of medical waste, however, doctors carelessly throw away biomedical waste. “It is not possible to keep tab on all departments. Besides, the PMC does not collect the waste regularly from the hospital,” he said. Dr Binod Kumar Singh, NMCH superintendent said dustbins have been placed at several points, so the health workers would not throw the medical waste casually. “Sometimes, patients also dumped the mask and tubes at hospital premises. However, we are taking all precautions to ensure the containment of the virus,” he said. The Bihar State Pollution Control Board (BSPCB) has served several warnings and show-cause notices to the hospital administrations. Earlier in July, a notice was issued to five health facilities- AIIMS- Patna, PMCH, NMCH- Patna, IGIC and IGIMS for not following the norms of proper disposal of biomedical waste during the pandemic. Ashok Ghosh, director of BSPCB, said the officials would conduct the inspection of all the health facilities from Monday onwards. “During the election, our activities remained suspended. Now everything is settled, we will start the inspection of the hospitals where Covid patients are being treated. If the hospitals, failed to comply with the order then action will be taken as per the rules,” he said. He added: “The negligence shows the irresponsible behaviour of the medical fraternity. They should have set the example by following the medical safety norms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/alarm-bells-ring-as-hospitals-flout-covid-waste-norms/articleshow/79467653.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 29, 2020||Madurai||Frothing Sellur tank raises a stink, residents fume||Madurai: Sellur tank has started frothing after the recent rain filled it up to its brim. Copious amount of froth is collected in the outlet channel after it started overflowing into the Vaigai, raising concern among local people. The froth, which is flowing through the Panthalkudi channel, had accumulated to a height of six feet near the outlet point. Even though the fire and rescue personnel cleaned the froth to an extent on Saturday morning, it continues to spew froth again. A large number of people visited the place to see the unusual phenomenon. Activists in the city said that Sellur tank is the end point of a chain of waterbodies, which receives overflowing water from Sathaiyar dam. Sellur tank was used for irrigating agricultural fields around the tank a few decades ago. Later, when agricultural activities gave way to ‘development’ activities, the tank lost its relevance. Residents started realizing the importance of the tank only recently when the groundwater level had dipped drastically. R Abubackar of Neer Nilaigai Pathugappu Iyakkam said froth is formed as a result of the presence of untreated sewage in the water. Sewage water from thousands of houses in Madurai Corporation enters the channel that carries water to Sellur tank. “We have raised the issue several times, but no action has been taken to address it so far,” he said. It is high time that the tank be saved against encroachments and pollution. The tank, which was originally 230 acres, has shrunk to 95 acres now. Hyacinths have also grown, adding to the pollution, Abubackar said. P Senthil, a resident of Sellur, said the revival and upkeep of Sellur tank is important for them as it works as a percolation point. They never felt water shortage whenever there was water in the tank, he said. A corporation official said that the tank is maintained by the public works department. The issue of sewage water entering waterbodies will be addressed once the Rs 290 crore underground drainage project is completed, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/frothing-sellur-tank-raises-a-stink-residents-fume/articleshow/79469373.cms||V Devanathan
November 29, 2020||Goa||Betim gurudwara to celebrate Guru Nanak Dev’s birth anniversary||Panaji: Gurudwara Shri Guru Singh Sabha in Betim will come alive with religious activities on November 29 and 30, as the 551st birth anniversary of Saheb Shri Guru Nanak Dev ji is set to be celebrated with great fervour. The gurudwara has stated that worshippers will be allowed only in batches for celebrations and langar. The birth anniversary of Saheb Shri Guru Nanak Dev ji is among the biggest events in the calendar of the Sikh community. Every year around 3,000 to 4,000 devotees visit the Betim gurudwara for the event. But due to pandemic this year, the elderly and children have been asked to observe the occasion at home as a precautionary measure, said gurudwara president Harvinder Singh. Around 800 to 1,000 devotees are likely to visit this year, said Singh. “The birth anniversary will be observed on Sunday and Monday and devotees are welcome from 12.30pm to 2.30pm. Ragijatha Amarjitsingh Patiawale and katha vachak Charanjit Singh from Patnasaheb will recite the gurubani and katha,” said Singh. “Betim gurudwara also welcomes people from other faiths to seek blessings and also partake in the langar,” he said, adding, Meanwhile, governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari extended his greetings to the residents of Goa celebrating Gurupurab. “I extend my heartiest greetings and best wishes to the people of Goa, particularly the Sikh brethren. On this festive occasion of Guru Nanak Jayanti, let us replenish our minds with his valuable teachings so as to live in peace and harmony”, the governor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/betim-gurudwara-to-celebrate-guru-nanak-devs-birth-anniversary/articleshow/79469379.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Rajkot||Shivanand Mission was reluctant in giving building for Covid hospital||Rajkot: The Shivanand Mission Trust that owns the Covid-19 hospital building where five persons were killed after a fire in ICU unit, was reluctant in leasing the premises. However, after several requests from the district administration, it leased its premises to Gokul Hospital for setting up the Covid-19 hospital (Uday Shivanand Hospital) in September. According to the trustee of the Shivanand Mission Trust, they have been running an eye hospital on the ground floor for the building for the last 30 years providing treatment at nominal rates. Talking to TOI Ashok Mehta, joint managing trustee of the trust said, “We had earlier given our building to another hospital on lease. But it was a bad experience. Thereafter the trust had decided not to give the building to anybody.” Moreover, if a Covid hospital was set up in the building our eye patients won’t come for treatment, he added. “I got calls from additional collector’s office requesting to give the building for Covid hosptial as the number of coronavirus patients were increasing and the government was in need of more beds,” Mehta said. After much persuasion, the trust agreed to lease the building to Gokul Hospital. It was decided that the Gokul Hospital will pay Rs 5 lakh every month to the trust as compensation for the eye hospital. The building was leased for use for four months from September to January 2021. Mehta said that that the Gokul Hospital had obtained all the required permission. “But they were charging high fees from the patients which is against the principle of our trust,” Mehta said. The opposition Congress on Friday had alleged that the collector office had pressurised the trust to give the building to Gokul Hospital. In response to the allegation, district collector Remya Mohan said, “The allegations are baseless. The agreement is signed between Gokul Hospital and trust and there is no role of the administration. We motivate many private hospitals to set up Covid facilities so that people get enough bed and that’s a part of official duty.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/shivanand-mission-was-reluctant-in-giving-building-for-covid-hospital/articleshow/79468944.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Kanpur||Jobless man hacks 7-year-old son to death, arrested||Kanpur: In a shocking incident, a depressed 43-year-old jobless man allegedly strangled his seven-year old son to death in Seesamau area of the city. Alankar Srivastava (43), a private worker, who confessed to the crime before the police, has been take into custody. Alankar and his wife Sarika and their two minors daughters -Tulika (16), Geetika (10) and seven-year-old son, Rushank alias Tarush, were living in Lakadmandi area in Seesamau. According to Sarika, a teacher at a government basic school in Kannauj’s Radaura village, her husband apprised her at around 5 am on Saturday that he had killed Rushank. She immediately informed her relatives, who reached the house in a rush and alerted the local police. The police had also arrived by the time. “Sarika said Alankar killed their son late on Friday night and went to sleep with the body in the drawing room. At around 5 am, her husband visited their bed room and after waking her up apprised her that he had killed their son and said that now no one would trouble their son, he is now taking a restful sleep,” said Inspector Seesamau Mahesh Veer Singh. “The boy’s body was thereafter shifted to mortuary. An FIR has been lodged by boy’s mother against his father. The family members are still in a shock and we are yet to record their statement,” he added. As per the family members, boy’s father used to love him a lot, and still they can’t believe how Alankar be so ruthless. The family members said Alankar was being treated for depression after losing job job during the lockdown. He was always worried about her children’s future and education, they said. The police booked Alankar under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/jobless-man-hacks-7-year-old-son-to-death-arrested/articleshow/79469708.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Lucknow||TOI Water Positive drive an effort to conserve biodiversity: Uttar Pradesh CM||LUCKNOW: Calling Times Group’s Water Positive campaign an effort to conserve humanity and biodiversity, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said that his government would extend all possible support to the drive. Speaking at the Times Water Summit, powered by Mantena Constructions in association with knowledge partner Xylem, the chief minister said that conservation of water is must for the survival of all living beings. Uttar Pradesh, he said, has abundance of both surface and ground water, what is needed is its proper management and recharge. “We have worked on the rejuvenation of 15 rivers in the past three and a half years and now the Ganga is so clean in Varanasi that one can spot dolphin in the holi river,” the CM said, adding “the rejuvenation of the river has reignited the `astha’ (faith) of the people in the river which is highly revered and worshipped by millions of Indians.” Six years ago, people refrained from taking a dip in the Ganga as its water threatened to inflict boils on their skin, the CM said. “That is no more the case now. There is a sense of realisation that the purity of Ganga has been restored. This was very much visible during last year’s Prayagraj Kumbh when crores took holy dip in the river,” he added. Yogi underlined how water was sacred to various rituals in Sanatan parampara (tradition) and formed an important part of river `sanskriti’ (culture) which was intrinsic to the life of millions of people of this country. “Even our ‘shastras’ have written mantras with the help of water,” he said. Highlighting the ambitious `Namami Gange’ programme, Yogi said that efforts of the government was essentially aimed at taking necessary steps towards purification of the Ganga and other rivers which are equally revered. “Water is a reflection of life,” Yogi said, pointing out the twin challenges of keeping the ground water as well as surface water clean and preserved. He stressed on the Varanasi model and Chitrakoot model for recharging the ground water. Yogi also said that it was because of the efforts taken by the state government to purify the groundwater that the number of cases pertaining to Japanese Encephalitis came down drastically in the past three years. The resolve of the state government in tackling JE, he said, were going on despite the pandemic. UP Jal Shakti minister Mahendra Singh said that the state government was determined not to let any struggle or war happen because of the water crisis. Singh said that the state government would be deploying 6000 piezometers to estimate ground water situation in the state and come out with a Jal Niti soon for conservation and recharging of water. He said that though UP occupied 16% of India’s population, it had only 4% of surface water. He said that the state government was committed to take on challenges like fast depleting ground water which often gets affected with fluoride, carriage of water to agricultural land and discharging rainwater into rivers. He said that the state government, nevertheless, overcame challenges and now seeks to take steps for irrigating an additional 20 lakh hectares of agricultural land in the time to come. UP chief secretary RK Tewari said that that shortage of water could spell disaster. He said that the amount of rainfall has also decreased over a period of time, triggering acute water crisis in some places of the state. He said that the existence of green cover formed an important aspect in conservation and preservation of water bodies in the state. Tewari pointed out how the state government managed to plant 17 crore saplings in the past three years as part of an effort aimed to address the problem of water scarcity. The event saw senior bureaucrats and technical experts highlighting various aspects pertaining to water conservation during a panel discussion. Additional chief secretary (agriculture) Devesh Chaturvedi said that the state government was moving towards becoming water efficient by taking various steps which include maintaining water efficiency in crop management. “The mantra of per drop more crop was a driving force for the agricultural department,” he said. His views were dittoed by engineer-in-chief, irrigation department, VK Niranjan who said that the department focus was now on reducing water losses which are as high as 50%. He said that the department was encouraging farmers to go in for minor irrigation techniques like drip water irrigation and sprinkler irrigation which help in conserving water and reducing its wastage. Niranjan said that the department was now working towards provisioning piped water irrigation techniques which further reduces water losses while increasing the efficiency of water carriage between the source of water to the agricultural field. Shyam Chaudhari of Xylem emphasised on smart irrigation techniques and said that a smart approach held the key to water conservation in the days to come. He categorically stressed on the need for a robust irrigation infrastructure envisaging regular maintenance of dams, to serve the purpose. “A lot has been done and a lot is yet to be done as water management was an ongoing process,” said Pradeep Khatri of Xylem as he made concluding remarks after the summit. He said that a new water policy of the state government, framed in 2019, would seek to address various problems pertaining to groundwater contamination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-toi-water-positive-drive-aneffort-to-conserve-biodiversity/articleshow/79469752.cms||Pankaj Shah
November 29, 2020||Patna||Bihar's Kuchaikote MLA’s two supporters killed||PATNA: Four bike-borne criminals gunned down two persons and injured a passerby in a gang rivalry at Rajapur Bazar under the Gopalpur police station area in Gopalganj district on Saturday. The deceased, identified as Devendra Pandey and Dhanshyam Pandey, were the supporters of controversial JD(U) MLA from Kuchaikote, Amrendra Kumar Pandey alias Pappu Pandey. Two of the assailants were caught and thrashed by a mob before being handed over to the police. The condition of one of them is stated to be critical. The incident took place around 9.20am when Devendra and Dhanshyam were at a roadside tea stall. While Devendra (46), a contractor and resident of Gopalpur, died on the spot, Ghanshyam (42) of Salha succumbed to his injuries at a hospital in neighbouring Gorakhpur. The passerby, identified as Rangeela Chauhan, is undergoing treatment at the Sadar hospital in Gopalganj. He is a fish trader from Barhara. The daylight firing created panic among the traders, who downed their shutters. Ghanshyam was the husband of Rubi Devi, a DBC member of Barhara panchayat in the district. Eyewitnesses Rajat Shahi and Munna Choubey told the police that the local residents chased the assailants and caught two of them. They introduced themselves as Imteyaz and Hasmuddin of Kubersthan under Kushi Nagar district of Uttar Pradesh. Raids on to nab two other shooters: DSPDSP Naresh Paswan said the reason behind the firing was yet to be ascertained. “Raids are on to nab the two other shooters,” he said. The incident is stated to be a fallout of the murder of RJD leader J P Yadav’s parents and his brother at their Rupnagar village a few months ago. Yadav had, however, survived the murderous attack, authoritative sources said. MLA Pandey, his elder brother Satish Pandey and his son Mukesh Pandey were named accused in the triple murder case. However, the allegations against the lawmaker were not found to be true during investigation carried out by the CID. Satish and Mukesh, the latter being the district board chairman, were arrested. Though the triple murder case was made an issue during the recent assembly election, Amrendra got elected for the second time on the JD(U) ticket. The locals apprehended that the Saturday’s incident may trigger political rivalry in the district. At least half a dozen people have lost their lives in the war of supremacy in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/kuchaikote-mlas-2-supporters-killed/articleshow/79467763.cms||Ramashankar
November 29, 2020||Agra||UP cop succumbs a month after being shot bymen who wanted to kill BJP functionary’s son||Agra: Harvendra Singh, a 32-year-old UP police constable, who was "accidentally" shot at by a group of men on a "revenge" mission to kill the son of a former BJP district president of Mainpuri four weeks ago, succumbed to his injuries in Agra on Saturday morning. The constable was deployed as a gunner with Shivam Chauhan, the son of the BJP functionary. Mainpuri police have, meanwhile, arrested one Bhola Rathor, a member of the assailant team involved in the cop’s killing. He was hurt after a brief encounter. Sub-inspector Jogender Yadav was also injured, police said. Police have announced rewards of Rs 1 lakh and Rs 50,000 against the main accused Anshu Gaur and Guddu Chauhan, respectively, for their arrest. During interrogation, Bhola, a resident of Farrukhabad, told police that a six-member team was formed to eliminate Shivam. Guddu wanted to take revenge for a long pending dispute, and his close friend Gaur was also part of the plot. Executing the plan, all six men went to kill Shivam, but they shot at his gunner, who was not in his uniform. When Guddu broke the car’s window to ensure Shivam was dead, he found an injured person inside, who was not the "actual target". Mainpuri SP Ajay Kumar said that an FIR was registered against unidentified persons. Attackers wore masks and helmets when they shot 15 to 20 rounds at Shivam’s car but later with the help of CCTV footage and surveillance team, the police were able to track down one of the accused. The other accused will be picked up in the next 24 hours, Kumar added. He pointed out that Guddu, Gaur and the other members of the team were involved in several criminal cases in the past. Notably, Shivam's father Madan Chauhan was killed in January 2017, when he was sitting outside his petrol pump. Harvendra, the deceased cop, had joined the police force in 2011. He was a resident of Agra and is survived by his wife and two children. SP Kumar said that his family will be provided all necessary financial help according to the government norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/up-cop-succumbs-a-month-after-being-shot-bymen-who-wanted-to-kill-bjp-functionarys-son/articleshow/79466982.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
November 29, 2020||Madurai||SL nationals jailed for smuggling||Madurai: Six Sri Lankan nationals, who were caught carrying huge hauls of drugs, were remanded in a prison in Tuticorin on Saturday. Judicial magistrate II R H Uma Devi ordered the narcotics control bureau officials to remand them in judicial custody at the Perurani jail on Saturday. The boat with narcotic substance from Pakistan was on its way to Australia, when the coast guard officials from Tuticorin had intercepted the boat and seized the narcotic substances hidden in the empty fuel tank and arrested the Sri Lankan nationals on Wednesday (Nov 25). Total 100 kg of heroin, 20 packets of synthetic drugs, five 9mm pistols and Thuraya satellite phone were seized from them. The arrested people were questioned by various central intelligence agencies, Tuticorin police, research and analysis wing and national investigation agency before handing them over to narcotics control bureau (NCB). The Sri Lankan nationals were identified by the Tuticorin police sources as Suriya Jeevan, 29, Suriya Santha Manuvel, 50, Lakshmanan Kumar, 37, Saantha Suniman, 25, N Sameera, 32, and Nishath Kamakaye, 46, all from Negombo city. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sl-nationals-jailed-for-smuggling/articleshow/79469380.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid hospitals need fire shield||Ahmedabad: The death of five patients at Uday Shivanand Hospital in Rajkot was a deadly déjà vu for Amdavadis who had been shocked by the death of eight patients in August in the city. What was behind the tragedy? Was it just faulty design, lack of documents such as fire NOC, or poor training of staff? City-based experts said that the problem is greater than the sum of these issues. They pointed to the unique treatment requirements for the Covid-19 viral infection as the primary reason for designated hospitals to be extra cautious. The experts highlighted three vital factors to look out for: the use of oxygen in treatment, altering the design of the ward/building to accommodate Covid needs, and increased electrical load on the system. Rajesh Bhatt, additional chief fire officer, Ahmedabad Fire and Emergency Services (AFES), said that hospitals must take extra precautions because critical patients may not be able to evacuate on their own. “There should not be any major change in the building use or design. Makeshift arrangements make the premises vulnerable to fire accidents,” he said. “The fire audit must include the identification of exit points, natural and mechanical ventilation, electrification system and load based on the usage.” The Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA), identifying some of these issues after the Shrey Hospital fire, had distributed a checklist to member hospitals. Dr Alpa Namaha, the chairperson of the Fire Safety Committee of AHNA, said that along with physical inspection, the staff at several hospitals were trained to identify possible fire hazards and report them to the management. The committee also made a list of trusted suppliers for electrical equipment. “Realizing the importance of outlets for smoke after a fire incident, several member hospitals replaced fixed windows with grills or slider windows,” she said. Fire experts sounded a caution about handling oxygen. While the majority of hospitals have outdoor units for oxygen cylinders or tanks, some hospitals have storage area underground. If not checked properly, that could be hazardous, said experts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-hospitals-need-fire-shield/articleshow/79468410.cms||Parth Shastri
November 29, 2020||Goa||At 198, Goa sees highest number of Covid cases in 2 weeks||PANAJI: Goa reported 198 Covid-19 positive cases on Saturday, the highest number of infections reported in the last two weeks. On the bright side, no Covid deaths were reported and as many as 163 people were cured. The tally of active cases stood at 1,347. The case positivity rate increased to 8%, a point more than Friday. For the last two days, over 5,000 tests have been conducted. As many as 48 patients were shifted to Covid hospitals, while 109 opted for home isolation. Since the last two weeks, daily new infections have ranged between 100 to 150. Saturday’s marginal rise in infections could be attributed to Diwali festivities. A health officer in South Goa said that post Diwali, there has been a rise in the number of people coming for testing. The increase can also partly be attributed to more people travelling and out of the state, too. “Many report for testing if they experience the slightest symptoms,” she said. However, she said it would be immature to say whether there would be another rise in cases, as was seen during the last three to four months. “I don’t think we will have a big spike again, but there may be a small rise in numbers in a week or so. A lot will depend on people complying with preventive measures put in place,” she said. Across the state, people are already alarmed by the rise in domestic tourists, many of whom roam about in public without wearing masks, fail to maintain social distance and move about in groups while on sight-seeing trips. Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar said 53 people, including tourists, were fined for not wearing masks in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/at-198-state-sees-highest-number-of-cases-in-2-weeks/articleshow/79469412.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Water release from Temghar to complete pending repairs||PUNE: The state irrigation department has released water from the Temghar reservoir into Khadakwasla to make way for pending repairs to the structure. The pending work is expected to cost over Rs700 crore and the department said it was waiting for the state government’s permission. On Saturday, the water level in the dam dipped to 85%. The irrigation department aims to bring the stock down to the 50% mark by January. Leaks had sprung up on the wall of the dam at the rate of 2,500 litres per second (LPS) in 2016, forcing officials to initiate repairs. As per a recent inspection, the seepage came down to 173.1 LPS during this year’s monsoon — the first time this number dropped below 200. “There has been gradual drop in the rate of seepage. For nearly a month during the monsoon, the dam stored 100% water. It was then that we had observed seepage at the rate of 173.1 LPS, which indicates that the our earlier repairs were carried out effectively,” an irrigation official said. As per official data, in 2016, water was leaking through the dam wall at the rate of 2,576 LPS, prompting immediate repairs. In 2017, the seepage dropped to 1,100 LPS and went further down to 400 LPS the year after. In 2019, the seepage had dropped to around 250 LPS, officials said. “About 93% of the seepage has been arrested so far. However, about 20% of grouting work and 60% of shortcrete treatment are still pending,” the official said. The pending work needs permission from the state government, the official said. The revised project report covering the pending work was by the technical committee to the government for the further approval. The proposal for around Rs710.9 crore includes completion of the remaining work and strengthening the wall. Officials they expect to get permission to begin the remainder of the work in January and plan to complete everything by June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/water-release-from-temghar-to-complete-pending-repairs/articleshow/79469838.cms||Sarang Dastane
November 29, 2020||Lucknow||Makeover for Dilkusha Lawn, new club on cards||Lucknow: A Dilkusha Club will soon come up in Lucknow Cantonment. While Dilkusha lawn will get a makeover, a club will come up on its premises in an area of approximate 20,000 sq ft to attract visitors and generate revenue for the Cantonment Board. The proposal for the club and other public welfare projects were approved in a meeting of Lucknow Cantonment Board on Saturday. Work will start on the projects in next few months. Dilkusha Club will have facilities like wedding hall, bridal room, additional rooms, sports complex and food court. “It will take about a year for the club to come up. Weddings and other social gatherings are already being organised at Dilkusha Lawn against the backdrop of historical Dilkusha Kothi for several years. The club will come up on the lines of MB Club and Surya Officers’ Club. It will be an asset for us,” said chief executive officer (CEO) of Lucknow Cantonment Board Amit Mishra. To boost revenue, a proposal of providing land on 30-year lease for commercial purposes in Cantonment area was also approved in the meeting. A 0.26 acre land on MG Road, 0.43 acre land near Mall Avenue railway crossing and a part of Dilkusha Garden will be given for lease. “We are looking at PPP model. The area will be used for commercial properties like restaurants or malls,” the CEO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/makeover-for-dilkusha-lawn-new-club-on-cards/articleshow/79469743.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Kanpur||Police crack murder case within 24 hrs||Jhansi: Cracking the murder mystery of a woman within 24 hours after she was shot dead on Friday, police arrested her two brothers-in-law for the crime on Saturday. The woman was shot by the elder brother-in-law who was having an affair with her while the younger brother-in-law has been charged for concealing the weapon. According to reports, a 26-year-old woman, Pooja Jaiswal, who had gone for a morning walk was shot dead opposite the commissioner's office on early Friday morning by an unidentified person. SSP Jhansi, Dinesh Kumar P during a press briefing said that the eldest brother Om Prakash Jaiswal (43) had shot the woman. Giving further details, the SSP said, “During investigations, the accused, who is a taxi operator, revealed that he was having an extramarital affair with the deceased for the past 5-6 years”. Recently, he started suspecting that Pooja was involved with someone else so he thought to eliminate her, the SSP said quoting the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/police-crack-murder-case-within-24-hrs/articleshow/79469713.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Madurai||10th century Mahaveer idol found in Ramnad||Ramanthapuram: A 10th century AD Mahaveer idol was discovered near R S Mangalam in Ramanathapuram district on Thursday. The idol of the 24th Jain Tirthankara Mahaveer, which was intact, except for the face which was disfigured, was found in Anandhur, when construction work was initiated for the construction of a new mandapam in the Siva temple in the village, according to president of the Ramanathapuram Archaeological Society, V Rajaguru. The idol was found among the debris of the old maha mandapam, which was demolished. This idol is three feet in height and 1.5 feet in width, and has been sculptured with Mahaveer sitting on top of a pedestal. There are three lions engraved in the pedestal and the Mahaveer is seen seated in the Artha Pariyanga asana, on the royal seat above it. The face of the idol is damaged, and there is a prabhavali, triple umbrella and Ashoka tree above his head. The idol is flanked by two yakshas on the two sides. Rajaguru said that the intricate design of the idol shows that this place would have been the seat of a Jain school about 2,000 years ago. There is evidence that there were establishments for propagation of Jainism in places including Periyapattinam, Melakidaram, Keezhaseethai, Keezhasakkulam, Pasumpon, Kamuthi, Pokkanarenthal, Malaarumbur, Arungulam, Tirupullani, Pullukudi, Pulloor, Pullangudi, Soodiyur among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/10th-century-mahaveer-idol-found-in-ramnad/articleshow/79469411.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Mumbai||BMC to screen 50 lakh people for tuberculosis, leprosy from December 1||MUMBAI: BMC will begin a door-to-door survey to screen 50 lakh people for tuberculosis and leprosy from Tuesday. Health staff conducting the survey, which will cover high-risk population and densely populated areas, will also carry pulse oximeters and temperature guns to check for Covid-19. While BMC carried out a similar survey last year, the need for another survey is acute this year as Covid has adversely affected the number of people seeking treatment. “We have at least 40% fewer registrations of TB patients this year, as compared to previous years,”' said BMC executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare. The city usually sees 60,000 TB cases annually and few hundred leprosy cases. A chest medicine specialist said many existing patients did not turn up for follow-ups and people with early TB symptoms, such as chronic cough for over 15 days and low-grade fever, may have chosen to stay quiet for fear of being quarantined. “Many slum-dwellers don’t want to get tested as they fear they will be quarantined for 14 days or more,’’ said a doctor. Dr Gomare said public health department will focus on detection and registration of new cases between December 1-31. “The first fortnight, we will focus on detecting new TB and leprosy cases. Enrolling patients into the national programmes and getting them medicines will be done in the next fortnight,” she said. BMC additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said the health teams covering 12 lakh households will also subtly look for Covid-19 signs using pulse oximeters. Covid-19 has derailed many public health programmes such as inoculation for children, HIV care and non-communicable diseases. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-to-screen-50l-people-for-tb-leprosy-from-dec-1/articleshow/79468400.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Pune||ACB files case against sub-inspector for demanding Rs50k bribe||Pune: The state anti-corruption bureau (ACB) on Saturday registered a case against a sub-inspector of Chakan police station for demanding a bribe of Rs 50,000 from a man against whom police had received a complaint application involving transaction of money. The sub-inspector allegedly demanded the bribe not to register the offence against him. ACB officials told TOI the sub-inspector is attached to the Mhalunge police chowky of Chakan police station. According to ACB, a few days ago, a man residing at Mhalunge submitted a complaint application at the police chowky. The sub-inspector was investigating the complaint application involving transaction of money between two men. ACB stated that the sub-inspector called the man, against whom the complaint application was made, and summoned him to the police chowky. The sub-inspector threatened to file a complaint against him and promised that he will not register any case if a bribe of Rs 50,000 was given to him. ACB verified the bribe demand and registered a complaint on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/acb-files-case-against-sub-inspector-for-demanding-rs50k-bribe/articleshow/79469841.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Pune||Duo steal Rs 5.72 lakh from ATM unit on Pune's Baner Road||PUNE: Two men stole Rs5.72 lakh from a co-operative bank ATM at Balewadi Phata on Baner Road on Friday morning. Police said the men were fairly aware of the workings of the machine, used passwords and other details to steal cash. Sameer Bankapure, the manager of the cooperative bank, lodged a complaint with the Chatushrungi police station on Friday. Senior police inspector Anil Shewale said, “One of the suspects entered the ATM kiosk and covered the CCTV camera with a black cloth. The second man entered the ATM kiosk and the duo opened the ATM unit without damaging it.” “We suspect that the duo might have been aware of the security password of the machine and used it to open it. The suspects removed cash from the ATM machine’s cash tray before walking away,” Shewale said. “The unit is intact. The suspects did not use any tool. We believe it is the job of someone who is aware of the functioning of the ATM machine. We have sought details of people from the bank involved in maintenance of the machine and involved in cash loading,” Shewale said. “The duo entered the ATM kiosk at 7am and left at 7.15 am. The CCTV has recorded the initial footage of one of the suspects and we have obtained his description,” he said. Shewale said, “The kiosk is guarded. However, the security guard was busy on the phone and did not notice the duo.” Police have registered an offence against the duo under section 380 (theft) of Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rs5-72-lakh-stolen-from-atm-on-baner-road/articleshow/79469840.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Madurai||Officials stay vigilant as south TN sees marginal rise in cases||Madurai: Even as Covid-19 cases across the state were on the decline during the past month, a marginal rise in the number of fresh cases in the southern region for the past few days has raised concerns of a possible spike. Health officials are vigilant and asserted that the daily Covid-19 testing will be kept as high as possible.Though the number of active cases in the region has dropped below 1,000 for the first time in five months, the number has started rising again. On Saturday, the total active cases in south TN are 1,075 with the addition of 164 fresh Covid-19 cases. By November 15, the number of fresh cases per day was 150 on an average. However, this week, since Tuesday, the daily cases have been above 150 consistently. Some districts, which were showing new cases per day in single digits, are now recording cases in double digits. On Thursday, when fresh Covid-19 cases reached 184, more than 50% of the cases were from Madurai, Dindigul and Virudhunagar.“Except for the few days during Diwali festival, Covid-19 testing has not dropped at all. In Madurai, around 2,500-3,000 tests are being done per day. That is why we are able to identify even around 30 cases. Public are also urged to co-operate and get themselves tested if they show symptoms or have suspicion of being in contact with Covid-19 patients,” said a district health official.In Virudhunagar and Dindigul, health officials said that around 1,000-1,500 samples are being tested for Covid-19 daily. “As per current protocol, the number is still high when we have only cases as few as 20-30 per day. Frontline workers and people from high-risk groups are being encouraged to be tested. Though a few cases are showing up now, we are cautious. If the cases touch 50 or continue for some more time, there is a cause for alarm,” said a health official from Virudhunagar.Meanwhile, in Dindigul, health officials said that some Covid-19 cases are also due to movement of people within and between districts and states during and after Diwali festival. The official added that measures are being taken to test all those coming from other states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/officials-stay-vigilant-as-south-tn-sees-marginal-rise-in-cases/articleshow/79469417.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
November 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Puj panel to probe Rajkot fire case||Ahmedabad: Even as the aggrieved kin of victims of Shrey Hospital fire await justice K A Puj’s judicial commission report on those responsible for death of eight of their loved ones, on Saturday CM Vijay Rupani announced a judicial inquiry into the fire that charred five Covid victims at the Uday Shivanand Covid Hospital in Rajkot on Friday to the same commission. The commission, which was to submit its report on November 11, had been demanding an extension. The minister of state (MoS) home Pradeepsinh Jadeja when approached claimed on Saturday that he was not aware of any official communique being issued announcing extension of the judicial inquiry. “The home secretary needs to be asked. It must have been issued. Right now, I am not aware of any public communique announcing an extension being given,” says Jadeja. Nearly four months after the fire at Shrey Hospital the city police are yet to get any evidence to prove negligence on the part of the owner and the prime accused in the case. “What can we say about the inquiry being given in the Rajkot fire case. What we know is that nothing has happened in our case. We already submitted our reply to the probe panel. This appears to be an effort to save the powerful else how can they get bail on Rs 15,000 bond when there were 8 deaths in our case,” said Himanshu Bhavsar, kin of a victim in Shey Hospital fire. He is a petitioner before the Gujarat high court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/puj-panel-to-probe-rajkot-fire-case/articleshow/79468421.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Will support Ram Vilas Paswan widow if LJP fields her for RS bypoll; RJD||PATNA: Lalu Prasad’s RJD has offered unconditional support to former NDA ally LJP if it fields Reena Paswan, the widow of former Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan, as its candidate for the Rajya Sabha seat vacated due to the LJP founder’s death on October 8. The by-election for the RS seat will be held on December 14. Following BJP’s announcement on Friday declaring former deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi as its candidate, RJD on Saturday urged LJP chief Chirag Paswan to field his mother as his party’s candidate for the Rajya Sabha seat. “RJD strongly feels that the late Ram Vilas Paswan was a big leader from Bihar. It would have been a befitting tribute to him if the NDA had named his wife Reena Paswan as its candidate for the Rajya Sabha seat vacated by his death. But the BJP opted for Sushil Modi. Now, if LJP fields Reena Paswan as its candidate, our party will extend its unconditional support to her candidature,” RJD spokesperson and former MLA Shakti Singh Yadav told TOI on Saturday. Yadav also made it clear that it was RJD’s official stand and not his personal view. “I am the party spokesperson and I am saying it is the party’s view, not mine,” he told TOI. Sources in RJD said if LJP fields Reena as its candidate, all MLAs of the RJD-led Mahagathbandhan would extend their whole-hearted support to the LJP candidate to give a political message among the masses that the Grand Alliance is in support of a Dalit icon, whereas BJP forgot him just months after his death. Supporting Reena’s candidature, RJD’s Chitranjan Gagan said, “If Reena Ji is made candidate for the Rajya Sabha seat vacated by the death of her husband, it would be a true tribute to Ram Vilas Paswan Ji.” However, LJP is yet to take any decision on RJD’s offer. “The LJP leadership have so far has not held any discussion on this issue. Hence, I am not in a position to make any comment on this issue,” LJP spokesperson Ashraf Ansari told TOI over the phone on Saturday. A senior RJD leader said the party has made this offer to LJP. If it fails to decide on the candidature of Reena Ji, the Mahagathbandhan would put a candidate of its own in the RS bypoll. “Most probably, our candidate will be from the Dalit community as a tribute to Ram Vilas Paswan,” the RJD leader, who did not want to be identified, said. The name of senior Paswan’s son-in-law Anil Sadhu, who is the head of RJD’s SC/ST cell, is also under consideration for the Rajya Sabha by-election, another RJD leader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/will-support-paswans-widow-if-ljp-fields-her-for-rs-bypoll-rjd/articleshow/79467809.cms||Madan Kumar
November 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Filming in police station: HC stays filing of chargesheet||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court stayed Kutch district police from filing a chargesheet against a man who was booked for video-recording arrested persons having snacks at the canteen in the police station compound in Bhachau town.The petitioner before the HC was Sharif Notiyar, 32, who requested the court to quash the FIR against him for allegedly recording a video in a prohibited area, the police station. He claimed the police were targeting him because he lodged an FIR just two days earlier against people who were carrying out a hate campaign on social media.According to Notiyar’s advocate, Shakeel Qureshi, Notiyar filed an FIR on March 4 with Bhachau police against two persons who posted allegedly objectionable videos relating to the Delhi violence over the CAA protests and about the Sufi saint Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti of Ajmer. Two persons, Sunilkumar Mishra and Madeva Chhanga, were arrested the next day on charges under Sections 153B and 295A of the IPC.Two days later, Bhachau police registered an FIR against Notiyar for the act of video recording in a police station. He was booked under Sections 72 and 84(1) of the Information Technology Act. The police claimed in the FIR that a 14-second video of Mishra and Chhanga was shot by Notiyar when they were having snacks. Notiyar’s voice is heard asking the duo whether they are under arrest.In his petition, Notiyar claimed that the place the accused were having snacks was a canteen and cannot be said to be in the prohibited zone of the police station. The police have filed the FIR as a counterblast for his calling out the hatemongers.While Notiyar is out on bail, the HC stayed the police from filing a chargesheet against him and sought a reply on his quashing plea by December 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/filming-in-police-station-hc-stays-filing-of-chargesheet/articleshow/79468440.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||More tests on Hathras rape accused||Ahmedabad: The brain electrical oscillation signature (BEOS) profiling of one of the four accused in the Hathras gangrape and murder case of Uttar Pradesh began at the Directorate of Forensic Sciences (DFS), confirmed top sources on Saturday. The CBI has brought in four accused in the case for the forensic psychology tests. “Polygraph test and the first set of BEOS of one of the accused in the case was carried out by the experts under strict health protocols. The second set of tests will be carried out in a couple of days,” said a source close to the development. “Other accused could undergo the same procedure next week,” added the source. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/more-tests-on-hathras-rape-accused/articleshow/79468448.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Goa||Use of mask may lead to drop in tuberculosis cases: GMC expert||PANAJI: Goa Medical College’s (GMC) head of pulmonary medicine, Dr Durga Lawande, said on Saturday that the widespread use of masks across the state may contribute to drop in tuberculosis (TB) infections. Goa registers around 800-1,000 TB infections annually, and a person with the disease can potentially infect 15 new people. “A positive case, if using a mask, won’t be able to infect people,” she said, adding, “The decline, however, will not be evident immediately if there is any (drop), but at a later stage.” During the initial months of the pandemic, she said they had seen a reduction in cases as patients were unable to access medical help due to restrictions in place. But now, regular as well as new patients have started attending out-patient department (OPD) services. Apart from this, there hasn’t been a reduction in cases. She, however, said that over the years, there has been an overall drop in TB infections in the state, thanks to the government of India’s control programmes. Lawande pointed out that with a decline in cases of HIV/AIDS in Goa, they have also seen a drop in the number of people with HIV-contracting tuberculosis, which is considered an opportunistic infection for them (along with other infections). “HIV itself has been on a decline due to awareness about the disease all over the country,” Lawande said. “Precautionary measures are being taken and treatment has been better. With antiretroviral therapy , patients are doing very well. Most people would earlier die within 8-10 years, but now they can live for twenty years with proper care.” Goa has reported a 62% drop in AIDS deaths in 2019, with 13 deaths. In 2018, 21 people lost their lives to AIDS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/use-of-mask-may-lead-to-drop-in-tb-cases-gmc-expert/articleshow/79469429.cms||Bindiya Chari
November 29, 2020||Allahabad||Need to stop forced religious conversions under garb of love: Madhya Pradesh CM||PRAYAGRAJ: Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday said that “there was a need to stop forced religious conversions under the garb of love”. Chouhan was in Prayagraj on Saturday to immerse the ashes of his father-in-law, who passed away recently, in Sangam. “The condition of daughters who were forced to convert has gone from bad to worse. This is why it is necessary to stop marriages that are being entered into with wrong motives through incentives, pressure, fear and temptation,” Chouhan said. Speaking to media persons, he said that BJP-led state governments were bringing in tough laws for those who were indulging in such nefarious acts. “Religious conversions will not be allowed under the garb of love,” he added. Talking about massive demonstrations of farmers in Punjab and Delhi over farm laws, the MP chief minister said that there can be no other well-wisher of farmers like PM Narendra Modi. He said all three laws are in the interest of farmers. Chouhan arrived in the city on Saturday morning to immerse the ashes of his father-in-law Ghanshyam Das Masani. He was received at Bamrauli airport by UP minister of civil aviation, minority welfare, Muslim Haj and Waqf department Nand Gopal Gupta ‘Nandi’. Chouhan was accompanied by his wife Sadhana and other relatives. He also met Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad president Mahant Narendra Giri and performed religious rituals at Sangam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/need-to-stop-forced-religious-conversions-under-garb-of-love-shivraj/articleshow/79469706.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Pune||Rs1.3 lakh withdrawn from cop’s account, card cloning suspected||Pune: A 57-year-old policeman lost Rs1.30 lakh earlier this month in a case of suspected debit card cloning. As per a first-information report registered with the Cantonment police on Friday, the money was debited over 33 withdrawals at various ATMs between November 1 and 4. The complainant, assistant sub-inspector Jameel Rehman Shaikh — posted with the Yerawada police — was out shopping in Camp on November 1, when he ran out of cash. “Shaikh a rushed to a nearby ATM, at Sharbatwala Chowk, withdrew cash and paid the shop owner. He then removed his SIM card and gave his cellphone for repair at a mobile shop,” senior inspector Ashok Kadam, in-charge of the Cantonment police, said on Saturday. Shaikh collected his cellphone on November 4. “He put his SIM card in the cellphone and switched it on and was shocked to receive a flurry of SMSs from his bank about varying sums being debited from his account,” Kadam said, adding that a total of Rs1.3 lakh was debited. “Shaikh first filed a complaint application with the cybercrime police station at Shivajinagar on November 6. The officers conducted a preliminary inquiry and referred the complaint to us,” Kadam said, explaining the delay in filing the FIR. A case has been registered under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Information Technology Act. Shaikh told police that he never shared his debit card details or any one-time passwords with anyone, and that he suspected that his card details were skimmed at the Sharbatwala Chowk ATM. Police said they had yet to receive similar complaints from other people. Kadam said when they visited the ATM, they didn’t find any skimmer or camera unit. “The fraudsters removed the skimmer and camera from the unit. They had carried out 33 transactions, withdrawing Rs9,000, Rs4,000 and Rs10,000 in turns. They also did nine transactions for a zero amount to check if the card was still active,” Kadam said. “We are analysing CCTV footage to establish the fraudsters’ identity. The cybercrime police are conducting a parallel investigation,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rs1-3-lakh-withdrawn-from-cops-account-card-cloning-suspected/articleshow/79469844.cms||Asseem Shaikh
November 29, 2020||Madurai||MKU to hold distance edu exams online in December||Madurai: The Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) is set to hold the April 2020 semester, non-semester and arrear exams for UG and PG distance education course students from December 2. In a statement, the MKU directorate of distance education (DDE), said the online exams will begin for B Ed courses from December 2 while for other courses it would begin from December 10. The exams are set to go till the end of December. The timetables for various exams have been uploaded on the official website of the MKU DDE at www.mkudde.org. Only students who have paid the exam fees would be able to write the exams. Students are asked to download the e-hall ticket in advance from the website. Students can download question papers and write the exam from their homes. They have to write their exams with pen and paper and submit the answer scripts either by online or offline modes within one hour after completion. Students can also upload scanned copies of answer scripts online, make direct submission to nearby exam centre or send by registered post with time stamp. If answer scripts are not submitted within the allotted time or if any student is found to indulge in any malpractices, they will not be accepted for evaluation. For any clarifications, students can contact: 6379782339, 94420 26474 or 98421 88440.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mku-to-hold-distance-edu-exams-online-in-december/articleshow/79469421.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Madurai||Covid-19: South TN reports 164 cases, central region 139||Madurai/Trichy: The number of fresh Covid-19 cases continued to be above 150 on Saturday in the 10 southern districts of the state. With 164 Covid-19 cases and two deaths, the region tally has climbed to 1,29,048, which include 1,075 active cases, 1,25,909 recoveries and 2,064 deaths. The number of active cases stayed above 1,000 in the region for the second straight day on Saturday. Meanwhile, the central region recorded 139 cases taking the tally to 70,427, which include 1,016 active cases. The region also recorded one death at Tiruvarur pushing the toll to 899. Kanyakumari and Madurai reported 29 new cases each, the highest in the region. The number of active cases is also high in Kanyakumari (232) and Madurai (130), followed by Tuticorin (130) and Tirunelveli (129). Dindigul, which reported 23 cases on Saturday, has 115 active cases. All other districts have less than 100 active cases, with Theni (23) reporting the lowest. Tuticorin (19), Virudhunagar (17), Tirunelveli (15), Sivaganga (10) and Theni (10), reported less than 20 fresh cases on Saturday. Tenkasi (9) and Ramanathapuram (3) recorded cases in single digits. The two Covid-19 deaths in the region were in Theni and Tuticorin. The Covid-19 death rate in the southern region remains at 1.6%. While, Nagapattinam, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Pudukottai districts saw a mild spike in cases, rest of the districts in the central region registered a mild dip. Nagapattinam and Thanjavur recorded 31 cases each, the highest in the region. Perambalur continued to report a single case on Saturday also taking the tally to 2,238, while Ariyalur reported eight cases. Though total positive cases are rising at a slow pace in the eight districts, the region had its active cases reducing. Nagapattinam (252) has the highest number of active cases, while Perambalur (5) recorded the lowest number.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/covid-19-south-tn-reports-164-cases-central-region-139/articleshow/79469431.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Lucknow||UP: SP against ‘love jihad’ law, will oppose it in House, says Akhilesh Yadav||LUCKNOW: Samajwadi Party will oppose the ‘love jihad’ law on forced religious conversions when it comes up in the assembly next month. SP president Akhilesh Yadav made the announcement after Governor Anandiben Patel signed the ordinance. Yadav said SP is not in favour of such law and will oppose it strongly. “We will ask government to bring a law which guarantees doubling of farmers’ income,” he said, questioning the law as government schemes offer incentives for inter-faith marriages. “On one hand, the government offers Rs 50,000 to those opting for inter-caste and inter-religion marriages, and on the other, they have brought this law,” he added. He also cast doubts on ‘selling’ a mall and expressway and said it will be probed ‘when time comes’. The SP chief accused BJP of selling a government-owned shopping mall worth Rs 1,000 crore to a private entity at throwaway prices. He further added that an expressway was also being sold in a similar fashion. “Time will expose the corruption this government is indulging in,” he added. He said it is ironic that government talks of zero tolerance for corruption but, in an international survey, the country has figured on the top of the list of nations where bribery is most prevalent. Hitting out at CM Yogi Adityanath’s announcement of setting up 10,000 MW solar power units, Yadav said, “He does not know anything about a solar panel.” “During SP government, we had set up a solar power unit on the suggestion of country’s President. The unit produced enough power to meet the needs of an entire village, but this government snapped the supply saying the villagers have not paid bills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/akhilesh-sp-against-love-jihad-law-will-oppose-it-in-house/articleshow/79469754.cms||Pervez Siddiqui
November 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Legal notice to Haryana CM and CS for damage to property||CHANDIGARH: Generally it is the state authorities who book protesters in case of destruction of public property during any protest for recovery of the damages, but this time it is the Haryana government that is at the receiving end for damage caused to state and national highways at several places by state agencies to prevent protesting farmers from reaching Delhi. This, when the farmers’ protest remained peaceful and they were finally allowed to enter Delhi on Friday afternoon. Advocate Ravinder Singh has sent a legal notice on Friday under the Damage of Public Property Act, 1984, to Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, state chief secretary and the state DGP for recovery of damages from their pocket for damaging public property from November 25 to 27. In the legal notice, it has been stated that the CM, chief secretary and the DGP, without any proper authority or violent instigation, instructed to damage the public roads en route to Delhi, including a stretch of the Amritsar-Delhi National Highway near Shambu border, Singhu border and certain areas of Karnal, Kurukshetra, Panipat and Sonepat districts. Similar damage was done to Barwala-Hisar road and in Sirsa district, as well as to Hisar-Delhi road by state elements, thereby obstructing the entire traffic for two days, holding the entire state to ransom "The damage caused was wholly unwarranted and without any instigation as not a single case of violence has been reported from any angle and peaceful demonstration is a right as per the provisions contained in Article 14, 19 and 21 of the Constitution,’’ reads the legal notice. It has been further stated in the notice that the CM, the chief secretary and the state DGP are duty-bound to pay damage to the private persons who were kept standing on the roads for two days without any legal justification and were not allowed to move due to illegal obstruction by the state elements. "The state had many means to stop the march, including talks with the persons associated in the peaceful protest. By no means had you any authority to cause any damage to the public property, including national highways and state highways. You are requested to appoint a claim commissioner as per the directions of the SC in Destruction of Public and Private Properties versus state of Andhra Pradesh and others so that recovery of the damage may be done from you," Dhull has mentioned in his legal notice. Further requesting the CM, chief secretary and the DGP to pay and deposit the damages in the state exchequer, he has made it clear in the notice that he would be taking legal course for recovery of such damage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/legal-notice-to-hry-cm-and-cs-for-damage-to-property/articleshow/79469434.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Mumbai||In after-effects of Cyclone Nivar, Mumbai’s AQI improves to ‘moderate’||MUMBAI: After few days of ‘poor’ pollution levels, the city’s air quality index on Saturday improved to moderate due to the after-effects of Cyclone Nivar. System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) said the overall AQI for Mumbai was 125. Track the pollution level in your cityAn AQI of 101-200 is considered ‘moderate’ and poses minor health issues for sensitive people. The city’s AQI on Friday was 235 (poor). But on Saturday, wind speeds picked up, which disbursed pollutants and cleared the air. “The air quality index will fluctuate for few days. Winds were slow on Friday but due to after-effect of cyclone winds suddenly picked up speed on Saturday,” said SAFAR project director Gufran Beig. Among 10 locations SAFAR monitored in the city, the most polluted was Mazgaon, with an AQI of 242, and the least polluted was Bhandup, with an AQI of 65. SAFAR has forecast the AQI to marginally improve to 120 on Sunday. Aiding better air quality were higher minimum temperatures in the city. Indian Meteorological Department’s Santacruz and Colaba observatories on Saturday recorded a minimum of 23.2 and 24 degrees Celsius respectively. Both were approximately 3 degrees above normal. Post-cyclone conditions led to a a cloud cover over most of the state on Saturday, bringing down maximum temperatures. Santacruz and Colaba recorded 33.3 and 31.7 degrees Celsius respectively, lower than 34.2 and 33.8 degrees the previous day. “It is due to post-Nivar effects around the trajectory of the cyclone, where it has pushed lot of moisture, contributing to high clouds that can lower visibility, bring a little drizzle and lower maximum temperatures,” said K S Hosalikar, deputy director-general, western region, IMD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/in-after-effects-of-cyclone-nivar-citys-aqi-improves-to-moderate/articleshow/79468401.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
November 29, 2020||Kanpur||Over 2,500 turtles rescued from smugglers in Etawah||KANPUR: A joint team of police, forest department officials and Society for Conservation of Nature (SCON) raided a truck and a van near Dumila village in Saifai police area in Etawah on late Friday night and rescued over 2,583 Indian flapshell turtle (Lissemys punctata) locally known as ‘sundari’ and Indian softshell turtles (Nilssonia gangetica) locally known as ‘katahwa’. Over 30 kg of dried calipee of turtles being smuggled in several sacks by the gang of animal smugglers was also recovered. The police have seized the vehicles being used by the wildlife smugglers. Five persons were arrested while the truck driver managed to flee the spot. The species has been categorised under the Schedule-I of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. The seizure, claimed by the wildlife activists to be one of the biggest in recent times, has brought to fore the lucrative turtle business flourishing in and around the region. The arrested persons have been identified as Sumit, Suresh, Kali Charan, Jagdish and Kaptan Singh. “There were specific inputs that a huge consignment of turtles would be taken out of the district. Immediately, we laid a trap with the help of forest department and SCON teams and conducted raids at Dumila village area in Saifai. We managed to apprehend the truck and a van. In the recent times, it is probably the highest number of turtles recovered in Etawah,” said SSP Akash Tomar. “We are trying to locate the whereabouts of the mastermind of the gang and raids are underway to make his arrest possible,” police said. The cost of the seized turtles and its calipee has been pegged at around Rs 1 crore. “The accused said they would have fetched anything between Rs 1 crore for the turtle consignment,” claimed an official. Rajiv Chauhan, secretary general, SCON said: “Every year, the turtle smugglers become active once the level of waterbodies goes low. They then trap the turtles from ponds and rivers. It’s a wake-up call for authorities and the two districts including Etawah and Mainpuri known for turtle population require extensive monitoring.” Another SCON officer Sanjiv Chauhan said that the species is killed rampantly by wildlife smugglers as there is a myth that turtles have many medicinal uses, but there is no scientific proof of such. “Both the species are categorised under Schedule-I of the Wildlife Protection Act of 1972,” he added. Meanwhile, SSP Etawah has announced a cash reward of Rs 25,000 to the raiding team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/over-2500-turtles-rescued-from-smugglers-in-etawah/articleshow/79469740.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
November 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Renew fire NOC once in five years: GCCI||Ahmedabad: At a time when at least an estimated 30% of fire calls received by the Ahmedabad Fire and Emergency Services (AFES) involve cases of major and minor fire accidents in industrial units, the state’s apex industry body, Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI) has sought that the validity of a fire safety no-objection certificate (NOC) be extended to five years. Currently, a fire NOC issued by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) is valid for one year. A representation regarding the issue was made by GCCI on Saturday, before the municipal commissioner, Mukesh Kumar. Top sources confirmed that AFES receives an estimated 1,300 fire calls in a year, of which at least 30% i.e. 390 fire calls pertain to industrial units. This means on an average 390 industrial units in Ahmedabad alone report fire incidents every single year. GCCI officials claim that industrial units are facing ‘problems’ in obtaining the fire NOC, due to which obtaining several other licences becomes a concern. “To keep industrial units running, several permissions, NOCs and licences need to be obtained including those under Industrial Safety Act, pertaining to Pollution Control Board, Explosive license, among others. All these licenses can be renewed for a period of three to ten years and if so, why the fire NOC issued by AMC cannot be renewed for five years?” asks the representation. GCCI has sought that either these licences be issued for a period of five years or else be abolished for industrial units operating under factories act. “Units under the ambit of Factories Act are already fire safety compliant and the dual inspection can thus be avoided by different authorities for the same period,” states the representation. When asked about this, a senior fire department official said, “The demand by the industry body is completely irrelevant. Fire prevention and protection comes under the ambit of civic authorities and the local fire department. At a time when the rate of non-compliance is so high even when fire safety inspections and maintenances are to be done every year, how can one ensure safety over a five-year period?” The official further said, “Every single life-saving equipment has a shelf-life and one must carry out regular maintenance to ensure it is operational. Besides, any equipment in the industrial unit associated with electrical supply will involve anomalies that may cause fire accidents and only regular maintenance and inspection can ensure safety. After all, fire safety is in the interest of people and the employees.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/renew-fire-noc-once-in-five-years-gcci/articleshow/79468463.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow University documentary gets 18,000 hits on YouTube channel||LUCKNOW: The documentary on Lucknow University which was released during the centennial foundation day celebration has become the most-viewed video on the institution’s YouTube channel. Within 48 hours, the 13-minute documentary titled ‘Ye Hai Lucknow Vishwavidyalaya’ has garnered over 18,000 views. LU’s official YouTube channel has 12,000 subscribers while the views are 6,000 more than the subscribers. Before this, videos on LU admissions got the highest of around 7,000 views. Shot with drone and high-resolution cameras, the documentary covers old and second campus of the university, its history, illustrious alumni, contribution of taluqdars and minute details. The documentary was made by the head of Lucknow University’s journalism and mass communication department, Prof Mukul Srivastava, in a span of 20 days. The song, historical journey and the script were prepared by Prof Srivastava. Besides highest views, the video was also shared on various social media platforms. LU vice-chancellor Prof Alok Kumar Rai said, “High number of views and likes show people’s love for the university. The video has not just touched the hearts of students but also the residents of Lucknow and other parts of the country who know how prestigious this 100-year-old university is.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lu-documentary-gets-18000-hits-on-youtube-channel/articleshow/79469748.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Lucknow||UP to create 1.2 lakh litre cold chain storage for vaccine||LUCKNOW: The state health department has launched a massive exercise to create storage space for Covid-19 vaccine when it arrives. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath reviewed the situation in a meeting held on Saturday and issued instructions to ready 1.23 lakh litre cold chain storage capacity in the state by mid-December. Cold chain spaces are designed to keep Covid-19 vaccines at the recommended temperature from the time of its manufacture till it reaches the target beneficiary.  Officials are hopeful that UP may receive 4 crore doses of the vaccine in the initial phase. Adequate storage space is necessary to ensure the vaccines are not rendered ineffective. Officials said additional cold chain storage facilities are being created in 26 districts in all. Lucknow, Lakhimpur Kheri, Basti, Kanpur Dehat, Hathras, and Siddharthnagar already have sufficient space for keeping ice-lined refrigerators holding 36,901 litre. Arrangements in other districts are being made in a phased manner and the entire exercise to build cold chain space of 1,23,205 litre will be completed by December 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-to-create-1-2l-litre-cold-chain-storage-for-vaccine/articleshow/79469756.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Seaplane service suspended indefinitely||AHMEDABAD: The seaplane service from the Sabarmati Riverfront in Ahmedabad to the Statue of Unity in Kevadia, which was launched on October 31, has been suspended indefinitely after less than a month of operations. According to sources this is because the aircraft has been sent to the Maldives for maintenance. A spokesperson of SpiceJet, the airline operating the service, said, “Seaplane operations have been temporarily suspended due to mandatory aircraft maintenance.” After the weekend curfew in Ahmedabad, barely any people used the service. Most of those who did did so in connection with the All India Presiding Officers’ Conference held at SoU last week. Airline officials said a wet-and-dry dock is required where the aircraft can be docked and routine maintenance be carried out. “Since the maintenance facility (dry and wet dock) is still under construction in Ahmedabad, the aircraft has to be sent to our lessor’s facility in the Maldives. Operations will resume once the aircraft is back,” the spokesperson said. The maintenance facility at Ahmedabad should be ready soon. “As this round of maintenance was planned, we didn’t take any bookings beyond November 27,” the spokesperson said. There is no wet-and-dry dock in India and currently only one aircraft has been deployed by the airline. Services were thus bound to be suspended. A week after its operations began, the service was suspended for two days for maintenance which was carried out at the waterdrome on the Sabarmati Riverfront. The airline provided no information on when the service is likely to resume. Queries on how frequently the aircraft requires maintenance at the wet-and-dry dock did not elicit a clear response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/seaplane-service-suspended-indefinitely/articleshow/79468470.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Lucknow||Three policemen sacked in Uttar Pradesh, 407 punished for corruption||LUCKNOW: The state government in its bid to ensure zero corruption and to improve policing cracked the whip on over 3,600 cops in the last two years. Continuing its policy of zero tolerance against corruption, 410 cops of non-gazetted ranks faced action for corruption. DGP H C Awasthy said no corruption and laxity in discharge of duty will be tolerated by police personnel at any level. “We lodged 42 FIRs on complaints of corruption and terminated the services of three cops while adverse entries were made against 52 others besides other action,” he said. Similarly, 369 police personnel had to face action for bad behavior in the last two years. Police lodged 12 FIRs in complaints of misbehavior and one cop was sacked while departmental action was taken against 96 others. Awasthy said efforts are being made to ensure cops at thana level behave politely with complainants coming for grievance redressal. Strict action was taken against 2,831 cops for laxity in probe of various cases in the last two years. The promotions of 53 cops were stopped while actions was initiated against 531 others this year for laxities in investigation of cases. Officials at the DGP headquarters said a six-member led by an ADG team is already preparing a proposal for improving police behaviour and services rendered to people and it will be submitted soon to authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/3-policemen-sacked-in-state-407-punished-for-corruption/articleshow/79469751.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 29, 2020||Goa||Authorities keep an eye on travellers at Margao railway station||MARGAO: With 17 trains arriving at the Margao railway station every day, three teams of the South Goa district administration are working in shifts to monitor the movement of passengers alighting at the station round the clock. Salcete mamlatdar John Fernandes who supervises the arrangements at the station said that almost 500 passengers arrive at Margao every day. The South Goa district administration and the Konkan Railway authorities have put in place adequate arrangements for implementation of the new standard operating procedure (SOP) for passenger arrivals at the Margao railway station. Sources said that most of the passengers alighting at Margao are from Delhi and other North Indian states. As per the new SOP, passengers found with a body temperature above permissible range are sent for Covid test to the new south Goa district hospital on payment of Rs 2,000 per individual. Passengers who willingly opt for RT-PCR Covid test on arrival can also do so on payment of Rs 2,000 as per the new protocol. Arrangements have been made for collection of the payment from the passengers. Those wanting to travel to other states and need to undergo tests to obtain a Covid negative certificate, may make the payments at the South Goa collectorate before going for the test at the South Goa district hospital. Meanwhile, as the North Central Railway has cancelled several trains due to yard remodeling work at Kosikalan station. Hazrat Nizamuddin-Madgaon Jn Rajdhani bi-weekly superfast special train has been cancelled until December 26, a press note by Konkan Railway states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/authorities-keep-an-eye-on-travellers-at-margao-railway-station/articleshow/79469446.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath: Why Hyderabad can’t be renamed as Bhagyanagar?||HYDERABAD/LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said if Faizabad can be renamed as Ayodhya, why cannot Hyderabad become ‘Bhagyanagar.’ Calling upon people to vote for changing the fate of Hyderabad, he said the December 1 GHMC polls provide an opportunity to the people to take the city on the path of development. “Some people were asking me if Hyderabad can become ‘Bhagyanagar’. I said, ‘why not?’ I told them that we renamed Faizabad as Ayodhya and Allahabad as Prayagraj after BJP came to power in UP. Why cannot Hyderabad become a ‘Bhagyanagar’?” Adityanath said at a roadshow in Malkajgiri division on Saturday. ‘TRS govt is all about KCR, his family & mitra mandal’ Addressing a well-attended public meeting at Lal Darwaja in the Old City later, he said a groundswell of support for the BJP was evident during the roadshows he took part earlier in the day. “I had asked state BJP chief (Bandi) Sanjay if I can come down here to give the message of oneness from Uttar Pradesh. I can see and sense that people here want a change for the betterment of the city.” The UP CM, who began his speech in Telugu by saying “andariki namaskaramlu’ (namaste to all of you), said an MIM MLA in Bihar recently refused to take oath in the name of Hindustan. “They live in Hindustan but when it comes to taking oath in the name of Hindustan, they hesitate. This is the reality of MIM. They eat here but will not sing the local tune,” he said, taking on Asaduddin Owaisi’s MIM, which has a strong presence in Lal Darwaza. He blamed the alliance of the ruling TRS and MIM for lack of development in the city. He alleged that chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao was not taking up construction of memorials for those who gave up their lives for liberation of Telangana in 1948 since the MIM was against it. Attacking KCR for not implementing the Centre’s Ayushman Bharat scheme, he said: “UP in the last three years has constructed 35 lakh houses to the poor under the Pradhan Mantri Griha Yojana. Why cannot the scheme be implemented here.” Drawing a parallel between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and KCR, Adityanath said: “For Modi, the entire India is his family but for KCR, his family has become the entire Telangana. Everywhere I see the posters of his son. In a democracy, there is no scope for loot of public money.” At a public meeting in Kukatpally division, the UP CM said the TRS government is all about KCR and his family and their ‘mitra mandal’ (friends circle). He asked as to why the state government did not deposit 10,000 in the bank accounts of flood-affected families. “All the money went into the kitty of TRS leaders and activists,” he alleged. Raking up the issue of Ram temple in Ayodhya Yogi said scores of Karsewaks had reached the city (in 1992). “However, there were many who were opposed to the temple and created obstacles. But the 492 years old issue now stands resolved and a grand Ram Temple is on its way to be constructed,” he said. Earlier in the day Yogi, who reached Hyderabad’s Begumpet airport, held a twohour-long road show in Jeedimetla where he was welcomed by a massive crowd amid slogans of 'Jai Sri Ram' and 'Aaya Aaya Sher Aaya'. Some of his supporters in fact upped the religious slogans like “Ram Laxman Janki…Jai Bolo Hanuman Ki.” The UP CM reached Hyderabad even as Owaisi campaigned in Karwan area of the city. AIMIM has fielded a Hindu candidate Mandagiri Swamy Yadav from Karwan. Of the 51 seats in GHMC where AIMIM is contesting, it has fielded Hindu candidates in 5 seats. Yogi kicked off his road show after offering tribute to Dalit icon BR Ambedkar. As soon as the UP CM hit the street, BJP workers raised slogans like “change Hyderabad '' amid showering of flower petals from the roof top. His presence in the region comes two days after the AIMIM chief dared the BJP to launch PM Narendra Modi in the old city and see for itself how many seats BJP wins. A day earlier, BJP chief JP Nadda had reached Hyderabad to campaign for the party candidates. During the roadshow in Malkajgiri, dancers depicting the cultural traditions of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana (the two Telugu states), as well as Kerala, Punjab, Rajasthan and UP entertained the crowds. Yogi stood on top of a makeshift platform on a bus along with Sanjay, as the vehicle made its way into the crowds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/why-hyderabad-cant-be-renamed-as-bhagyanagar/articleshow/79469768.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 29, 2020||Meerut||Covid-19: Only Deepdaan allowed on Kartik Purnima in Bijnor||Bijnor: Ganga snan which witnesses lakhs of devotees congregating on the ghats of the river Ganga in Bijnor and Amroha district will wear a deserted look this time because of the Covid-19 pandemic. However, special permission has been given to the grieving families of the dead to offer a ritual deepdaan which is conducted for the peace of the departed soul. According to district administration, only two family members of the deceased can participate in the deepdaan ceremony which will be held on Sunday evening.According to the officials, lakhs of devotees take a dip in the holy Ganga on the occasion of Kartik Purnima which is on November 30. Deepdaan ceremony is held on the eve of the snan and the river Ganga is illuminated with diyas. Government has prohibited all fairs along the river on the occasion of Kartik Purnima.Amroha’s district magistrate Umesh Mishra said, “We have granted permission to grieving families of the dead to offer a ritual Deepdaan on Sunday evening. However, we will not allow them to congregate on the bank of the river. Only two family members of the deceased can participate in the ritual and devotees will have to follow norms prescribed for COVID 19.”A representative of Amroha had sought permission from the government for all the grieving families. However, no leader from Bijnor came forward for the same.Bijnor district magistrate Ramakant Pandey said, “We have allowed the grieving families to offer Deepdaan in the river and have requested people not to gather on the banks of the holy river. They should wear a mask and follow social distancing norms.”It is notable that all fairs have been prohibited on the occasion of Kartik Purnima. Lakhs of devotees take dip in the holy river on this auspicious day at Bijnor’s Vidur Kuti and Ganga barrage and Amroha’s Tigari ghat every year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/covid-19-only-deepdaan-allowed-on-kartik-purnima-in-bijnor/articleshow/79467833.cms||Harveer Dabas
November 29, 2020||Patna||Install CCTVs, beef up night patrolling: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar||PATNA: At his first review meeting on law and order after taking charge as CM for the fourth consecutive term, Nitish Kumar on Saturday directed the state police chief to ensure the installation of CCTV cameras and police helplines in all major cities across the state and stressed the need for strengthening night patrolling. “I want a very effective control of the police on criminals. There should be full control of incidents of crimes at any cost. You should work with full alertness. There should be no scope of negligence. Any negligence will not be tolerated,” Nitish said addressing the meeting at ‘Nek Samvad’ hall of the CM’s residence. The CM asked senior officers to go on night patrol themselves to set an example. “Senior police officers themselves should go for night patrolling to ensure frequent checking of night patrolling being done by junior officers,” the CM further said. He asked the top police officers to identify those indulging in unethical and unlawful behaviour and take stern action against them. Apart from chief secretary Deepak Kumar, additional chief secretary (home) Amir Subhani, DGP SK Singhal, additional DGP (Special Branch) Jitendra Singh Gangwar; dozens of police officers of ADG and IG rank were present at the crucial meeting, held a day after the five-day winter session of the state assembly ended. After reviewing the district-wise and police station-wise rate of crimes in different police zones, Nitish asked the officials to increase the frequency of night patrolling in all police stations across the state to put an effective check on movement of criminals. “Stern action should be taken against the officers found negligent in night patrolling,” the CM said at the meeting. CM further asked the DGP to strengthen the special branch, the state police’s intelligence wing, to ensure timely collection of intelligence inputs. “The strengthening of the intelligence wing will help police in crime control,” Nitish said. CM further asked the officials to take all necessary steps to put a check on the incidents of cybercrimes. “Also ensure smooth functioning of regional forensic science laboratories in all police zones,” he said. He also asked the additional chief secretary (Home) and the DGP to arrange a revolving fund in every police station for purchasing stationery and other necessary items. “Develop such a system where certain amounts remain always available in the bank account of each police station,” Nitish said. The CM also instructed for making arrangements of separate lavatory and bathroom for women in each police station. “There should be a visitors’ room in each police station,” he said. CM also asked the police officers to ensure regular maintenance of landline phones in every police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/install-cctvs-beef-up-night-patrolling-cm/articleshow/79467843.cms||Madan Kumar
November 29, 2020||Kolhapur||MLA Bhalke dies of post-Covid issues||Kolhapur: Nationalist Congress Party MLA from Pandharpur-Mangalvedha constituency in Solapur district Bharat Bhalke passed away late night on Friday while undergoing treatment for post-Covid complications. Bhalke (60), a three-term MLA from different political parties each time, was admitted to a Pune-based hospital. On Friday evening, NCP chief Sharad Pawar went to meet him at the hospital. Bhalke, a trained wrestler, was among the few MLAs who had resigned over the Maratha reservation demand in 2018. At that time, he was a Congress MLA. Bhalke had defeated five-time MLA and veteran Sudhakar Paricharak in the 2014 and 2019 assembly elections. He had won the assembly election for the first time in 2009 by defeating Vijaysinha Mohite Patil. He became an MLA on a Left Front ticket for the first time, then on a Congress ticket and finally on an NCP ticket. Functionaries across political parties have paid tribute to Bhalke on their social media handles. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray tweeted: “In Bharat Bhalke, we lost a public servant who stayed connected to the common people. Also, he remained persistent for the development of the constituency he came from.” NCP state chief Jayant Patil tweeted that he has lost a colleague and Pandharpur has lost a true and caring leader. Bhalke’s last rites were performed at Sarkoli village in Pandharpur tehsil on Saturday afternoon. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar was among several leaders who attended the rituals. Bhalke is survived by his wife, four daughters and a son.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/mla-bhalke-dies-of-post-covid-issues/articleshow/79467055.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 vaccine: Punjab identifies 1.25 lakh priority receivers||CHANDIGARH: Punjab has identified 1.25-lakh frontline health workers—doctors, medical students, nurses, paramedic staff, and Asha units—to receive the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine whenever it is developed. Of India’s five vaccine candidates, four are in the last phase of trials. The vaccine is expected early next year, and the central government’s target is to cover 25 crore people by July 2021, starting with medical professionals and moving on to frontline workers, all people above 50, and all people below with co-morbidity. The Punjab government has collected the data of the priority group and planned out the immunisation campaign. About 36% of the targeted workers are in the private hospitals, clinics, and laboratories. The state health department identified 11,500 priority receivers in Ludhiana, highest in the state. Of them, 5,700 are in government sector and 5,800 in the private facilities. Amritsar has 7,900 targets, while Patiala, home district of chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, has about 7,800. Fatehgarh Sahib has the least number at 2,000. The state will send screened figures to the central government to receive free doses of the vaccine. Shipping and storing the vaccine is a great challenge because it needs cold chambers. For safe delivery of vaccine to people, the Punjab government has identified 729 cold-chain points in medical colleges, district hospitals, community health centres, and primary health centres. If required, the count will be increased. The state task force had a review meeting on Friday. The plan is to register all eligible beneficiaries and share their list with the nearest hospitals based on the postal index number (PIN) code. They government will message them the reporting location when it’s time to get the shot. The 4,000 vaccinators will also get text alert, and the receivers will be required to show a photo identity card. After achieving their target, the vaccinators will enter the names online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-identifies-1-25l-priority-receivers/articleshow/79469448.cms||Vinod Kumar
November 29, 2020||Ludhiana||Pb wheel chair cricket players struggling for basic resources||Ludhiana: Uncertainty looms over the fate of Disability Indian Premier League (DIPL) slated to be held here in February with the players of Punjab wheel chair cricket team striving hard to get adequate resources. The 15-member team, many of whose members will be arriving in the city for a match with their rivals from Haryana on December 3, is yet to find a place for boarding and lodging. The players maintained that it has been a struggle to find a permanent place to stay ahead of the match and the team has not found any sponsors. “The Punjab Wheel Chair Team has organised a match with the Haryana team for the promotion of their upcoming DIPL (Disability Indian Premier League) on December 3, which is world Disability day. The objective is to promote Disability Indian Premier League, which is to be held in February and to make people aware of the wheel chair cricket so that people can support them. Veer Sandhu, president of wheelchair society, who is also captain of the wheelchair cricket team of Punjab, said., “We are really worried about the situation we are facing right now as it is really difficult for us to get a sponsor due to Covid-19. We just need a place to stay in Ludhiana, so we can sleep there after our practice. A proper venue for practice is going to be another cause for concern.” The team has got a bus on donation, but would need someone to bear the expenses of equipment and other resources. “We haven’t lost any match in the last 1.5 years and if the public will help us we won’t lose in the future too,” he says. “We just hope people are more sympathetic and show interest in the cricket for the disabled as well,” said former opener of Punjab wheelchair cricket team, Rohit, 29, who hails from Pathankot. box In 2014, wheelchair cricket started in India and at that time there were only two teams to participate in this play as there were not enough people who knew about this. The two teams were from Uttar Pradesh and Punjab and both the teams were short on extra players at that time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/pb-wheel-chair-cricket-players-struggling-for-basic-resources/articleshow/79468566.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Kolhapur||Sewage discharge into Panchaganga||Kolhapur: The Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) has found sewage being released untreated from four nullahs in the city into the Panchaganga river causing pollution. Apart from this, the sewage from the residential areas is being discharged into the famous Rankala lake. The MPCB authorities conducted surveys of all the nullahs and lakes after activists complained that the MPCB has not surveyed since the last eight months even though the Bombay high court directed the authorities to submit the status of the pollution in Panchganga river and Rankala lake in every three months.  A panel under the Pune divisional commissioner has been appointed to monitor pollution mitigating measures undertaken by the local bodies. A senior MPCB official requesting anonymity said, “We have collected samples of waste water discharging into the water bodies. The samples will be tested for various polluting parameters. We have observed the discharge is taking place from four nullahs without treatment.” “The discharge from Jayanti nullah was taking place and after our directions the pumping of waste water to treatment plant was started,” the official added. Samir Vhyagrambare, the civic body’s head of environmental cell said, “We have major nullahs diverted for treatment. The discharge from minor nullahs is happening as there is no pumping facility at present. However, we ensure the water is treated before it is released.” MPCB has observed that to the discharge from residential areas, green algae are developing in Rankala lake.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/sewage-discharge-into-panchaganga/articleshow/79467068.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘PM Modi wants India’s vaccine efforts to help world’||AHMEDABAD: The Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday visited the Zydus Biotech Park at Changodar in Ahmedabad to review the vaccine development and manufacturing process. The Ahmedabad-headquartered Zydus Group has been developing an indigenous plasmid DNA vaccine-- ZyCov-D--for Covid-19. Commenting on the visit, Zydus Group chairman Pankaj Patel said that the PM is firmly rooted in the vision that India’s efforts in developing a vaccine for the Covid-19 pandemic will be devoted towards the cause of global good. “What struck me and left me impressed was PM @narendramodi's emphasis on science and vision for global good. PM Modi is firmly rooted in the vision that whatever India does regarding a Covid vaccine will be devoted towards global good and will benefit the larger humanity,” Patel tweeted after the PM’s visit. Clad in a PPE kit, the PM was escorted by scientists around the facility where research and other work for the ZyCov-D vaccine is presently underway. He was greeted at the Zydus Biotech Park by the Zydus Group chairman Pankaj Patel along with his son Sharvil Patel, who is also the managing director of Zydus Group. Once in the park, PM also affectionately greeted Pankaj Patel's grandchildren-- a boy and a girl-- patting them on the head and talking to them. “Visited the Zydus Biotech Park in Ahmedabad to know more about the indigenous DNA based vaccine being developed by Zydus Cadila. I compliment the team behind this effort for their work. Government of India is actively working with them to support them in this journey,” the PM tweeted after the visit. “PM Modi reviewed the efforts towards vaccine development. He shared very valuable inputs on how to further strengthen the vaccine development programme and ensure a Covid-free world,” said Zydus Group MD Dr Sharvil Patel. Stating that the PM’s visit has encouraged Zydus Cadila in doing more and fast with regard to the vaccine development, Pankaj Patel further added in a video message that in India’s journey in the Atmanirbhar Bharat, 1,800 scientists and 25,000 Zydans are continuously thriving and working to provide safe and effective vaccine, better Covid treatment and diagnostics. The company has already completed the phase-II human clinical trials of ZyCov-D and the results are currently being analysed. “Soon, the data will be presented (to the regulator) and the third phase will be kicked off. The phase-III trial is expected to begin in December and we hope to complete the third phase trials by March,” Pankaj Patel told TOI. “The vaccine is likely to come to market after March next year, subject to regulatory approvals,” he added. The company currently manufactures vaccines at Zydus Biotech Park at Changodar. “The production capacity is now being ramped up and the expansion will be over by January,” added Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pm-wants-indias-vaccine-efforts-to-help-world/articleshow/79469460.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Solar-powered device to help curb river pollution||LUCKNOW: On the lines of live air ambient quality monitoring, the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) is set to introduce floating online river effluent monitoring system (FOREMS) which will share water quality data round-the-clock. FOREMS is a solar-powered equipment with precise water quality measuring sensors attached with inbuilt cleaning system. The equipment has the ability to communicate realtime in milliseconds and transfer data directly to the end server. As a pilot project, half-a-dozen industrial drains discharging waste in the Ganga between Bijnor to Kanpur belt will be monitored 24x7 through FOREMS. According to UPPCB, there are nearly 86 drains in the state which directly discharge waste into the Ganga. Out of these, 16 drains, including those in Muzaffarnagar’s Jat Mujera and Dhadhera, discharge purely industrial waste. Bijnor’s Chhoiya drain and Kanpur’s Sitamau drain discharge 240 million litre day (MLD) in Ganga after been treated from three STPs. Talking to TOI, member secretary of UPPCB, Ashish Tiwari, said: “The objective behind having FOREMS is to completely curb untreated discharged waste water into river by industrial and non-industrial city-based drains. STPs installed in various districts have also failed to curb river pollution.” “Industries like sugar mills, tanneries, pulp and paper mills and distilleries discharge untreated waste water into drains during odd hours to avoid getting caught by UPPCB. It’s very difficult to monitor such ill practice round-the-clock as the discharge of drains directly goes into the river,” he said. “It takes at least three days for the results of the sample collected from such areas. However, with the installation of FOREMS we expect that it would be identified easily with live water quality data,” said Tiwari, who is the second-in-command in UPPCB. According to UPPCB, there are over 200 sugar mills, 65 distilleries, 48 recycling paper manufacturing units and over 40 tanneries. Most of theses units discharge untreated waste water into rivers. “In coming months, we will collaborate with various industries and manufacturing units working near river banks and will urge them to install FOREMS at the mouth of drains. Once installed, both industries as well as UPPCB will get live uncompromised data of river water,” Tiwari said. First FOREMS will be installed at Lucknow’s Gomti river on December 2 and its results will be validated by comparing it with manual testing data. Once the officials are satisfied with the instrument, bulk order will be placed. The cost of one FOREMS is around Rs 15 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/solar-powered-device-to-help-curb-river-pollution/articleshow/79469760.cms||Arvind Chauhan
November 29, 2020||Kolhapur||Most of Kolhapur city to face water cuts on Monday and Tuesday||Kolhapur: Most parts of the Kolhapur city will face water cuts on Monday and Tuesday as the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) will carry out some repair work at the Balinga pumping stationThe B, C and D wards along with the suburbs and rural fringes will have no water supply. The authorities are scheduled to complete the work in a day, but have appealed to the citizens to keep water stored for two days.From Sunday, water tankers will be sent to the major residential areas for the residents to have adequate storage of water.Narayan Bhosale, the KMC’s acting chief hydraulic engineer, said, “We have sent teams to affected areas and have asked them to convey the message. They will will facilitate the availability of water tankers if needed.”Major areas in the city which will face water cuts include Papachi Tickti, Bindu Chowk, Dudhali, Mahalaxmi temple area, Somwar Peth and Lakshmipuri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/most-of-kolhapur-city-to-face-water-cuts-on-monday-and-tuesday/articleshow/79467076.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Goa||Iffi delegates to be capped at 2,500: ESG||Panaji: The delegate numbers at the 51st edition of the International Film Festival of India (Iffi) will be capped at 2,500, vice-chairperson of Entertainment Society of Goa (ESG) Subhash Phaldesai told TOI. So far, 800 have registered, he said. “As of now, the opening and closing ceremonies will be held at Kala Academy and plans are to cap the attendees at 300 to 400. There will be a chief guest as usual and lakhs will watch the ceremonies through live streaming,” said Phaldesai. He said that all peripheral events of Iffi like the art park and children’s festival held usually at the Campal garden will not be organised this year. The stalls, art gallery, performance organised on the promenade outside the main Iffi venue at Campal will also not be seen this year, though plans are afoot to have public screenings of some films at Miramar. Phaldesai said the tender for the décor for the festival venues will be floated soon. While the directorate of film festival (DFF) only bears expenditure for Iffi opening and closing ceremonies, the Goa government covers all the other costs of hosting the festival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/iffi-delegates-to-be-capped-at-2500-esg/articleshow/79469468.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Aurangabad||Service record lost, two clerks booked||Aurangabad: Two clerks of the irrigation department have been booked in a police case after an official from the department filed a complaint stating that the service record book of an employee was misplaced with “malafide intention”. Assistant engineer (quality control) Mohammed Tareq Nadeem lodged the complaint with the Jawaharnagar police station based on the findings of an inquiry report. The police then booked the two clerks under section 406 (criminal breach of trust) of the Indian Penal Code and under relevant sections of The Maharashtra Public Records Act, 2005. Inspector Santosh Patil of Jawahar Nagar police station said, “The employee service books were sent to Aurangabad after the irrigation department started preparing online records. One such service book of a woman clerk from Nanded was officially received by the office in Aurangabad on March 3, 2018. But her record was not uploaded in the system, nor did she get the service record book back. Due to this, she was deprived of the annual hikes, recording of annual performance review, etc.” She approached her seniors and a high-level internal inquiry was ordered. Based on the finding, the police complaint was lodged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/service-record-lost-two-clerks-booked/articleshow/79467087.cms||Mohammed Akhef
November 29, 2020||Ludhiana||Buddha Nullah: Revival of bio-remediation project on cards||Ludhiana: There is a ray of hope for the revival of bio-remediation project that was conceived for treating the pollution level in Buddha Nullah over two years back but in the absence of its upkeep it was lying unattended. Now, the chairman of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) monitoring committee, Justice (retd) Jasbir Singh, has asked the MC and the PPCB to look after this project and revive it. The central government-funded project that was conceived in 2011-12 was left in the lurch in the absence of any authority to look into the work. This project was supposed to reduce the pollution level in the drain near Jainpur with the help of bacteria released in the bridges constructed over the drain. The project work was started in 2012 and got completed in 2016. The private company that had constructed the green bridges was supposed to take care of the project for two years. The maintenance work which was undertaken by the company got over in 2018 but after that nobody took over the maintenance work. Since 2017, the PPCB and MC officials are having a tussle over the project work. The MC in a resolution had approved that they would maintain the bridges after completion of the project in 2011. It was decided that the MC would spend Rs 1.5 crore for the annual maintenance of these bridges. Then Union environment minister Jairam Ramesh had started this project by visiting Ludhiana under the research and development scheme. Five green bridges were constructed at Jainpur village. A tussle was going on between both departments over this project even as MC officials showed dissatisfaction over results of this project and PPCB officials claimed that the MC was only trying to take its responsibility due to financial crisis. But on Friday, when the NGT monitoring committee members had visited Jainpur they asked the officials to revive the project once again. The superintending engineer of operation and maintenance cell of MC, Rajinder Singh, said the chairman of committee had asked the PPCB officials to once again revive this project and then hand it over to MC for maintenance. He said now PPCB officials would check how they would go about it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/buddha-nullah-revival-of-bio-remediation-project-on-cards/articleshow/79468592.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Trichy||Helpdesk set up for Haj pilgrims at passport office||Trichy: A special helpdesk has been set up at the regional passport office at Marakkadai in Trichy till December 10 to facilitate Haj pilgrims. The desk will help the applicants and speed up the issuance of passports.The Haj committee has fixed December 10 as last date for the submission of applications for Haj pilgrimage along with valid passport details. Only those applicants who possess machine readable passports valid up to January 11, 2022 would be permitted to apply for pilgrimage in 2021, the statement from the passport office said. In this regard, all Haj aspirants have been advised to check the validity of their passports and apply for reissuance if needed. Any Haj aspirant, who has already applied and has not received the same may visit the passport office at Marakadai to inquire about the status of their application. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/helpdesk-set-up-for-haj-pilgrims-at-passport-office/articleshow/79469899.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Eight cities recorded 48% rise in Covid-19 cases since November 16||AHMEDABAD: How big is the surge of Covid cases in the eight municipal corporation areas in Gujarat? The analysis of figures from November 1 to 15 and 16 to 28 reveals that the first half of the month recorded a cumulative average of 537 cases daily from Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot, Bhavnagar, Jamnagar, Junagadh and Gandhinagar. From November 16 to 28, the eight cities have recorded a cumulative average of 793 daily cases, recording a rise of 47.6% in the 13 days of the second half of the month. In comparison, Gujarat recorded average 1,024 daily cases in the first half of the month, compared to 1,416 daily cases in the second half, recording rise of 38%. The cities primarily recorded the surge in cases post Diwali with Ahmedabad not recording less than 300 and Surat not recording less than 200 daily cases since November 20. Gujarat in 24 hours ending at 5pm on Saturday added 1,598 positive cases, taking the total to 2.06 lakh. The state also recorded deaths of 15 Covid patients, taking the state’s death toll to 3,953. The new positive cases included 357 from Ahmedabad, 284 from Surat, 179 from Vadodara and 151 from Rajkot districts. The deaths included 10 from Ahmedabad, two from Surat, and one each from Vadodara, Rajkot and Gandhinagar. The daily tests increased slightly at 69,887 in 24 hours, taking the total to 7.69 lakh. The state also recorded the discharge of 1,523 patients — the highest in 72 days — taking the total to 1.87 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/8-cities-recorded-48-rise-in-cases-since-nov-16/articleshow/79469582.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Recoveries exceed number of new Covid-19 cases in Haryana||CHANDIGARH: Number of recoveries in Haryana exceeded the new cases for the second day as the state detected 1,967 new cases and declared 2,421 recovered on Saturday. As many as 30 Covid-19 deaths were reported, which included 20 from four districts alone. So far, the state has registered 2,30,713 cases and the death toll has gone to 2,375, with overall recoveries reaching 2,08,422 with a recovery rate of 90.34%. Now, there are 19,916 active patients in the state, who include 418 critical patients on oxygen and ventilator support in Covid centres across the state. Gurgaon, Faridabad, Hisar and Bhiwani each reported five deaths. In addition, two deaths each in Rohtak, Rewari, Sirsa and Yamunanagar were reported and one death each in Sonipat and Jhajjar districts. Gurgaon reported a maximum 668 new cases, which took the district tally to 48,633 cases, 283 deaths and 6,367 active cases. Faridabad reported second highest 387 new cases and here the overall tally has reached 39,772 cases, 326 deaths and 4,129 active cases. Hisar reported 134 new cases where tally has gone to 15,494 cases, 227 deaths and 1,444 active cases. Rohtak and Panckula reported 96 new cases each, followed by 80 in Sonipat 72 from Rewari, 67 from Karnal and 56 from Sirsa and 55 from Jhajjar district. 48 cases were reported from Panipat and rest 11 districts reported less than 40 cases with the lowest two cases from Charkhi Dadri district. Meanwhile, the testing rate on Saturday reached 1,34,670 tests per million per day as a total 3,76,443 persons have been tested so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/recoveries-exceed-number-of-new-covid-19-cases-in-haryana/articleshow/79469467.cms||Manvir Saini
November 29, 2020||Ludhiana||With notification out, SAD & BJP face-off imminent||Ludhiana: As the notification for elections to the 109 municipal councils and 9 municipal corporation is out, this will be for the first time when SAD and BJP leaders will contest against each other. The places near Ludhiana where the elections will take place are Khanna, Samrala, Payal, Doraha, Jagraon and Raikot. Both parties have started preparations for the polls. Even as BJP leaders claimed that they would manage to sail through without any issues, Shiromani Akali Dal leaders on the other hand claimed that these elections would show which party was standing at which position. The Akali Dal senior leader, Daljit Singh Cheema, while talking over phone said, “We have geared up for elections and the respective district presidents are holding the meetings with party workers.” Regarding contesting these elections against the BJP, he said they would announce candidates on all seats and there would be no problem in fighting against the BJP. However, he admitted the fact that these elections would be like a test ahead for the assembly elections and farmers’ issues would leave an impact on the results because most of the areas where the elections are going to take place fall in rural areas. On the other hand, BJP senior leader Ravinder Arora said, “We have started meetings with party workers in these cities for tackling the issues. No doubt, it will be the first chance where the SAD and BJP will contest against each other but it will not create much problems for us.” He said they would announce the candidates as soon as the final date for the elections would be announced. Regarding the impact of farmer bills and agitation of farmers on these elections, he said, “We are trying to convince the farmers about these bills and it will not create any impact on the elections. We are convinced to get president posts in Khanna and Samrala.” Another BJP leader Rajnish Dhiman said, “We have a strong team in Khanna and Samrala and we will make all efforts to win the maximum number of seats at these two places. Though it is always considered that bypolls or MC elections are always won by the ruling party, we will try to change this criteria.” He said these elections were being fought at very local levels, so farmers’ issue would not be that important in these elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/with-notification-out-sad-bjp-face-off-imminent/articleshow/79468594.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Aurangabad||Special train to Panvel till Dec-end||Aurangabad: The South Central Railway (SCR) has decided to run the Nanded-Panvel-Nanded festival special trains till December-end, instead of November 30, to facilitate the movement of passengers. The trains will have revised timings. The Nanded-Panvel daily special train will now leave Nanded at 5.35 pm and will reach Panvel at 9 am the next day. In the return direction, Panvel-Nanded daily special train (07613) will leave Panvel at 4 pm and reach Nanded at 8.45 am the next day. En route, the trains will stop at Purna, Parbhani, Gangakhed, Parli Vaijnath, Latur Road, Latur, Osmanabad, Kurduvadi, Daund, Pune, Chinchwad, Talegaon, Lonavala and Karjat stations in both directions. “Nanded-Panvel-Nanded was a regular train before the pandemic. Later, it was introduced as a festival special. Considering the good occupancy, it will be continued for one more month,” said Rajesh Shinde, the SCR PRO for Nanded division.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/special-train-to-panvel-till-dec-end/articleshow/79467092.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab accepts option on market borrowing||New Delhi: Punjab has agreed to go for the option provided by the Centre on market borrowing to meet the revenue shortfall arising out of of implementation of the Goods and Services Tax (GST). The number of states who have chosen this option has gone up to 26. All the three Union Territories with a legislative assembly which includes Delhi, Jammu & Kashmir and Puducherry have also decided in favour of Option-1. Earlier Kerala and West Bengal, two of the bitter opponents of the Centre’s plan on borrowing to compensate states for the GST revenue shortfall had also accepted Option-I proposed by the Union government, marking an end to the stand-off on the issue. The states and Union Territories who choose Option-1 are getting the amount of shortfall arising out of GST implementation through a special borrowing window put in place by the Centre. Now, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh are the only states still to decide on the issue. The GST Council had debated the issue and had held a special session to discuss and arrive at a consensus on the borrowing plan to compensate states for the revenue shortfall. These states had argued that the Centre should borrow the money from the market as it would get a better rate while borrowing by the states would put a burden on their debt servicing and also they would have to borrow at a higher rate. The borrowing window has been set up since October 23, 2020 and the Centre has already borrowed an amount of Rs 24,000 crore on behalf of the states in four instalments and passed it on to the states and Union Territories.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-accepts-option-on-market-borrowing/articleshow/79469471.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 29, 2020||Goa||‘Act against BJP MLAs in Chandor stir’||Margao: Goa Forward Party president Vijai Sardesai on Friday condemned the police move of “singling out” anti-coal protestors by booking offences against only six people, and dared the police to act against him and his party workers who had also participated in the Chandor mid-night agitation. “I, alongwith my party workers, was there at Chandor protest. We were there yesterday, we are there today, and we will be there tomorrow to oppose the anti-people projects which are coming up in the name of development. People are being singled out and harassed by the police to intimidate them. We are with the people,” Sardesai said addressing reporters. Pointing out that several legislators from the ruling party have come out in support of the people’s agitation, the Fatorda MLA asked the police to first file cases against them. “Otherwise, people will lose faith in the government. Law must be the same for everybody.” Stating that there was no benefit to Goa from the projects, Sardesai, at one point, advised Cortalim MLA Alina Saldanha who has opposed the double tracking of the railway route, to quit the BJP. He also slammed the government on the Mhadei issue, questioning the delay in the case coming before the Supreme Court bench four months after the contempt petition was filed by the government. “If this isn’t match fixing, what is?” Sardesai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/act-against-bjp-mlas-in-chandor-stir/articleshow/79468597.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Chandigarh||HP sees 11 deaths, 650 new infections||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh reported 11 Covid-19 deaths and 650 positive cases on Saturday. A total of 270 patients also recovered. Of the total 11 deaths, five have been reported from the Shimla district, followed by Kangra district (3), while one death each has been reported from Una, Chamba and Solan districts. The state has a total of 38,977 positive cases, of which 8,574 cases are active, 29,753 have recovered and 613 have died. A total of 27 patients have migrated out. Total 5,20,785 persons have been tested for the deadly virus in the state till Saturday and 4,80,770 persons have tested negative, while results of 1,038 samples are awaited. A total of 25 positive cases were reported from the Bilaspur district, followed by Chamba district (41), Hamirpur district reported 61 cases, Kangra district saw 160 cases, 30 cases were reported from Kinnaur district, Kullu district recorded 23 new cases, Lahaul-Spiti district saw 24 fresh cases, Mandi district 89, Shimla district witnessed 111 cases, Sirmaur district saw 15 cases and 71 cases were recorded from the Solan district. A total of 17 recoveries were reported from the Bilaspur district, 32 from Chamba district, Kangra district (67), Kinnaur district (7), Sirmaur district (10), Solan district (113) and Una district (24).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hp-sees-11-deaths-650-new-infections/articleshow/79469469.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Goa||Supplier blames sanitisers for fading HSRP numbers||Panaji: After ambitiously launching the mandatory fitment of high security registration plates (HSRP) on vehicles in the state, the number plates have shown signs of deterioration with fading away of the black foil thus hampering the numbers. These embossed number plates are hot stamped black foil to give the printed plate. “The black foil on my HSRP has faded so much that the vehicle number is almost white in colour. The HSRP was fitted in February this year and my vehicle was hardly used in the lockdown months. Yet, the black foil started vanishing from September onwards,” a Panaji resident said. Officers from the directorate of transport told TOI that they have directed the contractors to immediately replace the number plates with new ones. “We have received numerous complaints from vehicle owners and have also seen videos on social media highlighting the same. The HSRP vendors at vehicle dealerships in car showrooms have also been told to do the needful,” a transport officer said. The contractor, Real Mazon India Ltd, said that the practice of sanitising vehicles owing to the pandemic could be the reason for the fading away of the black foil. “When the sanitisers or disinfectants that contain sodium hypochlorite and other chemicals come in contact with the black foil, it can get affected. The reports of fading number plates have come in only recently. Of the 1 lakh vehicles we have fitted the HSRPs on, only 1% have reported the issue,” assistant general manager, Real Mazon India Ltd, Biswajeet Mukherjee said. Stating that the contractors are willing to replace the number plates free of cost, Mukherjee said, “The state manager for HSRP has been asked to take note of the complaints and replace the number plates. We however appeal to the vehicle owners to not fully sanitise the vehicles to ensure that the number plate doesn’t get affected again.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/supplier-blames-sanitisers-for-fading-hsrp-numbers/articleshow/79468612.cms||Nida Sayed
November 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Make our pay on par with our counterparts in other states,’||Ahmedabad: The 1,000-plus intern doctors at the Civil Hospital, forming the backbone of the fight against Covid-19 in the biggest Covid-19 treatment centre of Gujarat, have made a representation to the state government to increase their stipend amount. They have also asked the government to provide them benefits under Corona Warriors Sanman Yojana and consider their Covid-19 duty time as the double of normal duty time for the purpose of their bond they entered into at the time of medical admission. A letter sent by the dean of BJ Medical College to the principal secretary (health and family welfare), vouched for the demand of increasing the monthly stipend of Rs 12,800 given to these students. A student told TOI on the condition of anonymity that the gap is very wide when one compares the stipend amount with some other hospitals in Gujarat and elsewhere. “The MBBS interns are paid Rs 500 daily over and above their stipend as honorarium. Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation is paying Rs 39,000 to the interns over their regular stipend. The doctors in Delhi are getting Rs 1,000 for an eight-hour and Rs 2,000 for a 12-hour shift above their stipend,” said the student, adding that the move by the government would only boost their morale to serve the patients during the pandemic. The students met Jai Prakash Shivahare, state health commissioner, with the demand of stipend and also to consider their Covid duty time as double (serving one month in Covid duty to be considered as two months in regular duty) for the purpose of their medical bond. The students said that they have got an assurance of quicker resolution of the issue. Another student said that they have also made a representation to get Rs 25,000 which were announced as a one-time payment for the doctors on Covid duty by the state government. The doctors also quoted the recent notification by the state health department where they announced stipend of Rs 15,000 for the final year students. “How can we get the amount which is less than what our juniors would be getting?” asked a student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/make-our-pay-on-par-with-our-counterparts-in-other-states/articleshow/79469583.cms||Parth Shastri
November 29, 2020||Goa||‘Spend Rs 100cr on state’s econ revival’||Panaji: Instead of spending Rs 100 crore for the year-long Goa liberation celebrations, the state government should use the funds to assist the grassroots level informal economy and bring about an economic revival, said Congress on Saturday. Leader of opposition Digambar Kamat said the BJP government’s obsession with celebrations will push the state into a financial debt. “It is important that chief minister Pramod Sawant first release Rs 100 crore as economic revival package to liberate the marginalised sector from the huge financial burden and losses suffered by them due to outbreak of Covid pandemic and collapse of economy,” Kamat said. On numerous occasions, Congress has blamed BJP for pushing the state into bankruptcy and a debt burden.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/spend-rs-100cr-on-states-econ-revival/articleshow/79468627.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Active Covid cases surge in western Ahmedabad, decline in east||AHMEDABAD: Active cases in the city have declined by 31 patients in the last two days, but increased in the western part of the city by 62 patients. Of the18 societies on the micro-containment list declared on Saturday, 16 societies were from the western part of the city. A total of 630 families and 2,469 people were micro-contained in South West Zone, North West Zone and West Zone of the city. The official data of AMC states that once again, after nearly a month, active cases in North West Zone crossed the figure 500. Since mid-October active cases in western part of the city was around 48%, but on Saturday the share of western part increased to 52%, as the eastern part of the city saw more discharge of Covid patient against those admitted. In the South and the North Zone of the city, which had seen a spike in the cases, the figure of active cases declined by over 30 cases. According to the AMC, on Saturday morning the city had 2,768 active cases. The North West Zone, including areas such as Thaltej, Gota, Bodakdev and Ghatlodia, accounted for the highest number of these cases, 502. The West Zone, comprising Ranip, Naranpura, Navrangpura, Paldi and Usmanpura, had 473 active cases. Jodhpur, Vejalpur, Bopal and Sarkhej accounted for another 460. These numbers for other zones were: North 319; East 320; South 392 and Central 302. Among the societies or their parts in the western part under micro-containment are Rajashree Tower (Jodhpur), Aaryan Gloria (Bopal), Venus Parkland Apartment (Vejalpur), Kasturi Complex (Bodakdev), Shatipujya Homes, Alaknanada Residency, Shukan Residency, Sopan Saran, all in Chandlodia; Arjun Apartment and Nareshwar Flat (Ghatlodia), Kalsh Avenue (Navrangpura), Dev Archan Flat (Paldi) and Ramvihar Society (Paldi).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/active-cases-surge-in-western-city-decline-in-east/articleshow/79469584.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Covid vaccine distribution to be based on electoral rolls||GANDHINAGAR: Even as efforts are afoot in India and across the world to develop vaccines against coronavirus, the state government has begun the exercise of preparing a master plan for vaccinating the masses as and when the supply of the vaccine begins after the government of India’s approval. The state government has formed a committee of senior secretaries to work out modalities of distribution of the vaccine across the state. The committee, headed by the chief secretary, met for the first time recently and will meet once a week. The committee members include secretaries of the health, labour and employment, urban development, finance and other departments. “For common citizens, it has been decided to use the current electoral booth system, where all details of voters like age, address and other details are available. Specialized booths will be set up to vaccinate people on the basis of electoral rolls. Fingers of people who are vaccinated will also be inked for identification purposes. Qualified manpower for executing the vaccination programme is being put into place,” sources in the government said. Sources added that before the vaccine is made available for common citizens, frontline corona warriors and elderly will be vaccinated – an announcement made by the Union government already. The strategy for handling and distribution of the vaccine was discussed at length at the committee’s first meeting. A source said,||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-vaccine-distribution-to-be-based-on-electoral-rolls/articleshow/79469589.cms||Kapil Dave
November 29, 2020||Agra||Hry man dies in cross-firing between UP cops, bikers||Agra: A 28-year-old man, hailing from Haryana’s Mewat region, died after allegedly being caught in a cross-firing between two bike-borne youths and Mathura police on Delhi-Agra national highway on Friday night. The deceased was identified as Najim Khan, who owned a dairy business and was a resident of Jamalgarh village in Mewat. Police took him to hospital, where he died during the treatment around 4 am. However, the bike-borne assailants escaped. Police have registered an FIR against the unknown assailants under IPC section 307 (attempt to murder) and 302 (murder) at Chhata police station. Khan’s relatives accused police of killing him. However, it was not immediately known whose bullet hit him on the neck, said police. Talking with TOI, Shireesh Chandra, SP (rural), said during vehicle checking at Kotwan around 12:15 am, a speeding four-wheeler crossed the checkpoint without stopping. Two bike-borne men, who were behind the four-wheeler, also jumped the checkpoint. A police party followed them and the bike-borne men allegedly opened fire. During the crossfire, the man who was driving the car was injured. Police took him to hospital but he could not survive. The body has been sent for post-mortem, which would also establish whose bullet hit Khan, said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/hry-man-dies-in-cross-firing-between-up-cops-bikers/articleshow/79467131.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Goa||GPSC test records marked improvement by candidates||Panaji: The recent examination conducted by the Goa Public Service Commission (GPSC) has shown a marked improvement in performance by the candidates who attempted the computer-based recruitment test (CBRT). Of the total 3,700 candidates who had applied, 2,723 attempted the examination of which 79 passed and 96 qualified for a repeat examination In view of the pandemic, GPSC had decided to conduct a pre-screening test keeping in mind various SOPs. Earlier this year, in response to an advertisement, the commission had received around 3,700 applications for 22 positions of junior scale officers in the personnel department. GSPC chairman Jose Manual Noronha said that the commission had earlier scheduled the screening exam in March 2020, but had to postpone it due to the lockdown. The commission had earlier decided and informed the candidates that those who secured up to three marks less than the required cut-off in their respective categories would be eligible to answer a repeat examination. Of those who answered the repeat exam, 12 cleared in the general category and four cleared in the OBC category. Candidates who cleared the pre-screening test will now be subject to the screening CBRT. This will be a 75-minute paper carrying 75 marks and will examine topics such as history, governance, environment, innovation, current affairs, geography, reasoning and English comprehension. The screening CBRT is scheduled to be held on December 13 and those who qualify here will have to answer four written papers totalling 250 marks. Further, those who qualify at the written examination will need to appear for an interview before a selection committee. Meanwhile, the commission also conducted the CBRT for the position of assistant public prosecutor for the home department’s directorate of prosecution. A total of 450 candidates had applied for the 23 positions available. Of these, 353 appeared for the examination. From these, 28 candidates cleared the examination - 13 in general category, seven in the OBC category, seven in the ST category and one in the SC category. No candidate was successful in the persons with disability (PWD) category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gpsc-test-records-marked-improvement-by-candidates/articleshow/79468630.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Vadodara||Night curfew plays spoilsport for musical parties||Vadodara: Just when they had begun making Gujaratis groove to the peppy beats after a gloomy lockdown, Covid-19 has returned to play a spoilsport in their parties. Disc jockeys (DJ) from the state are again on tenterhooks as the government has imposed night curfews in the four major cities.The sudden decision to impose curfew has led to cancellation of many parties, including birthday bashes and pre-wedding events. “We faced losses during the lockdown and had barely begun earning enough to sustain. But this night curfew has again affected our business. Many of my bookings got cancelled as my clients called off the parties they had organized,” said DJ Yazad from Vadodara.The state government announced night curfew in Vadodara, Ahmedabad, Surat and Rajkot between 9 pm and 6 am. “There would be no sense in organizing musical events in family functions in day time. So many events are getting either postponed or cancelled,” Yazad told TOI. The situation is the same for DJs in Ahmedabad, too.“Usually I have 35 to 40 bookings every year between November and December. But this time I got just 10 bookings for musical events. And this night curfew has ensured that even this business would get away from me. Some of my clients are shifting their events in day time but there is still a lot of uncertainty,” said DJ Taral from Ahmedabad.The DJ circuit is, in fact, worried that even the New Year eve gatherings may be called off due to Covid-19 concerns. “We understand that the government is trying to tackle the pandemic by avoiding large gatherings. But what sense does this night curfew make when people are crowding city areas in day time. After a tough year, we are just trying to survive and make our ends meet. Such sudden decisions are causing a lot of problems to our fraternity,” said another DJ Cyrus Marawala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/night-curfew-plays-spoilsport-for-musical-parties/articleshow/79467895.cms||Tushar Tere
November 29, 2020||Goa||CM invites Prez for Liberation Day celebrations||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Saturday met President of India Ram Nath Kovind and invited him for the Goa Liberation Day celebration which would be held throughout the year. “Called on the President of India Shri Ram Nath Kovind Ji, in New Delhi. Extended a warm invitation to #PresidentKovind for the 59th Goa Liberation Day celebration, as we embark upon a new chapter to promote Goa’s cultural heritage on the national and global stage” Sawant stated. As part of the year-long celebrations to mark 60 years of Goa’s Liberation from Portuguese rule, the state government has planned to spend over Rs 100 crore to conduct various programmes. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to attend one of the programmes, CM Pramod Sawant said on Friday. The state plans to organise at least one programme in the capitals of various states and Union territories to showcase Goa’s culture and tourism as part of the celebrations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-invites-prez-for-liberation-day-celebrations/articleshow/79468637.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Multiple retail outlets sealed||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad Municipal corporation has sealed the Croma outlet opposite the Gujarat high court along with Punjab Automobiles and the Mahindra showroom situated on Science City Road for not following social distancing and not compelling customers to wear masks. Harshad Solanki the director of AMC’s solid waste department said that apart from these three big outlets, the AMC team also sealed Jay Bhavani Vadapau and Khusi Mobile Shop. The AMC imposed a fine of Rs 50k on the management of Sanjivani Hospital on Bhuyangdev Crossroads for not maintaining social distancing. Solanki said since Sajivani was a hospital, it was not sealed but a fine was imposed. He further said that on Saturday a total of 151 cases of mask violations were registered. Of these 88 people were checked for Covid and one person tested positive.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/multiple-retail-outlets-sealed/articleshow/79469612.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Goa||Poll panel meet next week to finalise date for ZP elections||Panaji: The state election commission (SEC) will hold a meeting next week with Goa police and both the district collectors to finalise the date for elections to the zilla panchayats. The date will depend on the preparedness of police and collectors, state election commissioner Chokha Ram Garg said on Saturday. Earlier in the day, chief minister Pramod Sawant said that the zilla panchayat elections could be held in December, but the SEC will finalise the dates. “The state government has suggested to the SEC to hold ZP elections by the end of this month or early next month. The government has already moved the file and the SEC will take a decision soon,” panchayats minister Mauvin Godinho had told TOI on November 16. The ZP elections were initially scheduled for March 15, but the state government postponed it to March 22 due to the threat of Covid-19. However, on March 20, Prime Minister Narendra Modi called for Janata Curfew on March 22 and the state government decided to push it further by another two days to March 24. Despite strong protests from people, Sawant was firm on holding the elections on March 24. Only after Modi intervened and asked Sawant to defer the polls, the state government decided to postpone them indefinitely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/poll-panel-meet-next-week-to-finalise-date-for-zp-elections/articleshow/79468648.cms||Murari Shetye
November 29, 2020||Aurangabad||Now, criminal action against dumping waste into nullahs||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has decided to initiate criminal action against citizens or establishments found throwing waste into nullahs, as repeated warnings and notices have failed to yield results, AMC administrator Astik Kumar Pandey said on Saturday. The historic city of Aurangabad has a large network of nullahs, especially in old city limits, which get clogged due to dumped waste and cause health hazards. Nandkishor Bhombe, head of the solid waste management cell of AMC, said latest order would come into effect from Sunday. The stern measure has been announced by the civic body in the wake of upcoming Swachh Survekshan, for which central teams are likely to visit early next year. “The civic administration will lodge FIR with the nearest police station if any citizen or firm is found dumping garbage in nullahs. “The AMC engages its machinery at regular intervals to clean the nullahs, but due to indiscriminate dumping, the drains end up being clogged soon after. Several warnings were previously issued to commercial establishments and households, but in vain,” he said. Aurangabad was placed at an abysmal 220th position in the Swachh Survekshan 2019, but the city bettered its performance and climbed up to the 26th spot last year. The civic administration has set a target of figuring in the list of top 10 cities in the next survey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/now-criminal-action-against-dumping-waste-into-nullahs/articleshow/79467136.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 29, 2020||Goa||Hearing in Tejpal case to resume on Dec 7||Panaji: The cross-examination of the survivor who was allegedly raped by Tehelka founder-editor Tarun Tejpal, will commence on December 7 in a Mapusa trial court. The trial court had earlier fixed the date for November 20. Special public prosecutor Francisco Tavora told TOI that the cross-examination was postponed because she tested positive for Covid-19. Tavora said that the Supreme Court has extended the time to complete the trial till March 31, 2021. After completing the cross-examination, her husband’s statement will be recorded, and then the statements of the remaining witnesses. The last cross-examination of the survivor was conducted in March, before the lockdown. On December 12, 2019, the high court of Bombay at Goa had told the trial court not to allow Tejpal’s counsel to ask “irrelevant questions” during cross-examination. She had approached the high court saying Tejpal’s counsel was asking irrelevant questions during the trial court. The cross-examination had begun on October 21, 2019. In September 2017, a Goa court framed charges against Tejpal, who had pleaded not guilty, paving the way for a trial. Tejpal has been charged with offences under Sections 354 (assaulting or using criminal force on a woman with an intent to outrage her modesty), 354-A (outraging modesty), 341 (wrongful restraint), 342 (wrong confinement), 376 (rape), 376(2) (f) (person in position of trust or authority over women, committing rape of such women) and 376(2) (k) (rape of a woman by a person being in position of control or dominance over the woman).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hearing-in-tejpal-case-to-resume-on-dec-7/articleshow/79468644.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||120 beds added in 3 hotels, 32 in hospitals||Ahmedabad: To create more facilities for asymptomatic patients and those who do not need immediate hospital care, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has approved 120 beds in three hotels and a banquet hall. The AMC has also designated Narayan Medical Hospital in Vastral as a Covid hospital. Also, eight beds have been increased in CUH hospital in Odhav. All these hospital and hotel facilities will be on paid basis for patients. The step will help to free up properly equipped beds for critical Covid patients at hospitals. The decision to approve these hotel and the care centre was taken at a meeting held on Saturday. The meeting was chaired by Rajiv Kumar Gupta, ACS, forest and environment, who is in-charge of Covid management in the city was also attended by municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar and the deputy municipal commissioner. Authorities at the meeting decided that the new facilities will be managed by hospitals who already have adequate staff and medical support. Gupta in a statement said that cases as compared previous months was on the rise and the new beds are being arranged to tackle the load. Earlier, the AMC had approved 376 beds in three hotels and a Covid Care Centre for non-critical Covid patients. AMC officials said that asymptomatic patients who prefer to be in medical care but do not need hospitalization are occupying hospital beds that are needed more by critical patients. Adding paid beds at Covid care centres will help ameliorate the situation. Moreover, with increasing rate of infection in the eastern part of the city, 32 beds including a new designated Covid hospital with 24 beds has been approved in Vasrtal and eight beds were increased in an existing Covid hospital also in the eastern part of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/120-beds-added-in-3-hotels-32-in-hospitals/articleshow/79469538.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Aurangabad||8 visits to doc must during pregnancy||Aurangabad: Paediatricians and gynaecologists have suggested that pregnant women should have at least eight consultations with the doctors to identify and manage different risk factors in a foetus. Paediatrition Rahul Gosavi at Kamalnayan Bajaj Hospital here said India is considered to be one of the largest contributor to the world prematurity burden with 23.4% of the total births being pre-term babies. “The causes behind mothers giving birth to pre-term babies are complex and vary from mother to mother. However, recommended interventions related to counselling on a healthy diet and optimal nutrition can minimize such births,” he said. As per the global standards, the antenatal care registration should be done as early as possible and a minimum of eight contacts with health professionals throughout pregnancy can ensure safe delivery. One consultation during each trimester of the pregnancy and an additional one in the last trimester should not be skipped at any cost, health experts advise. Stating that highest (35%) neonatal deaths in India are of pre-term babies, Gosavi said essential newborn care such as drying, warming, immediate and exclusive breastfeeding, hygiene, and cord care is very important. L S Deshmukh, head of paediatrics department at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Aurangabad, said the gender bais has a lasting impact. “As fallout of such discrimination, many girls face malnourishment throughout their upbringing in our society. Such girls are prone to give birth to pre-term and low birthweight babies. Therefore, we have to focus on nourishment of mothers not at the time when the conceive child, but since their childhood,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/8-visits-to-doc-must-during-pregnancy/articleshow/79467160.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||RTPCR for symptomatic, even if RAT -ve||Ahmedabad: On the day the Gujarat high court dismissed a PIL seeking mandatory RTPCR tests for symptomatic persons who test negative for the novel coronavirus by the Rapid Antigen Test (RAT), the state government adopted this as policy and decided to follow this ICMR suggestion diligently to curb the spread of Covid-19. On Friday, the HC junked a PIL filed by advocate K R Koshti, who demanded implementation of the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) guideline issued on four occasions. It said that those suspected of having Covid-19 must be tested by RTPCR, if they test negative by RAT. While the petitioner-advocate asserted that there is no option for RTPCR tests at kiosks set up for testing, the advocate general denied this and submitted that the ICMR guideline is being followed by the state so far as testing is concerned. The state health department came up with instructions for strict compliance to the guideline the PIL was asking for.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rtpcr-for-symptomatic-even-if-rat-ve/articleshow/79469613.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Aurangabad||Relief for farmers, space for birdsas Jayakwadi starts water release||Aurangabad: The Paithan Left Bank Canal System (PLBC) of Jayakwadi major irrigation project has been witnessing the release of water at 1,600 cusec for irrigation purpose. The water release from Nathsagar, the dam reservoir, has brought smile on the faces of not only farmers but also bird lovers it will create space for birds in the Jayakwadi bird sanctuary during the current migratory season. “Around 22 TMC water is slated to get released for crops during the ongoing Rabi season in total three rotations. The water-release would be increased gradually over the next few days as per standard operating procedure,” dam authorities said. Ornithologist Dilip Bhagat said submerged fringe areas of dam would be gradually available for birds to make their habitats due to the ongoing process of release of water from Jayakwadi dam. “While the migration of local and foreign birds towards the Jayakwadi bird sanctuary has already started, the season will be at its peak by the second week of December. The birds use fringe areas of the dam as their habitat. These areas will be free from water soon,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/relief-for-farmers-space-for-birdsas-jayakwadi-starts-water-release/articleshow/79467152.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Goa||Girl rescued from Colva waters||Colva: A 16-year-old girl from Margao was rescued from the sea at Colva on Saturday afternoon. The girl, along with another two friends, visited Colva beach and they ventured into the sea. While in the water, the victim developed cramps in her legs, Drishti personnel said. Realising she was in distress and calling for help, lifesaver Suraj Girap rushed into the sea and secured her with a rescue tube and brought her to safety. Drishti stated that one must always be hydrated by consuming plenty of water before getting into salty waters, especially during hot and humid weather.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/girl-rescued-from-colva-waters/articleshow/79468650.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Aurangabad||Couple, daughter murdered in Maharashtra's Paithan; son, six, battling for life||AURANGABAD: A businessman, his wife and nine-year-old daughter were brutally murdered at their residence in June-Kavsan village in Paithan taluka of the district early on Saturday morning. The unidentified culprits also attacked the six-year old son of the man, Sambhaji alias Raju Niware (35), with sharp weapons and left the scene assuming that the child was dead, said the Paithan police. The boy, Soham, received serious injuries on the head and neck and is battling for life at the Aurangabad government hospital, said police. Niware, his wife Ashwini (30) and their daughter Sayali died on the spot, said police. Police have ruled out robbery as the motive for the crime and are investigating all the angles, including an alleged assault on a youth by Niware over some issue recently, said a crime branch officer. “The youth who was allegedly assaulted by Niware and some of his friends are being questioned.” Based on the complaint lodged by Sambhaji’s brother, police have registered a murder case against unidentified suspects and formed teams to detect the crime. Assistant superintendent of police Gorakh Bhamre,the Paithan sub-divisional officer, said the family had gone to Aurangabad for shopping and returned home on Saturday night. “A spot panchanama has revealed that there was a friendly entry into their house. We suspect that the assailants jumped the compound wall and barged into the bedroom by opening the door that was not latched from inside,” he said. The officer said there was nobody else in the house except the family of four at the time of the incident. The incident came to light around 4 am, when the six-year-old Soham came outside the house bleeding from the head and neck and crying. A neighbour woke up and peeped into the house only to find the boy’s father and sister lying on the floor and mother on the bed, all of them soaked in blood. The neighbour immediately alerted people residing in the area, including the relatives of the deceased, apart from informing police. Sources in the police department said that Niware was into various businesses, including sand trading, and also owns vast portions of farmland in the village. “Niware used to always leave the house open and thought nobody would dare enter it.” added the sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/couple-daughter-slain-son-6-battling-for-life/articleshow/79467170.cms||Mohammed Akhef
November 29, 2020||Vadodara||Civic body’s rapid test may just declare you as ‘probably Covid-19 positive’!||Vadodara: Results of Covid-19 rapid antigen tests tell whether a person is positive or negative for the virus. But in Vadodara, a new category has been added with people being given a ‘probable positive’ certificate.Strange as it might seem, but this system was adopted by the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) around the beginning of October. The reason was that both the number of cases being stated by VMC in its medical bulletins and the results of the rapid tests done at urban health centres (UHC) had come under close scrutiny.Congress members checked results of several persons outside UHCs and claimed on September 22 that its workers could count 236 Covid-19 cases at UHCs alone against only 88 declared by the VMC. Those counted by the Congress did not include tests at private laboratories and government hospitals in the city.Some individuals got multiple tests done at different UHCs and went public with results. The results were different at different UHCs. Sources said that this was possible due to the false negative results thrown up by kits in some conditions and this fact was widely known. But the results were used to show VMC in a bad light. In wake of the issues, sources said, the civic body decided to add probable to the test results. VMC officials, however, said that all ‘probable positive’ results were being included in the data compiled and declared by it. “They are considered as positive cases and treated accordingly too. In case of symptomatic patients, a PCR rest is also done,” said VMC’s medical officer (health) Dr Devesh Patel.But the ‘probable positive’ results have led to complications when people have submitted the test result for insurance. They have rushed back to the health centres or the VMC seeking results that declare them positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/civic-bodys-rapid-test-may-just-declare-you-as-probably-covid-19-positive/articleshow/79467928.cms||Sachin Sharma
November 29, 2020||Aurangabad||Unidentified suspects uproot & flee with ATM unit containing Rs 28L in Jalna||Aurangabad: Unidentified suspects uprooted an ATM unit of a nationalised bank, which contained Rs 28 lakh, and made away with it early on Saturday morning. The ATM was installed near the Jalna MIDC area, 65km from here.This incident comes on the heels of a similar case of unidentified suspects fleeing with an ATM unit containing Rs 21 lakh from the Paithan road area. Aurangabad rural police authorities confirmed that the past few months have witnessed multiple attempts to break open ATM units in different parts of Marathwada.In Jalna, to avoid getting caught, the suspects sprayed foam on the CCTV cameras at the ATM kiosk, before tying the machine with a heavy rope and uprooting it. Based on a complaint lodged by the bank’s representative, a case has been booked under IPC sections 380 (committing theft at any property meant for dwelling or for custody of property), 461 (breaking open any receptacle) with the Chandanzira police station.Jalna sub-divisional police officer Sudhir Khiradkar said: “We have formed five teams to solve the case in which an ATM worth Rs 4 lakh, containing Rs 28 lakh, was stolen.” The officer said that at 1.45 am on Saturday, the police control room received a call informing that a theft was underway at the Nagewadi-based ATM. Though the police teams rushed, the suspects had fled with the ATM before they reached the spot.Sources said the CCTV footage shows the suspects entering the kiosk at 1.41 am. The police control room received the call at 1.45 am. The police team is said to have missed the suspects by a few minutes. After scanning CCTV footage from a toll plaza, police said they have identified an SUV and teams have been dispatched to track it down.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/unidentified-suspects-uproot-flee-with-atm-unit-containing-rs-28l-in-jalna/articleshow/79467181.cms||Mohammed Akhef
November 29, 2020||Kochi||Passenger ferry services find many takers in Ernakulam||KOCHI: Unlike other public transport systems, the boat services operated by the state water transport department (SWTD) find many takers. The department is of the view that the reduced number of buses and increased number of private vehicles on city roads have made the boat service more enduring to the public. According to SWTD officials, the number of commuters travelling by boats in Ernakulam have touched 6,000 per day. During the initial days of resuming services after the lockdown, the number of commuters were around 2,000 per day. During pre-Covid days the boats used to carry 12,000-15,000 commuters per day. “People prefer boats so as to reduce travelling time and avoid traffic congestion on the roads, particularly during peak hours. Apart from this there are certain pockets or islands which have no road access,” said SWTD director Shaji V Nair. According to SWTD officials in Ernakulam they operate five boats, which together make about 50 trips a day between 6am and 9pm. Depending on the traffic, the department sometimes increases the number of trips. While three boats operate along the Ernakulam Jetty -Willingdon Island-Fort Kochi-Vypeen route, two boats operate from Vypeen and one boat operates linking Ernakulam Jetty (near High Court) and Mulavukad. “Ernakulam-Willingdon Island-Fort Kochi-Vypeen route witnesses maximum traffic movement,” said an SWTD official. “While it takes about 45 minutes and Rs 17 to reach Fort Kochi by bus, the SWTD boats take 20 minutes to reach Fort Kochi from Ernakulam. We do not charge anything more than Rs 6,” said the official, adding that tourists from within the state and a few from neighbouring states have started to visit Fort Kochi beach. On Sundays and holidays there are many takers for the boats. However, the official said that between 11am and 4pm there is a lull in their activity as it falls outside the bracket of peak hours. But from 7am to 10am these boats witness maximum passenger movement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/passenger-ferry-services-find-many-takers-in-ernakulam/articleshow/79467176.cms||Greeshma Gopal Giri
November 29, 2020||Mumbai||Lawyers send sipper, straws to 83-year-old Fr Stan Swamy in Taloja jail||MUMBAI: With support pouring in from several quarters, a group of lawyers, including senior advocates, sent a plastic sipper and a bunch of disposable straws for 83-year-old Jesuit priest and tribal rights activists, Fr Stan Swamy, arrested in the Elgar Parishad case. Over 20 days, Swamy petitioned the special NIA court twice for a straw and sipper. The requests were made as Parkinson’s disease has made his hands unsteady, so he is unable to drink water from a cup. Besides sending the articles, the group also urged Taloja jail authorities to make detention humane and make jail manual-approved arrangements for all inmates who have special medical needs. The letter signed by over 40 lawyers said, “For Fr Stan Swamy, we urge you to facilitate his dignified drinking of water, we are sending this plastic sipper and paper straws, which we believe are permissible as per the jail manual and cannot cause harm.” Advocate Anubha Rastogi, a signatory to the letter, said, “Whoever he may be or whatever the allegations against him, this is such a basic request made by a man with a specific medical condition. He is not asking for something that can be used to escape or anything like that. That’s what prompted most of us to write and send the articles.” On November 6, Swamy’s defence had first made the plea seeking a sipper and straw they said were taken by NIA when he was arrested in Jharkhand on October 8. At that time the court had directed NIA to submit its reply on November 26. From November 12, Diwali vacations commenced for courts. On Thursday, NIA returned to court and said it did not seize the articles. Special judge Dinesh E Kothalikar then “rejected” the plea. “In view of this contention the application being devoid of substance deserves to be rejected,” the judge said. Swamy’s advocate Sharif Shaikh immediately moved another plea seeking court permission to provide the octogenarian winter clothes, a straw and sipper. Once again, the court sought a reply from the Taloja jail superintendent. The plea is likely to come up for hearing on December 4. After Thursday’s development, many took to Twitter and tweeted with the hashtag #SippersForStan. Many said they bought a sipper and straw to send to Swamy at Taloja jail and shared the jail address.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/lawyers-send-sipper-straws-to-83-yr-old-fr-stan-in-taloja-jail/articleshow/79468405.cms||Rebecca Samervel
November 29, 2020||Bareilly||UP teacher working on forged docus arrested after year-long chase||Bareilly: For over a decade, Vipin Gupta from Gorakhpur had been teaching at Harirampurva primary school in Lakhimpur Kheri. Last year, while investigating a complaint someone had filed against him, police found something was amiss. When they ran Vipin Gupta’s name through the Income Tax department software, two PAN cards emerged, with two different numbers.Further investigation led to an astonishing revelation. Vinay Gupta was basically Rajitram Verma, a 40-year-old man from Bahraich. He had been living with a different identity, both in personal life and in government records. As the investigators were about to pin him down, he went absconding a year ago. Verma was finally arrested at the Kheri-Bahraich border on Friday night. An FIR was registered against assistant teacher Vipin Gupta on the complaint of the Basic Shiksha Adhikari after a departmental inquiry found his documents to be fake. A recovery notice of Rs 28 lakh was also sent to Verma and police had started searching for him, but to no avail.Dhaurahra SHO Vidyasagar Pal said, “Sub-inspector Avdhesh Yadav arrested Verma from Zalimnagar bridge on the border of Kheri district. During questioning, he admitted to have been working on forged documents. The court has ordered his judicial custody. Now, necessary steps would be taken to recover the salary drawn by the accused while working as a teacher using someone else’s documents. Normally in such cases, the property of the accused is seized if he fails to return the money.”Last year, 190 teachers, who were found to have secured jobs in state-run primary schools in Mainpuri and Etah districts using fake or tampered marksheets and certificates were dismissed. Such cases have emerged from many districts of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-teacher-working-on-forged-docus-arrested-after-year-long-chase/articleshow/79467197.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 29, 2020||Bareilly||UP: 56-year-old man rapes daughter-in-law, kills son when challenged||BAREILLY: A 56-year-old man allegedly shot dead his elder son in Moradabad district on Saturday after the latter accused him of sexually assaulting his wife. An FIR has been registered against the man and he has been charged with rape and murder. The victim's wife, who was married a year ago, alleged that she was sexually assaulted by her father-in-law when she was alone at home on November 25. Her husband and other relatives went to attend a wedding function in another city. According to her, she had taken it up with her deceased husband and mother-in-law on Saturday morning, who confronted the accused and threatened to lodge a police complaint. Soon, a heated argument ensued. Her husband’s younger brother joined in, taking his father's side. In a fit of rage, her father-in-law took a licenced revolver and shot at his elder son, she added. The family belongs to Majola's Hanuman Nagar locality. The accused works at a security agency while the victim was employed as a support staff of a private hospital. SP (city) Amit Kumar Anand said, “An FIR has been registered against the father and his younger son under IPC sections 302 (murder), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) and 376 (rape) on the complaint of victim’s wife. The younger brother of the deceased is absconding along with the main accused." The SP added, "The complainant will be sent for medical examination as she alleged that she was sexually assaulted. This is a sensitive matter and we are investigating all the aspects. The statements of the tenant, victim’s mother and others will be recorded and verified.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)Watch UP: Man rapes daughter-in-law, kills elder son when challenged||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-rapes-daughter-in-law-kills-son-when-challenged/articleshow/79467194.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Time turns positive for Morbi’s wall clock industry; production levels improve||Rajkot: The time seems to have turned positive for the wall clock makers in Morbi after seven long months. In what could signal a recovery, India’s largest wall clock manufacturing cluster has now seen its production in November and December rebound to 80% of pre-Covid levels.The improvement in demand for wall clocks is largely attributed to resumption of weddings with a restricted number of attendees. Ten out of seven wall clocks sold are mainly for gifting in marriages and birthdays, say clock manufacturers in Morbi.Although corporate gifting also forms a sizeable chunk of sales, the bulk orders from corporate companies have dried up this year due to the pandemic eroding their revenues.The wall clock industry had been in a lull for several months with most units working at 30-40% capacity and that too 3-4 four days a week. The reason being a massive slump in demand post the lockdown.As against the normal daily production of 1.5 lakh units, the production in Morbi dwindled to 50,000 units in June-July period.“The demand saw a recovery during Diwali festival, which was aided by the marriage season. The production levels have again reached 1.5 lakh units a day with many units achieving 100% production. We hope the demand continues to improve in days to come,” said Shashank Dangi, president, Morbi Parts and Clock Manufacturing Association.Nearly 18,000 people, including about 16,000 women are currently employed in about 80 units in Morbi. “Our production has reached 80% of what it used to be before the pandemic. The demand recovered with marriages happening before Diwali,” said Deepak Mehta, owner, Rikon Quartz.“The market sentiment, however, has dampened again with a spike in Covid-19 cases post Diwali. We expect demand will get a leg up if the pandemic situation remains under control in days to come,” Mehta quickly added.The Kamurta (inauspicious period) starts for a month from December 14 and NRI marriages have been postponed due to pandemic. Hence, the demand is expected to remain muted till January.Jaysukh Patel, managing director, Oreva Group, said, “We are operating at full capacity but the demand is less at 80%. Distributors are not buying freely just like they did before March. They are ordering conservatively because they are under fear of further restrictions.”Wall clocks currently attract GST at 18%, which is very high given the current scenario and the government should reduce it. This will help us counter the dumping by ChinaDeepak Mehta, owner, Rikon QuartzWe are facing a steep hike in raw material prices, which include 15% surge in packaging material and 30% in clock movements. A part of our human resources has also moved away to ceramic industryShashank Dangi, president, Morbi Parts and Clock Manufacturing AssociationMorbi clock industry snapshot:Manufacturing units: 80Daily production: 1.50 lakh unitsTotal employment: 18,000Women employees: 16,000Market share in India: 75%Annual turnover: Rs 700 croreAnnual exports: Rs 100 croreSource: Morbi Parts and Clock Manufacturing Association||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/time-turns-positive-for-morbis-wall-clock-industry-production-levels-improve/articleshow/79469632.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
November 29, 2020||Kochi||Migrant kids attend online cultural fest from their states||Kochi: Donning traditional Assamese attire, Aparna swayed in tune with the music, at the portico of her house. A student of GUPS, Allapra, Aparna was performing the famed Bihu dance from her native place in Assam. She is one among the 60 migrant students who had moved to their respective states during the lockdown. Bhavanakumari, a student of SNHSS Thrikkanarvattam, showed the life at her house in Rajasthan. Muthukrishnan of GKMUP School, Eroor, introduced vegetables grown in his farmland in Tamil Nadu. The online cultural fest being organized by the district administration under Roshni project has been witnessing active participation from migrant students, who are staying miles away from their schools in Ernakulam. Students from various states are attending the fest, which was inaugurated a month ago, with their Malayali friends. Parents record the performance of their children on the mobile phone and send it to teachers in Ernakulam. The fest, which was started three years ago, aims at bringing cultural integration. “We will declare the winners at the valedictory function to be held after LSG polls in December,” said general coordinator of the project C K Prakash. As part of the programme, interaction with guests is also held. Storyteller Manu Jose and cartoonist Ibrahim Badusha were some of the guests who interacted with students. Deputy director of education Honey G Alexander was the guest on Tuesday. Currently, 35 schools are under Roshni project which was started four years ago to bring migrant students to mainstream and equip them to learn lessons in Malayalam. Around 1,000 students are part of the initiative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/migrant-kids-attend-online-cultural-fest-from-their-states/articleshow/79467193.cms||T C Sreemol
November 29, 2020||Aurangabad||Beed: Mother & son survive leopard attack||Aurangabad: A 35-year old woman and her teenage son survived a leopard attack on Saturday even as the forest department is still struggling to trap the animal that had killed two people in five days. The injured, Shilavati Dinde and her son Abhishek (15), were rushed to the civil hospital for treatment. The incident took place in Dinde hamlet, about 7 km from Ashti tehsil of Beed district. Officials said the mother-son duo was working in a field when the leopard attacked the woman. Her son, who was nearby, went to rescue her and ended up with scratches on his hands. Hearing the duo’s screams, the animal fled. On Saturday morning, the big cat reportedly killed a goat and a deer in a nearby area. Learning about the same, the forest department officials rushed to the spot and scanned the fields and the forest but in vain. The leopard had killed a 40-year-old man in Surdi village on Tuesday (November 24), before killing a 10-year-old boy on Friday. Following which, the forest department went to Ashti tehsil to trap the animal. While searching, one of the officials was also attacked by the leopard, leaving him with minor injuries. Half a dozen cages have been installed in different parts of Ashti tehsil to trap the leopard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/beed-mother-son-survive-leopard-attack/articleshow/79467191.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 29, 2020||Thane||Thane: Kasara case third molestation on local train in three months||KALYAN: Kalyan GRP on Saturday booked two men for attempt to murder for allegedly molesting and trying to push a 21-year-old lone woman passenger out of a local train near Kasara station last week. This is the third molestation incident in a local since limited services resumed post the pandemic-inflicted lockdown. The arrested accused have been identified as Amol Jadhav (20) from Jalgaon, who works as a security guard in Thane, and Aman Hilla (19), a WB resident who recently began to serve as a traffic warden in Thane after losing his job at a cake shop in the lockdown. The GRP said both used to live at their respective work sites. Times ViewThe railways must ensure that police personnel are present in every ladies compartment, just as they used to be in pre-Covid times. A majority of sectors have reopened, and a substantial number of woman are taking trains. They must be given total security and such crimes thwarted.They have been booked under Indian Penal Code sections 354 for molestation and 307 for attempt to murder. GRP officials said last Wednesday at around 10.30pm, after the train on which the incident took place pulled into Atgaon station, all other passengers alighted and the woman was left alone in the compartment. That was when the accused, who were inebriated, jumped in. The woman noticed that both were drunk and behaving strangely, which prompted her to click their photographs on her mobile phone, share them with her uncle in Kasara and ask him to pick her up from the station. Soon, the accused began to touch her inappropriately and she raised an alarm. Jadhav jumped off the train as soon as it reached Umbarmali, the next station. Hilla, though, continued to misbehave and even tried to throw her out of the train, but she managed to fight him off. GRP officials said that by then, the train had reached Kasara station and a GRP team was there with the woman’s uncle. On seeing them, Hilla tried to flee, but was nabbed. Valmik Shardul, senior police inspector of Kalyan GRP, said, “After interrogating Hilla, we learnt of Jadhav’s whereabouts and arrested him as well.” Shardul applauded the woman for using her presence of mind and clicking photos of the accused, saying this would help them make a watertight case against them. The incident has raised questions about the safety of women travelling by trains as previously women police personnel used to be deployed at non-peak hours. A senior official from Kalyan GRP said, “Since only limited train services have started after relaxation in the lockdown, there has been an over 50% home guards and Maharashtra security force personnel. Currently, security personnel only man two women’s coaches at the front and the end.” The official said since local train services have been increased, they would demand extra police personnel be deployed in local trains. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/two-booked-for-attempt-to-kill-in-train-attack-case/articleshow/79469925.cms||Pradeep Gupta
November 29, 2020||Kochi||Woman found dead in friend’s house||Kochi: A 26-year-old woman was found dead in a friend’s house, which is about 500m away from her home, at Amballoor on Saturday. The family residing in the house where she was found dead has given a statement to the police that she was found dead, hanging. “The woman went to the house in the morning and went straight to the room on the first floor and locked herself in. The family told us that when they broke open the door she was found hanging on the ceiling fan and was brought down. When we reached the house she was found dead on the bed. The exact reason for the death can only be known after postmortem,” said a senior police officer with Mulanthuruthy police. Sources said the woman and the youth used to work together at a study centre a few years ago. The youths’ wedding was fixed for next month, sources said. Suicides are preventable and help is just a phone call away. Those in distress can call Maitri at 0484-2540530, Disha at 1056 or emergency medical services at 0471- 2552056.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/woman-found-dead-in-friends-house/articleshow/79467200.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Vadodara||Bogus degree business thrives in edu hub||Vadodara: Once known to be an education hub of the state, the city seems to have become a centre for the gangs selling fake educational degrees. The recent seizure of over 500 fake degrees and marksheets and arrest of three persons has brought to fore the bustling business in the city. The police said that many such gangs have been operating here over the last few years. “The city is home to many educated middle-class citizens who aspire that their kids, too, study well and get good degrees for either getting admissions in reputed colleges or move abroad. Many of the parents are hence ready to shell out good money to buy degree certificates for their kids,” said a police official involved in the investigations. “When the kids fail to acquire good marks or even pass in examinations, they or their parents look for other ways to ensure that their career takes off. Buying fake degree certificates is one of the easiest ways,” the police official added. In last eight months, the cops have busted different gangs printing and selling fake certificates and marksheets and filed four cases. One of the accused, Mukesh Parmar, who was booked in May this year, is known to be an expert in making and selling forged degrees. In fact, in 2018, the police had arrested a peon working with M S University for stealing marksheets and selling them to such gangs. “Many of these gang members are usually involved in helping people get admission for their kids in colleges. They gradually develop good contacts and then start selling fake degree certificates and marksheets for making quick money,” said R C Kanamiya, police inspector, prevention of crime branch (PCB). He added that the accused are also associated with passport agents and often help youngsters get admission in colleges abroad. “Once they start earning good money, these gangs hire youngsters, expert in different software. Then they start designing and printing degrees and marksheets of various colleges. These gangs have networks in many states where they sell such bogus marksheets,” Kanamiya added. The cops usually bust such gangs on the basis of tip-offs or complaints by some unsatisfied customer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bogus-degree-business-thrives-in-edu-hub/articleshow/79467937.cms||Tushar Tere
November 29, 2020||Meerut||Expecting lesser recovery, sugar mills ask govt not hike SAP||Meerut: UP Sugar Mill Association (UPSMA) has requested chief minister not to increase state advised price (SAP) citing lesser recovery, which is “going to rise as crushing season advances”. CB Patodia, president of UPSMA, in his letter to the CM, said, “Based on the latest data, the drop in recovery (percentage of conversion of sugarcane into sugar) is around 0.5 to 0.8%. This change in recovery will impact the cost of production of sugar in the range of Rs 125 to Rs 200 per quintal. This will have an adverse impact on timely payment of cane dues to farmers. It is, therefore, requested that sugarcane price (SAP) should be maintained at last year’s level.” Farmer lobbies, on the other hand, rubbished the claims. “Sugar mills will never want to pay more to farmers. Their agenda is clear but its the government that has to take the call. But they never do it because of their own vested interests with the corporate world,” said a farmer leader, Raj Kumar Karnwal. In the letter, UPSMA has mentioned three points, "Sugarcane prices should be maintained at last season level, State government should provide a subsidy of Rs 15 per quintal to enable to compensate for the expected increase in the cost of production due to lower recovery. The association has also requested to the chief minister to allow payment of sugarcane prices to farmers in 2-3 instalments to reduce the burden of the working capital and allow cane price payment to all sugarcane growers uniformly."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/expecting-lesser-recovery-sugar-mills-ask-govt-not-hike-sap/articleshow/79467214.cms||Sandeep Rai
November 29, 2020||Mumbai||Train ticket cancellations soar amid rising Covid cases & Maharashtra’s travel restrictions||MUMBAI: Cancellations by long-distance train passengers on Western and Central railways’ Mumbai division have soared almost 100% and 60%, respectively, in November in comparison to the previous month. Officers have blamed the cancellations on fears of a second coronavirus wave in northern and western states. CR’s chief public relations officer Shivaji Sutar said, “In November, 16,588 passengers, on an average, cancelled their tickets per day for trains headed out of the Mumbai division compared to 10,323 in October.” And on WR, an average of 15,947 passengers cancelled their tickets in a day as against 8,023 in October. WR’s Mumbai division has its jurisdiction till Surat and Jalgaon and CR includes Roha, Lonavala and Igatpuri. A WR official said, “Cancellations are higher on WR due to agitations in Punjab and Rajasthan that are affecting train operations, apart from Covid fears.” The demand is weak even from Gujarat. Mumbai-Ahmedabad Tejas Express, for instance, stopped running from November 24, barely a month after the service resumed due to a poor occupancy of around 35%. A CR official said, “Economic activity too has not picked up because of the extended lockdown, which has led to cancellations.” Another reason for the cancellations is that Maharashtra has made it mandatory to screen all passengers coming in from Delhi, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Goa for Covid. A railway official said, “Those who have planned short trips do not want to go through the hassle of screening and testing, as a positive report will land them in quarantine or in a hospital.” Dadar resident Bharai Jain said, “I had plans to visit Ahmedabad for a wedding but the function was cancelled as many like me are not keen on attending it. Hence, I cancelled my ticket.” Kurla resident Pankaj Damankar said, “I wanted to go to Delhi for some family work but cancelled due to the Covid situation and worsening of the smog there.” Both WR and CR officials said they would review the situation and cancel a few trains if the demand continues to be low.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/train-ticket-cancellations-soar-amid-rising-cases-states-travel-restrictions/articleshow/79469926.cms||Manthank Mehta
November 29, 2020||Goa||Goa: As students show up, rural schools to stop online classes||PANAJI: After schools reopened for students of Classes X and XII from November 21 in the state, many rural schools have seen a major improvement in attendance from students on Monday and Tuesday. Many of the village schools, where students were facing hurdles in connecting to online classes due to internet connectivity and other issues, have decided to discontinue online sessions for Classes X and XII. School heads said village schools have a more manageable number of students in a class and therefore adhering to norms of social distancing is not an issue. When physical classes for Class X and XII resumed, institutes said, parents expressed satisfaction at the arrangements made for safety of students against Covid-19. And with physical sessions being carried on satisfactorily, there is no need to continue online classes, schools said. “We have 35 students studying in Class X. The attendance is now above 95%. We are conducting the classes by maintaining the number strictly at 12 students per class. We will only conduct physical classes now for Class X students and will have online classes only for students from Classes V to IX. Parents are satisfied with the arrangements we have made,” Marcaim-based Shrimati Anandibai Mahanandu Naik High School’s headmaster Umakant Naik said. Goa Headmasters’ Association former president and Canacona resident Vithoba Dessai said that 30% students in rural areas were not connected to online classes due to different reasons. “Some do not have devices. If they have devices, they do not have network. In cases where the family has a smartphone, the parents have to take it to work and so the child is unable to access the classes. Many schools will be in a quandary now on what to do with these students, who could not attend online classes at all,” Dessai said. In the case of urban schools, however, most managements are opting to continue with the online classes. Students of these institutes have managed to resolve connectivity issues and institutes too do not want to disturb the online sessions, which have been streamlined by now. These urban schools are mostly utilising the physical classes only to complete the pending practicals in the laboratory, taking advantage of the permission granted for Class X and XII students to attend school physically. “Out of 36 students, 30 students attended on Monday. Our online classes are on and the physical classes will only be for practicals and to solve any difficulties of the students. We are focusing on practicals for Class X and XII as they have to be completed before the term ends. We are trying to finish it in case Covid cases rise again,” Panaji’s People’s High School managing trustee Rahul Deshpande said. Cujira-based Dr K B Hedgewar High School head Vilas Satarkar said that online classes will continue as scheduled in the early morning hours, while letting students complete practical work as prescribed by the state board during the physical sessions. For urban schools, carrying out physical classes is a challenge also due to the high enrolment in them. “We have a high enrolment and to hold classes with only 12 in one classroom has its challenges. The teacher will have to repeat the same thing three times,” Deshpande said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-students-show-up-rural-schools-to-stop-online-classes/articleshow/79469641.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
November 29, 2020||Nashik||Activist objects to Nashik township||Nashik: Rajesh Pandit, the petitioner of Godavari river pollution in the Bombay high court, has raised an objection to a proposed township project under the smart city known as Greenfield project as some part of the project comes under the blue line of Godavari. Pandit has sent a letter to the CEO of the Nashik Municipal Smart City Development Corporation Ltd (NMSCDCL), divisional revenue commissioner Radhakrishna Game and Nashik municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav urging them to remove the blue line areas of the river Godavari from the township project. The project will be developed on 753 acre in Makhmalabad area towards Godavari. According to Pandit, around 25 acre of the project comes under the blue line. “As per the government norms, construction activities are not done in blue line areas of the Godavari river, but the part of the township project falls under the blue line. We want NMSCDCL to exclude the areas of the township project,” said Pandit. When contacted, CEO of NMSCDCL Prakash Thavil told TOI there is no construction activity there, only gardens will be developed there as per the norms. There is no violation of norms, added Thavil. The township will be developed to create smart infrastructures like roads, water supply, sewage lines, smart lights and all necessary facilities. As per the draft of the township project, farmers will get 55% of the land they give for integrated development of the areas, while infrastructure like roads, public amenities space will be developed on the remaining 45% of the land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/activist-objects-to-nashik-township/articleshow/79467220.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 29, 2020||Meerut||Man returning from wedding murdered in Baghpat||Meerut: Body of a man with bullet wounds was recovered close to his native place in Mubarakpur village within Khekra police station limits. An FIR has been registered against two unidentified assailants and no arrests have been made so far, police said. According to police, the deceased Raju, 30, was employed as a cook with a local catering firm. He was returning from a wedding in Firozpur village when he was waylaid by unidentified assailants who shot him dead in Baghpat. Onlookers alerted police when they spotted the blood stained body on the road on Saturday morning. Based on the complaint of the younger brother of the deceased, FIR against two unidentified assailants was registered at Khekra police station. According to local police, the deceased Raju had sustained five bullet wounds and died at the spot. "The motive behind the murder is yet to be ascertained," a police official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-returning-from-wedding-murdered-in-baghpat/articleshow/79467221.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 29, 2020||Vadodara||Another fire audit on cards in Covid hospitals||Vadodara: A fire safety audit will be conducted again in all Covid-19 hospitals in Vadodara district in wake of the tragedy at the Rajkot hospital. Officials of the fire and emergency services department of the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) have also been checking such hospitals at regular intervals.Officer on Special Duty (OSD) for Covid-19 in Vadodara and education secretary Vinod Rao said that the fire safety audit will be conducted in the coming days as a precautionary measure. All private and government hospitals will be covered in the audit. Fire safety audits of Covid-19 hospitals had been undertaken earlier in the city and district after fires elsewhere in the state. The staff of government hospitals was given training in fire safety even before the Covid-19 pandemic. “The training to the staff is crucial and was taken up as a safety precaution. It can be handy in emergencies,” said in-charge chief fire officer, Parth Brahmbhatt. A drill had been conducted at the SSG Hospital on September 3 and the hospital witnessed a fire on September 9.Brahmbhatt added that about a week ago, Covid-19 hospitals in the city were checked for fire safety. “There are around 100 such hospitals in the city that were checked by officials off different fire stations,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/another-fire-audit-on-cards-in-covid-hospitals/articleshow/79467959.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Meerut||WB gang that duped many promising low-cost visa busted, 1 held||Meerut: Local police have busted a gang of conmen from West Bengal for duping customers on the pretext of providing them visas for lesser charges. They used a website with a similar sounding name as well as page of a famous visa processing firm to target vulnerable customers. On Saturday, Meerut police arrested one Vishwajeet Paul, a resident of Howrah district who revealed that the real kingpins of the gang are a man named Samrat Podder and his wife. The local police swung into action following a complaint by Shastri Nagar locality resident Sagar Garg. Garg had deposited more than Rs 60,000 in an account mentioned on the fake website that promised him a visa for Kuwait. Police are on a lookout Podder and his wife, supposed to be hiding in Kolkata. According to Meerut senior superintendent of police Ajay Sahani, “Soon after establishing facts, we dispatched a team to West Bengal and arrested Paul. He is around 26 years of age and has only studied till class VIII. We will soon go after the husband-wife duo.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/wb-gang-that-duped-many-promising-low-cost-visa-busted-1-held/articleshow/79467235.cms||Sandeep Rai
November 29, 2020||Meerut||‘Missing’ girl, 18, found, family accusesyouth from another faith of 'kidnapping'||Muzaffarnagar: An 18-year-old girl who went missing three days ago in Muzaffarnagar district was recovered by police on Saturday evening. The girl went to attend tuition class in Khatauli on November 25 and was missing since. Her family accused a youth from a different community of "kidnapping" her. The girl knew the youth for a long time, sources said. Investigation officer Radheshyam said, "The girl has been found on the Delhi-Haridwar highway. She was about to travel somewhere. We are still searching for the youth. The girl will be produced before the magistrate to record her statement." Earlier, her family along with some members of a right-wing group visited the local police station demanding immediate recovery of the girl and action against the youth. The outfit members started calling it another case of "love jihad". A case of kidnapping has been registered against the youth. Khatauli SHO HN Singh said, "Investigation is currently on. We can give more information once our probe is over."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/missing-girl-18-found-family-accusesyouth-from-another-faith-of-kidnapping/articleshow/79467228.cms||Mohd Dilshad
November 29, 2020||Goa||Hybrid misnomer? Amid piracy fears, most of Iffi will be in physical format||PANAJI: With the pandemic still lurking around, the 51st edition of the International Film Festival of India (Iffi), being hosted in Goa, was to be held in the hybrid format, it was earlier announced by the organisers. It meant the plan was to screen some films through online platforms and only part of the films in the physical format. However, it now seems this may not go as planned. Filmmakers, said the organisers, are worried about their films being pirated if they are screened online. It will mean that most of the films screened will be through physical format. Vice-chairman of Entertainment Society of Goa (ESG), Subhash Phaldesai, said that as many as 224 films will be screened physically at the festival, which is being held on the deferred dates from January 16 to 24, 2021, due to the pandemic. This number of films to be screened physically is not much lower than the around 300 screened at the 50th edition. “The filmmakers have expressed their apprehensions that there should not be piracy of their films when they are screened online. So there are lot of challenges. Many films may not be screened online because of piracy problem,” Phaldesai told TOI. The plan to call the festival hybrid was the idea of the directorate of film festivals (DFF). Many filmmakers from India and abroad choose to premier their films at Iffi, and for these filmmakers the worry of piracy is even a bigger concern. Also, most festivals demand that to enter their competition section, the filmmakers have to give an undertaking that their film has never been screened for public before. If films screened online at Iffi are pirated, the filmmakers may risk losing the opportunity to compete for the prize at other festivals, besides obviously also diminishing the market value of the film. Phaldesai said that now plans are to only screen films in those Iffi sections online, where the movies have already long been showcased elsewhere. Retrospective, classic and homage section films, which are screened to recall the work of noted filmmakers and actors, are set to be screened on online platforms. “Masterclass will also be held online,” said Phaldesai, in which case higher number of film enthusiasts and students will be able to benefit from the knowledge of well-known filmmakers, technicians, musicians and actors. * BOX Iffi delegates to be capped at 2,500: ESG Panaji: The delegate numbers at the 51st edition of the International Film Festival of India (Iffi) will be capped at 2,500, vice-chairperson of Entertainment Society of Goa (ESG) Subhash Phaldesai told TOI. So far, 800 have registered, he said. “As of now, the opening and closing ceremonies will be held at Kala Academy and plans are to cap the attendees at 300 to 400. There will be a chief guest as usual and lakhs will watch the ceremonies through live streaming,” said Phaldesai. He said that all peripheral events of Iffi like the art park and children’s festival held usually at the Campal garden will not be organised this year. The stalls, art gallery, performance organised on the promenade outside the main Iffi venue at Campal will also not be seen this year, though plans are afoot to have public screenings of some films at Miramar. Phaldesai said the tender for the décor for the festival venues will be floated soon. While the directorate of film festival (DFF) only bears expenditure for Iffi opening and closing ceremonies, the Goa government covers all the other costs of hosting the festival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hybrid-misnomer-amid-piracy-fears-most-of-iffi-will-be-in-physical-format/articleshow/79469649.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
November 29, 2020||Goa||Goa CM meets Amit Shah, mines minister, says talks next week on mining restart||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Saturday met Union home minister Amit Shah and mines minister Pralhad Joshi, and said that meetings have been lined up for next week to discuss the restart of mining in the state. Sawant said that both Shah and Joshi are “positive” about it. Sawant said that Saturday’s meeting also included Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan, advocate general Devidas Pangam, and solicitor general of India Tushar Mehta. On Friday, Sawant left Goa for Delhi with “one agenda” — to work on restarting mining in the state. Last Sunday, Joshi had said that the Centre is looking “positively” at finding a solution to the mining imbroglio in Goa. “Goa has given some representation,” he had told reporters in New Delhi. “We are looking at various levels. I cannot comment much, but as far as the sentiments of Goa are concerned, we are there with them. We want to find a solution as far as Goa mining is concerned.” Sawant had met Prime Minister Narendra Modi in September and had said that he was “hopeful of a positive outcome in the coming days”. Earlier this month, Sawant had said he would meet home minister Amit Shah to impress upon the Centre the need to find a solution to the issue. However, Shah was busy as Sawant’s visit coincided with the results of the Bihar election and the meeting couldn’t take place. The state had earlier urged the Centre to amend the Goa, Daman and Diu Mining Concessions (Abolition and Declaration as Mining Leases) Act, 1987, to restart mining activities. Two mining companies had approached the SC for extension of mining leases till 2037. The state government subsequently maintained that the mining leases could be extended up to 2037, as per the contention of the companies, but that it would abide by the decision of the court. It had also said that the mining companies had made a representation to the mines department contending that under the amendment to Section 8(A) of the Mines and Minerals Development Act, they were entitled to extend their mining leases up to 2037.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-meets-shah-mines-min-says-talks-next-wk-on-mining-restart/articleshow/79469651.cms||Murari Shetye
November 29, 2020||Meerut||No talks this time, we want a solution: BKU’s Tikait||Meerut: After spending a night at Siwaya toll plaza, located on the outskirts of Meerut, a large number of farmers led by Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait left for Delhi on Saturday. “We are not in the mood for talks now. We have always been against these farm laws as well as the government’s policies for the farming sector. Talks happen only when two ideologies speak on the same lines,” Tikait said. When asked if he was hopeful for a successful dialogue with the government, Tikait said, “We have been trying to locate the government for the past seven years. I think we may find it this time.” Over 500 farmers accompanied him on Saturday morning and moved towards Delhi on tractors and other vehicles. All the eight NCR districts of Uttar Pradesh witnessed massive protests by farmers on Friday as several highways and key roads leading to Delhi, Uttarakhand and Haryana were blocked. By Friday evening, hundreds of famers and supporters of BKU had reached Meerut’s outskirts. The protests remained peaceful, but commuters had to face harrowing time. Police and administration had diverted the traffic to other arterial roads to minimize congestion. Baghpat, Muzaffarnagar, Meerut and Shamli witnessed large-scale protests as farmers sat on roads leading to long jams. On Saturday, anger among the farmers was palpable. “A propaganda is at work that farmers are being misled. But we are not fools. We are growers and understand economics quite well. These farm laws are against farmers. Even now farmers are forced to sell their cane produce to kolhus below the minimum support price (MSP). Why is the government silent on this? When the government is doing nothing about it now, what will they do when the farm laws are in force,” BKU district general secretary Raj Kumar Karnwal asked. ReplyReply allForward||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/no-talks-this-time-we-want-a-solution-bkus-tikait/articleshow/79467244.cms||Sandeep Rai
November 29, 2020||Kochi||Kerala braces for heavy rains, southern districts put on alert||KOCHI: India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that the low-pressure area which has formed over the south Andaman Sea and eastern equatorial Indian Ocean (EEIO) is very likely to concentrate into a depression over the next 48 hours and intensify further. It is very likely to move west-northwestwards and reach the south Tamil Nadu coast on December 2. Following this, an orange alert has been sounded for south Kerala and south TN on December 2, with isolated, extremely heavy rainfall expected to hit the region. Pathanamthitta and Idukki are expected to receive 11-20 cm of extremely heavy rain on December 1, while neighbouring Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam and Kottayam are on alert for 7-11 cm of rainfall. On December 2, the capital district and Kollam will be on orange alert while Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam and Idukki could get isolated, very heavy rainfall. The weather will be squally on all these days with wind speeds of the order of 45-55 kmph gusting to 65 kmph on the Bay of Bengal side. Wind speeds are likely to increase to 55-65 kmph gusting to 75 kmph over Kerala coast, Cape Comorin area and Gulf of Mannar by December 1. Sea conditions will get very rough by December 1 along and off the Kerala coast. Fishermen have been advised not to venture into these waters during this period. Waves as high as 1.2-2.7 metre are forecast from 5:30pm on November 30 to 11.30pm on December 2 along the coast from Pozhiyoor to Kasaragod. Surface current speeds could vary from 31-65 cm/sec. While experts say that it is too early to call, there is growing apprehension that this system could behave like Cyclone Ockhi, catching everybody by surprise. Though there is a strong cyclone warning network which has been actively issuing early warnings, the unpredictability and behavior of this system has still not been mapped. “There are three possible tracks, of which IMD has already ruled out the first one: which pointed to the tip of the peninsular region. There is a moderate risk for Kerala there. But the bigger concern would be if it took the same track as Ockhi when it suddenly turned and intensified in the Arabian Sea,” said an atmospheric scientist who didn’t want to be named. The joint typhoon warning centre of the US Navy has reported the system but indicated that it would not form into a cyclone in 24 hours off Sri Lankan waters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-braces-for-heavy-rains-southern-dists-put-on-alert/articleshow/79467989.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
November 29, 2020||Vadodara||Builders booked for conning lawyer||Vadodara: A lawyer was cheated alleged by a city-based realty group for forging sale deed of an apartment of a residential scheme in Bhayli. The builder had sold the terrace of the building to lawyer Rahul Sharma despite it not being allowed for sale.Sharma lodged a complaint of cheating and forgery against the promoter of Aatmiya group Sanjay Patel, his partner Aakash Brahmbhatt and one Lomesh Patel, who registered the forged sale deed at sub-registrar’s office.Sharma stated that he got interested in buying a property in project named Aatmiya Signature foated by the accused. He paid Rs 1 lakh as the booking amount for the apartment with a terrace rights of the same size as the apartment. Sharma was promised the receipt for the booking amount the next day. However, Aakash kept dilly-dallying and said that Sharma will be given the receipts of the booking amount and first instalment of Rs 7 lakh along with the sale deed. On September 1 last year, Sharma paid the first instalment of Rs 7 lakh.Several days later, Sharma was called to check the draft sale deed. After correcting a few errors, Sharma signed on every page and he was told that the deed will be registered within a couple of days and he will be called to the sub-registrar’s office. But the sale deed was registered without informing Sharma and six pages of it were also changed. The terms and conditions of the payments, details of the apartment and other details were removed. It also mentioned that Sharma had paid Rs 7 lakh although he had paid Rs 8 lakh.Sharma lodged a complaint with Gujarat Real Estate Regulatory Authority in March and in August it was proven that the pages in the sale deed were changed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/builders-booked-for-conning-lawyer/articleshow/79467977.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Fresh global Covid wave gives jitters to exporters||With lockdown imposed in several parts of Europe and UK and a restrictions galore in the US amid a second wave of coronavirus infections, manufacturing abroad and retail, have taken a hit. With exporters from several of Gujarat’s manufacturing clusters dependent on the huge business from these countries, order books of manufacturers in dyes and chemicals, brass parts makers, and textile processors have shrunk since a month or two. At a time, when industries have barely begun to recover, the fresh surge in Covid cases has begun to hurt exports. Dyes and chemical makers’ orders decline 30%The order books of dyes and chemicals manufacturers have been dearly affected, thanks to the fresh wave of Covid-19 cases in Europe. "We have witnessed at least 30% decline in export orders to European countries. Even though there is hardly any impact on manufacturing, the overall demand and production cycle has slowed due to the pandemic, and had a cascading effect on the demand for dyes and chemicals from India," said Yogesh Parikh, president, Gujarat Dyestuff Manufacturers’ Association (GDMA). According to data by Chemexcil, October exports declined 26% against the same month last year across India. "In Gujarat too, the export volumes declined because of hampered production activity in European countries which saw a second wave of infections since October," said Bhupendra Patel, chairman – Gujarat region, Chemexcil. Marginal decline in brass parts exportsA significant chunk of brass parts exports go to European countries. While manufacturing in European nations has not been impacted due to the lockdown and fresh restrictions with the new wave of cases, brass parts manufacturers in Jamnagar have seen a marginal decline in export orders. "Our exports accounted for at least 15% of our total production. At present factories in Jamnagar produce goods worth Rs 175 crore per month. However, with the lockdown and slump in demand in foreign countries, triggered by rise in coronavirus infections, export orders from certain sectors have taken a hit," said Lakhabhai Keshwala, president, Jamnagar Factory Owners’ Association. Jamnagar alone is home to at least 5,500 brass parts manufacturing units – a majority of them being micro small and medium enterprises (MSMEs). Yet another reason for business taking a hit is also a supply-side constraint amid increased prices of raw materials, said manufacturers. Dented retail demand hits textile processorsAs the retail business took a hit in various countries including Europe and the UK, driven by weakened demand and sentiment due to the second wave of Covid-19 infections globally, textile processing has also taken a hit. Gujarat is home to roughly 1,000 textile processing units, with a daily production of estimated 5.1 crore metres. At least 30% of this is exported i.e. 45 crore metres on a monthly basis. "Fabric exports had picked up well but since the past month and a half, the exports orders have once again begun declining. This is not just due to the Christmas holiday season that is fast approaching, but also due to the second wave of infections. Besides, disturbances in the Gulf and far eastern countries have further hit exports," said Nitin Thaker, past president, Ahmedabad Textile Processors’ Association (ATPA). Estimates suggest that 40% of export orders have declined amongst MSMEs in the textile processing sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fresh-global-covid-wave-gives-jitters-to-exporters/articleshow/79469664.cms||Niyati Parikh
November 29, 2020||Vadodara||More tests, fewer cases on Saturday||Vadodara: With 111 more testing positive for Covid-19 in the city and district, the total number of cases reported since the pandemic hit Vadodara crossed 17,802. Despite higher number of tests being conducted, the number of confirmed cases has gone down marginally. From 3,930 tests conducted in the 24 hours till Saturday evening, 111 positive cases were detected in the city and district. This was against the 114 new cases being found in the same period ending on Friday evening when 3,911 tests were conducted. The 111 new cases reported on Saturday include 41 from the areas of the district outside the city limits, while the remaining cases were reported from the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) limits. The VMC did not confirm any more deaths due to Covid-19 and the death toll remained at 221 in the city and district. As many as 102 persons were discharged from hospitals or home isolation in the city after they recovered from Covid-19. This took the total number of discharged persons up to 16,400. The total number of active cases from the city and district put together now stands at 1,181 including 68 in a critical condition on ventilators or BIPAP machines. Also, 165 patients are breathing with the help of oxygen support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/more-tests-fewer-cases-on-saturday/articleshow/79467994.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Gurgaon||Nuh woman who ‘killed’ her four daughters still critical||Gurgaon: A woman, the prime suspect in the murder of four minor girls in Nuh, is still critical and undergoing treatment at a medical college in Mewat after she slashed her throat with the same kitc-hen knife that she allegedly used for killing them, police said on Saturday. Four sisters, all of them under seven, were found murdered on Friday morning in their house in Piproli village. Police said they are waiting to record the statement of the woman, Farmina (35), to find out what had happened at the time of the incident. Inspector Santosh Kumar, SHO at Punhana police station, said the woman is unfit to record her statement. “The investigation will progress only after recording her statement,” said the officer, adding that only Farmina could describe the details of the incident. The reason for the crime is still not known. “I am unable to understand what made her kill our daughters,” said Khurshid Ahmed, the father of the deceased children. He added that the family is in a state of shock and no one had anticipated such an act from Farmina. Farmina lived with her husband Khurshid Ahmed, a mechanic, whom she married in 2012 after separating from her first husband, with whom she had a daughter. Khurshid and Farmina had four daughters – Muskan (7), Miskina (5), Alsifa (3) and an eight-month-old, who was yet to be named. Khurshid’s nephew Sabir Khan, who was among the first to reach the spot, said she has shared everything he knew with the police. “Police have also collected evidence from the spot,” said Sabir. On the basis of Khurshid’s complaint, a case was registered against Farmina at the Punhana police station under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/nuh-woman-who-killed-her-four-daughters-still-critical/articleshow/79469670.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Chief medical officer, faculty of UoH booked||Hyderabad: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered a criminal case against the chief medical officer of the University of Hyderabad (UoH) and his wife, for allegedly owning dispproportionate assests worth over Rs 9 crore. The FIR was registered by the Anti Corruption bureau of CBI against Dr Ravindra Kumar and Sujatha, who is also a faculty member at the central university. “The source information revealed that Ravindra Kumar purchased properties in his name and also in the name of his wife Sujatha during the period from 2014 to 2019, mostly after he became chief medical officer,’’ the FIR stated. According to the document, while the worth of the total assests possessed by the accused stood at Rs 3.22 crore in 2014, it increased to Rs 9.04 crore by 2019. During the interim period, more assests of Rs 5.82 crore was acquired by the accused. The Central Bureau of Investigation in its FIR, mentioned 19 different immovable properties that were found registered in the names of the couple across Hyderabad and neighbouring Medak between 2014 and 2019. Apart from residential properties in Chandanagar, Serilingampally, Madhapur, Alwal, Kondapur and Indrakaran village (Medak), the accused was also contructing a commercial complex in Gachibowli, the FIR revealed. The CBI also found gold, cars, house articles and cash at bank, from them. Officials said that prima facie it discloses the commission of cognizable offences by the accused, which attracts charges like conspiracy, abatement and possession of disproportionate assets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/chief-medical-officer-faculty-of-uoh-booked/articleshow/79468684.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||KTU student induction programme from Monday||Thiruvananthapuram: APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University is organizing a six-day induction programme for the students who are admitted for BTech, BDes programmes in 2020-21 academic year. Normal classes start only after the induction program is over. The induction programme will have 17 sessions, of which nine will be arranged by the University. Vice-chancellor Dr Rajasree M S, pro vice-chancellor Dr S Ayoob, dean (academics) Dr R Bijukumar and IQAC coordinator Dr K Gopakumar will address the inaugural session on November 30. The sessions will be held everyday from November 30 to December 5 with yoga and exercise early morning. The programme will be organized on video conference platform V-Console. The sessions will be telecast live on KTU’s official Facebook page.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ktu-student-induction-programme-from-monday/articleshow/79467998.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Goa||GMC shocked as GSIDC says it won’t maintain hospital from April||PANAJI: The Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation (GSIDC) has written to Goa Medical College (GMC) that post-March 2021, it will not handle maintenance work of the hospital. The GSIDC decision has shocked the GMC administration and it has intimated the government about it. A senior health official said that as of now, there is no clarity as to who will handle the maintenance for GMC post- March. “The decision to relieve the GSIDC has been taken with the blessing of the chief minister. The PWD was removed since its work was not satisfactory,” he said. Chief minister Pramod Sawant is the chairperson of the GSIDC. The GSIDC replaced PWD to handle maintenance of the premier hospital about seven years ago after then chief minister Manohar Parrikar appointed the GSIDC as he was not happy with the performance of PWD. The infrastructure of GMC was vastly improved after the GSIDC was brought on board and the hospital underwent many repairs as parts of the structure had come apart. The building was built by the central public works department about 30 years ago. “Few years ago, it was common to find leaking roofs in wards and slabs falling off, while patients were in the ward. Luckily, there were no casualties,” the officer said. Another official said, the GSIDC proved better as compared to PWD only in the initial years, it’s performance has not been very satisfactory of late. The college building which houses an administrative block is in tatters and at some places, roots of trees are visible in the walls and this only shows the neglect in the maintenance.  A year ago, the extension of the administrative block was planned but it has been kept on hold due to Covid-19, and if taken up at all, it will be only after March 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gmc-shocked-as-gsidc-says-it-wont-maintain-hosp-from-april/articleshow/79469668.cms||Bindiya Chari
November 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Srilakshmi urges T HC to set aside CBI court order||Hyderabad: AP’s former industries secretary and senior IAS officer Y Srilakshmi filed a criminal petition in Telangana high court urging it to set aside the order of the CBI court in Hyderabad that took cognisance of the supplementary charge sheet in Penna Cements part of quid pro quo case.  This supplementary charge sheet added her as an accused in the case and she is now praying the court to set aside that part of the cognisance order that dealt with her role. Because what all I did was only a discharge of my official duty and hence I was not arrayed as an accused in the first charge sheet filed by CBI in the same Penna Cements case in 2013. But later the probe agency filed a supplementary charge sheet in 2016 adding then mines minister Sabita Indra Reddy, Revenue minister Dharmana Prasada Rao, Revenue secretary M Samuel, former mines and geology department director V D Raja Gopal and others along with Srilakshmi, the then industries secretary.  The CBI in its charge sheet alleged that these officials and ministers were part of a quid pro quo conspiracy that resulted in huge allotment of land, limestone mines, and exemptions pertaining to floor space etc for constructing a five star hotel in Banjara Hills of Hyderabad to Penna Pratap Reddy in lieu of the Rs 68 crore investments he made in companies related to YS Jagan Mohan Reddy. The trial court did not take cognisance of this charge sheet till January 2020 due to a stay order from the high court. As it stood vacated in January, the trial court took cognisance of the same and going ahead with the remaining legal process. Most of the accused bureaucrats alike Samuel and Rajagopal retired and the state should bifurcated into two with Dharmana Prasad Rao becoming an ex-minister in AP and Sabita becoming an Education minister in TRS government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/srilakshmi-urges-t-hc-to-set-aside-cbi-court-order/articleshow/79468681.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Vadodara||Mastermind of fake marksheet scam held from Udaipur||Vadodara: The kingpin of the fake marksheet scam, Sukhpal Singh alias Vicky Sardar, was nabbed by the prevention of crime branch (PCB) from Udaipur on Saturday. Police said that Sardar was the mastermind of the entire scam. He used to issue degrees of William Carey University of Shillong. Sardar’s name was revealed when a man from Bharuch and two others from Fatehgunj were nabbed on November 26. Degree and migration certificates of William Carey University were found on the three accused. When the PCB sleuths raided Sardar’s house in Gotri and his office on Jetalpur road, cops found some documents, but Sardar was not there. Using technical sources, Sardar’s location was traced to Udaipur where a team went and nabbed him from a hotel. “He has been kept under quarantine as his Covid-19 test report is expected on Sunday. Once we arrest him, we will be able to interrogate him and unearth more details,” said a police official. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/mastermind-of-fake-marksheet-scam-held-from-udaipur/articleshow/79468018.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Completely neglected by candidates, say residents of housing societies||Hyderabad: As campaigning inches closer to the end, residents living across housing societies of greater Hyderabad complained about being completely neglected. On Saturday, many of these aggrieved residents reached out to STOI, claiming no contesting candidate from any party has even set foot inside their communities so far. “Even we have unresolved civic issues in our housing society that we wanted to raise with the candidates. But nobody turned up. It is extremely disappointing,” said A Narsimhan, president of Golf View Apartments in Financial District. A similar grouse was raised by residents of communities across the IT corridor — many of them struggling with the problem of sanitation. “People’s participation should be given utmost priority. Only then can civic issues, especially sanitation in the city, be resolved effectively,” said Vivek Varma of Jayabheri Orange County, Gachibowli. While Sageeta Varma, a resident of Jubilee Hills, Road Number 56, said that she saw repersentatives take out rallies through the area, she rued how none of them stopped at their doors. “There was no door-to-door campaigning held here. We only heard about candidates conducting them in other parts of the city. They should have met the residents here and asked about our grievances as well,” said Varma. She added, “We wanted to report encroachments and nuisance by commercial establishments haunting locals in residential localities, and ask what measures will be be taken by them.” Harish Daga, an activist and resident of Himayatnagar, said that the move was unfair on taxpayers. “Why are grievances of honest taxpayers not being heard? Why don’t they get a chance to have their pending grievances aired/resolved during elections?” he said. Even his apartment, Daga added, was given a miss by contesting parties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/completely-neglected-by-candidates-say-residents-of-housing-societies/articleshow/79468687.cms||Nabinder Bommala
November 29, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Engg: Second mop-up allotment list published||Thiruvananthapuram: The second phase mop-up allotment list for admission to engineering/architecture/pharmacy courses in government and aided colleges in the state has been published on the basis of the option confirmation by students till November 26. The list is available on the website of controller of entrance examinations www.cee.kerala.gov.in. Candidates eligible for seats, after clearing their payments, if any, through online or head post offices may take admission at the respective colleges before 3pm on November 30. Details of allotment can be had from the website or from the helpline 0471-2525300. The CEE also published the mop-up allotment list for BTech lateral entry. The last date for claiming the seats is November 30. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/engg-second-mop-up-allotment-list-published/articleshow/79468027.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Political roadshows lead to traffic jams||Hyderabad: All arterial roads, even those in small neighbourhoods leading to the Kukatpally and LB Stadium were barricaded amid an increased police force, as the political road shows and public meetings were in progress, leaving motorists helpless on Saturday. All the roads leading to Moosapet, Kukatpally, Nizampet and Miyapur witnessed massive traffic jam between 4pm to 8pm due to the road show held by Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who was in Hyderabad to garner voters for BJP in the upcoming GHMC elections. Many commuters, who were left waiting for the traffic to clear took to Twitter to alert the traffic police about the situation. Jagan V Reddy @JaganVreddy tweeted, “@hydcitypolice @HYDTP @KTRTRS Sir, kindly take care of the traffic situation in KPHB and Nizampet. Mainly due to election campaign.” Traffic was also moving slow on the roads leading to LB Stadium due to chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s public meeting which was being held to garner votes for GHMC polls. Traffic moving from Abids and Gunfoundry was not allowed towards BJR Statue. The traffic was instead diverted at SBI Gunfoundry towards Chapel road. Slow movement of traffic was observed from AR Petrol Pump near LB Stadium, BJR Statue, Basheerbagh Flyover, Liberty Junction towards to Ambedkar Statue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/political-roadshows-lead-to-traffic-jams/articleshow/79468710.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 29, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||ASI suspended for ill-treating complainant||Thiruvananthapuram: Grade additional sub-inspector Gopakumar, who was caught on camera misbehaving with a man and his daughter when they approached Neyyar Dam police with a complaint, has been suspended from service. The suspension order was issued by deputy inspector general (Thiruvananthapuram range) Kori Sanjay Kumar Gurudin after his recommendation of disciplinary action against GASI Gopakumar was approved by state police chief Loknath Behera. In his order, DIG Gurudin stated that the response of GASI Gopakumar towards the complainant, Sudevan, and his daughter was rude and impolite and unbecoming of a member of a highly disciplined force. Sudevan and his younger daughter had approached police on Thursday with regard to a complaint he had filed on Tuesday on the missing of his elder daughter. A heated argument broke out between Sudevan and GASI Gopakumar. On getting provoked, the GASI responded in a rude and impolite manner, which prompted Sudevan to record his actions and propagate through social media. Being a responsible police officer, Gopakumar’s actions were unjustifiable in any way, the DIG’s order said. Sudevan’s petition was related to the missing of his elder daughter, who had in fact eloped with her lover. Police had closed the case when she appeared before the investigating officer and expressed her wish to go with her lover. Subsequently, Sudevan approached police again with another complaint against his daughter’s lover, which the sub-inspector of the station refused to entertain. After the visuals of the GASI’s behaviour went viral on social media, DGP Loknath Behera had directed DIG Gurudin to conduct an inquiry. Gurudin submitted his inquiry report to the DGP on Saturday morning, in which he stated that the strident and rude behaviour of the officer has undoubtedly tarnished the image of the state police, which takes pride of being citizen friendly. GASI Gopakumar was in no way connected to the petition of Sudevan. The DIG also found fault with the officer for wearing civil dress while on duty instead of uniform.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/asi-suspended-for-ill-treating-complainant/articleshow/79468087.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19 in Hyderabad: Hospitals report 60% drop in admissions||HYDERABAD: Although there continues to be a threat of a sudden spurt in cases post elections, for now the number of Covid-19 cases in the state appears to have dropped. Hospital authorities say there’s a reduction in admissions — of 60% to 70% — across private and government facilities in the city. Apart from a decrease in number of new cases, the lesser hospital admissions are also attributed to increased understanding of the disease among doctors, which has led to effective management of simple cases at home. “As compared to earlier when even mild cases used to come to hospitals, now doctors are dealing well with mild to moderate cases at home. Also, unlike the time when many hospitals were not taking in Covid patients, with better understanding and development of protocols, even smaller hospitals in districts and towns are taking in cases, which has led to a decreased in admissions in corporate hospitals,” said Dr Nikhil Mathur, chief of medical services, Care Hospitals. Owing to the drop in numbers, many corporate hospitals have done away with their Covid wards while others have limited the bed strength significantly. In fact, the Gandhi Hospital that was the nodal hospital for Covid in the state until recently had started seeing around 300 cases at any given point of time as compared to nearly 2000 during the peak between August and September. As per health authorities there are 8,559 Covid beds in the government sector of which only 813 are occupied, while in the private sector there are 8,033 beds available of which 1,365 are occupied. “The occupancy in government hospitals which was around 25% during the peak is now less than 10% while the occupancy in private hospitals which was 70% to 80% is now less than 20%,” said a senior official from the state health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-19-hospitals-report-60-drop-in-admissions/articleshow/79468743.cms||Amrita Didyala
November 29, 2020||Kanpur||By 2022, CM sets target of 10,700MW solar projects||Gorakhpur: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday said that infinite possibilities exist for harnessing solar and biofuel energy in Uttar Pradesh and set a target of establishing solar energy projects of 10,700 megawatt capacity in the state by the year 2022. “The consumption and production of energy is a major base for development. Power plays a vital role in farming, industry, transport and in creating employment, etc. Uttar Pradesh is producing solar energy on a large scale and there are infinite possibilities of utilising solar and biofuel energy in the state. For increasing the participation of the private sector in the sphere of solar energy in UP, a policy was made in 2017 under which open access facility is available for third party sale,” Yogi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/by-2022-cm-sets-target-of-10700mw-solar-projects/articleshow/79453372.cms||Arjumand Bano
November 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Construction nod for IIPE 200-acre campus||VISAKHAPATNAM: Decks have been cleared for construction of the permanent campus of the Indian Institute of Petroleum and Energy (IIPE) recently. The national institution has started constructing a boundary wall in about a 200-acre land pocket allocated at Vangali in Sabbavaram mandal after primarily sorting out land issues with farmers. After finalising designs, construction would be launched for this premier institution, which has been established with the primary objective of creating an avenue for high quality education and research in the energy sector. A Mumbai-based architectural firm is working on designs and master plan of the campus. The infrastructure of IIPE’s permanent campus is proposed to be developed in two phases. Some area would be left out for future expansion of the institute. The proposed infrastructure of the varsity has been benchmarked against leading institutes of national importance like IIT Kharagpur, IIT Madras, IIT Bombay and Indian School of Mines Dhanbad. The institute is currently being operated from a transit campus in Andhra University. Speaking to TOI, IIPE director Prof VSRK Prasad said that the institute has entrusted the responsibility of construction of the boundary wall to Andhra Pradesh Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (APIIC). “Farmers have been extending their cooperation for the construction of the boundary wall. While the estimates for the total construction are pegged at Rs 650 crore, the outlay for the first phase works would be around Rs 350 crore. As the campus construction may take two more years, we requested Andhra University officials to allocate more space for the IIPE for expanding academic activities,” said Prof Prasad. According to initial proposals, a total of 17 classrooms have been planned for both undergraduate and postgraduate programmes at the permanent campus. The academic and research collaboration expenses have been provisioned under capital expenditure. IIPE concluded its admissions for the 2020–21 academic year on Friday, November 27, while the institute started virtual classes for the senior students from September 1 amid the Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/construction-nod-for-iipe-200-acre-campus/articleshow/79468789.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
November 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam's Lammasingi village strewn with plastic litter||VISAKHAPATNAM: The pristine and charming Lammasingi village has been of interest to visitors in recent years due to its misty, cold climate, with temperatures dipping to around two-three degrees during winters. With the picnic season on, hundreds of vehicles have started plying to the spot. Sadly, with no garbage disposal mechanism in place, the area is completely littered with plastic, liquor bottles and other waste. Adding to the muck is the filth left at weekly shandy (village market) by locals from surrounding villages and traders coming from the plains. Though the place has a dry resource centre near Tajangi for collection and segregation of various types of waste, it is not being utilised. Lammasingi is in immediate need for a clean-up to safeguard its fragile ecosystem. Disappointed at the lack of basic amenities, many have taken to social media to voice their worry about the plastic waste, lack of hygienic eateries, good accommodation, and clean washrooms Environmentalist Sohan Hatangadi, who is a frequent visitor to Lammasingi, said nearly 1,000 tourists are visiting the area daily. “Most go there on two-wheelers and four-wheelers. At least 40 per cent of the litter is contributed by them. They also camp in tents in the fields, leaving behind plastic waste, liquor bottles, food plates and leftovers,” Sohan said. “The remaining 60% filth is left at the weekly markets by locals from surrounding villages and groups of traders who wrap every item in plastic. Due to roadworks between Tajangi reservoir and the village, this part is spared this year from visitor footfall and consequent maximum litter. But areas like Kolavalli junction, shandies, camp and picnic sites on the fields on either side of the road are all full of filth and tonnes of plastic,” Sohan added. Speaking to TOI, Dr Venkateswar Salijamala, project officer of ITDA Paderu, said they are trying to sensitize the villagers and traders who come to the weekly market with the help of the local panchayat. “We are considering imposing spot fines from the panchayat on outsiders if they are found dirtying the place,” Salijamala said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/lammasingi-strewn-with-plastic-litter/articleshow/79468838.cms||Sulogna Mehta
November 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam records lowest November temperature in 11 years||VISAKHAPATNAM: Incessant drizzle owing to cyclone Nivar along with a high wind velocity for the better part of the week seem to have led to a dip in mercury level in the city since Tuesday. So much so that on Thursday, the city recorded its lowest November temperature in the last 11 years. “The minimum temperature of the city on Thursday, recorded in Waltair, was 18.4 degree Celsius. The minimum temperature plummeted below the 18° mark thrice before — on November 14, 2012, November 27, 2013 and November 27, 2013,” a Met official told TOI. According to officials of the Cyclone Warning Centre in Visakhapatnam, the all-time lowest temperature in Visakhapatnam in November was recorded on November 17, 1975, when the minimum temperature fell to 17.6° Celsius. Residents in areas like Madhurawada, Bheemili, Sagar Nagar, Visalakshi Nagar, MVP Colony, Simhachalam and Adavivaram are experiencing much colder conditions with temperature dipping two to three degrees below Waltair. Thick fog could be seen at many places in the city, especially in the wee hours of the morning. People are lighting campfires to keep themselves warm. Meanwhile, the temperatures in the city’s added areas and the district’s agency areas in the last few days also hovered around the 17°Celsius mark. “Parawada recorded the lowest at 17.2° Celsius on Thursday. No wonder north Andhra districts reeled under cold conditions in the last week,” the official added. Met had earlier predicted a harsher winter for Andhra Pradesh this year owing to the La Nina conditions. “It means, this year, the minimum temperature levels will be lower than what was registered during previous winters. In fact, the effect has alread started in some areas where the minimum temperatures have already plummeted to below 20° Celsius,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/port-city-records-lowest-november-temp-in-11-years/articleshow/79468797.cms||Arpit Basu
November 29, 2020||Nagpur||18 out of 19 Covid deaths from Nagpur division; Vid death toll nearing 6k||Nagpur: Vidarbha region reported 19 Covid-19 deaths in a day on Saturday. But, out of these 19 deaths, 18 were reported in Nagpur division alone. Only one death was reported in Yavatmal on Saturday. This shows that the condition in Nagpur division is worrisome while districts in Amravati division are showing better control over the infection so far. Saturday’s 19 deaths include Nagpur (9), Wardha (3), Bhandara (2), Gondia (2), Chandrapur (2) and Yavatmal (1). Out of 9 deaths reported in Nagpur, 4 were from Nagpur rural, 3 from city and 2 from other districts/states. Vidarbha’s death toll reached 5991. Case fatality rate, however, declined to 2.65%. 1,150 new positive cases of Saturday came from Nagpur (401), Chandrapur (166), Gondia (107), Amravati (107), Bhandara (99), Wardha (58), Yavatmal (52), Gadchiroli (51), Akola (43), Washim (36), and Buldhana (30). Total Covid-19 cases reached 2,26,065. With 957 patients recovered in a day, total 2,06,768 have recovered. They are from Nagpur (331), Chandrapur (109), Gondia (96), Akola (92), Gadchiroli (79), Amravati (53), Bhandara (45), Wardha (41), Buldhana (40), Yavatmal (37) and Washim (34). Vidarbha’s recovery rate is 91.46%. Gadchiroli: Total 79 patients recovered from Covid-19 while 51 new patients were detected in a day in Gadchiroli district on November 28. No death was reported. The death toll remained unchanged at 78. Gadchiroli now has 7863 total cases, including 7047 recoveries and 738 patients under treatment. About 90% of the patients have recovered in Gadchiroli so far. Gondia: The district reported 107 cases while 96 patients were cured on November 28. Two patients, aged 65 and 75, succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours. It is noteworthy that two-thirds of the today’s newfound cases hail from Gondia tehsil. Reports of 923 samples are awaited. This took the total number of cases in the district to 12,257. Total 96 patients recovered in a day which took the number of recovered patients to 10,956. Total 1,144 patients are under treatment. Bhandara: Two deaths reported in a day took the death toll of Bhandara district to 250 on Saturday. Total 99 new patients were reported while 45 recovered in a day. Now, Bhandara has 10593 total cases of Covid-19 with 9,362 recovered and 981 still under treatment. Akola: The district reported 43 new cases and 92 recoveries. This took the total number of cases to 9,333 and recoveries to 8,449. No death was reported in Akola on Saturday. Now, the district has 593 patients under treatment. Death toll of Akola is 291. Buldhana: More than 1,300 tests were conducted in Buldhana on Saturday and only 30 of them tested positive. This took the total Covid-19 cases in the district to 11,085. On the other hand, 40 patients recovered in a day. This took the total number of recovered patients to 10,603. No death was reported in Buldhana on Saturday. Death toll is intact at 134. Total 348 patients are still under treatment. Washim: The district reported 36 new patients, 34 recoveries and no death on November 28. Now the district has 6,102 cases, 5,745 recoveries and 148 deaths. Total 209 patients are under treatment. Wardha: Three men died due to coronavirus while new 58 patients tested positive and 41 patients were discharged on Saturday. The total count of cases reached 7,791 and recoveries were 7,020. Two men (55, 83) from Wardha and a 55-year-old man from Selu died while undergoing treatment, taking the toll to 245. Active positive patients under treatment are 526. On Saturday, 667 test reports were received and 58 of them tested positive. Cases were reported from Wardha (42), Deoli (7), Hinganghat (5), Selu (2), Arvi and Karanja (1 each). Yavatmal: There was one death, a 60-year-old woman from Wani on Saturday, which took the death toll to 374. In all, 693 test reports were received of which 52 are new positive patients. Currently, 483 active positive patients are undergoing treatment in the Covid care centres. 11,434 were recorded as positive so far in the district. 37 positive patients have recovered and discharged from hospitals. A total of 10,580 positive patients have recovered so far and they have been discharged. Chandrapur: There was a spike of 161 cases escalating the number to 19,692 on Saturday. The day also witnessed the death of 2 more patients and the toll now stands at 295, just five shy of the 300 mark. In all, 109 patients were discharged during the day leading the total recoveries to 17,694. There are now 1748 active patients under treatment in the district. Amravati: A spike of 69 cases took the district’s caseload to 17,725 even as there was no death reported on Saturday. There were 53 recoveries that took the total to 16,875 for a rate of 95.20. This left 475 active cases under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/18-out-of-19-covid-deaths-from-nagpur-division-vid-death-toll-nearing-6k/articleshow/79468666.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Dachepalli bank robbers learnt to crack safe via Youtube videos||Vijayawada: The perpetrators of the bank heist at Dachepalli in Guntur district had learned how to how to crack the bank safe’s code by watching videos on Youtube. The perpetrators were identified as Kedari Prasad (21) and Vinay Ramulu (37) from Miryalaguda in Telangana. On November 21, State Bank of India (SBI) branch at Dachepalli reported the theft of Rs 77 lakh from its vault. Cops took up the investigation but could not find any clues at the crime scene as the accused took all precautions so as not to leave behind any clues. They even destroyed CCTVs and sprinkled chilli powder along the way to throw off sniffer dogs. Guntur rural SP Vishal Gunni had formed special teams to crack the case. Prasad and Ramulu were arrested on Friday and entire stolen cash has been recovered from them. Vishal said that during the course of investigation, they found out that both of them are first time offenders and that financial stress was the motivation behind the crime. “The most important thing we noted was that they had very easily cracked the code by just looking at videos on You Tube on how to commit a bank robbery. This not only shows the ease at which a crime can be committed but also the ease of access to information on such criminal matters,” the SP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/dachepalli-bank-robbers-learnt-to-crack-safe-via-youtube-videos/articleshow/79468390.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Vijayawada||65-year-old doctor found murdered in Krishna dist||Vijayawada: A 65-year-old doctor was found murdered in his house at Avanigadda in Krishna district on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday. The deceased, identified as Kota Srihari Rao, was a well-known doctor in the area. He was found in a pool blood on Saturday morning with severe injuries on his head. Avanigadda inspector K Sridhar said Rao had seen patients in his clinic till 8.30 pm on Friday. The clinic is on the ground floor of his house. His family members had gone to Khammam in Telangana where his son stays and Rao was alone in the house. His driver, who had returned from Khammam at around 11 pm on Friday and handed over the keys to Rao, was the last one to see Rao alive. Rao’s son said he had also checked CCTV cameras remotely at around the same time and noticed that his father was inside the house. On Saturday morning, he was found in a pool of blood in the bed room. Police said he was hit with a blunt object multiple times on the head. The perpetrators also took away all CCTV cameras including the hard drive. Sridhar said it primarily appeared to be a case of murder for gain. “His family members have said that around 300 grams of gold and some cash was missing from the house. However, we are investigating the matter from all angles as it could be an attempt to mislead us by staging it like a robbery,” the inspector said. Krishna district SP M Ravindranath Babu visited the scene and has formed four teams to investigate the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/65-year-old-doctor-found-murdered-in-krishna-dist/articleshow/79468623.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh Covid-19 toll down to five, lowest in five months||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 625 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the state’s cumulative caseload to 8,67,063. The toll increased to 6,981 as five more people succumbed to the pandemic. This is the lowest single-day fatality total in over five months since June 23 when the state witnessed eight deaths. AP has now moved to the third slot among states with the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country. Karnataka with 881086 cases has overtaken AP to occupy the second spot. As many as 1,186 Covid-19 patients were declared cured. There are currently 11,571 active cases with 8,48,511 cumulative recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of over 97%. Other than Krishna (103 cases), all other districts reported less than 100 cases on Saturday. East Godavari recorded double-digit infections for the second consecutive day after a gap of nearly five months. There are less than 1,000 active cases in 10 districts, except East Godavari (3,945 active cases), Krishna (1,530) and Guntur (1,361). Of the five deaths, two each are from Krishna and West Godavari and one from Visakhapatnam. Health officials conducted 49,348 tests on Saturday and detected 625 cases with a case positivity rate of about one per cent. The positivity rate has been hovering around 1.5% in last 10 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-covid-19-toll-down-to-5-lowest-in-five-months/articleshow/79468678.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Nagpur||45% treated water goes waste in city||Nagpur: Despite the city facing acute water scarcity in 2019 with alternative water supply, a whopping 45.26% of precious and treated resource gets wasted. The amount of unmetered water supply in Nagpur is higher than the national average of 15 %. Attempts to minimize this loss have been dragging on since years. According to the data compiled by NMC’s water works department, the highest number of non-revenue water is under Satranjipura zone followed by Ashi Nagar and Gandhibagh zones. These zones contribute the most in the list of non-revenue water with 67.51%, 57.48% and 53.01%, respectively. This means the NMC doesn’t earn any revenue from the 45.26% of water loss. Sources said wasted water or non-revenue water (NRW) is fed into the system but it does not reach the consumer, either due to pilferage, including leakage in pipes, theft, illegal diversion or non-metering. The city receives 640MLD water supply every day via approximately 3,500km of the pipeline network. Of the city’s existing water network, the NMC has replaced 687km under the 24X7 water supply project. Sources said the need of the hour is to replace the 660km water network, especially old pipelines in Satranjipura, Ashi Nagar and Gandhibagh zones. Sources also pointed out that the NRW water loss also contributes to the contamination complaints and these three zones often record water contamination cases. The data further revealed that Laxmi Nagar zone stands first when it comes to least loss of water. The zone contributes around 22.07% of NRW. The other two zones with lesser waste of treated water are Hanuman Nagar and Dharampeth zones with 32.52% and 40.14%, respectively. A senior official said that the NMC is in the process to curb NRW and has shortlisted these three zones for rehabilitation work. The civic body has prepared a DPR worth Rs385 crore for these selected zones by replacing the entire pipeline network. Of the funds received under AMRUT scheme, Ashi Nagar will get Rs151 crore, Satranjipura Rs110 crore and Gandhibagh Rs98 crore and the works will be carried out over a period of 20 years, said the official. “This move will not only plug leakages but also detect illegal water connections,” the official explained. GROUND REALITY Zones—NRW Laxmi Nagar—22.07 Dharampeth—40.14 Hanuman Nagar—32.52 Dhantoli—44.63 Hanuman Nagar—44.16 Gandhibagh—53.01 Satranjipura—67.51 Lakadganj—42.84 Ashi Nagar—57.48 Mangalwari—48.28 (NRW: non revenue water, Figures in %)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/45-treated-water-goes-waste-in-city/articleshow/79468662.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
November 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam employment agency to hold job fairs for housewives||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Visakhapatnam District Employment Exchange has come up with a new concept of holding job fairs for housewives. With main earners of several families losing employment due to the pandemic and having to survive on government assistance, the fair is aimed to provide an opportunity for home-makers to find employment. The district employment exchange has come up with ideas to conduct recruitment drives exclusively for home-makers thus taking a diversion from usual events which aim to provide jobs to freshers, experienced candidates or those with higher education qualifications. According to district employment officer Ch Subbi Reddy, the drive is aimed at home-makers, especially those with children and whose income is necessary for their family’s sustenance. Reddy said Reliance Nippon Life Insurance had held a similar drive last week which was attended by several housewives. “Any employer interested in recruiting housewives can contact us. We will check the company and arrange job fairs accordingly. Our motto is to serve the categories which have been neglected and those who need these jobs to sustain their family,” Subbi Reddy told STOI. Nippon Life Insurance assistant manager for Visakhapatnam branch Y Hanumantha Rao said that housewives were being looked at for their qualities of dedication, understanding of value of money among others. “We have framed work patterns to suit the timings of a home-maker. We conduct a drive every month,” Rao said. A professor at Andhra University said that such moves are especially significant due to the impacts of Covid-19. “Many families have even lost their earning members to the virus and such fairs will help housewives in such cases to shoulder financial responsibilities for their families,” the professor said. Last year, 484 job seekers took part in the job fairs wherein eleven employers presented opportunities through which 145 got jobs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vizag-employment-agency-to-hold-job-fairs-for-housewives/articleshow/79468371.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
November 29, 2020||Trichy||Herd immunity against virus keeps cases down||Trichy:The central region of the state has been witnessing a steady flow of fresh Covid-19 cases before and after Diwali though the authorities expected a spike in fresh cases post-Diwali. The region comprising Trichy, Karur, Pudukottai, Perambalur, Ariyalur, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam districts continued to report fresh cases in the range of 120 to 150 for the past couple of weeks. Since mid-October, cases continued to drop from 400 to 300 and to 250. After maintaining between 250 and 200 for some days, the numbers further went down sharply to 172 on November 12, a couple of days before Diwali. On Saturday, the central region recorded 139 cases. While heaving a sigh of relief, public health department officials also warned of a post-Diwali spike. But still, the number of fresh cases was below 150. Unusually, cases went down to 85 on November 26 with Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur recording cases in single digits. But, the next day, cases shot up to 125. Officials said that the dip was a result of the decline in the number testing due to Cyclone Nivar. Even though health experts attributed the dip in the number of cases to a possible development of herd immunity, the government is yet to release the results of antibody tests under sero-survey. A senior official said one should not take things granted at least for six more months. “We cannot conclude that herd immunity has developed completely. The virulent virus may escape all the assumptions and surface again. So, it is better to keep face masks on till next April,” said an official. Going by the positivity rate chart of the districts between November 20 and 26, Nagapattinam stood second with 4.2% positivity rate. The number of RT-PCR testing (4,194) done during the period was low compared to other districts in the region. Out of the tests, 175 people tested positive. Karur, which tested 4,957 samples, stood 11th with a positivity rate of 2.3%. Tiruvarur, which tested 6,572 samples, stood at 14th place with 2.1% positivity rate. Trichy recorded 186 fresh cases in the period after testing 10,992 people recording a positivity rate of 1.7%. Thanjavur had the highest number of tests, 12,567, and among them, 162 people tested positive. Though the positivity rate of Pudukottai was 1.4% during the period, the district had done only 5,109 tests. After testing 3,331 samples, Ariyalur reported 32 cases this week with the positivity rate of 1%. Perambalur recorded zero fresh cases for three days, while the other districts recorded cases in single digits only. The number of cases was only four out of 3,675 tests with the lowest positivity rate of 0.1%. A health official said that cases may go up further if infected migrants enter the state. The chances of indigenous cases surfacing remain bleak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/herd-immunity-against-virus-keeps-cases-down/articleshow/79469678.cms||Gokul Rajendran
November 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Asad strikes a chord with Karwan, hundreds follow||Hyderabad: On Saturday, the Hyderabad MP and AIMIM president Asaduddin Owaisi reached Tappachaputra old police station at around 9 am. The campaign for the GHMC elections in Karwan division was to begin here. For the few hundred people who followed him in his campaign in Karwan division, keeping pace with the 51-year-old leader was a task. In active politics for the last 26 years, Asaduddin, who has represented Charminar constituency as a legislator and later as Hyderabad MP, still goes around the constituency, his and those of his party candidates, to personally seek votes. “How is the response?” TOI asked him during his brisk campaign. “You see it... it’s in front of you. This is happening publicly,” he responded. With a microphone in hand, Asaduddin urged people to vote for the party symbol, kite. “This time, you will be given a ballot paper,” he told group of people urging them to come forward and vote on the party symbol. “Even if it is difficult for you, make sure you go to the polling station to cast your vote,” he told an aged person. The ‘padayatra’ is not just to seek votes. At one place, he did not allow anyone to enter a house he visited. “He came to visit my father who is ailing,” a young man said after Asaduddin left.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/asad-strikes-a-chord-with-karwan-hundreds-follow/articleshow/79468786.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Kolkata||Theatres look forward to Dec-Jan releases||Kolkata: December may offer a ray of hope to the dying cinema exhibition industry in Kolkata with a number of interesting content lined up for release. Many are pinning their hopes on Christopher Nolan’s ‘The Tenet’, starring John David Washington, Robert Pattinson and Dimple Kapadia. Postponed thrice during the pandemic, it was the first Hollywood tent-pole to open in cinemas worldwide after the pandemic shutdown. Next in line is ‘Wonder Woman 1984’ that is expected to release in December. Bollywood films, such as Kiara Advani-starrer ‘Indoo Ki Jawani’ and ‘Toolsidas Junior’ (produced by Ashutosh Gowarikar), are also in the pipeline. With respect to content, January looks more promising with expected theatrical releases of ‘Tuesdays and Fridays’ (produced by Sanjay Bhansali), ‘Saina’ starring Parineeti Chopra as badminton champion Saina Nehwal and ‘Madam Chief Minister’ starring Richa Chadha. February could see the release of Hindi films like ‘Time to Dance’, ‘Hurdang’ and ‘Koi Jaane Na’. According to Navina’s owner Navin Choukhani, people are going everywhere, but avoiding cinemas. “They will have fuchkas outside the halls, but not go to the movies. They will do so only if the content is good. I am looking forward to the release of ‘Tenet’ next week,” he said. “Saptaswa Basu’s ‘Pratidwandi’, starring Saswata Chatterjee and Rudranil Ghosh, Srijit Mukherji’s ‘Kakababur Protyaborton’, starring Prosenjit Chatterjee, and ‘Baazi’, starring Jeet and Mimi Chakraborty, are expected to release on Christmas. Six Hindi films have been announced for December and January. The next few weeks will give oxygen to the single screen theatres,” he added. Suranjan Paul, owner of Minar, Bijoli and Chhabighar, said good content should prompt the cinemas to reopen in the larger interest of the film industry. Producers, he said, have just started releasing interesting content. Keeping halls shut will discourage those who are still undecided. “Minar has been shut for renovation, but the other two are open. Flops are part of the movie business and we know how to survive them. This is an extraordinary situation and we need to be patient. Some owners of cinemas, who had made fortunes by running single screens for over 20 years, have diversified and invested their profits on starting other businesses. In the pandemic, they have shut their cinemas but are doing everything to keep their other businesses afloat. With good content being released, keeping halls shut will reveal where their real priorities lie,” Paul said. Exhibitor-distributor Satadeep Saha was hopeful and will take a call on reopening his Ajanta Cinema on December 3. “If ‘Coolie No. 1’ has a theatrical release as well, it will be good for the industry. Once the dates of big Hindi movies are announced, there will be a mad scamper in Tollywood for good shows of Bengali releases. Now is the time for Bengali film producers to announce their release dates and block their shows/halls for Christmas to avoid that friction ,” Saha said. Choukhani added that he has no problems with simultaneous release of movies in single screens and on OTT platforms. "In a pandemic, an exhibitor can’t decide where a producer will release his movies. He can release it anywhere as long as it releases in my theatre too," he said. Amit Sengupta, manager of Humayan Properties Ltd that runs New Empire, was optimistic. “At least, the films have started to release. Problems though remain of additional financial burden that exhibitors have to incur for digital releases. Producers and distributors are not willing to spend anything on digital print and required to release a movie,” Sengupta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/theatres-look-forward-to-dec-jan-releases/articleshow/79468791.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
November 29, 2020||Kochi||Dam storage at 90%, power plant snag hits generation||Idukki: The water levels in most dams, including hydel dams, have over 90% storage presently, even as the weather department warned of more rains in the next two weeks. To add to that, with snags in three generators at Moolamattam power plant, power generation in Idukki reservoir has been affected. Lack of generators will affect the power generation in emergency situations. Supriya S, KSEB chief engineer (dam safety and DRIP), told TOI, “The rule curves fixed by central water commission will not be applicable in Idukki including hydel dams from November 20. From November 21, the dam shutters of Idukki will be opened only when water level reaches 2,400ft.” “As per present warnings, there is no chance of getting heavy rainfall in the catchment areas of main hydel dams. But if the water level immediately reaches a new rule level we will take steps to open the shutters of the dam,” she added.  Meanwhile, the continuing technical problems of Moolamattom power plant generators have caused concern over power generation in Idukki reservoir. The latest challenge is that the number 3 generator has shown technical issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/dam-storage-at-90-power-plant-snag-hits-generation/articleshow/79468113.cms||Sandeep Thomas
November 29, 2020||Jaipur||Three killed after roadways bus hits bike in Jhalawar||Kota: Three motorbike-borne persons including a 5-year-old boy were killed in head-on collision with a Rajasthan Roadway bus on mega highway near Baighra village under Khanpur police station of Jhalawar late on Saturday evening. Police have placed the bodies in local hospital for postmortem to be carried out on Sunday. They have lodged a case of negligent driving against Rajasthan Roadways bus driver. Three persons including a 5-year-old boy, who were riding on a motorbike, sustained fatal injuries after the bike collided with a roadways bus going to Jhalawar from Baran on mega highway near Baighra village around 7pm, said Anil Pandey, SHO, Khanpur police station. All three were rushed to the hospital where they were declared brought dead, he added. One of the three deceased was identified as Ram Prasad Tanwar (around 30 years), a resident of Aklera area of the district while the identity of the other two is yet to be established, he added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/three-killed-after-roadways-bus-hits-bike-in-jhalawar/articleshow/79468855.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP for development agenda: Patra||Hyderabad: BJP national spokesperson has Sambit Patra trained his guns on the alleged tacit alliance between TRS and MIM in elections to GHMC and termed it as a “family-friends private limited” tie-up, which is out to ruin the city. He attacked MIM, stating citizens of the country do not need a visa to enter the Old City. The people of Hyderabad have to choose whether they want a mayor from the development-driven BJP or the communal politics-fueled AIMIM,” Patra said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-for-development-agenda-patra/articleshow/79468795.cms||Roushan Ali
November 29, 2020||Kochi||Jacobite Church to stage rally, relay hunger strike||Kochi: The Jacobite faction of the Malankara Church will stage a rally from Meenangadi in Wayanad to Thiruvananthapuram to protest church takeovers and demand an ordinance to ensure its rights. A truck designed as a chariot and containing a LED wall displaying police atrocities during church takeovers will be part of the march. Scenes of protests linked to alleged denial of burial rights will also be projected. Church sources said the exact date of the ‘avakasha samrakshana jadha’ (rally to protect rights) would be decided in the coming week. “The aim is to remind the public about what we have been going through over the past several months. The LED wall will show our members waiting for a proper burial, with dead bodies. It would show police atrocities against our members. Visuals of our bishops being dragged away from our churches would also be displayed on the LED wall which would be carried across the state,” said Sleeba Paul Vattavelil cor-episcopa, clergy trustee of the Jacobite Church. The rally would begin from the tomb of Samuel Mar Philexinose at Meenangadi in Wayanad and end at the Secretariat in Thiruvananthapuram. Fr Vattavelil said all Covid-19 protocols will be adhered to. The decision to hold the rally was taken at the managing committee meeting held at Puthencruz on Friday under the metropolitan trustee of the church, Joseph Mar Gregorios. The church has also decided to abandon all future parleys in line with the stand taken by the opposing faction. The managing committee concluded that union of the two factions is no longer plausible and the need of the hour was to move forward, peacefully, as sister churches. “From Sunday, an indefinite relay hunger strike will be staged in front of all our churches, including the 52 churches taken over by the rival faction. Led by our bishops and priests, we will also gather in front of collectorates in all districts and the state secretariat,” said Fr Vattavelil. The Jacobite Church has formed a 71-member core committee to coordinate the protests. Meetings will be called in every diocese to coordinate the protests locally as well, sources said. The possible takeover of Kothamangalam Cheriyapally remains a major concern of the faction. This was exacerbated when the high court, on November 11, pulled up the Ernakulam district collector for not implementing the nearly year-old directive to take over the church and hand it over to the Orthodox faction. Cheriyapally is emotionally and spiritually important for the faction. The matha maithri samrakshana samiti, an organization formed to maintain religious harmony in Kothamangalam, had even declared a hartal this month amid rumours of the takeover.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/jacobite-church-to-stage-rally-relay-hunger-strike/articleshow/79467362.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Trichy||Residents demand underpass at Sanjeevi Nagar on Trichy-Chennai NH||Trichy: Residents of Sanjeevi Nagar and adjacent areas on the Trichy-Chennai national highway have sought an underpass similar to the one coming up near Kondayampettai on the same stretch to prevent accidents. The absence of an underpass is resulting in fatal accidents as people drive on the wrong side of the highway.They also said that underpass at Sanjeevi intersection must be provided on a priority basis. Sandwiched between East Boulevard road and Chennai NH, Sanjeevi Nagar serves as one of the most used entry points for locals. With another residential neighbourhood ARK Nagar is located diagonally opposite, the Sanjeevi Nagar intersection has become lethal for two-wheeler riders. “An underpass shall prevent the wrong side driving between Sanjeevi Nagar and Odathurai road service road where the accident risk is high,” T Jayakumar, secretary, ARK Nagar Residents Welfare Association told TOI. If the underpass is proposed, it will decongest the Thanjavur main road leading to Gandhi market besides benefiting Sarkarpalayam and Panayakurichi panchayat residents. However, NHAI sources stated that the stretch has a canal and pipelines running parallel to the road. “Technical feasibility report has identified several hurdles in facilitating the underpass. We have provided safety mechanisms to prevent accidents,” a source with the NHAI said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/residents-demand-underpass-at-sanjeevi-nagar-on-trichy-chennai-nh/articleshow/79469684.cms||Deepak Karthik
November 29, 2020||Vadodara||Four held for killing labourer over past rift||Vadodara: Four persons were arrested on Saturday for murdering a 45-year-old labourer at his house on New VIP Road in the city on November 26.Police said that the accused, Sanjay Marwadi, Natwar Marwadi, Ishwar Marwadi and Soma Marwadi, had barged into the house of Raju Marwadi to kill him over a past rift. The six-month-old difference was settled through the elders of their community. However, the four accused bumped into Raju, when he was going outside his house to smoke, and manhandled him.When Raju returned to his home, the four accused barged into his house with a sword and knives. The four accused stabbed him repeatedly due to which Raju collapsed. He was taken to SSG Hospital where the doctors declared him dead on arrival. “Raju’s son Arjun and Sanjay had a scuffle six months back while Arjun was playing cricket. The cricket ball had hit Sanjay’s auto-rickshaw which had triggered an altercation and sown the seeds of enmity between the victim and the accused,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/four-held-for-killing-labourer-over-past-rift/articleshow/79468110.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Hyderabad||2 suspended for ignoring poll duties||Hyderabad: Two government employees have been suspended in Wanaparthy for not reporting for GHMC election duties. District collector Shaik Yaseem Basha on Saturday issued orders after the two employees — Varaprasad and Krishna Mohan — did not report for training that was conducted on November 27 for polling duties. GHMC elections are scheduled to be held on December 1. Varaprasad, who is a supervisor in the district welfare office, and Krishna Mohan, an assistant engineer in the R&B department, were intimated that they should report for the training programme. According to district officials, Varaprasad did not answer his phone despite repeated calls made to him, while Krishna Mohan switched off his mobile. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-suspended-for-ignoring-poll-duties/articleshow/79468808.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Kochi||Injured cobra released after treatment||Thrissur: In a rare and humane gesture, a group of forest officials, veterinarians and snake protection activists teamed up to treat an injured cobra for nearly two weeks before releasing it in a forest which is its natural habitat. The cobra was caught from a house near Ponganamkadu in the district and forest officials first thought of using it to train snake catchers, said PC Joju, a wildlife rescuer attached to the special investigation and protection squad of the department. But, the very next day when the snake was taken out from its cage, they noticed that its tail was injured and it was twisting in pain. Forest officials rushed it to the veterinary hospital run by Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (KVASU) at Kokkala on November 7. A team of veterinarians and caregivers, led by Dr Reji Varghese, treated the snake. The vein was ligated and the wound was dressed, said Dr Varghese. Subsequently, it was taken to the ‘inpatient facility’ at the newly-built office of the assistant forest veterinary officer at Akamala in Thrissur. The cobra’s injury did not heal after the first ten days and it had to be kept under observation for another ten days. Finally, it was released on Saturday in the forest area near Peechi after ensuring that it had fully recovered. “The cobra was alert and active, and it was handed over to Joju in the presence of uniformed staff from Ponganamkadu forest station. They signed the discharge certificate later,” said forest veterinarian Dr David Abraham. He said that earlier a python was treated at KVASU’s veterinary hospital after it sustained a serious cut on its back. It was taken as an inpatient on October 18 and discharged on October 28, after completely healing of surgical wounds, he said. “We are also incubating several snake eggs that were found abandoned after accidental unearthing during land excavations. Forest department will be giving special attention to rescue and rehabilitation of injured wildlife at the inpatient facility of Akamala. This will be done with the support of experts from KVASU and the animal husbandry department, said Dr Abraham.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/injured-cobra-released-after-treatment/articleshow/79468140.cms||T Ramavarman
November 29, 2020||Kochi||Prof Madhavankutty, the mainstay of Thrissur Pooram, passes away||Thrissur: Thiruvambady devaswom secretary Prof M Madhavankutty, who had made immense contributions for the well-organized conduct of the Thrissur Pooram festivities for almost 50 years, died on Saturday. He was 78 and was undergoing treatment for cancer for the last couple of months. Fondly called Madhavankutty Mash, Prof Madhavankutty was a multi-faceted personality with interests in diverse topics as mathematics, literature, arts, especially the temple arts, cultural activism, religion, education, and above all he was an effective organizer with remarkable flexibility to carry together diverse sections of people. Pooram, which is a 36-hour long cultural extravaganza, itself is a confluence of multiple arts, rituals and traditions and its success is the product of the contribution and participation of people cutting across all barriers. “Prof Madhavankutty, with his deep insights into the religious and secular character of this festival and of Thrissur, has been making unique contribution in providing the due space for the celebration of plurality and for the disciplined decorum of the Pooram,” recalled the State Election Commissioner (SEC) Teekaram Meena, who was earlier the collector of Thrissur. “In the early days, his efforts were to bring in a semblance of order to Thrissur Pooram, by sticking to the relevant rituals and traditions. But in the later years, he also strove for ushering in reforms in the Pooram taking into account the socio-economic and cultural transformations that have taken place with the passage of time,” said former speaker Thearambil Ramakrishnan, who was a close friend of Prof Madhavankutty. Ironically, he had to often face criticisms as an impractical radical from within the Pooram organizers, when he pitched for reforms like reduction in the luxury of festivals and for avoiding use of banned chemicals in fireworks display of Pooram. On the other side, some of the environmental groups felt he was a dogmatist, unwilling to initiate any fundamental change in the Pooram format, said a pooram fan M Gireesan. Former CAG Vinod Rai, who was also the collector of Thrissur in his early days, recalled that Prof Madhavankutty was an approachable, decent and humane person who adopted a very progressive and supportive approach for developmental activities. “He was instrumental in taking Thrissur Pooram to the international tourism landscape,” he said. Prof Madhavankutty, who completed his degree from St Thomas College and post-graduate degree in Mathematics from the Devagiri College, Kozhikode, was a popular teacher at UC College, Aluva. “He was a reputed as well as popular teacher and was friendly with all sections,” recalls writer T D Ramakrishnan, who was a student at the college then. Describing Prof Madhavankutty as a person with immense love and compassion, agriculture minister V S Sunilkumar said he had the remarkable agility and resilience to overcome any crisis in all projects undertaken by him. “Even when being deeply religious, Prof Madhavankutty was never a fanatic and could communicate with people of all religious backgrounds with grace and warmth,” recalled Fr Dr Francis Alapatt, who was one of the founders of cultural group ‘Satsangh’ along with Prof Madhavankutty. Prof Madhavankutty leaves behind his wife Pullatt Ratheedevi and daughter Sreedevi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/prof-madhavankutty-the-mainstay-of-thrissur-pooram-passes-away/articleshow/79467373.cms||T Ramavarman
November 29, 2020||Trichy||700kg shallots stolen in separate incidents in Perambalur dist||Perambalur: Unidentified burglars decamped with 700kg of shallots in separate incidents in two different villages of Perambalur district on Saturday. Within a week, the district has reported three incidents where shallots stocked in the farmlands were stolen. Both the incidents came to light after the farmers visited their farms in the morning for preparing the fields.Farmer S Ravi from Nattarmangalam village said that around 300kg of shallots stored in a thatched hut on his four acres farm went missing. As Ravi’s farm is located only 100m away from the Nattarmangalam Main Road, the burglars might have targeted his farm, sources said. “Since the cost of small onions is priced between Rs 80 to Rs 100, burglars have targeted my high-quality shallots stock to sell them,” Ravi told TOI.In a similar incident, 400kg of shallots was reported missing from the farm of P Durairaj from Settikulam village. Padalur police personnel said that inquiry is under way. It may be recalled on November 21, around 300kg of shallots was stolen from farmland in Nattarmangalam village of the district. So far, as per the farmers, around 1,000kg of shallots have been stolen in three different incidents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/700kg-shallots-stolen-in-separate-incidents-in-perambalur-dist/articleshow/79469703.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 29, 2020||Hyderabad||In a veiled jibe at BJP, KCR fires ‘Save Hyderabad’ salvo||HYDERABAD: With his new slogan of ‘Save Our Hyderabad’ days before the GHMC elections, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Saturday tried to fire a final salvo at BJP’s aggressive posturing. Appealing to intellectuals and professionals to protect Hyderabad from ‘divisive forces’, he said some persons were trying to disrupt peace in the city. Without naming BJP, he attacked the saffron party leaders and urged people not to get carried away by them. He said the TRS government had never compromised on law and order and crushed anti-social elements with an iron hand. “As the one who fought for the creation of Telangana and as the CM of the new state, I am appealing to the people that this is the time to rise to the occasion and save our Hyderabad and build it again. If peace is disturbed, real estate and property prices will fall and businesses will be affected. We will not get investments and youth will not get employment opportunities,” KCR said at a well-attended public meeting at LB Stadium in the evening. The TRS president went on to read his message ‘Save Our Hyderabad’ in Telugu, English and Hindi, drawing loud cheers from the crowd. In his 55-minute speech, the CM spoke on the law and order situation in Hyderabad and listed various welfare measures implemented by his government. He wondered: “For KCR, big leaders are coming from various states like a flood. I am wondering are we fighting a municipal election or a national election?” Taking potshots at his Uttar Pradesh counterpart Yogi Adityanath who took part in roadshows in the city on Saturday for the GHMC polls, KCR said Telangana today is in fifth position in per capita income in the country while UP stands 28th. “He (Adityanath) who could not set his house in order has come here to teach us on administration. Similarly, former Maharashtra CM (Devendra Fadnavis) has campaigned here. His state occupies 10th place in the per capita income,” he said. KCR said Hyderabad is a cosmopolitan city where people from different religions, communities and castes live together for centuries like a ‘guldasta’. Saying that this should continue, he asked people whether they want a progressive government or a divisive administration. Urging the people to vote for the TRS, he promised to take the responsibility of developing Hyderabad into a world-class city. Reacting to the CM’s address, BJP chief spokesperson K Krishna Saagar Rao said the speech further exposed the CM’s fear of losing the GHMC elections. “The voters will reject his weak and hapless talk of communal disturbances. The CM produced a horror movie in 45 minutes to influence and scare the voters,” he said. Taking on the BJP leaders, KCR said: “The TRS government and local ministers live here and are always ready to help the people and not those leaders from UP or Maharashtra.” He said during the lockdown period, his government had arranged 200 trains for migrant workers and sent them freely to their respective states like UP, Bihar, Jharkhand and Kolkata. The TRS chief said both the BJP and Congress have failed the country on all fronts. “If they have governed properly, why is there so much poverty, illiteracy, health issues and homeless people.” He asked, for how many more years should people tolerate these parties. Reiterating his charge on flood assistance, the CM said the state government had asked for Rs 1,350 crore towards flood relief, but the Centre had not released even 13 paise to Telangana. “But Bengaluru and Ahmedabad (BJP-ruled states) were given immediate flood relief. Is this not discrimination,” he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/in-a-veiled-jibe-at-bjp-kcr-says-save-hyd-from-divisive-forces/articleshow/79468905.cms||Koride Mahesh
November 29, 2020||Vadodara||VMC squads crack down on malls, crowded markets||Vadodara: From handcarts to malls, the joint enforcement teams (JET) and flying squads formed by the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) and the city police spared no one on Saturday. The teams sealed such establishments for three days if they did not follow Covid-19 guidelines. Hopes of doing brisk business over the weekend crashed for those who did not ensure that their establishments ensured compliance of mask and social distancing rules. Since morning itself, such businesses were on the radar of the JETs as well as flying squads. While a JET is to look into compliance of guidelines at hotspots at the ward level, flying squads are supposed to monitor malls, multiplexes, party plots, community halls and banquet halls. As many as 24 JETs and four flying squads were formed by the VMC and police on Friday night. These will remain in action for a fortnight or more as per requirement. Three malls, a superstore and a convenience store were amongst the bigger establishments sealed by the civic body for three days. These included those of prominent retail chains at the national level. Some prominent malls and stores closed down on their own in wake of the action. Marketplaces in the city that witnessed heavy rush like Mangalbazaar, fruit market near Khanderao Market, Gadheda Market vegetable market and a series of such market places were asked to shut down entirely. In all, over 36 places including malls, stores, entire market places and pan shops will have to remain closed for three days. A fine of Rs 1.04lakh was also collected by the civic body from erring establishments during the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vmc-squads-crack-down-on-malls-crowded-markets/articleshow/79468143.cms||---
November 29, 2020||India||Post-Covid lung-fibrosis tsunami looms: Paper||MUMBAI: As Covid-19 is classified as a respiratory ailment, it is not surprising that lungs are the most commonly affected organ. But city doctors are worried about the extent of damage the SARS-CoV-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, can cause in the lungs. A review paper published in the November issue of Lung India, the peer-reviewed and indexed medical journal of the Indian Chest Society, said, “Post-Covid lung fibrosis” could be the tsunami that will follow the earthquake (caused by Covid).” The article’s lead author, Dr Zarir Udwadia, said the review was prompted by the “dreadful fibrosis we are routinely seeing.” In the initial days of the pandemic, while doctors were still not clear about the SARS-CoV-2 virus’s ability to cause pneumonia as well as blood clots in the lungs, many patients sought treatment late that resulted in heavy scarring of lung tissues due to advanced infection. “Physicians are likely to encounter potentially hundreds of thousands with post-Covid interstitial lung disease (PC-ILD),” said Dr Udwadia. As the medical profession only has 11 to 12 months of knowledge about Covid-19, there is no clarity over whether patients with severely affected lungs will get normal or worsen over the years to lung failure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/post-covid-lung-fibrosis-tsunami-looms-paper/articleshow/79470136.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC asks for answer sheets of 12 students in JBIMS admission case||MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Friday directed Jamnalal Bajaj Institute of Management Studies to place before it answer sheets of 12 candidates who alleged discrepancies in admission process for Master in Human Resources Development course. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Girish Kulkarni heard a petition by the 12 who were among 610 who took the online aptitude test on July 27. They alleged it had technical glitches, including non-confirmation of submission of answers and different candidates logging in at different times for same set of questions. They said nearly 190 candidates complained that day but it was not resolved. They urged reconduct of the tests. Their advocate, Harpreet Singh Hora, said even the shortlist of 200 candidates was increased by 32 and included those who relogged in for the test. JBIMS’s advocate said only two petitioners were among 190 complaints on a spreadsheet on July 27 itself. He said objections were raised via email after results were declared on August 1. Also, three petitioners never raised grievances. He said the admission process was completed on November 5. To the judges’ query, Hora replied that there no way to verify the correct results. He said a candidate received two different marks. He said another received less marks but was confident that 63 out of 100 answers are correct. The judges said they would treat it as a “test case” and sought answer sheets, and if possible, answer keys. The judges said to end the controversy it would be “just and proper” to direct JBIMS to place answer sheets before court on December 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-asks-for-answer-sheets-of-12-students-in-jbims-admission-case/articleshow/79468396.cms||Rosy Sequeira
November 29, 2020||Hyderabad||2 constables suspended for harassment||Hyderabad: Two constables in Rachakonda police were placed under suspension after they allegedly harassed a woman and a male employee of a pharma company when they were returning to their residence after completing a night shift. Rachakonda police said R. Chandra Shekar and K. Lingaswamy of Chotuppal PS came across a couple having tea late in the night while performing patrol duty on November 24. The constables questioned them about their presence on the road late in the night. When the couple refused to come to the station, the constables demanded a bribe. Saying they would pay bribe later, the two lodged a complaint against the cops the next day. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-constables-suspended-for-harassment/articleshow/79468856.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology Covid test gets ICMR nod||HYDERABAD: Even as clinical trials on Covid-19 vaccine have reached the final stage, city-based Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) has developed an RT-PCR-based test to detect the pandemic virus easily and effectively. The new method developed by the CCMB, which got the final approval of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and is ready for release in the market, is simple and fast. Instead of the ‘wet’ method now used for the RT-PCR tests, the CCMB model is dry swab-direct RT-PCR. This brings down not only the cost of the RT-PCR test, but also reduces the time taken for the result. “With the same resources and no additional costs, more samples can be tested and easily scaled up at least 2-3 times immediately,” said CCMB director Dr Rakesh K Mishra. The dry swab-direct RT-PCR method involves collecting and transporting the nasal swab in dry state (as opposed to using the viral transport medium), which makes transportation and handling of the samples easy and less prone to spillage and spread of infection. The CCMB method will also scale up SARS-CoV-2 detection, scientists said. “This method is a simple variation of the existing gold standard RT-PCR method. After evaluating this method and finding an overall concordance of 96.9%, the ICMR has now issued an advisory for the use of CSIR-CCMB dry swab-direct method, considering its lesser cost and quick turnaround time,” the CCMB said in an official statement. The step of RNA isolation from the sample is omitted and involves only simple processing of the sample followed by direct RT-PCR using the kit recommended by the ICMR. Omitting the step of RNA isolation offers a huge benefit over the conventional method as the RNA isolation is a major bottleneck in terms of time, cost and trained manpower. CSIR director-general Dr Shekhar C Mande said that the dry swab-direct RT-PCR method does not require new kits. It could make a significant contribution in ramping up the testing capacity in the country, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ccmb-covid-test-gets-icmr-nod/articleshow/79468860.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Kochi||‘Make environment study part of BTech’||Kozhikode: DMRC principal adviser E Sreedharan has said that the most important responsibility that engineers face today is to protect the environment. Addressing graduates as chief guest at the 16th convocation of the National Institute of Technology, Calicut (NIT-C) online on Saturday, Sreedharan called upon the premier engineering institute to incorporate a chapter on environment to every stream of engineering study. “Out of the 20 polluted cities of the world, 12 are in India. Perhaps Delhi, our capital, is the worst in the world. Our rivers and water bodies are polluted. Forests are getting degraded and all these are environmental disasters. And I hold the scientists and engineers responsible for this mess,” Sreedharan said. He added that engineers and scientists have the responsibility to the society and future generation to preserve the environment. He said the main reason why India could not emerge as a developed nation even after 73 years of independence is the steep decline in values and principles for which this country was very famous for till a few hundred years ago. He told the fresh graduates to acquire and cultivate the virtues of punctuality, integrity, professional competence and yearning to serve the nation. “Your professional success will not be measured in terms of the high positions you occupy nor the compensation packages you get or the wealth you create for yourself. Your professional success will be measured by what changes you are able to make to improve the standard and quality of life of your fellow citizens,” he said. Gajjala Yoganand, chairman, board of governors of NIT-C, called upon the new graduates not to look for a comfort zone. Instead, he urged them to find a purpose, live in dreams, set goals and conquer objectives. P S Sathidevi, director-in-charge, presenting the annual report said that the institute improved its NIRF ranking at the national level to 23 under the Engineering stream in 2020, from a rank of 28 in 2019. The rank in the architecture stream was maintained at 3, in 2019 and 2020. Moreover, NITC secured 8th rank (the only NIT among the top 10) in the category of Institutes of National Importance, Central Universities & CFTIs in the Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation Achievements (ARIIA) 2020 by the Govt of India. The convocation saw a total of 1,491 graduates receiving their degrees. This included 866 BTech, 46 BArch, 353 MTech, 10 MPlan, 42 MCA, 35 MBA, 50 MSc, and 89 PhD degrees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/make-environment-study-part-of-btech/articleshow/79467394.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Jaipur||Labour welfare cess collection till October less than half of last year||Jaipur: The collection of BOCW (Building and Other Construction Workers) welfare cess in 2020-21 under the labour department has been less than half so far (up to October 31) compared to last year (2019-20). While the cess collection was Rs 412 crore in 2019-20, it has been Rs 170 crore up to October 31. It has been observed that most of the private sectors/owners in the state are not paying cess for construction of buildings. Hence, strict instructions have been issued to the department officials to collect cess from private sector/owners.“There was some impact in cess collection due to Covid. We are issuing notices and constantly monitoring so that cess could be collected from people. It’s an ongoing process. Also, due to the current situation, we have set a low target this year for cess collection,” said labour commissioner Prateek Jhajharia.“We have given strict instructions to officials to increase cess collection from private players/sectors. From the government sector, the cess will anyway come sooner or later. But, we have strictly told them to bring cess from private sectors,” he said.As per rule, the owner is required to pay BOCW cess of 1% for construction of a building costing more than Rs 10 lakh. If they don’t deposit the amount, they would be liable to pay a cess of 2% per month (24 per cent per annum). “Cess collection is a routine process. Even after issuing notices, if the builder/person doesn’t pay the cess, we collect the information about the person from the municipal corporation/JDA/UDH etc, from where he got the permission for construction of the building, and after making all the calculations, we again send him a notice. We have also written to these agencies asking them to collect cess in advance when they give approval for the construction of the building,” said Jhajharia. “If he still doesn’t respond or pay up, we write to the district collector concerned to direct the tehsildar to collect the cess through Public Demands Recovery (PDR) Act. If the person doesn’t pay, action is taken against the builder. Hence, there is no scope for escaping the cess.”Moreover, the implementation of 8 welfare schemes is also dependent upon the funds that are generated through the cess collection. The fewer collection of cess also leads to delay in implementation of these schemes.“There is definitely some negative impact due to the current situation. But, we have asked the districts to gear up the welfare schemes. We will definitely channelize the funds that are available with us,” he said.“We are prioritizing the implementation of schemes vis-à-vis the availability of funds. We are giving priority to Silicosis cases, assistance for cases of accidents (deaths and injuries), Prasuti Sahayta and students’ scholarships.”“We found some irregularities in some schemes after social audit. Following this, we ordered a physical verification of the applications of Subhshakti and Sulabh awas schemes at the headquarters level. Physical verification is done for accident cases as well. Hence, sometimes, it takes time in implementation or disbursal of funds. So, it shouldn’t be interpreted as a delay,” he further added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/labour-welfare-cess-collection-till-october-less-than-half-of-last-year/articleshow/79468138.cms||Sidhartha Dutta
November 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Bharat Biotech visit in Hyderabad: PM Modi tracks Covid-19 vaccine||HYDERABAD: Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited vaccine maker Bharat Biotech’s facility at Genome Valley in Hyderabad on Saturday afternoon as part of his three-city tour to review the progress in the ongoing Covid-19 vaccine development efforts in the country. The PM spent well over an hour at Bharat Biotech, where he interacted with the company’s top brass, including its chairman and managing director Dr Krishna Ella, as well as scientists involved with the development of Covaxin, India’s first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine that is being developed by the Hyderabad-based vaccine maker. Senior Bharat Biotech management made a detailed presentation to the PM on the work being done by Bharat Biotech and the progress on Covaxin, after which he proceeded to the auditorium to interact with scientists involved working on Covaxin. The Phase III trials of Covaxin, involving over 26,000 volunteers at 25 sites across the country, kicked off earlier this month. The first and second phase of human trials at Covaxin involved around 1,000 volunteers. Bharat Biotech had earlier indicated that going by the results of Phase I and II trials, Covaxin's efficacy is expected to be well over 60%. According to sources, unlike the Zydus Cadila facility, Modi did not have a very detailed plant tour as the Bharat Biotech Covid-19 vaccine lab and manufacturing plant is a Bio Safety Level-3 (BSL-3) facility. “At the Bharat Biotech facility in Hyderabad, was briefed about their indigenous COVID-19 vaccine. Congratulated the scientists for their progress in the trials so far. Their team is closely working with ICMR to facilitate speedy progress,” Modi tweeted after wrapping up his tour of the Bharat Biotech facility. Bharat Biotech too tweeted from its official handle about the high-profile visitor. “An extremely memorable day for Bharat Biotech to have Hon’ble Prime Minister of India, Shri PM Narendra Modi, visit our campus. He commended BBIL’s efforts towards COVAXIN and congratulated the progress COVAXIN thus far (sic),” it said. "The Prime Minister’s visit serves as a great inspiration to our team, and further reinforces our commitment towards scientific discovery, solving public health issues, and the nation’s fight against COVID-19," the company said in a press communique after the visit. A release issued by the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) later in the day said the PM undertook an extensive review of the vaccine development and manufacturing process during his three-city tour and expressed pride in the fact that India’s indigenous vaccine development has progressed at such a rapid pace. “He spoke on how India is following sound principles of science in the entire journey of vaccine development, while also asking for suggestions to make the vaccine distribution process better,” the PMO said. Watch Hyderabad: PM Modi visits Bharat Biotech facility to review Covid-19 vaccine work||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bharat-biotech-visit-pm-tracks-covid-19-vaccine/articleshow/79468869.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Jaipur||Fund crunch may hit Govind Marg elevated road project||Jaipur: With multi-crore projects in its kitty, the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) might face a challenge in initiating Govind Marg elevated road project due to shortage of funds. The pre-feasibility report for the project submitted this month by a private firm estimated Rs 270 crore project cost. To ease the traffic coming from Narayan Singh Circle end, the firm has proposed to construct a three-kilometre-long elevated road between Trimurthi Circle and Pink Square end. Similarly, a 2.75-kilometre elevated road is proposed between Pink Square and Dharam Singh Circle, to provide swift passage to the vehicles to Jaipur, coming from Delhi and Agra Road end. A senior official at JDA said, “The project was announced during the budget speech. We have prepared the pre-feasibility report. Possibilities are explored to fund the project as JDA has recently taken Rs 1,000 crore project to improve the city crossroads.” Other than shifting a long stretch of Bisalpur line, the JDA might have to acquire some land on the narrow passage. A senior official said, “As per preliminarily discussions, it was found that JDA has to acquire land at a few points as road width is narrow as mentioned in the master plan. In 2013, the proposal was shelved as JDA had to acquire land. Acquisition and shifting of pipeline might increase the cost of the project, which JDA is already not willing to initiate due to shortage of funds.” Sources said all aspects were revealed during the pre-feasibility survey carried out by a private firm. A senior official said, “Shifting of water pipeline from the area is another herculean task. Digging and piling in the area will not be possible as it could damage the pipeline.” As the elevated corridor is proposed on a narrow stretch, the possibility of changing the alignment also looks bleak. “After examining the report, a decision will be taken by the state government whether to take a step forward and prepare the detailed project report (DPR) of the project or not. There are many houses and commercial establishments, diversion of alignment at present looks difficult,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fund-crunch-may-hit-govind-marg-elevated-road-project/articleshow/79468150.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Trichy||Encroachments back near Gandhi mkt, so are traffic snarls||Trichy: A day after Trichy Corporation evicted the encroachments near the Gandhi market that was reopened after eight months, wayside encroachments have sprung up again at the same spot. General stores and other shops that share the wall with Gandhi market on Thanjavur main road, had temporary encroachments hindering the public space. The civic body removed them and told the shops not to use the road space for stocking or displaying commodities. However, the enforcement survived only for a day and the temporary encroachments were back on Saturday. “Officials should periodically inspect and evict the encroachments. Several shops are utilizing the vacant space adjacent to the roads as inventory yard,” T Senthil Kumar, a resident of Palakkarai added. With street vendors on pushcarts occupying a portion of space around the market, residents said that traffic bottlenecks will resume. As customers also park their bikes and cars on the roads, buses approaching the vicinity often gets trapped in the bottlenecks. “We only evicted a stretch where encroachment was rampant. We will instruct the shops not to intrude into the road space,” a corporation official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/encroachments-back-near-gandhi-mkt-so-are-traffic-snarls/articleshow/79469711.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 29, 2020||Kochi||Rescued cub weak, mother tiger spotted in camera trap||Idukki: Forest department officials spotted a tigress near Mangaladevi temple premises on Saturday where a tiger cub was found abandoned on November 21. According to Anoop K R, field director, Project Tiger, Kottayam, the forest officials received the visual of a female tiger and it is believed to be the mother of the tiger cub. Forest officials rescued a sixty-day-old female tiger cub which was found abandoned on the premises of Mangaladevi temple on border with Tamil Nadu inside Periyar Tiger Reserve (PTR) on November 23. The cub continued to be weak and is given supplements and is cared at a temporary shelter near the temple. “The cub was very weak when it was spotted as it did not get its mother’s milk for two days when found separated. Now the cub is under the special care of two expert veterinary surgeons. It had drunk water from a small pond nearby as pug marks were found in the marshy area. In the present health condition, it cannot be released with its mother,” said Anoop. Usually, tigresses do not abandon cubs unless separated when attacked by a male or if the mother tigress is dead. Tigresses do not leave their cubs alone and take care of the cubs for the first four months till two years when they are able to seek food by themselves, said officials. “We believe that the visual of the female tiger is the mother of the abandoned tiger cub. If the health condition of the tiger cub is stable we will take steps to release it with the mother,” said the official. After rescuing the tiger cub from the premises of Mangaladevi temple, the forest department installed camera traps to trace the mother of the cub. A joint search was also conducted with the staff of the Meghamala forest in Tamil Nadu as the tiger cub was found in the border forest area between the two states. The treatment and other procedures were conducted as per the guidelines of National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), said officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/rescued-cub-weak-mother-tiger-spotted-in-camera-trap/articleshow/79468169.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Dehradun||NIT director among 14 new Covid deaths in state||Dehradun: The number of Covid-19 deaths in the state rose to 1214 on Saturday with 14 more people, including the director of National Institute of Technology in Uttarakhand, succumbing to the virus. The tally of infections also rose to 73951 with 424 new cases. Abhishek Tripathi, co-ordinator of Covid-19 control room, said that the highest number 163 cases were reported from Dehradun followed by 59 in Pithoragarh and 45 in Pauri Garhwal. He added that Haridwar reported 30 new cases, Tehri and Almora 21, Chamoli 20, Champawat 19, US Nagar 12, Nainital 11, Bageshwar and Uttarkashi eight and Rudraprayag seven. Of the 14 deaths, eight were from the state capital, three in Srinagar, two in Tehri and one from Haldwani. The victims also included Shyam Lal Soni, director of NIT Uttarakhand. Meanwhile, Uttarakhand governor Baby Rani Maurya, who was admitted to AIIMS Rishikesh recently after testing positive for Covid-19, was discharged from the facility. She has now been advised home isolation for 10 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nit-director-among-14-new-covid-deaths-in-state/articleshow/79467410.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 29, 2020||Jaipur||JMC to rejuvenate Kartarpura nullah||Jaipur: With the assistance of Jaipur Smart City Limited (JSCL), the Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC), will take up rejuvenation of Kartarpura Nullah project. Earlier, JDA had proposed to cement the floor and build the wall of the nullah. However, JSCL refused to fund the project proposed by JDA. A senior JDA engineer said, “To carry out pucca construction in the 4.8km nullah, JDA had proposed JSML to fund Rs 110 crore. But, JSML turned down the proposal. Now, JDA will only sort the land-related issues but the rejuvenation work will be carried out by JMC”. The width of the nullah will be between 60ft and 100ft. A JMC official said, “Its width will be fixed once the detailed project report is prepared. In many patches, the land is owned by private holders. We have asked JDA to sort out the issue.”It is believed that once the pucca construction is done, it would provide relief to more than 50 colonies situated on the bank of the nullah. "This monsoon, the water entered the colonies situated along the nullah. The project will prevent rain water from entering the nullah," said an official. The project will also curb rampant encroachment occurring in the nullah. At many places, the land mafias are developing colonies inside the nullah as JDA has turned a blind eye towards the issue. A local resident said, "Influential land mafia have developed a huge colony near Sultanpura area. The catchment area is blocked and drain water would remain stagnant if the flow is obstructed." The nullah flows from Indira Bazaar to Amanishah Nullah near Gopalpura bypass and passes through Panch Batti, C-Scheme, Sahkar Marg, Sudarshanpura and Kartarpura. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jmc-to-rejuvenate-kartarpura-nullah/articleshow/79468155.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Jaipur||UDH to end physical survey for many land-related works||Jaipur: To put an end to red-tapism, the urban development and housing (UDH) department has directed the civic bodies officials not to conduct a physical survey of the houses, which was earlier required for name transfer process in lease deeds.After receiving a feedback from the residents, that officers allegedly delay the process deliberately and harass applicants, UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal directed the department to end the process. Sources said orders regarding the same will be issued soon. “The civic bodies will also have to clear name transfer file within seven days,” said an official sourceWith this, many applicants heaved a sigh of relief as several cases were pending for months. Kamal Jain, one such applicant, said, “After my father’s death, I filled an application to transfer the lease deed of our house in my wife’s name at the Jaipur Municipal Corporation. The case is pending since November 2018. If the minister’s directions are strictly followed, the residents will get a huge relief.”Similarly, the department will also eliminate the physical survey process for other land-related works. Earlier, during the time of property registration, a signature of civic body official was required. Before giving a nod, the civic body officials were conducting a physical survey of the property.Also, a survey was conducted to give no objection certificate to the plot owners who were taking loan from the banks. “Before disbursement of the loan, the banks were asking a NOC from the civic body and survey was conducted for the same. The process wasn’t required and complaints were received that plot owners were allegedly harassed,” an official said.He further said that there is a restriction that an allottee of any government housing scheme cannot sell a plot before certain time frame. However, permission from the civic body is required if owners want to sell the plot. A physical survey for the same will also be not done from now.A senior official source said, “Once the order is released, strict disciplinary action will be taken against the official who continues to follow the process. The steps were taken after the UDH minister’s office received several complaints.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/udh-to-end-physical-survey-for-many-land-related-works/articleshow/79468165.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: No need for religious conversion, says Uma Bharti||BHOPAL: Former CM and senior BJP leader Uma Bharti feels there is “no need for religious conversion” in India. Her statement is being perceived as criticism of the proposed law against ‘love jihad’ in MP. “Hindus in the country are free to read Quran and Bible, and go to mandir and masjid,” the saffron stalwart said in Maihar on Friday evening when asked for her stand on the MP government’s proposed Freedom of Religion Bill-2020 against ‘love jihad’. Bharti’s remark triggered a flurry in political circles. Some BJP leaders maintained that she had not given any such statement, but it was too late as her comment had gone viral on social media. Then, BJP tried to distance itself from it. Party spokesman Rajneesh Agrawal said, “BJP’s stand is clear. If the government makes a law that protects girls against the ill motive of love jihad, it is welcomed.” Congress leaders, on the other hand, supported Bharti for her “fair opinion” on the controversial issue. “Uma ji stands courageously with the truth and has spoken up against a politically motivated law. It is welcome,” Congress state spokesman K K Mishra tweeted. Even as Bharti’s statement went viral, Bhopal MP Pragya Thakur called for death sentence or life imprisonment for ‘love jihad’. “10 years jail is too little for this,” she said On November 17, CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced that the government will come out with a law for five years’ jail for ‘love jihad’. Taking note of BJP leaders’ demand for stricter punishment, the government on November 25 proposed to increase the jail term to 10 years. Home minister Narottam Mishra said that the bill will be tabled in the winter session of assembly, scheduled from December 28. “We have prepared a draft of Madhya Pradesh Dharma Swatantrya Vidheyak-2020 and decided to extend rigorous imprisonment to 10 years,” the home minister had told TOI on November 25. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/no-need-for-religious-conversion-says-bharti/articleshow/79468871.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Jaipur||From January 1, no cash at toll plazas; pre-paid cards to be introduced||JAIPUR: All cash lanes at the toll plazas will be converted into FASTag lanes from January 1, 2021. Hence, there will be no cash payment from January 1 at the toll plazas. National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) will introduce pre-paid touch-and-go cards at the toll plazas. According to NHAI officials, in order to prevent congestion at toll plazas, pre-paid card facility will be introduced at all the hybrid lanes from January 1. “From January 1, there will no cash transactions at the toll plazas. All the lanes will be dedicated FASTag lanes. Therefore, those who do not have FASTags will have to pay a penalty of double toll amount. However, these pre-paid cards will serve as an alternative to cash transactions,” said Zaheer Khan, senior manager-revenue, Jaipur Reengus toll road. “Those who do not have FASTags pasted on their vehicles can buy these pre-paid cards from the point-of-sales (PoS) at the toll plazas. If they use these cards instead of FASTags, they will not be charged double the amount. Even the FASTag holders can use these cards if they fail or forget to recharge their tag or if their tag has been blacklisted,” he said. According to officials, Indian Highways Management Company Limited (IHMCL) has floated a tender to invite bids so that the system could be introduced at the earliest. Two point-of-sales (PoS) will be set up at each national highway toll plaza for purchase and recharge of pre-paid cards. “After purchasing the pre-paid card, the customer can keep recharging it through net banking or even at the POS. In the current situation, there are two dedicated lanes for cash transaction at each toll plaza. These lanes will cease to exist from January 1,” said Khan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/from-jan-1-no-cash-at-toll-plazas-pre-paid-cards-to-be-introduced/articleshow/79468873.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 29, 2020||Dehradun||Doon hospital to start all OPDs from Dec 1||Dehradun: The outpatient facility at all departments in Doon hospital will become functional again from Tuesday amid the Covid-19 crisis. However, the authorities said that only 25 patients would be examined a day and that too, on a first come first serve basis. The hospital administration had stopped OPD services in March in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. Earlier this month, the outpatient facility at a handful of departments including cardiology and paediatrics were resumed to cater to the needs of the people. Dr Ashutosh Sayana, principal of Government Doon Medical College, said, “All OPDs will be functional from Tuesday. Depending on the influx till December 15, we will take a call on increasing the cap on the number of patients. Similarly, X-ray, ECG and pathology services will be open too. However, those who wish to avail the services will have to obtain prior appointments over the phone or online.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doon-hospital-to-start-all-opds-from-dec-1/articleshow/79467418.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 29, 2020||India||PM Modi visits vaccine plants in 3 cities, reviews progress||PUNE/AHMEDABAD/HYDERABAD: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday visited the units of three vaccine manufacturers in India to review the progress of vaccine development and manufacturing process — Zydus Biotech Park in Ahmedabad, Bharat Biotech in Hyderabad and Serum Institute of India (SII) in Pune. Modi’s first stop was Ahmedabad where he reviewed the vaccine development and manufacturing process of Zydus Group’s indigenous plasmid DNA vaccine – ZyCov-D. “What struck me and left me impressed was PM @narendramodi’s emphasis on science and vision for global good,” Zydus group chairman Pankaj Patel tweeted after PM’s visit. The company has completed the phase-II human clinical trials of ZyCov-D and the results are currently being analysed. “Soon, the data will be presented (to the regulator) and the third phase will be kicked off. The phase-III trial is expected to begin in December and we hope to complete the third phase trials by March,” Patel told TOI. “The vaccine is likely to come to market after March next year, subject to regulatory approvals. The production capacity is now being ramped up and the expansion will be over by January. With this, Zydus Cadila’s vaccine capacity will increase to 100 to 150 million doses per annum,” added Patel. Later, Modi visited Bharat Biotech’s facility at Genome Valley in Hyderabad as part of his three-city tour. The PM interacted with the company’s brass, including its chairman and managing director Dr Krishna Ella, as well as scientists involved with the development of Covaxin, India’s first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine that is being developed by the Hyderabad-based vaccine maker. The Phase III trials of Covaxin, involving over 26,000 volunteers at 25 sites across the country, kicked off earlier this month. The first and second phase of human trials at Covaxin involved around 1,000 volunteers. Bharat Biotech had earlier indicated that going by the results of Phase I and II trials, Covaxin’s efficacy is expected to be well over 60%. His last stop was at the vaccine major Serum Institute of India’s new plant at Manjari and interacted with its team about the manufacturing, logistics and distribution of its Covid-19 vaccine — Covishield. In a tweet, the Prime Minister said, “Had a good interaction with the team at Serum Institute of India. They shared details about their progress so far on how they plan to further ramp up vaccine manufacturing. Also, took a look at their manufacturing facility.” Serum Institute of India (SII) has partnered with the University of Oxford and AstraZeneca for the manufacture and distribution of the vaccine. Its owner and chief executive officer (CEO) Adar Poonawalla said there was a discussion with the Prime Minister regarding the implementation plan of vaccine rollout. The new facility which will ramp up the capacity to 2 billion doses from 1.5 billion a year was also showcased to the PM, he said. At present, the company has stockpiled about 40 million doses, and will ramp up to 100 million doses per month after January. Worldwide, everyone is dependent and looking forward to vaccines coming out of India which will be in large volumes and at an affordable price, as the country has about 50-60% global capacity, he said, adding India and Covax countries will be our priority. A release by the PMO later said Modi stressed on that fact that “India considers vaccines as not only vital to good health but also as a global good and that it is India’s duty to assist other countries, including the nations in India’s neighbourhood, in the collective fight against Covid-19.” He also asked scientists for their suggestions on how the country could improve its regulatory processes further, the PMO release said. Watch Watch: PM Modi visits vaccine firms in 3 cities to review progress||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-modi-visits-vaccine-plants-in-3-cities-reviews-progress/articleshow/79470150.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Dehradun||2 days after being stopped in Rampur, hundreds of Terai farmers continue march to Delhi||Rudrapur: Two days after being stopped by the Uttar Pradesh (UP) police on the Nainital-Delhi highway (NH-87) at Rampur, hundreds of farmers from Terai, Uttarakhand’s “rice bowl”, proceeded to New Delhi on Saturday afternoon after the heavy police force retreated. “Last two nights were challenging for us but we still have a total strength of more than one thousand farmers. We will go to Delhi and join the ongoing protest. We are confident that the government will be compelled to repeal these detrimental laws,” said Santokh Singh, a protesting farmer. Earlier on Thursday, the farmers heading to the national capital to protest against the three contentious farm laws were stopped by the police but they had refused to fall back and had rather parked their vehicles (tractors and other utility vehicles, among others) outside Rudra-Bilas sugar mill in Rampur and set up makeshift beds at the spot. Additionally, a nearby gurdwara had arranged a ‘langar’ (free community meal) to feed these protesting farmers. Tejender Singh Virk, member of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) and president of Terai Kisan Mahasabha, told TOI, “The farmers are protesting against all three laws — the Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. Instead of taking back these flawed laws, the government is stopping farmers from protesting peacefully. Nonetheless, hundreds of farmers are joining us and we are confident that we will definitely reach Delhi for the protest. We live in a democracy and protesting against a government decision is our constitutional right.” Notably, the protesters include members of Samyukt Kisan Morcha, AIKSCC and Bharatiya Kisan Union and several other farmers from the Terai region of Uttarakhand. Meanwhile, the local police in Roorkee on Saturday stopped around 100 farmers who were also heading towards New Delhi to join the ‘anti-farm laws’ protest. “We told the farmers about the risk of gathering in such a large number during Covid-19 pandemic. They were told that they would have to undergo a mandatory Covid-19 test when they return to the state after protesting in Delhi. After a detailed discussion, their march to New Delhi was cancelled,” SP (rural Haridwar) Swapn Kishore Singh told TOI. However, the agitating farmers — members of either the BKU or the Rashtriya Kisan Majdoor Sangathan — have said that they will now undertake solo journeys to New Delhi as they were prevented by the police from traveling in a group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/2-days-after-being-stopped-in-rampur-hundreds-of-terai-farmers-continue-march-to-delhi/articleshow/79467431.cms||Aakash Ahuja
November 29, 2020||Trichy||Credit plan for Tiruvarur district pegged at Rs 4,960 crore||Tiruvarur: The potential linked credit plan for the year 2021-22 prepared by the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) has assessed the credit potential for Tiruvarur district at Rs 4,960 crore. It is targeted that Rs 2,909 crore will be allocated to the agriculture sector. This is 58% from the total outlay. The plan document was released by district collector V Santha at a meeting held in Tiruvarur. After releasing the document, collector said that the fund assessed for the ensuing year was 11% more when compared to the credit plan released for 2020-21. This apart, Rs 1,256 crore for long-term loan, Rs 278 crore for MSMEs, Rs 30 crore for export loan and Rs 104 crore for education loan have been fixed for the the period. “Integrating agricultural production in order to develop the income of farmers’ will the theme of the year 2021-22. This could only be achieved by creating farmer producer companies. Since 61% of the agricultural lands are possessed only by the small and marginal farmers, allocation of major share to the agriculture sector will be a boost for the stakeholders,” the collector said. Farmer producer companies are playing an important role to help small and marginal farmers by way of organizing and selling their produce. A total of 23 farmer producer companies are functioning from the district. Of them, 16 are supported by NABARD, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/credit-plan-for-tiruvarur-district-pegged-at-rs-4960-crore/articleshow/79469717.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 29, 2020||Kochi||Kannur hotel plans to install Maradona statue||Kochi: The hotel room, in which the late Diego Maradona stayed during his visit to Kerala in 2012, has been converted into a museum in memory of the football legend and a statue of the football legend will soon adorn the hotel’s premises in a goal scoring pose. Maradona, who passed away on Wednesday at the age of 60, had stayed in room number 309 at Blue Nile Hotel during his visit in 2012. The room was later renamed as the ‘Maradona Suite’. “I am a huge Maradona fan and wanted to make the room he stayed into a museum to preserve the memories of his visit. All the objects used by Maradona like cigar, teacups, plates, towels, bed-sheets etc are kept in the room as a tribute,” said managing director of the hotel, Ravindran V. After Maradona’s death, people have been queuing to visit the room. “We are allowing around 20 people a day to come and see the room and we are not charging any money for the same. The suite room is given to football fans at slightly higher rate than other rooms,” he added. Ravindran said back then he had brought a chef from Kochi to prepare food for Maradona, which he enjoyed, particularly Russian cuisine. “We initially didn’t know it was Maradona who was coming to stay here. We were told that a VVIP is visiting and a security check was carried out. They told us to make some corrections in the room and hall. We carried out those renovations. Later, we were told it was Maradona and being an ardent fan of him we made sure that he enjoyed his stay here. He had liked Kerala fish and loved the prawns we served," Ravindran said. “Before leaving the hotel, Maradona came and hugged me. I still feel the energy it gave me,” said Ravindran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kannur-hotel-plans-to-install-maradona-statue/articleshow/79468197.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Pharma major Dr Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd to acquire Glenmark brands||HYDERABAD: Pharma major Dr Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd on Saturday said it is acquiring select anti-allergy brands from Mumbai-based Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Ltd in Russia, Ukraine, Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan for an undisclosed sum. The brands being acquired by Dr Reddy's include Momat Rino for Russia, Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan, Momat Rino Advance for Russia, Momat A for Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan, Glenspray and Glenspray Active for Ukraine. “The acquired brands represent two types of products, mometasone mono product and combination of mometasone with azelastine, and are indicated for the treatment of seasonal and perennial allergic rhinitis,” Dr Reddy’s said in a regulatory filing on the bourses late on Saturday evening. Dr Reddy’s said it has entered into a definitive agreement with Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Ltd to acquire these brands subject to completion of certain precedent actions and closing activities. The brand acquisition includes rights to the trademarks, dossiers and patents for these territories, Dr Reddy’s and Glenmark said. M V Ramana, CEO, branded markets (India and emerging markets), Dr Reddy’s said the acquired products will add to Dr Reddy’s strong presence in the anti-allergy segment in these countries. “Momat Rino, the largest brand acquired, has recently received OTC registration in Russia and this will enable accelerated access of this product to patients,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dr-reddys-to-acquire-glenmark-brands/articleshow/79468876.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Jaipur||Four killed in accident in Sriganganagar||Jaipur: Four persons were killed while one was inured in a head-on collision between a dumper and a jeep near Rajiyasar village in Sriganganagar late on Friday evening. According to police, five youths had gone to cast their vote in their native village Ramsar in Bikaner on Friday. "Late in the evening, when they were returning in a jeep, the vehicle collided with a truck coming from the opposite direction. Preliminary investigation suggested that the truck was rashly driven and rammed into the jeep," said a senior police officer. "It was a nasty collision due to which all the persons got trapped inside the jeep. We took metal cutters and other gadgets to bail them out," said a senior police officer. The deceased were identified as Manish (23), Ramjas (22) and Aaidan (24) while the fourth person who was driving the jeep is yet to be identified. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/four-killed-in-accident-in-sriganganagar/articleshow/79468175.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Fishing harbour at Uppada to benefit 20k families||Kakinada: The proposed fishing harbour at Uppada, where chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy recently laid a foundation stone, is expected to cater to a fisherfolk population in the region of close to four lakh. The harbour at Uppada, a cluster of fishing vilages and fish landing centre, will be completed within two years at an estimated cost of Rs 422 crore. At present the only destination for berthing in East Godavari district is Kakinada, which has a capacity to berth only 200 boats. Around 500 boats, however, are berthed here, causing quarrels among the fisherfolk community. Talking to STOI, principal (AD), State Institute of Fisheries Technology, Kakinada, P Koteswara Rao said about 20,000 families will benefit from the upcoming fishing harbour and it is expected that fish catch will increase by one lakh tonne. Koteswara Rao said boats with a length overall of more than 15 meters face trouble in berthing during cyclones and other natural calamities. Now, large boats and mechanised and motor boats can be berthed in the new harbour. Further, auxiliary businesses such as quality ice, drying and storage facilities will grow in the region. Fishermen will get a good price for their catch at auctions and the best marketing places, he added. At present, tension frequently prevails at Kakinada harbour as local fishermen often do not allow fishermen from other places to berth their boats on account of a lack of space. The state has a 749 kilometre-long coastline with only two fishing harbours, Visakhapatnam and Kakinada, that cater to the needs of fisherfolk, while Machilipatnam and Nizamabad harbours are affected by high tides. With states such as Gujarat having several harbours that cater the needs of its fisherfolk community, the Andhra Pradesh government’s decision to construct and upgrade harbours is expected to give a boost fish catch in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/fishing-harbour-at-uppada-to-benefit-20k-families/articleshow/79467441.cms||Samson Raj
November 29, 2020||Goa||Supplier blames sanitisers for fading HSRP numbers||Panaji: After ambitiously launching the mandatory fitment of high security registration plates (HSRP) on vehicles in the state, the number plates have shown signs of deterioration with fading away of the black foil thus hampering the numbers. These embossed number plates are hot stamped black foil to give the printed plate. “The black foil on my HSRP has faded so much that the vehicle number is almost white in colour. The HSRP was fitted in February this year and my vehicle was hardly used in the lockdown months. Yet, the black foil started vanishing from September onwards,” a Panaji resident said. Officers from the directorate of transport told TOI that they have directed the contractors to immediately replace the number plates with new ones. “We have received numerous complaints from vehicle owners and have also seen videos on social media highlighting the same. The HSRP vendors at vehicle dealerships in car showrooms have also been told to do the needful,” a transport officer said. The contractor, Real Mazon India Ltd, said that the practice of sanitising vehicles owing to the pandemic could be the reason for the fading away of the black foil. “When the sanitisers or disinfectants that contain sodium hypochlorite and other chemicals come in contact with the black foil, it can get affected. The reports of fading number plates have come in only recently. Of the 1 lakh vehicles we have fitted the HSRPs on, only 1% have reported the issue,” assistant general manager, Real Mazon India Ltd, Biswajeet Mukherjee said. Stating that the contractors are willing to replace the number plates free of cost, Mukherjee said, “The state manager for HSRP has been asked to take note of the complaints and replace the number plates. We however appeal to the vehicle owners to not fully sanitise the vehicles to ensure that the number plate doesn’t get affected again.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/supplier-blames-sanitisers-for-fading-hsrp-numbers/articleshow/79468882.cms||Nida Sayed
November 29, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: 400gm of drugs hidden in buttons, DRI nabs 3||MUMBAI: Continuing its drive against international drug smuggling Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) busted another racket. In a well-planned DRI operation codenamed ‘Kruger’ over seven days, DRI seized nearly 400gm of heroin concealed in buttons sewn into women’s gowns sent by courier from South Africa to Mumbai on Friday. DRI on Tuesday arrested a national of Republic of Guinea with around 3kg of cocaine worth Rs 18 crore at Mumbai international airport. Acting on a tip-off, DRI Mumbai officials intercepted a parcel that had arrived from South Africa to the hub of an international courier company here. DRI officials noticed an abnormally large number of buttons sewn onto each gown in the parcel. On detailed examination, they found heroin hidden inside the buttons. Painstaking retrieval of the white powder resulted in seizure of 396gm of heroin under provisions of NDPS Act, 1985. A recipient of the parcel paid Customs duty and controlled delivery was attempted. “After extensive preparations, DRI officers went along with courier company vehicle and nabbed the Indian who was to take delivery of the parcel that evening,” said an official. The team identified a Nigerian who was to receive the consignment from the Indian. The Nigerian kept changing the delivery address, but DRI officers nabbed him finally. Details of another Nigerian, a key member of the syndicate, were revealed following interrogation. He was then nabbed from Taloja in Navi Mumbai. All three arrested were remanded to judicial custody by a sessions court here. This is the fourth drug haul by DRI recently. DRI on Wednesday had arrested a national of Republic of Guinea and seized three kg of cocaine worth Rs 18 crore at the international airport. On Tuesday, DRI seized 1.1kg cocaine from a Malawi woman. On November 19, DRI had arrested four persons, including two Nigerians, and recovered 500gm of cocaine from them. The cocaine was concealed in a steam iron and couriered from Trinidad and Tobago “The total quantity of cocaine seized by DRI in the last 10 days is around 4.6kg, having a value of Rs 27 crore in the illicit market,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/400gm-of-heroin-hidden-in-gown-buttons-seized-by-dri-3-held/articleshow/79468420.cms||Ahmed Ali
November 29, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan reels under cold wave, Mt. Abu logs one degree Celsius||JAIPUR: Cold wave conditions aggravated in the state on Saturday when majority of the places witnessed dip in their minimum temperatures. Mount Abu in the hills and Churu in the plains remained coldest in the state by recording minimum temperatures of 1°C and 5.8°C, respectively, the Met office said. Attributing the dip in the mercury to the active northerly winds and vanishing western disturbance, Jaipur Met office said that similar conditions will prevail in the state over the next couple of days. People in Jaipur woke up to the coldest morning of the season so far as a minimum temperature of 11.4°C, almost 3 degrees below normal, was recorded. It was followed by a chilly afternoon as a maximum temperature of 26°C was recorded. In the evening, people confined themselves to their homes to escape biting cold conditions. The Met office stated that mercury will further dip in the state in the next couple of days. "Since the factors including western disturbances and upper air cyclonic circulation have vanished, the temperatures will further plunge. Mainly clear sky in most parts of the state also revived northerly winds," said a Met official. Many places in the state witnessed minimum temperatures below 10°C. "For the first time in this season, many places in the state recorded minimum temperatures below 10°C. Places including Churu, Sriganganagar, Bikaner, Jhunjhunu, Jaipur, Sikar and Dausa are under the grip of cold wave conditions," added the officer. In the evening, roads bore an empty look while on the highways mild fog and mist also affected traffic. Likewise, at least six early morning and late evening trains got delayed due to mild fog especially in Sriganganagar and Hanumangarh districts. "Places including Sriganganagar, Hanumangarh and Bikaner witnessed fog in the morning that affected vehicular traffic," said an officer. Jaipur Met office stated that cold wave conditions will further aggravate in the state. Many places in the state are likely to witness minimum temperatures below 7°C.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-reels-under-cold-wave-mt-abu-logs-1c/articleshow/79468181.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Jaipur||IIT-J to hold sixth convocation virtually||Jodhpur: IIT-Jodhpur will be organising its sixth convocation on December 6 virtually. In a first, the event will be held in mixed reality mode using AI technique at the Lecture Hall of the institute where the graduates will be given their degrees in virtual mode, while the medals and certificates to the academically outstanding students will be awarded through their computer-generated 3D avatar. A total of 232 students, including 117 B.Tech, 51 M.Sc, 33 M.Tech. and 31 PhD. students, who have graduated in 2020, will be awarded their degrees by the Institute. Geoffrey Hinton, one of the pioneers of “Deep Learning” technology, which triggered today’s AI revolution, and recipient of Turing award which is equivalent to Noble prize in computer science, would be the chief guest of the event and would be attending the ceremony in virtual mode from Toronto and deliver his convocation address. An emeritus professor at computer science department in University of Toronto, Hinton is also a VP engineering fellow at Google and chief scientific adviser at the Vector Institute. Spokesperson of the institute, Amardeep Sharma said that the newly established School of Artificial Intelligence and Data Science (AODE) will also be inaugurated on the occasion by Hinton and R Chidambaram, chairman (board of governor) virtually. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/iit-j-to-hold-sixth-convocation-virtually/articleshow/79468879.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 29, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: A week after attack on cops, shops razed at Irani Dera||BHOPAL: In a joint operation by district administration, Bhopal municipal corporation (BMC) and police on Saturday, encroachments at Irani Dera, opposite platform No 6 entry of Bhopal railway station, were razed. Twenty-eight shops build on government land were demolished in the drive that began at 7 am and continued till evening. The demolition drive became imminent after a police team from Bhopal and Sagar that went to arrest an accused were assaulted by the locals at the Irani Dera last fortnight.  Heavy police force was deployed in the area and all entry and exit points to the area were sealed early morning. A force of around 500 police officials including women cops was deployed along with riot control vehicles, water cannons, fire brigades, ambulance and tear gas squad. Senior officers along with four earth moving machines and dumpers ensured the encroachments were razed. There were no major protests and the shopkeepers and restaurant owners themselves removed their goods from the shops. The only resistance came from women members of the Irani community when the demolition team razed the gate of a religious place. However, they were pacified by the police and senior officials. Officials claimed that the 12,000 square metre of government land was encroached upon by Hussaini Jankalyan Society which was also ratified by the court in September 2017. Ever since, efforts were on to free the area of encroachments. They claimed that the junction of the metro rail is to be constructed on the land so the encroachments had to be removed. Few people bought the excused and termed the demolition drive as an eyewash as 90 residential buildings are still occupying on the government land and the team did not even touch it. ASP (Zone-3) Ram Sanehi Mishra said that police had made elaborate arrangements for the demolition drive. The shops and restaurant owners were told about the drive beforehand on Friday and were instructed to remove their goods themselves. The police force along with BMC and district administration teams reached the spot around 7 am and barricading was done on the roads leading to the area right at entry in front of Alpana trisection and other roads and no movement was allowed during the demolition drive. Mishra said that senior officers reached the spot around 8 am and started the demolition drive. No protest was witnessed as the drive was planned accordingly. SHO Hanumanganj Mahendra Singh Thakur said that police teams from around eight police stations including Hanumanganj, Mangalwara, Shahjehanabad, Gautam Nagar, Kotwali and Teela Jamalpura were deployed at the spot along with additional force from control room. He said that the drive carried on till 4 pm without any major protest. Ten days ago, a joint team of Bhopal and Sagar police team that had gone to arrest an accused of Irani community at Aman Colony in Nishatpura was attacked by the family members of the accused who threw chili powder on the cops and used rods and sticks on them. Taking the attack on police seriously, the state government directed the district administration to remove the encroachment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/a-week-after-attack-on-cops-shops-razed-at-irani-dera/articleshow/79468885.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur-Delhi electrified rail route to open in a week||Jaipur: As the commissioner, rail safety has already completed the inspection of Jaipur-Delhi electrified route via Dighawada-Bandikui-Kanota-Bassi-Jaipur, authorities of north western railways (NWR) on Saturday stated that the electrified route is all set to open within a week. On Sunday rail minister Piyush Goyal is likely to flag off a goods train at Bandikui-Dighawada section as dummy opening of the route. Early this week, RK Sharma, commissioner, rail safety had done inspection of the electrified route of almost 34km which included Bassi-Bandikui-Dighawada on the Jaipur-Delhi rail route. “Electric engine trial was taken on up and down line in which a speed of 115 km/hour was attained. Bandikui to Delhi has already been commissioned and only Bandikui to Jaipur was left,” said a senior officer of NWR. Authorities stated that as the inspection is over where the locomotive on electric traction could attain a speed of 115 km/hour, it has paved the way for the early start of the trains on the electrified route. “It is just a matter of some days. In next couple of days we are expecting to get the route finally commissioned by the commissioner, rail safety. Thereafter, the trains between Jaipur to Delhi and Delhi to Jaipur would run on electrified routes,” said Sunil Beniwal, chief public relations officer, NWR. The electrified route is likely to conserve energy and will also bring down the travel time between Jaipur and Delhi. “The project has already been delayed due to several factors including the pandemic. It was earlier to be completed by March 2020. Now, it is complete and inspection has also been done,” said an officer. In near future, authorities are also focusing on the completion of Jaipur-Sawai Madhopur via Shivdaspura.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-delhi-electrified-rail-route-to-open-in-a-week/articleshow/79468185.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Hyderabad||‘It is India’s duty to assist other nations’||Modi also stressed on that fact that India considers vaccines as not only vital to good health but also as a global good and that it is India’s duty to assist other countries, including the nations in India’s neighbourhood, in the collective fight against Covid-19. He also asked scientists for their suggestions on how the country could improve its regulatory processes further, the PMO release said. Modi had flown into Hyderabad on Saturday afternoon from Ahmedabad, where earlier in the morning he toured the facilities of Zydus Biotech that is developing the ZyCov-D vaccine for coronavirus. He landed at the Hakimpet air force station in Hyderabad and headed straight to the Bharat Biotech campus. From Hyderabad, he headed for Pune where he visited the facilities of Serum Institute of India, that will be manufacturing the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine that is undergoing Phase III clinical trials globally. Hyderabad: The Prime Minister stressed on that fact that India considers vaccines as not only vital to good health but also as a global good and that it is India’s duty to assist other countries, including the nations in India’s neighbourhood, in the collective fight against Covid-19. He also asked scientists for their suggestions on how the country could improve its regulatory processes further, a PMO release said. The PM had flown into Hyderabad on Saturday afternoon from Ahmedabad, where earlier in the morning he toured the facilities of Zydus Biotech that is developing the ZyCov-D vaccine for coronavirus. He landed at the Hakimpet air force station in Hyderabad. From Hyderabad, he headed for Pune where he visited the facilities of Serum Institute of India, that will be manufacturing the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/it-is-indias-duty-to-assist-other-nations/articleshow/79468888.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Jaipur||Woman attempts suicide by slitting throat||Jaipur: A 35-year-old woman attempted suicide by slitting her throat at her house situated in Sector 26 of Pratap Nagar locality on Saturday. She was rushed to the hospital in critical condition. According to the police, the incident took place on Saturday afternoon. Some neighbours of the woman informed police about the incident."When our team reached the spot, the woman was lying on the ground in a pool of blood. She was immediately rushed to a private hospital in Pratap Nagar," said a senior officer of Pratap Nagar station. Police said that the woman in her statement said that she was having various health issues and was ailing for a long time. "She had also got her uterus removed a month ago and was struggling with gynecological problems. Upset over her health issues, she took the extreme step," said the officer. "Her throat has sustained serious injuries but thankfully the air pipe has not been damaged. She was critical initially but is now out of danger," the officer added. The woman and her husband work as sanitation workers and have four children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-attempts-suicide-by-slitting-throat/articleshow/79468191.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand jumbo reserve: PMO directs chief wildlife warden to ‘take necessary steps’||Dehradun: After an activist from Dehradun wrote to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) on November 16 to save the Thano forest of the Shivalik elephant reserve – the state’s only elephant reserve de-notified by the state government recently - from being cut down for the expansion of Dehradun airport, the PMO on Saturday accepted her plea and assigned the matter to chief wildlife warden, Uttarakhand, JS Suhag, asking for “necessary action” to be taken in the case. Like several residents and activists in Doon, Dr Aanchal Sharma, a dentist by profession, had been voicing her concerns about the government’s decision, tagging international organisations like United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) in her social media posts. On Saturday, she received a reply from the PMO. Sharma tweeted on Saturday, “Got a prompt reply from the PMO today. There is still hope. Let’s see”, along with a screenshot of the response. “Earlier, I had written to the PMO, detailing the biodiversity of Thano. First, I received a response that said the forest department would plant saplings to cover the loss. In a second complaint, I pointed out how that measure wasn’t good enough and now, as I expected, the chief wildlife warden has been directed to take 'necessary action’ by the PMO,” a beaming Sharma told TOI. While Suhag remained unavailable for comment despite repeated attempts by TOI, forest minister Harak Singh Rawat said that the PMO must have been presented with “only one side of the story” and that the state will respond to justify its stand. “The PMO must have been shown only one side of the story by the complainant. We will inform them that the elephant reserve was denotified as there is no law in the country or in the state of Uttarakhand that permanently tags a place as an elephant reserve. It was denotified at the State Board for Wildlife meeting by an executive order, not through a parliamentary process,” Rawat said. Ritwick Dutta, who specialises in environmental litigation, however, told TOI, that the move was illegal. “The action of the State Board for Wildlife is completely illegal and contrary to the provisions of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. The Wildlife Board is a Statutory Board and as such, its powers and duties are limited to an advisory capacity, as mentioned in the Wildlife Act. The Act states that it shall be the duty of the Board to only advise the state government on selection and management of areas to be declared as protected areas, formulation of policies for protection and conservation of the wildlife and specified plants, matters related to needs of tribals and other dwellers of the forest. It cannot go beyond its prescribed power, which is to protect wildlife. And by no stretch can the denotification of an elephant reserve be regarded as the protection of wildlife. The Wildlife Board has clearly acted beyond its statutory mandate,” he explained. On October 9, after TOI’s report about over 10,000 trees of the premier elephant reserve facing the axe to make way for a new domestic terminal, the ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEF&CC) had asked the Uttarakhand government to “avoid considering the sensitive area and find alternatives”. In spite of it, the state government on November 24 de-notified the sole elephant reserve of Uttarakhand. The forest minister had clarified to TOI that they are not going to look at alternative options for the airport expansion as other lands didn't suit the plan. The government’s decision to “desecrate” Shivalik triggered widespread Chipko-like protests across Dehradun. After the denotification was finalized on November 24, activists said they would take legal recourse against the decision. On November 25, an online petition was started to reverse the petition. It has gathered 4,000 signatures so far. However, dissent has had little effect on the government so far. The forest minister had said on Wednesday that the state government is neither planning to reconsider the decision nor will it approach the Centre, seeking permission to go ahead with the move. “There is no need to seek permission. The reserve’s notification was just an executive order by the state government and not an ordinance passed by the state assembly which needs to undergo legal steps. The chief minister will now simply withdraw the original order, that’s all,” Rawat said. Shivalik Elephant Reserve is spread across 5,405 sq km and covers both Kumaon and Garhwal regions. Now that it has been denotified, eleven elephant corridors across over a dozen forest divisions, including Dehradun, Haridwar, Pauri, Nainital, US Nagar, are open for construction works. Uttarakhand is home to over 2,025 elephants, according to the latest estimation exercise conducted by the state government. This year, the state has already lost 22 elephants till October 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-jumbo-reserve-pmo-directs-chief-wildlife-warden-to-take-necessary-steps/articleshow/79467460.cms||Shivani Azad
November 29, 2020||Dehradun||One dead, six hurt as vehicle falls into gorge||Dehradun: At least one person died and six others sustained injuries as the vehicle they were travelling in fell into a deep gorge in the Saklani Patti area of Tehri district late on Friday night. While the driver of the vehicle Prem Singh Sajwan, who is from Uttarakhand, died on the spot, six other passengers, from Sector 24 of Chandigarh, suffered injuries. The accident took place when a marriage party from Chandigarh was on its way to Hatwal village of the district. The driver of the vehicle lost control over the wheels and the vehicle fell into a 150-metre deep gorge on the Raipur-Kumalda-Maldevta road. With the help of locals, the police team brought the injured persons out of the gorge. The six injured were taken to the primary health centre of Raipur for treatment, where their condition continues to remain critical. Three of them, who were seriously injured, have been referred to a higher centre. The injured include — six-year-old Sakshi, 35-year-old Seema, 82-year-old Hari Singh, 48-year-old Kishore Singh, 30-year-old Jai Singh, and an unidentified person.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/one-dead-six-hurt-as-vehicle-falls-into-gorge/articleshow/79467483.cms||Kautilya Singh
November 29, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 30-year-old woman beaten to death by lover in Jhalawar||KOTA: A 30-year-old woman was beaten to death by her paramour in Kalyakhedi village under Eklera police station of Jhalawar on Friday. Police have lodged a case of murder against the accused who is absconding. Police traced the deceased woman’s parents in Ramgarh area of Madhya Pradesh and handed over the body after postmortem by medical board on Saturday morning. "The deceased was identified as Durga Valmiki who was a native of Ramgarh area in MP. The accused was identified as Suresh Lodha, a resident of Kalyakhedi village, with whom the woman had been living for over two years," said Manoj Soni, SHO, Eklera police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/30-year-old-woman-beaten-to-death-by-lover-in-jhalawar/articleshow/79468899.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Fresh low pressure to bring rain on December 1, 2||VISAKHAPATNAM: The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Saturday issued a forecast that south-coastal Andhra Pradesh will receive rainfall at many places with heavy rainfall at isolated places on December 1 and 2. The rainfall would be the result of a fresh low-pressure system, which has formed over the south Andaman Sea and adjoining areas of southeast Bay of Bengal on Saturday. The present low-pressure system would reach the next level by concentrating into a depression by November 30 and intensify further thereafter. Under the influence of the active weather conditions over the sea, the southern meteorological regions including south-coastal AP would receive rains, said S Stella, director of IMD for Andhra Pradesh. “The impact of the fresh low-pressure system would be higher in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry than here. But it is too early to talk about the further developments of the system. We gave a forecast up to December 2 when there will be rains across south-coastal AP,” Stella said. Squally weather with wind speeds reaching a maximum of 90 kilometres per hour are expected along the coast. Sea conditions will be rough to very rough. Fishermen have been advised not to venture into the sea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/fresh-low-pressure-to-bring-rain-on-dec-1-2/articleshow/79467482.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Bhopal||Rs 50,000 fine on Madhya Pradesh for delay in filing reply||BHOPAL/JABALPUR: Madhya Pradesh high court taking note of the delay in filing reply by the state government in a case relating to blackening of face of an SDM during a farmers’ agitation in Chhindwara by a former Congress MLA and his supporters imposed a penalty of Rs 50,000 on the state and gave a last chance to file the reply after payment of the penalty. Former Congress MLA Gambhir Singh Chaudhary had led a farmers' agitation in Chaurai town in Chhindwara district demanding compensation against damage to crops on September 18, 2020. During the agitation, the face of SDM, Chaurai, C P Patel was blackened. The agitators also had scuffle with the police and other administrative officers. Following this, a case was registered against 21 people including Chaudhary under non-bailable sections of the IPC. One of the Congress leaders, who participated in the agitation, Bunty Patel, was arrested under NSA. Gambhir Singh had moved the high court seeking anticipatory bail on the ground of his elderly age. He also pointed out that action against Bunty Patel under NSA was declared illegal by the court and he was let off on bail. Chhindwara ADM had filed an application opposing bail application. He contended that the agitation was carried out during the Coronavirus pandemic in violation to Covid-19 guidelines. Chaudhary used force against administrative officials and obstructed discharge of duty by them. He further said that a separate application has been moved in the high court for cancellation of Bunty Patel's bail, who is the main accused in the case. During hearing of the case on Friday, the division bench of officiating chief justice, Sanjay Yadav, and Justice V K Shukla noted that the state government has not filed reply in the case despite being given several chances and gave it a last chance to respond to the court's notice in the matter after payment of penalty of Rs 50,000 to the High Court Legal Aid Committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/rs-50k-fine-on-state-for-delay-in-filing-reply/articleshow/79468895.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Lockdown feel returns for residents of 5 containment zones amid Covid surge||BHOPAL: Bhavesh Upadhyaya is not Covid affected, but his life has changed in the past two days. Reason: He lives in one of the recently declared containment zones of the state capital. More than pandemic, it’s the fear factor that has made life uncomfortable, he said. There are many others like Bhavesh, who are trying to survive the return of restrictions era, with the help of their friends and relatives. Due to second surge of Covid-19 infections, five areas of the city have been declared as containment zones. These include Punjabi Bagh (Minal Dwelling Multi), Ashoka Garden (Friends Colony), Awadhpuri (Crystal Campus), Shahpura (Sector-C) and Bharat Nagar (Ansal Pradhan). These containment zones have been reintroduced to stem the surge of coronavirus infections in the city; these five containment zones have been designated in Kolar, MP Nagar and Govindpura circles. The decision was taken after several positive cases were found in these areas. Residents of containment areas have been asked to stay at home. No one goes in or out. “I feel as if lockdown has returned to my locality. However, nothing can be done as all this is being done for the safety of everyone,” said Bhavesh. A few people were, however, spotted entering and coming out of the containment zones without permission. District administration said that a fine of Rs 2,000 will be imposed against Covid patients and residents of containment zones if they are spotted walking outside in the area. “We have made it clear that fine of Rs 2000 will be imposed on those who flout the rules. We are following the orders strictly,” said SDM (MP Nagar), Akash Shrivastava. District administration has sealed the campus after receiving 11 Corona positive in the last 14 days at Crystal Campus in Awadhpuri of the BHEL area under MP Nagar circle. SDM Shrivastava said that only 6 active cases are left at the Crystal campus. Here, containment will be for next 7 days, added Shrivastava. Around 15 positive patients were found in 7 houses in the Shahpura C sector of Kolar circle. Same is the situation at the Ansal Pradhan in Bharat Nagar locality where 9 of residents were found positive. SDM Kolar, Rajesh Gupta said, “We are keeping a close watch over people and asking them to follow the Covid guidelines. We will make more containment zones as and when required.” In Govindpura Circle, SDM Manoj Verma made containment of ten houses when 13 positives were found in Friend’s Colony, Ashoka Garden. Another one has been made at Meenal Multi in Punjabi Bagh. “There are 30 positive cases in both the places,” said SDM Verma. Containment in both these locations will be for 14 days. District administration officials have also collected samples of the people who visited the homes of positive people. District administration has also issued instructions to people living in these locations. Nobody is allowed to go out from there, nor can anyone enter from outside. The essential goods there have to be supplied by the Bhopal Municipal Corporation. Mobile numbers of people responsible for these have been put up there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/lockdown-feel-returns-for-residents-of-5-containment-zones-amid-covid-surge/articleshow/79468903.cms||Ramendra Singh
November 29, 2020||Chennai||Chennai racer takes banks for a ride, cheats Rs 3.9 crore in luxury car loan scam||CHENNAI: Racing against time comes naturally to B Bala Vijay, a city champ who had won Indian Touring Car Championship in 2012. But what awaited at the end of the circuit this time — after his cheating spree left six banks poorer by Rs 3.86 crore — was not a podium finish but jail time. It was an ingenious crime that worked to the tee where at least five to six banks were conned at the same time with the help of forged documents and slimy touts colluding with bank officials. According to police, the 35-year-old racer from Kodambakkam along with D Mohammed Muzzamil, 34, of Neelankarai, and T Ayyadurai, 32, of Neelankarai, submitted loan applications for buying fancy cars like Ford Mustang, BMW, Audi A4 and Jeep Wrangler with different banks almost simultaneously in his name. Since he was a racer and the loan applications were processed by banks almost at the same time, money sanctioned by one bank did not show up on the credit history check of the other bank. The gang ensured that loans were sanctioned at the same time to ensure that no red-flags appeared on his bank statements and conned at least five banks with the help of some brokers in Ernakulam, Goa and Thanjavur. Ayyadurai, a tout who had close contacts with bank officials, prepared forged documents including fake PAN card and rental agreements of luxury houses in Neelankarai and Kanathur. “They also hired a few luxury cars and parked them in front of their houses to make bank officials believe that they were rich,” police sources said. After the banks approved their applications, Ayyadurai used his clout with bank officials to transfer the money to the respective car showrooms under the name of Bala, the loan applicant. A few weeks after taking possession of the car, the gang used to return the car to the showroom citing some issues and got back the loan money sanctioned for the vehicles transferred to personal bank accounts. Since they failed to repay the loans for more than two years, a complaint was lodged, and the bank fraud prevention wing took up the case for investigation. A Bank of India branch in Nungambakkam, Vijaya Bank branch in Egmore, Punjab National Bank in Tiruvanmiyur, UCO Bank in Adyar and Indian Overseas Bank branch in Alwarpet and a few more banks were their targets. According to a police officer, the scamsters cheated the banks in two ways: One, by getting the loan money transferred to themselves and second, by fixing a 20:80 deal with car showroom staff wherein they shared the loan amount without actually purchasing a car. Police officials said that they would soon arrest a few car showroom staff who were involved in the racket. Bank officials, too, had failed to conduct proper due diligence, they said. While Bala Vijay ended up in the wrong team due to some financial constraints, Muzzamil had been arrested in five other cheating cases registered in 2019 and 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-racer-takes-banks-for-a-ride-cheats-rs-3-9cr-in-luxury-car-loan-scam/articleshow/79468900.cms||Selvaraj A
November 29, 2020||Trichy||‘DMK will address problems face by farmers’||Thanjavur: DMK will take appropriate action to address the problems faced by the farming community as soon as it comes to power, assured secretary of the DMK youth wing, Udhayanidhi Stalin on Saturday. He also said that people are approaching him to air their grievances, despite obstacles put up by the police. As part of his ‘Vidiyal Nokki Stalin Kural’ (Stalin’s voice for awakening) election campaign, Udhayanidhi met farmers and leaders of farmers’ associations near Orathanadu in Thanjavur on Saturday. At a meeting organized in Thennamanadu village, Udhayanidhi listed various welfare schemes introduced for the benefit of the farming community during the DMK regime including waiver of Rs 7,000 crore crop loan. Meanwhile, crores of rupees are still kept pending by sugar mills to farmers across the state. “Misappropriation of funds is taking in many places in the name of kudimaramathu in the delta districts. Several waterbodies are not desilted properly. While Rs 1,000 crore was allocated for the renovation of the Grand Anaicut canal (GA Canal), only Rs 300 crore has been spent for the work. Nobody knows what happened to the remaining money. Everything will be probed once our party comes to power,” he said. Udhayanidhi also alleged that the BJP has been enacting laws against farmers even during the pandemic and charged the AIADMK government for remaining a mute spectator without opposing them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dmk-will-address-problems-face-by-farmers/articleshow/79469732.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 29, 2020||Bhopal||1300+ new cases take MP Covid count to 203231, positivity still high at 5.3%||Bhopal: Indore and Bhopal continue to be the most infected cities of the state as 1317 new cases of Covid-19 infection were reported on Saturday. Indore once again reported the maximum number of cases of 568 while 356 new cases of infection were reported from Bhopal. The percentage of the positive cases of Covid-19 on November 28 continues to be around 5. On Saturday, 30312 tests were conducted and 5.3 % or 1634 of them turned out to be positive while the number of negative cases and those rejected were 28678 and 196 respectively. Since the pandemic started, Madhya Pradesh has reported 2,03,231 positive cases and 3237 deaths related to coronavirus infection. After 1317 new cases, the total number of active cases of the virus infection becomes 14981. But the good news is that 185013 people in the state have also recovered from the virus infection. With 41090 total positive cases in Indore, 752 have died so far while 35722 infected people have also recovered . On Saturday, 217 more people recovered from the corona virus infection In Bhopal, 31333 people so far got infected with the virus and there are 2747 active cases who are still undergoing treatment for the virus infection. Bhopal so far has witnessed 515 deaths due to covid19 infection. In Bhopal, 28071 have also recovered after infection. On Saturday 263 more people recovered from the infection. Ujjain division reported 122 new cases of Covid-19 on Saturday taking the tally to 17000. Two more deaths due to virus were reported in the division taking the divisional toll to 283. Unlike November 27, all the districts of the state reported new cases of the new infected people on Saturday. Burhanpur which did not register a single case on Friday, reported 1 case of covid19. The four bordering districts of Morena ,Singrauli, Panna and Tikamgarh each reported 2 patients of coronavirus infection. After Indore and Bhopal , Gwalior (86) and Jabalpur (48) are other big cities with large numbers of cases of coronavirus infection. The market places of both the cities as well as other public places also continue to witness a huge crowd, a large number of them without masks forgetting the social distancing norms. As the wedding season began on November 25, social gatherings related to marriage parties are also taking place. “We request the people to wear masks and maintain a social distance to help content the spread of the virus”, said health minister Prabhuram Choudhary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/1300-new-cases-take-mp-covid-count-to-203231-positivity-still-high-at-5-3/articleshow/79468912.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Chennai||Will add 2,000 clinics by December 15: Tamil Nadu CM||CHENNAI: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Saturday said 1.18 crore people, one eighth of the population, had undergone RT-PCR tests in the state, due to which transmission has been brought under control. About 2,000 mini clinics with a doctor, nurse and a health assistant will be inaugurated by December 15 to offer basic investigation and treatment. Above all, the government has appointed 15,000 healthcare professionals for Covid-19 management. The chief minister said the state had spent Rs 7,525 crore towards Covid management so far. Procurement of equipment cost Rs 912 crore, Covid prevention and treatment Rs 767 crore, quarantine Rs 262 crore, salaries Rs 385 crore and medical infrastructure Rs 160 crore. It spent Rs 1,727.41 crore towards special public distribution and Rs 3,169 crore towards cash assistance. The state availed Rs 5,346 crore from the state fund, Rs 2,026 crore from the disaster relief fund and contributions of Rs 153 crore to the CM’s public relief fund, sources told TOI. In a video conference with the district collectors, the chief minister said three fourths of the tests had been conducted by government labs and the state demonstrated its capacity by testing 95,000 people a day. No other state had conducted so many tests. “While Covid transmission has been brought under control due to the efforts, some more time is required for normalcy to return,” the CM said. The state government planned to impose strict restrictions on those arriving from other states that have a positivity rate of above 5%. In a meeting with the CM on Saturday, the health experts expressed appreciation of the magnitude of RT-PCR tests conducted by the state. The mini clinics will be set up wherever primary health centres are not accessible. “The chief minister has told us to set up 500 clinics in Chennai alone, especially in overcrowded areas. The plan is to set up mini clinics every 3km of a primary health centre,” health minister C Vijayabaskar told TOI. While the health department runs 1,851 PHCs, people face difficulty in accessing them. “These mini clinics will provide great relief and are expected to benefit 2 lakh people a day. This comes after the success of running fever camps,” said Vijayabaskar. The doctors will be recruited shortly through the medical recruitment board, and other staff through contract basis. Palaniswami said the surge in cases in other states was due to non-compliance of Covid protocols. In Tamil Nadu, however, the transmission had been controlled due to strict enforcement of rules and people wearing masks. The state government had held 5.22 lakh fever camps, benefitting 2.79 crore people. This resulted in diagnosing 11.46 lakh people with fever and other Covid symptoms, the CM said. He chose the occasion to thank Prime Minister Narendra Modi for congratulating the state for its Covid management and calling it a role model for other states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/will-add-2000-clinics-by-dec-15-one-every-3km-eps/articleshow/79468234.cms||Julie Mariappan
November 29, 2020||Dehradun||Two special train services to resume from December||Dehradun: After a long gap of eight months due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown, two special train services from Dehradun will be resumed from next month. The announcement was made by North Eastern Railway (NER) on Saturday on its official Twitter account. The NER posted that train number 05001/05002 — a weekly special train between Muzaffarpur and Dehradun — will operate from December 7 to 28 and another bi-weekly special train 05005/05006 will run between Gorakhpur and Dehradun from December 2 to December 31. Sitaram Sonkar, station master, Dehradun railway station, said, “There was a growing demand for a train between Gorakhpur-Dehradun and thus, the railway board has approved it. The service will be operational soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-special-train-services-to-resume-from-december/articleshow/79467516.cms||Sukanta Mukherjee
November 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Police intensify vigil in crime-prone areas||Coimbatore: The recent murder for a mobile phone at SIHS Colony near the airport has prompted police to beef up night patrolling and vehicle checks across the city, especially at crime-prone areas.The city police have started vehicle checks at 42 places that fall under Singanallur, Peelamedu, Saravanampatti (east sub-division), Ramanathapuram, Selvapuram, Podanur and Kuniyamuthur (south sub-division) police station limits. This is in addition to combing operations in the newly-developed areas of these two police sub-divisions.A police source said the night patrolling was weak at some areas at SIHS Colony, Neelikonampalayam and many newly-developed areas that fall under the Singanallur, Peelamedu and Saravanampatti police station limits. “Youths who are addicted to alcohol and drugs select these areas for criminal activities.”He said there was also a need to increase police presence in the newly developed-areas at Kuniyamuthur, Podanur, Ramanathapuram and Selvapuram police station limits. “Hence, we have selected 42 places in the south and east police sub-divisions and formed 21 special teams to conduct vehicle checks there. They would conduct vehicle checks between 4pm and 7pm. We have also identified remote areas, which would get our special attention. We have registered 75 cases of public nuisance on Friday alone.”According to the source, their target will be youngsters roaming alone or with friends on motorcycles in the newly-developed areas. ‘During patrolling, the teams had come across people drinking alcohol in isolated areas. They were chased away. We will continue both the vehicle checks and the night patrolling in the coming days.”He said three police teams have been deployed at SIHS Colony and Neelikonampalayam areas to keep watch at night hours.The four-member gang that had hacked a 24-year-old man to death on Thursday night had first waylaid Kailash, of SIHS Colony, while he was heading his house in a car. However, he had managed to escape and alert the police control room.“After getting information from the police control room, our patrolling team (patrol vehicle number 16) had reached the spot within 12-15 minutes. But before they reached the spot, the gang had targeted two other motorists and stabbed one of them,” the source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/police-intensify-vigil-in-crime-prone-areas/articleshow/79468916.cms||A Subburaj
November 29, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 4 sent to judicial custody in 7-year-old graft case in Bundi||KOTA: In a 7-year-old corruption case, the ACB court in Kota ordered to send a retired executive officer (EO) of municipality, Indergarh in Bundi and three others including a clerk of land cell of the local body and two beneficiaries to jail under judicial custody, on Saturday. Deputy superintendent of police, ACB, Bundi, Tarun Kant Somani said that retired executive officer (EO) of the municipality identified as Bhagirath Panchal, clerk of land cell Bheemraj Raika and two beneficiaries Satayanarayan Sharam, and Shankarlal Saini were arrested for their alleged involvement in unfair allotment of lease (patta) on government land for construction for residential purpose in periphery of Indergarh municipality in 2012-2013.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/4-sent-to-judicial-custody-in-7-yr-old-graft-case-in-bundi/articleshow/79468918.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Coimbatore||19-year-old rapes minor girl in Tamil Nadu, arrested||COIMBATORE: A 19-year-old youth has been arrested in Tirupur for raping a 15-year-old girl. While the incident had taken place two months ago, it was only on Friday that the girl told her parents about it. Her parents immediately lodged a complaint with the Tirupur north all-woman police, who arrested the accused, identified as Mohammed Moideen, in a few hours. An investigation officer said the girl, a Class X student, had started attending stitching classes at a tailoring unit that was located near her house when the school was shut following the lockdown. “She befriended Moideen, a garment factory employee, at the unit and fell in love with him. He promised to marry her and took her to his house, where he raped her. The incident occurred two months ago,” the officer said. The girl, however, revealed the incident to her parents only on Friday. Based on her parents’ compliant, police booked Moideen under the Protection of Child from Sexual Offences Act and nabbed him. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/19-year-old-youth-rapes-minor-girl-imprisoned/articleshow/79468914.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Bhopal||Need to stop forced religious conversions in garb of love: Madhya Pradesh CM||PRAYAGRAJ: Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday said there is a need to “stop forced religious conversions under the garb of love”. Chouhan was in Prayagraj on Saturday to immerse the ashes of his father-in-law, who passed away recently, in Sangam. “The condition of daughters who were forced to convert has gone from bad to worse. This is why it is necessary to stop marriages that are being entered into with wrong motives through incentives, pressure, fear and temptation,” Chouhan said. Speaking to mediapersons, he said BJP-led state governments were bringing about tough laws for those indulging in such nefarious acts. “Religious conversion will not be allowed in the garb of love,” he added. On the massive demonstrations of farmers in Punjab and Delhi over farm laws, the CM said there can be no other well-wisher of farmers like PM Narendra Modi. He said all three laws are in the interest of farmers. Chouhan arrived in the city on Saturday morning to immerse the ashes of his father-in-law Ghanshyam Das Masani. He was received at Bamrauli airport by UP minister of civil aviation, minority welfare, Muslim Haj and Waqf department Nand Gopal Gupta ‘Nandi’. Chouhan was accompanied by his wife Sadhana and other relatives. He also met Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad president Mahant Narendra Giri and performed religious rituals at Sangam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/need-to-stop-forced-religious-conversions-in-garb-of-love-shivraj/articleshow/79468926.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Chennai||New Andaman Sea weather system to bring heavy rain to southern Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: Less than a week after very severe cyclonic storm Nivar made landfall near Marakkanam dumping vast amounts of rain, another weather system is on its way to the TN coast. Weathermen said a low pressure area has formed over south Andaman Sea and is likely to move towards south Tamil Nadu after intensifying into a depression, bringing widespread rainfall from December 1. Extremely heavy rainfall can be expected in some parts of southern districts of TN, which have recorded a deficit so far since October 1, while northern districts, including Chennai, may receive heavy spells of rain. In its bulletin, IMD said the low pressure area has formed over south Andaman sea and adjoining areas of southeast Bay of Bengal and east equatorial Indian Ocean on Saturday. “It is very likely to move west-northwestwards and reach south Tamil Nadu coast on December 2,” the agency said. Private weather forecasters said the system is likely to cross the Gulf of Mannar and Comorin Area before moving into the Arabian Sea. Weather bloggers said it may intensify into a weak cyclonic storm over the Arabian Sea far away from the Indian coast before moving towards Somalia or Oman. IMD forecast “heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places with isolated extremely heavy spells over south Tamil Nadu and south Kerala on December 2 and isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall over these regions on December 1 and 3. Over north Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Mahe and Karaikal and north Kerala, heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places is likely from December 1 to 3”. On November 30, Gulf of Mannar region could experience increased wind speeds of 45-55kmph gusting to 65 kmph and by December 1, it could 65-75kmph gusting to 85kmph along and off south TN coast and 50-60kmph gusting to 70kmph along and off north Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Kerala coast, Comorin area and Gulf of Mannar. By December 2, wind speeds could further increase to 70-80kmph gusting to 90kmph along and off south Tamil Nadu and Kerala coasts, Comorin area and Gulf of Mannar. North Tamil Nadu and Puducherry coast as well as north Kerala coast could see winds at 55-65kmph gusting to 75kmph. Weather blogger Pradeep John said Chennai will receive convective rainfall from wind convergence caused by the system pulling the easterlies into the land as it nears the Tamil Nadu coast and from the cloud bands around it. “South, southwest and delta regions, including Kanyakumari, Ramanathapuram and Tenkasi which have recorded a deficit so far this season, will receive very heavy spells. Hilly regions can expect good winds. This will be a rain-filled system,” he said. Weather watchers said the system could, at the most, intensify into a deep depression when it is near the TN coast as it may not be over the sea for a longer period to gather moisture and strengthen into a storm. But global climate phenomenon like Madden-Julian Oscillation, an eastward moving disturbance of clouds, rainfall, winds and pressure, which is now in the Indian Ocean region and a warm sea surface temperature will add strength to the weather system. Though there was an upwelling of the sea when cyclone Nivar crossed, Mahesh Palawat, chief meteorologist, Skymet Weather, said the sea surface temperatures are warmer at 28-29 deg C. “But this system will be fast moving and won’t spend much time over the sea to intensify. Any system requires to travel at least five to six days over the sea to gather moisture and strengthen into a cyclonic storm,” he said. Further, climate studies have shown that many weather systems that originated from the Andaman Sea had gone on to intensify into cyclonic storms. Soon after this system nears Tamil Nadu, forecasters said another system may form over the same region of south Andaman Sea by December 8 or 9. So far, global weather models show that this system may intensify into another cyclonic storm, which is compact and strong, and is likely to move closer to Chennai or south Andhra Pradesh. “In December, systems usually form over the south Bay of Bengal and travel south, because north Bay of Bengal will be cooler, as the sun is in the southern hemisphere,” Palawat said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/new-andaman-sea-weather-system-to-bring-heavy-rain-to-southern-tn/articleshow/79468934.cms||U Tejonmayam
November 29, 2020||Jaipur||61% apply online to add names in Rajasthan voters’ list||JAIPUR: As the summary revision of electoral roll has started in Rajasthan, it has been observed that 61.39% of the total Form 6 (application to add new names) applications have been submitted online from February 19 to November 19. Total 1.07 lakh Form 6 have been submitted online through National Voters’ Service portal, said state’s chief electoral officer (CEO) Praveen Gupta. In all, 2.33 lakh (47.82%) forms have been submitted online. These include applications for deleting names, changing residential address, and for making other changes to the electoral roll. According to the data shared by the office of CEO, 67,406 (38.61%) Form 6 applications have been submitted offline. Form 6 is meant for adding new names, Form 6A is for NRI voter, Form 7 is meant for changing the address (mostly in the event of death), Form 8 is meant for making changes/corrections in the name, surame, gender, etc., and Form 8A is for changing the address within the constituency. It has also been observed that 29.96% Form 7 applications have been submitted online and 70.04% have been submitted offline. While 47.58% From 8 applications have been submitted online, 52.48%have been received offline. Meanwhile, 21.63% Form 8A applications have been submitted online, 78.37% applications have been received offline. In all, 2.54 lakh (52.18%) applications have been submitted offline since February this year. Special camps will be organized at all the 52,009 polling stations of 200 assembly constituencies in the state on November 29 (Sunday). Applications will be received from 9am to 6pm at every polling station in the presence of booth level officers and booth level agents appointed by the national political parties. The process of summary revision which started on November 20 will continue till December 21 across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/61-apply-online-to-add-names-in-raj-voters-list/articleshow/79468924.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Chennai||State to lean on aggressive testing again||Chennai: The state health department drew up four paths as future plans for prevention and management of Covid-19 on a day the state added 1,430 cases and 13 deaths. With this, the case tally rose to 7,79,046 and cumulative death toll touched 11,694. Active cases dropped to 11,073. As a part of the future plan, the state has planned to suppress the chain with aggressive testing and intense monitoring, bring down positivity rate below 2%, keep Covid-19 mortality below 1% and ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour among people. “We’ve passed a litmus test during the festive season, but we have not won the battle against the virus yet,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan after a meeting with the expert committee and chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Saturday. Public health experts including World Health Organisation chief scientist Dr Soumya Swaminathan told the government that the state should intensify testing, track all contacts of infected people to predict emerging hotspots and monitor people with severe acute respiratory infection and influenza-like ailments. Experts drew examples from Europe, where cases peaked during the second wave after a slew of relaxations. Since the number of cases are low, health officials should track all contacts for testing, said National Institute of Epidemiology deputy director Dr Prabhdeep Kaur. “The disease transmission has slowed but we must know where and how the virus spreads. Testing will have the answer to that,” she said. Doctors say this will lead to early detection of cases and effective clinical management that will bring down deaths. “All hospitals will be doing death analysis and also ensure non-Covid healthcare services are not affected,” said health minister C Vijayabaskar after inaugurating 120 more beds for Covid patients with comorbid conditions. On Saturday, all districts reported cases, while 31 of the 37 districts reported zero deaths. While Chennai reported five deaths, Coimbatore reported four, and four other districts – Salem, Theni, Tiruvarur and Thoothukudi – reported one death each. While Chennai (393) and Coimbatore (142) topped the fresh cases table, seven districts reported a single digit increase – Tenkasi (9), Ariyalur(8), Nilgiris (7), Ranipet (6),Ramanathapuram (3) and Perambalur (1). With 1,483 discharged, the total number of recoveries rose to 7,56,279. On Friday, the 11 districts in the north together reported a marginal increase of 739 cases from 726 cases on Friday. Cases in the Chennai region went up to 621 from 576 on Friday. The active cases in the north zone was 5,937. While the west reported 388 fresh cases, the south and central districts reported 164 and 139 cases respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/state-to-lean-on-aggressive-testing-again/articleshow/79468235.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Covid-19: Festival impact not seen in dist so far||Coimbatore: The district recorded 142 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the tally to 48,421, of which 819 are active cases. With 60 patients getting discharged from treatment centres, the number recovered patients rose to 46,991 in the district, where the recovery rate stands at 97%.It was for the eight time since November 19 that the district recorded less than 150 cases a day on Saturday. In fact, on the two days when the daily count crossed the 150-mark, the increase was marginal, and the numbers stood at 154 (Nov 22) and 158 (Nov 26). This is despite testing 2,500 people a day. This in turn translates into a positivity rate of 6%.A senior health department official said, “People had started crowding commercial establishments for the festival shopping in the first weekend of November. And the shopping frenzy continued until November 13. While we have completed the incubation period of 14 days, we have not seen a spike in cases so far. We can hence consider that we have passed the Diwali litmus test uneventfully.”Officials, however, warn people against lowering their guard and not taking precautions. “Many cities such as Mumbai and New Delhi are seeing a hike in cases and these places are connected to the city by many flights and trains. So, people should continue to wear face masks and maintain hand hygiene,” the official said.The toll, meanwhile, shot up to 611 on the day with four more patients succumbing to the virus. The Covid-19 fatality rate in the district now stands at 1.25%.Among the dead were a 38-year-old anaemic woman who died 48 hours after hospitalization at the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) and a 32-year-old woman who had just undergone a C-section. The latter had weakening of heart muscles during the final month of pregnancy, clots in small blood vessels and irregular beating of heart.The remaining two were a 72-year-old diabetic and hypertensive woman who died of pneumonia and acute respiratory distress at the ESI Hospital after nine days of hospitalization and a 51-year-old diabetic and anaemic woman who died of bilateral bronchopneumonia and metabolic acidosis within 24 hours of hospitalization at CMCH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/covid-19-festival-impact-not-seen-in-dist-so-far/articleshow/79468922.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Murder for phone: 2 men picked up for questioning||Coimbatore: The city police have picked up two youths for interrogation in connection with the murder of a 24-year-old man, who was hacked to death by a four-member gang after he refused to give them his mobile phone, near SIHS Colony a few days ago.A police source said the two were involved in a similar murder case in February this year. “They were picked up on Friday. While they have denied any role in the murder, we are still interrogating them.” T Vignesh, a native of Theni district, was murdered when he, along with his roommate T Sujit alias Suseendran 30, of Valparai, was heading to Ondipudur from their rental house at Poonga Nagar near the airport on Thursday night.“The gang waylaid them and asked for their mobile phones. When Suseendran obliged to their demand, Vignesh refused. One of the gang members then stabbed him on his neck. Vignesh later died in a private hospital,” the source said.Following his death, city police commissioner Sumit Sharan had formed four special teams to nab the murderers. On Friday, the teams had picked up the two youths, who were part of a six-member gang that snatched mobile phones from two men near Arasur on the night of February 15. While both the victims were stabbed, one of them had succumbed to his injuries on the spot.According to the source, the victims were D Tamilselvan, 20, a third-year engineering student from Sadayan Thottam in Nadu Arasur, and K Mahalingam, 25, of Vasantha Nagar at Arasur.“When the gang attempted to snatch mobile phone from Tamilselvan, he put up a fight. One of the gang members stabbed him on his chest, killing him on the spot. Around 10 minutes later, the gang attacked Mahalingam and fled with his mobile phone and moped, which was abandoned 1km away from the crime scene,” the source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/murder-for-phone-2-men-picked-up-for-questioning/articleshow/79468919.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Chennai||Granite mining scam: Tamil Nadu govt withdraws personal security given to IAS officer U Sagayam||CHENNAI: The state government has withdrawn the personal security provided to senior IAS officer U Sagayam since November 15 without stating any reason or giving prior intimation. Sagayam, who was handpicked by the Madras high court as legal commissioner to probe the multi-crore granite mining scam in Madurai was given security after the court took note of the threat he faced from the granite lobby. Between 2014 and 2015 when he was compiling the report, Sagayam received two letters threatening him and his family members if he dared to proceed with the probe. In November 2015, however, he submitted the report running to more than 2,000 pages. In the report he stated that the mining scam ran into more than Rs 1 lakh crore and that the exchequer had lost royalty worth more than Rs 5,000 crore. A stickler for rules and a crusader against corruption, Sagayam had on October 2, sent his resignation letter to the government offering to take voluntary retirement from service. A source close to the officer said he was being kept as vice-chairman of science city for about six years now, though it is a post meant for a far junior officer. He had a feud with the government over a deliberate pay anomaly too. The source said Sagayam was not informed about the government’s decision to withdraw his personal security nor was his threat perception analysed neutrally. Tamil Nadu DGP J K Tripathy said, “This is the decision after the outcome of the ‘state security committee’ meeting held two months ago.” However, the officer didn’t divulge more information about the reason for the withdrawal of security. A police officer said the committee comprises of the state home secretary, DGP, state intelligence chief, state internal security head, and other senior officials. “The committee members review the state issued personal security officer to each individual as per their present situation. If the committee members feel the security cover can be withdrawn, they send a report accordingly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/granite-mining-scam-security-for-ias-officer-withdrawn/articleshow/79467537.cms||A Selvaraj
November 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Vote to change fate of Hyderabad, says Yogi Adityanath||HYDERABAD: Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said if Faizabad can be renamed as Ayodhya, why cannot Hyderabad become ‘Bhagyanagar.’ Calling upon people to vote for changing the fate of Hyderabad, he said the December 1 GHMC polls provide an opportunity to the people to take the city on the path of development. “Some people were asking me if Hyderabad can become ‘Bhagyanagar’. I said, ‘why not?’ I told them that we renamed Faizabad as Ayodhya and Allahabad as Prayagraj after BJP came to power in UP. Why cannot Hyderabad become a ‘Bhagyanagar’?” Adityanath said at a roadshow in Malkajgiri division on Saturday. Addressing a well-attended public meeting at Lal Darwaja in the Old City later, he said a groundswell of support for the BJP was evident during the roadshows he took part earlier in the day. “I had asked state BJP chief (Bandi) Sanjay if I can come down here to give the message of oneness from Uttar Pradesh. I can see and sense that people here want a change for the betterment of the city.” The UP CM, who began his speech in Telugu by saying “andariki namaskaramlu’ (namaste to all of you), said an MIM MLA in Bihar recently refused to take oath in the name of Hindustan. “They live in Hindustan but when it comes to taking oath in the name of Hindustan, they hesitate. This is the reality of MIM. They eat here but will not sing the local tune,” he said, taking on Asaduddin Owaisi’s MIM, which has a strong presence in Lal Darwaza. He blamed the alliance of the ruling TRS and MIM for lack of development in the city. He alleged that chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao was not taking up construction of memorials for those who gave up their lives for liberation of Telangana in 1948 since the MIM was against it. Attacking KCR for not implementing the Centre’s Ayushman Bharat scheme, he said: “UP in the last three years has constructed 35 lakh houses to the poor under the Pradhan Mantri Griha Yojana. Why cannot the scheme be implemented here.” Drawing a parallel between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and KCR, Adityanath said: “For Modi, entire India is his family but for KCR, his family has become entire Telangana. Everywhere I see the posters of his son. In a democracy, there is no scope for loot of public money.” At a public meeting in Kukatpally division, the UP CM said the TRS government is all about KCR and his family and their ‘mitra mandal’ (friends circle). He asked as to why the state government did not deposit Rs 10,000 in the bank accounts of flood-affected families. “All the money went into the kitty of TRS leaders and activists,” he alleged. During the roadshow in Malkajgiri, dancers depicting the cultural traditions of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana (the two Telugu states), as well as Kerala, Punjab, Rajasthan and UP entertained the crowds. Yogi stood on top of a makeshift platform on a bus along with Sanjay, as the vehicle made its way into the crowds. Watch Ready to rename Hyderabad as Bhagyanagar if BJP comes into power: CM Yogi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vote-to-change-fate-of-hyderabad-yogi/articleshow/79468949.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 29, 2020||Coimbatore||MSME bizmen seek govt support to flourish||Coimbatore: Interest on bank loans for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) should be capped at 8%, with a further 2% interest subvention for small industries that pay GST promptly, industrial associations here said in a letter to finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman.The Federation of Coimbatore Industrial Associations (Focia), which consists of 19 associations, wrote to the minister on Friday with a set of proposals for the Union Budget that will be announced next year. The associations believe the measures will help MSME’s grow and will incentivize them to upgrade to cutting-edge technology to compete globally.Their first suggestion was to increase government expenditure on research and development, which stands at 0.65%, much lower than the global spend of 2.27% and a fraction of countries like Korea that spend 5%. “We request the government to establish at least 100 marketing centres of industrial products in all major cities, so that MSMEs can own a showroom or office to market their products,” said S Surulivel, president of the Railway Suppliers Association.Focia also urged the government to develop or support formation of at least 10,000 industrial estates with a minimum of 100 plots over the next five years. “They must also extend financial support and subsidy to MSMEs to purchase industrial plots and to construct industrial sheds,” said Raveendran, president of the Coimbatore Compressor Industries Association.“The foremost support from the government to strengthen MSMEs will be to ensure timely payments by corporates and large companies, including government enterprises. The government should blacklist companies, even government enterprises, if they fail to clear payments to micro and small enterprises within 30 days,” added Surulivel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/msme-bizmen-seek-govt-support-to-flourish/articleshow/79468936.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Kanimozhi to start poll campaign from Salem today||Coimbatore: DMK women’s wing secretary and MP Kanimozhi would start her campaign for the upcoming state assembly polls from Salem district on Sunday.On Saturday evening, she arrived at the city airport, where the party functionaries accorded her a warm welcome. Addressing the media, Kanimozhi said the DMK had already started the poll campaign in the state. “I will start mine in Salem tomorrow (Sunday).”When asked about launching her campaign on the auspicious day of Karthigai Deepam, the DMK leader said it was just a coincidence and the party wouldn’t differentiate between normal and auspicious days.Kanimozhi said the state government had failed to learn from the previous cyclone. “Chennai was badly affected in the previous cyclone. But the government failed to put in place enough measures to face a similar situation in future. Not even the water pathways were cleared. This time, Chennai was not affected much as the cyclone was weakened. If cyclones hit Chennai again, there is a chance of more damage.”She also blamed the AIADMK government for failing to protect the waterbodies and environment and condemned the ruling party and its ally BJP for carrying out false campaigns on social media.On Sunday, Kanimozhi would meet womenfolk at Konganapuram area in Salem around 11am, farmers at Puthupalayam at 3pm and garland the former DMK chief M Karunanidhi’s statue at 5.51pm. She will also hoist the party flag near Edappadi bus stand at 6.30pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/kanimozhi-to-start-poll-campaign-from-salem-today/articleshow/79468927.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Dehradun||Satpal Maharaj launches tourism & flood control projects in Rudraprayag||Dehradun: Uttarakhand tourism minister Satpal Maharaj inaugurated and laid the foundation of several projects worth Rs 7 crore (cumulative) in Rudraprayag on Saturday. The minister laid the foundation stone of flood protection scheme near Agastyamuni PG College while another project was inaugurated to protect Bhiri village. The minister also started projects for erosion prevention in Mansuna Ghasere village, Kalimath temple, and Mahesh temple in Jakholi. Project for a lift pump in Agastyamuni was also started on the occasion. Maharaj also inaugurated the tourist rest house, run by Garhwal Mandal Vikas Nigam (GMVN), at Tilwara. He said that efforts are being made to bring Kartik Swami, Chirbatiya etc. on the tourist map of the district. Praising the work done by the state government during the Covid-19 period, he said that Uttarakhand has fared better than other states in tackling the virus. “There is immense tourism potential in the state. Local products of the state are in great demand in foreign lands today. I appeal to all the public representatives and officials to work for the development of the district and the state,” said the tourism minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/satpal-maharaj-launches-tourism-flood-control-projects-in-rudraprayag/articleshow/79467560.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 29, 2020||Kolkata||Call to amend Raj-era Maidan rule, stop 15-day tent closure every Oct||Kolkata: A former footballer who featured in the all-time best XI team of Mohun Bagan Club as a central defensive midfielder has launched an offensive against a Raj-era rule that requires all clubs and tents in the Maidan to shut down for 15 days every October. The rule that forces the temporary closure of 250-odd Maidan clubs was introduced in 1909 by the British army, consolidating past court orders and judgments. Since the entire area in the Maidan is vested in the Military establishment, they decided to frame rules which would deny the clubs any right to ownership of the land. The closure acted as a reminder as to who owned the land. Now, footballer-turned-politician Prasun Banerjee, whose exploits in the Maidan during his sporting days is well known, has questioned the logic of still enforcing the archaic rule. The MP from Howrah has written a letter to defence minister Rajnath Singh, requesting him to amend the rule. “The rules were framed during the British raj as they found it necessary for some reason. But the realities have changed now. Three football clubs in Kolkata approached me to raise the issue before the defence minister. Adhir Chowdhury, leader of the opposition in Lok Sabha, also assisted me in this effort,” he said. According to Banerjee, even Union minister Babul Supriyo evinced interest when he sought his support. “This is not a political issue and we are doing it for clubs in the Maidan. Many of them find it very difficult to practice during those 15 days. I had a word with the home minister. He told me to submit a letter on the issue and I have done that,” said Banerjee, who has been associated with Maidan clubs for nearly 50 years. Debabrata (Nitu) Sarkar of East Bengal Club felt the rule was a hindrance to clubs. “We had discussed the issue when AK Anthony was defence minister. There was a proposal to shift the embargo from October to June when monsoon sets in and does not impact outdoor practice. But it didn’t materialise,” Sarkar recounted. “Closing clubs for a fortnight wasn’t much of a trouble earlier. Football season was almost over by October. Main championships like Durand Cup, IFA Shield and Rovers Cup were over by then. But now it has changed and clubs are playing football throughout the year. When clubs are closed, we take players to grounds like Howrah maidan and SAI in Salt Lake,” said Sarkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/call-to-amend-raj-era-maidan-rule-stop-15-day-tent-closure-every-oct/articleshow/79468246.cms||Rohit Khanna
November 29, 2020||Dehradun||Will sweep U’khand elections with 60 seats: BJP state in-charge||Dehradun: Newly-elected Uttarakhand BJP in-charge Dushyant Kumar Gautam, who is also a Rajya Sabha member from Haryana, on Saturday said that the saffron party will again form government and sweep the next assembly elections with 60 out of 70 seats. Notably, Gautam has come on a two-day visit (starting from Saturday) to the state and is accompanied by deputy state in-charge Rekha Verma, Lok Sabha member from Dhaurahra (Uttar Pradesh). On Saturday, the newly elected state in-charge and his deputy met local party workers in Dehradun along with several cabinet ministers. The two will review the preparations for the visit of party’s national president Jagat Prakash Nadda on Sunday. Nadda will be on a three-day trip to the state from December 5 to 7. Meanwhile, state BJP president Banshidhar Bhagat said that every worker of Uttarakhand BJP is ready for 2022 elections. “We will contest on the issue of development and win in a way that will leave the Opposition shocked and shattered,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/will-sweep-ukhand-elections-with-60-seats-bjp-state-in-charge/articleshow/79467563.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Revoke Al Ummah founder’s parole: Outfits||Coimbatore: Coimbatore Central Prison authorities are planning to approach the Madras high court to cancel the parole granted to S A Basha, founder of banned outfit Al Ummah, after Bharat Sena demanded action against him for releasing a video on social media while under judicial custody.The HC had granted 15 days parole to 73-year-old Basha, a life convict in the 1998 serial bomb blasts here, from November 25. Subsequently, the city police deployed 20 police personnel at his house at Bilal Estate in Ukkadam. While Basha is free to spend time with his family, he is barred from venturing out of the house or meet members of political outfits.Meanwhile, Coimbatore-based Mohammed Faizal posted a video of Basha on Facebook on Friday, praising some Muslim organisations for helping those affected by Cyclone Nivar. “Dear brothers, I came out on parole from the Coimbatore Central Prison and I was eagerly waiting for the parole. Due to the storm, several people lost their livelihood in the coastal districts. All Islamic organisations helped the people, who were affected by the storm,” Basha said in the video.Bharat Sena district president S R Kumaresan petitioned the city police commissioner on Friday, urging police to register an FIR against Basha for violating the parole norms. “Basha, a life convict in judicial custody, released a video on social media. We request the city police to take necessary steps to cancel his parole,” president of the advocate wing of BJP’s Coimbatore urban district M Kalaiselvan said in his petition to the city police on Saturday.A prison official told TOI that they will discuss the issue with senior officers in Chennai before filing a petition to cancel the parole.The chargesheet filed by the special investigation team of CB-CID against Basha on May 5, 1999, accused him of conspiring to kill BJP leader L K Advani using a suicide squad. He also arranged the procurement of 650kg blasting gelatin and other explosives from Mysuru to make bombs and improvised explosive devices in Coimbatore. He has spent more than 21 years in the Coimbatore jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/revoke-al-ummah-founders-parole-outfits/articleshow/79468933.cms||A Subburaj
November 29, 2020||Chennai||Sugar’s the flab on your plate||Chennai: How much sugar can you add to your morning coffee or tea? None, if you were to adhere to a recommendation of the National Institute of Nutrition, an Indian Council of Medical Research Institute in Hyderabad.“Sugar is a flavour added for taste. In some cases it works as medicine. There is no need to add sugar in your food,” said NIN director Dr R Hemalatha, during her virtual oration on ‘How India should eat’ organised by MV Hospital for Diabetes in memory of its founder Dr M Viswanathan. “While it is ok to take added sugars once in a while it is not required in your daily diet,” she said. Most organisations recommend reduction of sugar intake, but the levels aren’t the same, she pointed out. For instance, WHO recommends all sugars added to beverages and food should be restricted to 10% of total calorie intake and the organisation is considering reducing it by half. The Dietary Guidelines Advisory Committee of the US also recommends less than 10%, while the UK’s Scientific Advisory Committee on Nutrition recommends 5% of total calorie intake. On the other hand, the European Food Safety Authority has said there is no need to add sugar. “We think so too,” she said.Studies show majority of the population consumes lower than recommended levels of pulses, legumes, milk, nuts and vegetables while consumption of cereals and millets was higher, Hemalatha said. The mean intake of carbohydrates was 289g/day in urban India and 368g/day in rural India. “What makes this worse is a majority of this comes from refined grains, which contributes to elevated sugar levels, blood pressure and obesity, besides risks of several non-communicable diseases,” she said. High fat and high sugar foods such as chips, biscuits, chocolates, sweets, juices contributed to 11% energy intake per day in urban areas.Traditional Indian food, which is largely plant-based with some red meat and fish, can show the world how a nutritious and sustainable diet can be provided without environmental degradation, she said, calling for a revolution at the table.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/sugars-the-flab-on-your-plate/articleshow/79467546.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Flood aid will resume from Dec 7: CM||Hyderabad: After assuring 20,000 litres a month free drinking water to households in Greater Hyderabad, TRS president K Chandrasekhar Rao said government will try to provide 24x7 water. “The government had already disbursed about Rs 650 crore to 6.50 lakh people and ready to give it to another two lakh people of about Rs 300 to Rs 400 crore,”KCR said at a public meeting at LB Stadium on Saturday. He alleged the flood relief was stopped due to opposition parties. KCR said flash floods were not confined to Hyderabad alone. Mumbai was in water for 10 days, Chennai 21 days, wjhile Kolkata, Delhi and Ahmedabad too face floods. “Finding a permanent solution to inundation problems, the state would allocate Rs 10,000 crore every year in the budget,” he announced. Criticising BJP and Congress, he said it was TRS ministers who visited the colonies and supervised relief measures. “After elections, the ministers and TRS government would stay back not people from Maharashtra and UP,” he said. Claiming Telangana’s schemes were unique, he said the schemes were being implemented without any bias. “Telangana is the only state which has been implementing welfare schemes worth Rs 40,000 crore every year. The schemes were not stopped despite dwindling revenues due to Covid 19 and lockdown,’ he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/flood-aid-will-resume-from-dec-7-cm/articleshow/79468939.cms||Koride Mahesh
November 29, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Active Covid cases up in 12 zones; Adyar has 162 more infections||CHENNAI: Active Covid-19 cases in 12 of 15 zones in the city have increased in the past week. According to official figures released by Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC), Adyar has seen the steepest rise in infections. However, the overall active cases in the city has dropped since November 20. The number of overall active cases has dropped from 4,622 to 3,924 during the same period. Active cases in Chennai will continue to decrease as long as the number of recoveries outnumber fresh cases. Though the increase in zone-wise active cases is significant, the decrease in the overall figure can be explained by the drop in cases listed under the ‘other districts’ column. Here, the number of active cases has gone from 1,370 to 33 in a week. According to a senior GCC official, the change is due to people who reside in neighbouring districts such as Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur, Chengalpet or other districts coming to Chennai for treatment or residing inside GCC limits. The data showed active cases in Adyar have jumped from 240 on November 20 to 402 on November 27, a rise by 162 cases. While active infections in Anna Nagar has increased by one, Tondiarpet has 46 more infections and Thiru Vi Ka Nagar 90 more. Ambattur has seen an increase by 50, Teynampet by 102. Six other zones too have witnessed an increase of 50-70 cases. Active cases have dropped only in Tiruvottiyur, Royapuram and Alandur zones. This comes even as testing by GCC has witnessed a significant drop. On November 20, GCC tested 10,009 people. This came down to 8,052 on November 27. This was attributed to preparations and activities to tackle the very severe cyclone Nivar. GCC officials said testing would be increased in the coming days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/active-cases-up-in-12-zones-adyar-has-162-more-infections/articleshow/79468251.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Chennai||A bit of a stretch?||Until a year ago, one of the things that former teacher Priya R looked forward to every evening after a day of toil was a mug of chilled beer and crackers. The 37-year-old, who hails from Chennai, has been a regular jogger and meditator, but struggled to cut down on her three pints every evening, which left her with the classic ‘beer belly’. Until she found a Facebook invitation to an evening of ‘beer yoga’ that took place during a brief stint in Mumbai and has been a part of her routine ever since."I signed up because I was curious to see if I could regulate my beer intake, while working on fitness," she says. Now, rather than drinking every evening, Priya "relishes" the small doses of beer she has during yoga every two weeks.While the health benefits of slow drinking beer with exercise are debatable, Priya is among several under-40 millennials who are increasingly experimenting with a range of novel ‘yoga’ routines that new-age practitioners and wellness studios are lining up. Whether you’re punctuating your exhalations with sips of your favourite draught, or have a little baby goat standing on your chest while you flex, as Oregon-based practitioner Lainy Morse would propagate in her ‘goat yoga’ classes, these variants of an ancient discipline are designed to intrigue young fitness enthusiasts who would otherwise scroll over a week-long Ashtanga retreat without the blink of an eye.While practitioners maintain that they’re not deviating but adding fresh value to the foundations of traditional yoga, traditionalists believe these techniques may still not fall under the definition of ‘yoga’. S Sridharan, who comes with more than 40 years of experience at the Krishnamacharya Yoga Mandiram, says these routines often stop with the physical aspect of yoga. "Yoga has more to do with the mind than the body. It engages the whole human system – the body, energy, self and consciousness – and systematically affects them. When you take just one aspect of yoga, like the postures, and improvise on them, it may be a form of exercise, but isn’t yoga," he says.Nirmala Chaitanya had her first tryst with the Sivananda Yoga Centres almost two decades ago in Canada, where she’s from. But she decided to learn from them in India, with a certain cultural understanding and awareness of the country, and came down to train here full-time. "This is also something I believe may have been lost in transition when several prominent Indian teachers took yoga to the west. Some of them felt that westerners may not be able to fully imbibe certain aspects - for example, sitting still and at a stretch during pranayama - and made alterations to the discipline. When a practice is changed, its effects show many decades later, which is probably what is happening now," she says. "An asana for example, isn’t just a posture. When I remain still in an asana, the blood circulation and gravity affect me in a certain way. When there is constant movement as we see in certain modern forms, the body isn’t steady or focused and neither is the mind. It then becomes more like an exercise than a spiritual process," says Nirmala.But modern yoga practitioners say they’re trying to change perceptions about the discipline among the younger generation that is often coloured by notions such as yoga requiring the prerequisite of a flexible body. Sarva Yoga, the wellness startup founded by Chennai’s Sarvesh Shashi, and backed by Malaika Arora and Shahid Kapoor, offers 25 different styles of yoga. They include alternatives like brick yoga, sculpt yoga (with dumbbells), basketball yoga, standup paddleboard yoga and stick yoga. "The average age of our clients, 46 three years ago, is now 31," says Sarvesh."If you’re a 60kg person doing sculpt yoga with 2kg dumbbells, you’re lifting a 62kg body as you do the asanas, and this is bound to strengthen your core," he says. "There’s also no better way to align your posture than in danda yoga, which is practised with a stick, and increase core strength than doing asanas on a paddleboard, which is way harder than doing them on land."Application before assumption is something Malini Kalyanam, a practitioner of ‘facial yoga’, advocates. "Most of these concepts are simple and age-old. Facial yoga is a series of repetitive facial exercises and acupressure that works by stimulating muscles that tighten the skin and reduce signs of ageing. I have seen my mother and grandmother do this without giving it a name," says Kalyani. While such reworkings of an ancient discipline can be fun, cultivating a discerning mind will help you filter out the best," says another senior practitioner at Sivananda yoga, Swami Janardhana Ananda. "For anyone who’s curious and beginning, pick practices with a few non-negotiables — asanas, breath work, relaxation, diet and meditation. These are staples you cannot compromise on when you want to learn yoga," he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/a-bit-of-a-stretch/articleshow/79467573.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Dehradun||Parents’ body files complain after a CBSE schools’ body announces to remove & ‘blacklist’ students who haven’t paid fees||Dehradun: After the CBSE schools’ body of Pachwadoon (Vikasnagar and Sahaspur blocks of Dehradun) announced that its member schools would blacklist and remove students who haven’t paid their tuition fees following the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic in the state, the National Association for Parents and Students’ Rights (NAPSR) has filed a complaint with the state child rights’ body against what they term as a ‘dictatorial move’. “We have sent a complaint letter to the state child rights’ department. Our appeal is to take action as per the RTE Act guidelines of 2005 against schools, which are issuing such unlawful orders. Parents are already struggling to pay tuition fees post Covid-19 outbreak and at such a time, these schools are making such threats. The schools’ body has clearly said that children, who haven’t paid fees, won’t be promoted and be blacklisted, which would mean that other CBSE-affiliated schools would not enroll them either. Such students would also not be allowed to attend online classes. Such a move will create panic among parents and will destroy the careers of several students,” said Arif Khan, president of the NAPSR. According to sources, the decision to remove and blacklist students who haven’t paid their fees was taken in the meeting of Sahodaya School Complex (Pachwadoon), a regional CBSE schools’ body. More than 30 schools, located in the rural areas of Dehradun district, are associated with this body. When queried on the issue, Somdutt Tyagi, president of the Sahodaya School Complex (Pachwadoon), told TOI, “We will take action as per the guidelines laid by the state government and won’t indulge in any unlawful practice. We are asking the parents to submit their ward’s tuition fees or give a written application if they are incapable of paying the fees. But a lot of the parents are not giving any kind of written statement, possibly because they want to shift their ward to another school without clearing dues.” He added, “The decision has been taken to ensure that students do not secure a TC (transfer certificate) until they pay up their dues. It has been often seen that when a student is given TC, they shift to other CBSE schools without paying tuition fees in their previous schools. To check this practice, the schools which are registered under our body will make sure that such miscreants are not entertained until they clear their dues with the previous school.” Tyagi further said that the aim is not to threaten but request parents to pay their dues. “In my school too, many parents haven’t given an application and are yet to submit the tuition fees but their wards are availing the online class facility,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/parents-body-files-complain-after-a-cbse-schools-body-announces-to-remove-blacklist-students-who-havent-paid-fees/articleshow/79467572.cms||Mohammad Anab
November 29, 2020||Pune||Blood stock won’t last more than seven days: State Blood Transfusion Council||PUNE: The State Blood Transfusion Council (SBTC) has called for more donations after stocktaking revealed existing reserves would not last more than a week. The council has now asked all 341 blood banks to immediately rope in NGOs and housing societies to increase donation drives. “Currently, the state has just 17,000 units of blood. This stock will last us a week,” said assistant director, SBTC, Dr Arun Thorat. The Covid crisis — with its curbs on movement and businesses — has also impacted supply. “Usually, IT professionals and students help out with donations. But work-from-home rules and shutting of colleges have impacted donation drives,” Thorat said. Data flow has been affected too. Of the 341 blood banks, only 280 have been regularly updating availability information. The rest have not been able to because of staffing shortages during the pandemicAccording to the WHO norms, at any point, blood stock should represent 1% of a region’s population. Maharashtra, with a population of nearly 12 crore, should then ideally have 12 lakh units available for a year, with a monthly collection of 1 lakh units. Dr Shankar Mugave, the Pune division coordinator for blood banks, said collections have to increase. “Diwali holidays and fear of infection kept many potential donors away. This needs to change,” he said. One blood bank in the city said its monthly collection — usually of around 3,500 units — has reduced by 50%. Other centres said stocks of commonly found blood groups that were easily available before the lockdown were now difficult to source. The crisis has started to affect families. A relative of a patient said they had to repeatedly post pleas on social media to find donors. “It has become very difficult to find donors willing to accompany you to a hospital,” the relative said. Dr Mugave said they are now full dependent on blood donation camps. “Members of the police force recently donated blood. We are reaching out to other organisations,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/blood-stock-wont-last-more-than-7-days-state-council/articleshow/79468946.cms||Nisha Nambiar
November 29, 2020||Kolkata||Relief at last: West Bengal CM may inaugurate Majerhat bridge on Thursday||KOLKATA: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee is scheduled to inaugurate the new Majerhat bridge on Thursday, sources at Nabanna said on Saturday. Vehicles may start plying shortly after the CM commissions the bridge at 4pm, they added. A span of the old structure, which is now being replaced with the city’s first cable-stayed bridge, had collapsed around 4.40pm on September 4 in 2018. While three persons were killed, thousands have been going through the daily commuting agony ever since the lifeline was cut off. The opening of the new bridge, finally, will bring a huge relief for them. The road overbridge (ROB) runs over the Majerhat railway station, linking the city centre with the densely populated Behala and vast areas of south-west suburbs of South 24 Parganas. On Friday, Eastern Railway (ER) had issued the final clearance to the state public works department (PWD) for commissioning the bridge. PWD, which is implementing the Rs 250-crore bridge reconstruction project, even while planning next week’s launch, was waiting for this final letter from ER. A 260m span of the 650m-bridge that stands over the railway tracks is in the ER’s ambit. Its approvals were required at various stages of construction along with nods from the Commissioner of Railway Safety (CRS), which accords safety clearance to any new railway project in India. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Thursday the bridge would have been completed nine months ago had ER not sat on nods. “The delay is because of the BJP’s politics,” she had said, hours after BJP supporters demonstrated at the site, demanding opening of the bridge. Inspecting the bridge as it was getting finishing touches on Saturday, PWD minister Aroop Biswas was reluctant to reveal the opening date. “The CM will inaugurate it next week,” he said. But an official at Nabanna, the state secretariat, said: “As of now, the CM is scheduled to inaugurate it at 4pm on Thursday.” In the run-up to the launch, the under-construction pier caps for the adjacent Joka-Esplanade Metro corridor has become an issue. PWD has written to Rail Vikas Nigam Ltd (RVNL), the implementing agency of the Metro project, to dismantle the shutterings put up for casting the pier caps. Construction of four piers of the Metro project started in February, this year. RVNL chose to engage SP Singla, a Haryana-based company constructing Majerhat bridge, to build the piers next to the bridge “to avoid any dispute”. RVNL officials said the shutterings will be removed on Monday, the seventh day of the casting, even as PWD wants the “eyesores” taken off by Sunday. “The ones at the Mominpore-end must go tomorrow to facilitate the bridge’s commissioning,” said an engineer. He said shutterings for the other two pier caps coming up on the service road — on the western side, near Majerhat railway station — can stay for now. “This service road is not being paved immediately,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/relief-at-last-cm-may-inaugurate-majerhat-bridge-on-thursday/articleshow/79468256.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
November 29, 2020||Dehradun||External agency to create awareness on Swachh Sarvekshan in 100 wards of Doon||Dehradun: Gearing up for the Swachh Sarvekshan 2021, the Dehradun Municipal Corporation has strengthened the exercise to receive complaints and feedback from the residents on the Swachh app. The officials at DMC have said that at least 12,000 people have so far downloaded the app and over 1,400 complaints have been received on the app in the month of November. Sanjay Kumar, assistant municipal commissioner, said, “We have been able to resolve all the complaints received on the app. There is a rating system on the basis of the time taken to resolve an issue raised by a resident. We are taking the help of an external agency who will be working closely with the residents in all the wards motivating them to participate in Swachh Sarvekshan 2021.” “Last year, over 80,000 people had given their feedback during Swachh Sarvekshan 2020. This year, efforts are being made to identify the problems and resolve them in time. Once a complaint is received, it is brought in the notice of the concerned sanitation inspector and we score points based on the feedback given by the residents. Hence, people's participation plays a key role”, added Sanjay Kumar. Another key element which is the focus of the officials is to reduce waste generation at household level. For which, home composting is being promoted among the residents. The external agency will also train people on the method of doing home composting. The DMC officials also plan to organise a workshop for its staff members on home composting and the residents who opt the methods of reducing household waste will also be presented certificates as an appreciation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/external-agency-to-create-awareness-on-swachh-sarvekshan-in-100-wards-of-doon/articleshow/79467577.cms||Abhijeet Singh
November 29, 2020||Kolkata||Power supply to airport restored after 33 hrs||Kolkata: Supply of grid power to Kolkata airport terminal was restored at 3am on Saturday, over 33 hours after six high-tension cables were damaged accidentally by an earthmoving machine being used for Metro construction work on Thursday evening. “Normal supply has resumed to the airport and all operations are back to normal, including the air-conditioning at the terminal that had to be switched off after the power outage,” a relieved Kolkata airport director Kaushik Bhattacharjee said on Saturday morning. During the outage, power was supplied by diesel generator sets. But during the first 18 hours, the DG sets had tripped at least eight times, forcing the shutdown of several critical services, including inline baggage scan, elevators, escalators and aerobridges. Several flights were delayed on Thursday evening and again on Friday morning and many flights departed without passenger bags, causing inconvenience to a few thousand passengers. Airport authorities said senior electrical engineers were looking into the DG set maintenance schedule to check what had caused the faults and work out preventive maintenance to avoid such breakdown during future exigencies. More crucially, fresh measures have been adopted to saveguard the eight 3KV cables that feed power to the terminal and pass along the site where the Metro construction work is under way. While CESC has put markers along the route where the cable is laid 7ft below the ground, Metro Rail has been asked to work out a structural arrangement to support the cables during the construction of the diaphragm wall of the Metro line as it leads to the Biman Bandar station. “We have asked both Metro Rail and CESC to ensure there are adequate precautions in place to prevent such a breakdown in future,” the airport director added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/power-supply-to-airport-restored-after-33-hrs/articleshow/79468248.cms||Rohit Khanna
November 29, 2020||India||Ex-IAS man’s assets worth Rs 28 crore attached||NEW DELHI/RAIPUR: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has provisionally attached properties worth Rs 27.8 crore of former IAS officer Babu Lal Agarwal under Prevention of Money Laundering Act 2002 (PMLA) in cases related to criminal misconduct and cheating by a public servant. The attached assets include plant and machinery, bank accounts and immovable properties of the former bureaucrat and his family members, say officers. Agrawal, a 1988-batch IAS officer, was arrested by the agency from his home in Raipur on November 9 and is in judicial custody till December 5. Officials said ED initiated probe under PMLA on the basis of an FIR registered by anti-corruption bureau under Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, about disproportionate assets allegedly amassed by Agrawal and his family members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ex-ias-mans-assets-worth-rs-28-crore-attached/articleshow/79470162.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Kolkata||200 workers slog for 10 hrs to repair Tallah pipe leak||Kolkata: It took 10 hours on Saturday for a Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) crack team to locate and repair a major crack in a 60-inch water pipeline at Nilmoni Mitra Lane near Tallah. Late in the evening, sources in the KMC water supply department confirmed that the repair was complete and supply from Tallah water tank to entire north and central and several parts of south Kolkata would resume from Sunday morning. Over 200 workers and senior KMC engineers reached the site early in the morning and the repair work started at 9.30am after shutting down Palta water treatment plant and Tallah water reservoir. According to Mainak Mukherjee, the director-general of the KMC water supply department, the civic body had taken foolproof preparations for dewatering the 60-inch pipe. It was considered to be the most challenging part of the repair work. In fact, the civic body had to retreat from the repair work of the same pipe last year after failing to dewater it. “Taking a lesson from last year’s repair work, we had planned everything in advance. We knew that the most difficult task was to dewater the pipe without which we could not reach the actual point of breach and start the repair work. Considering that the pipe runs directly under a railway track 25 feet below surface level, we had to plan dewatering and repairing work a week in advance,” Mukherjee said. Keeping in mind the deadline set for the repair workpipe, the KMC water supply department constructed eight manholes (from Tallah water tank to RG Kar Medical College and Hospital) to enable workers reach near the pipe for dewatering. Several heavy-duty submersible pumps were pressed into service to pump out the residual water. The civic workers took help of cranes for placing the submersible pumps at the right locations around the parts which had developed cracks. Around 7pm, the repair work was completed and a nod was given to fill the Tallah water tank for resumption of normal water supply from Sunday morning. “We hope we have been able to wrap up the repair work successfully. We will keep a constant watch over the pipe to see whether water is leaking out from any other points,” said a civic official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/200-workers-slog-for-10-hrs-to-repair-tallah-pipe-leak/articleshow/79468277.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Dehradun||CM to dedicate Suryadhar lake to people today||Dehradun: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat is expected to dedicate the Suryadhar lake project to the locals of Doiwala on Sunday. The project would provide water supply to 19 villages and irrigation water to 18 villages. The lake project — in Doiwala (CM’s constituency) — is also seen as his dream project by political observers. The lake is also likely to turn out as a major tourist destination as the government aims to start water sport activities in the lake.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-to-dedicate-suryadhar-lake-to-people-today/articleshow/79467594.cms||Kautilya Singh
November 29, 2020||Pune||Pune: Four men steal sandalwood trees from IMD premises after issuing threats||PUNE: Four men chopped and stole two sandalwood trees from the premises of the Indian Meterological Department (IMD), Shivajinagar, after threatening to slit the necks of security guards, snatching their cellphones and confining them in the security cabin. The incident occurred near the department’s main gate between 3.15am and 4.15am on Friday. Police said the four suspects scaled the compound wall from the rear and cut the wire fence to gain access to the premises. They went to the main gate and confined the two guards in the security cabin, snatched their phones and snapped landline wires to prevent them from making phone calls. They also snatched the cellphone from the third guard posted at gate number two. IMD security guard Ganesh Adagale (52), who registered an FIR, told TOI, “We had completed patrolling and reached the main gate when the robbers suddenly appeared in front of us. Before we could react, the suspects, brandishing axes and hacksaw blades, warned us that they would slit our throats. They snatched our phones and asked me and my colleague to sit in the cabin.” “The robbers chopped and tied the wooden logs. They asked me to bring the logs up to the rear side gate number three. They took the logs and climbed the gate. We later came to know that they had snatched phone from another guard but returned it without removing the sim card. We then used the phone to call police,” he added. Sub-inspector Vinod Mahangade from Shivajinagar police said, “The guards were not armed and did not raise alarm because of fear. CCTV cameras have captured images of robbers. We have registered a complaint relating to robbery under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Arms Act.” Shivanand Pai, head of IMD, told TOI, “We have sufficient security on the premises, but the robbers managed to chop and steal trees.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/4-men-steal-sandalwood-trees-from-imd-premises-after-issuing-threats/articleshow/79468958.cms||Asseem Shaikh
November 29, 2020||Dehradun||Ensure Covid-19 test reports within 24 hrs in urban areas: CM||Dehradun: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Saturday directed officials to ensure that the result of Covid-19 tests were available within 24 hours in urban areas and in 48 hours in hilly areas. In a review meeting with state officials, including all the district magistrates, he laid thrust on awareness campaigns and stressed upon the need to take strict measures against people not following Covid-19 guidelines. In the same breath, the CM added that the motive behind issuing challan for not wearing a mask was not to collect revenue but to generate awareness among people. He also warned strict action against officials and personnel, who were issuing challan but not distributing masks to the violators. Rawat maintained that after a challan is issued, the violators are supposed to be given masks. In the video conference session which was attended by senior state and police officials, the CM, said that special efforts are required to reduce the Covid-19 death rate. He directed authorities to ensure that a detailed analysis is done regarding the victims to ascertain whether the deaths are the outcome of Covid-19 or some other health issues. He also directed them to ensure that patients referred to higher centres were taken there on time. Rawat further said that more efforts were required in districts of Rudraprayag, Pithoragarh, and Dehradun. The CM did not fail to mention that in wake of winter season and the upcoming Kumbh Mela, it is important to step up the Covid-19 awareness campaigns. Meanwhile, chief secretary Om Prakash said that an extensive preparation was required for the Covid-19 vaccine, for which all the meetings and discussions on the district and block level need to be completed soon. He added that the data of senior citizens, pregnant women, health and frontline workers should be kept ready.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ensure-covid-19-test-reports-within-24-hrs-in-urban-areas-cm/articleshow/79467592.cms||Kautilya Singh
November 29, 2020||Pune||First batch of SPPU open learning pupils promoted||Pune: The first batch of the Savitribai Phule Pune University’s School of Open Learning has been promoted though the students are yet to receive textbooks, attend classes and appear for the final exam of the previous year. The admission for the second batch will end in a few days. Students said even after repeated requests they had not received any study material, despite taking admission in the 2019-20 academic year. “I am a working professional and I took admission in the open learning centre because I was told the lectures would be only on weekends. My admission process was completed in August last year and the first lecture was in December. Hardly four lectures were held, following which they informed us a few times in the class WhatsApp group to come to some other centre, which was not possible.We kept contacting the university, but there was no response,” a student said. The lockdown led to a complete disconnect with studies. “Earlier, when we would ask for our study material they would say it was being printed. They told us an app would be formed, where all the study material would be uploaded. After the lockdown, they said because of the Covid-19 pandemic, the staff was not coming,” a student said. However, Sanjeev Sonawane, director, School of Open Learning, said the counselling session for the first batch continued till March, post which the lockdown was announced and all the plans of book distribution had to be cancelled. “We have all the 40,000 or so books segregated into bundles as per the student strength and course in each of the 40 centres and they are ready for dispatch. We have sought permission from the divisional commissioner to call students in batches to these centres to distribute books. Earlier, when we had asked the PMC for the same, we were asked how we would take the responsibility of sanitising each and every book before it reached them. So now, after getting the permission, within a week’s time we will distribute the books to the centres,” Sonawane said. Sonawane said after the students receive the books, a gap of two to three weeks would be given to study, following which there would be a 30-mark online internal assessment. At the same time, students have been promoted to the second year and their books will be available within two months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/first-batch-of-sppu-open-learning-pupils-promoted/articleshow/79592959.cms||Ardhra Nair
November 29, 2020||Dehradun||Edu dept to provide free JEE-NEET coaching on weekends||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand education department has directed officials of several districts to run JEE-NEET coaching classes on weekends with the help of virtual smart classrooms. The move aims to provide every child with access to JEE-NEET coaching classes as the costs are very high in private tuition centres. The order also asks officials to teach students of Classes X and XII through virtual smart classrooms. In an order released by the state education department, the smart classroom facilities, which is available in nearly 500 state government schools, will be used for students of board classes. These classes will start from December 2 from 10 am to 12 pm on weekdays. The facility will be used for a few subjects like Physics, Chemistry, Biology, and others. The virtual classes will be centralized from the central studio located in the Rajiv Gandhi Navodaya School in Dehradun.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/edu-dept-to-provide-free-jee-neet-coaching-on-weekends/articleshow/79467597.cms||Mohammad Anab
November 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Violence against children on the rise||Coimbatore: Cases of violence against children reported by NGO Childline, a non-governmental organization, have gone up in the district. Compared to 438 cases between January and October last year, 459 such cases have been reported.The district reported 85 child marriages, 88 physical abuses, 63 child labourers, 35 sexual abuses, 80 begging incidents and 20 corporal punishments this year. During the same period last year, 95 child marriages, 125 physical abuses, 108 child labourers, 28 sexual abuses, 13 begging incidents and 27 corporal punishments were reported, Childline sources said.Even though there is not a significant difference in the number of child marriages reported through the NGO in the last two years, the number of children rescued from begging and sexual abuse is significantly higher than the previous years. Activists attribute the rise in the number of begging incidents to the lockdown. “To reduce violence against children, we have been creating awareness among the public, especially students. Before the lockdown was imposed to contain the Covid-19 pandemic, we visited schools to educate students. This year alone, we educated more than 900 school students,” district coordinator of Childline S Salamonraj said.“After receiving reports indicating an increase in child marriages, we organized an awareness campaign in association with the district administration and Unicef to educate the public about the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006. We are also planning to conduct a virtual awareness programme,” the official added.A week-long Childline Se Dosti event was held last week to create awareness about child rights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/violence-against-children-on-the-rise/articleshow/79469019.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Two siblings get life for murdering kin||Coimbatore: The court of additional district judge at Dharapuram in Tirupur has sentenced two people to life imprisonment for murdering their relative over a family dispute at Muthugoundampalayam near Kundadam in 2016.A court source identified the convicts as A Murugan, 57 and his younger brother A Dhandapani, 52, of Muthugoundampalayam in Tirupur district.According to the source, the duo had hacked their relative K Balan, 44, who lived in the same locality, to death over a property dispute on March 30, 2016.The Kundadam police had subsequently registered a case against the two and arrested them. While they were remanded in judicial custody and lodged in the Coimbatore Central Prison, they later came out on bail.The case trial was held before the additional district judge court at Dharapuram. The court pronounced the verdict on Friday and awarded the duo life imprisonment. The court also slapped on them a fine of Rs 10,000 each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/two-siblings-get-life-for-murdering-kin/articleshow/79469014.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Akbaruddin Owaisi, Bandi Sanjay booked for provocative speeches||HYDERABAD: Cases were registered suo motu against AIMIM floor leader Akbaruddin Owaisi and BJP state president Bandi Sanjay in SR Nagar police station for allegedly making provocative speeches during the GHMC poll campaign a few days ago. SR Nagar police inspector K Saidulu said that both were booked under IPC section relating to making statements conducting to public mischief. There was uproar after Akbaruddin during his political campaign at Sultan Nagar, Erragadda, asked the government to demolish PV ghat and NTR ghat at Hussainsagar before removing the encroachments of the poor. In reaction to Akbaruddin’s statement, Sanjay during his campaign at Balkampet warned that if both these ghats are touched, Darussalam where MIM party office is located would be demolished. A couple of days ago, DGP M Mahendar Reddy at a press meet said that all provocative speeches made during the campaign were being examined and a legal opinion was sought. Police after sending the video clippings to their legal team, took their opinion before registering thje suo motu cases. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/akbar-sanjaybooked-for-provocativespeeches/articleshow/79469012.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Yogi Adityanath assures temple inaugural invite||HYDERABAD: Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath has promised to invite devotees of Lord Ram from the city for the inauguration of grand temple being built in Ayodhya. During a roadshow in Kukatpally assembly constituency, he said after NDA came to power, construction of Ram Mandir was made possible. “I will invite you to that occasion when temple construction will be completed in three years,” he said. Youth and women turned up in large numbers at the event.  Reacting to BJP leaders comments on name of the city being changed, AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi said that BJP tries to dent the history of a place. “These guys don’t have anything to do with development. What else will you change? Will you change the name of Charminar ? Will you change the name of Golconda fort? They only have one intention. Wherever BJP gets a chance they change the ‘taarek’(date/ history),” said Owaisi .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/adityanath-assures-temple-inaugural-invite/articleshow/79468982.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 29, 2020||Pune||Meticulous planning helped Pune zilla parishad open schools||PUNE: From counselling parents to taking complete responsibility for treating students, teachers and staff if found Covid positive, the Pune zilla parishad has shown total preparedness in reopening schools for standards IX, X and XII. The Covid care centres set up by Pune ZP has reserved beds for cases from schools, a healthcare record of every student and teacher, and is counselling parents for any symptoms, and even encouraging ashram shalas and tribal schools to make provisions to reopen schools with assistance from the ZP. Nearly 50% of schools had reopened on the third day in Pune district and more students had joined the classroom sessions being conducted on alternate days. The Pune ZP is targeting full reopening of schools by December 1. Pune ZP chief executive officer Ayush Prasad said, “We cannot live in fear because of the pandemic.” The ZP decided to reopen schools despite municipal corporations in the state holding back. It started with RT-PCR tests of 20,000 teachers as soon as the Diwali vacation was over. On the weekends, the teachers conducted the orientation sessions with parents where they explained all the procedures that the schools were following and told them about their responsibilities. Secondary education officer of Pune ZP Ganpat More said, “We have told the teachers who tested positive to get treated at the Covid care centres. We have ambulances ready and reserved beds in the centres. Any student showing symptoms will be referred to these centres.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/meticulous-planning-helped-zp-open-schools/articleshow/79468992.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
November 29, 2020||Pune||Close shave for farmer after leopard attack||Pune: Motorcycle-borne Santosh Thorat (45) had a miraculous escape on Friday evening, when he managed to run away from a leopard who suddenly appeared from a sugarcane field near Manchar in Junnar tehsil and pounced on him. The farmer was on his way home. “After finishing my work in Manchar, I was riding my motorcycle back to my village in the evening. When I reached Vetal Mala, a leopard suddenly pounced on me. I lost my balance and attempted to push the leopard back, during which the big cat attacked my right leg. I somehow mustered courage, regained my balance and began to speed away on my bike. The leopard chased me for a few metres before deciding otherwise,” Thorat said. He went to a nearby hospital and received treatment. Thorat suffered injuries on his hand and thigh, a Manchar range forest official said. The villagers said this was not the first instance of a leopard chasing bikers in the tehsil. Around 10-15 leopard attacks on humans are reported every year in Junnar, officials said. Manchar range forest officer Ajit Shinde said, “We are inspecting the route taken by the animal in the area and trying to analyse its behaviour. Usually, the animal does not attack a moving motorcycle. We need to ascertain whether the sudden appearance of the bike in the leopard’s path was the main reason for the attack or if it something else.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/close-shave-for-farmer-after-leopard-attack/articleshow/79469017.cms||Sandip Dighe
November 29, 2020||Coimbatore||2,000kg banned tobacco products seized||2,000kg banned tobacco products seized: The city police seized 2,000kg of banned tobacco products worth Rs 10 lakh from five people at Saravanampatti on Saturday. Police identified them as P Alexpandian, 37, of Gandhi Maa Nagar, K Manikandan, 27, of Udayampalayam, G Karthik, 23, of Viluppuram, C Ananda Narayanan, 51, of Ganapathy and V Manikandan, 22, of Annur. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2000kg-banned-tobacco-products-seized/articleshow/79469000.cms||---
November 29, 2020||India||Search on for missing Navy pilot||NEW DELHI: The Navy is continuing with its major operation to search for Commander Nishant Singh, the missing pilot of the two-seat MiG-29K supersonic fighter that crashed in the Arabian Sea on Thursday. Both the pilots had ejected from the MiG-29K, which was operating from aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya deployed on the high seas after taking part in the recent Malabar exercise, at about 5 pm on Thursday. But while the other pilot (a Lt-Commander) was found soon after the incident, there has been no trace of Nishant till now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/search-on-for-missing-navy-pilot/articleshow/79470165.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Pune||Buzz back to Koregaon Park as patrons return to favourite joints||Pune: Koregaon Park, where the pulsing, vibrant nightlife had come to a standstill during the lockdown, is showing signs of coming back to life.The many bars, restaurants and commercial centres in the area are reporting a steady rise in footfall; patrons and business alike are finding their feet in the new normal of social distancing and Covid safety protocol. Rachel Goenka Khetarpal, owner of The Sassy Spoon in Lane 7, believes Koregaon Park’s charm is unique and that is one of the most vibrant neighbourhoods in Pune. “In the new normal, the feedback from customers has been positive so far. Interestingly, our delivery numbers have not dropped even as we restarted dine-in service. The only day business was down was on Diwali and November 26, which was a dry day,” Khetarpal said.Nicky Ramnani, a partner at The Daily All Day, also in Lane 7, says there is time for nightlife to resume, as everything must now shut at 11.30pm. “There is some movement during dinner hours, but not like it was easier. Even with all the protocols in place, the business has been satisfactory. We are looking forward to the December festive season,” Ramnani said.The High Spirits Cafe on North Main Road — known for musical performances and comedy shows — is able to accommodate only 30% its capacity to maintain social distancing. Further, it has become a place where people can eat/drink and socialize only at their table. “One of the main reasons people go to bars is to socialize and that is not possible today,” Somesh Narwani, F&B and marketing manager of The High Spirits Cafe, said. . Sandy Singh, owner of Swig, Prem’s and Euriska, all at different points on the North Main Road stretch, said, “We haven’t opened Euriska due to early closing time, but business at Swig and Prem’s is picking up. As long as there are no more lockdowns, we are on the road to recovery,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/buzz-back-to-koregaon-park-as-patrons-return-to-favourite-joints/articleshow/79469028.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Coimbatore||3 temples on lake bund demolished||Coimbatore: The city corporation demolished three temples on the bund of Selva Chinthamani lake on Saturday, clearing the path to carry out the lake rejuvenation and beautification project.“We had demolished a Goddess temple a month ago. We handed over an idol to the locals and will take the other two to the corporation office,” a corporation official said.According to local residents, the civic body had removed encroachments along the bund a few decades ago, but left the temples untouched. Initially, the residents opposed the move to demolish the temples, but the officials held talks and pacified them. “They have assured us to keep the idols safe on their premises and return them when we find an alternative location to construct temples,” said Ponnusamy, a resident.Meanwhile, the officials have instructed over 200 families residing at Panaimarathur near Selvapuram to vacate at the earliest. “We had issued eviction notices and provided alternative accommodation to the residents. We want them to vacate the houses so that we can demolish them to carry out the lake project at Muthannankulam,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/3-temples-on-lake-bund-demolished/articleshow/79469039.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Chennai||Meet the warrior moms who are on a mission for clean air||Chennai: Just months into the lockdown, people across the country saw bluer skies, and fresher air. But a few moms decided that they would join hands to keep it that way. They became the Warrior Moms, a group of environmentally conscious mothers, banding together in a crusade against air pollution. The pan-India movement was launched on September 7, the very first International Day of Clean Air."We noticed that the air pollution levels had come down considerably in Indian cities, especially in the north. A few of us friends got talking and felt that while air pollution is reversible, the impact on our lungs is not and that it is high time we do something about it," says Nina Subramani, who lives in Kottivakkam in Chennai.As the word spread, and other mothers joined, the pan-India movement to fight against rising air pollution, which has severe health implications on children, was launched.They also began their first initiative, #DhoomDhamakaWithoutPatakha, using social media to spread awareness. Two months before Diwali, Nina reached out to other families, resident welfare associations (RWAs), and put out messages on social media requesting people not to burst crackers"I developed asthma as an adult and my father’s breathing difficulties has worsened due to air pollution, so I feel strongly about it," says Nina, adding that they have teamed up with other organisations. "Dr Arvind Kumar of Lung Care Foundation pointed out studies that showed how inhaling smoke from fire crackers has permanent impact on lungs." There are also studies showing a correlation between Covid-19 related mortalities and air pollution. Pradhan Archaka of Tirupati, who also joined hands in the campaign, put out videos requesting people not to burst crackers. Delhi-based Bhavreen Kandhari, who has been campaigning for clean air for the past several years, says Warrior Moms is just another step forward for mothers are protective about their children’s health."In 2016, when the Delhi government shut down schools due to high levels of air pollution, many parents protested at Jantar Mantar and later there was a ‘Right To Breathe’ movement, which I was a part of," says Bhavreen, a mother of 16-year-old twin girls.Mother of two, Anuja Bali Karthikeyan, says her son began wheezing when he was seven-months-old. "He was born when we were in Gurgaon. When we moved a few years later to Chennai, his wheezing stopped but I remember the trauma he went through," says Anuja, who now lives in Pune. "I have always been vocal about the causes I support on Twitter. Warrior Moms resonated with me," she says, adding that only after she joined the group did she understand just how much air pollution can harm a baby or family.As part of the campaign, Anuja has been interacting with RWAs and other NGOs in Pune. "We have also reached out to people in slums, domestic help etc to create more awareness," she says.While Warrior Moms will continue their campaign against firecrackers, they also intend to address other factors causing pollution. "Vehicular pollution, construction activities, thermal power plants, we will be addressing all these and hope to work with the government to find solutions," says Nina.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/meet-the-warrior-moms-who-are-on-a-mission-for-clean-air/articleshow/79467604.cms||Priya Menon
November 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Covid-19 dampens diya sellers’ Karthigai Deepam festival||Coimbatore: Diya sellers in the district are in no mood to celebrate the Karthigai Deepam festival, which has been dampened by Covid-19.Lamp sales have gone down drastically this year and the business has shrunk to 30%, the sellers said.For the last few years, 49-year-old Vasantha, a resident of Virudhachalam in Cuddalore district, has been travelling to the city a week before the festival to sell the lamps she procured. “I travel all the way to Coimbatore because I used to get good price for the lamps. I used to earn a few thousands per day. But this year, I could not earn much,” she said. Somasekaran, a diya maker-cum-seller, said he made less number of lamps this year, but could not sell even half of them. “I sell to wholesalers also. The wholesale business has come down drastically. Now, I have to focus on retail business to make some revenue.”“Our business would be in its peak on the day before the festival. Within a few hours in the morning, we would sell lamps worth at least Rs 7,000. But this year, we are nowhere close to it. I have not witnessed such a dull business in the last couple of decades,” Somasekaran said. “Apart from the pandemic and financial crisis, the main reason for the poor sales is the shifting of the flower market from the Mettupalayam Road to a corporation school near the Brookfield shopping complex. People are reluctant to visit the place only to buy lamps.”Production has come down this year, said Ashok, a seller. “Many diya makers were confused and did not want to risk investing huge sums. Others could not manufacture the desired quantity due to labour shortage.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/covid-19-dampens-diya-sellers-karthigai-deepam-festival/articleshow/79469047.cms||Nivedha Selvam
November 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Tirumala Vaikunta Dwaram to remain open for 10 days||Tirupati: The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams has decided to keep the ‘Vaikunta Dwaram’ of Lord Venkateswara temple at Tirumala open for 10 days to provide darshan for more number of devotees on the auspicious occasion of Vaikunta Ekadasi from this year. TTD chairman Y V Subba Reddy, who chaired the temple body’s trust board meeting on Saturday, said a Guntur-based devotee had filed a writ petition in the AP high court in January this year seeking a direction to the TTD to keep the Vaikunta Dwaram open for 10 days a year as against the present practice of keeping the door open for just two days. “Following the direction of the high court, the TTD consulted muttadhipathis and peetadhipathis of 26 mutts across the country. After seeking their approval, the board has decided to keep the Vaikunta Dwaram open for 10 days during Vaikunta Ekadasi every year,” the TTD chairman said. Immense importance is attached to Vaikunta Ekadasi and Dwadasi which are celebrated once a year during December-January as it is only during this time that Vaikunta Dwaram — the heavenly passage encircling the sanctum sanctorum of Tirumala temple — is kept open for devotees to pass through. This is considered by many as a once in a lifetime opportunity as it is believed that a walk through this sacred passage would relieve mankind from the cycle of rebirth by attaining moksha. Vaikunta Dwara darshanam was introduced during the tenure of Mahant Sevadas Vicharanakartha in 1843. Subsequently, after the temple administration went into the hands of the TTD, the practice of keeping the ‘dwaram’ open on Vaikunta Dwadasi day came into vogue since 1949. While Vaikunta Ekadasi and Dwadasi are observed for two days in Tirumala, it is observed for 10 days at 28 temples dedicated to Lord Maha Vishnu in other places of worship in south India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tirumala-vaikunta-dwaram-to-remain-open-for-10-days/articleshow/79469050.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
November 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Half-yearly exams won’t be done online, Sengottaiyan clarifies||Erode: The Tamil Nadu school education minister K A Sengottaiyan said that he will hand over the reports on reduced subjects to the chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Monday. “The detailed announcement will be made within five days after handing over the report to the CM,” he said. Sengottaiyan participated as the chief guest in various government functions and inaugurated Rs 6.19 crore worth of various schemes and projects in Gobichettipalayam assembly segment on Saturday. Talking to the media persons after the event, the minister further hinted of a rumour circulating on social media that the upcoming half-yearly examination will be conducted online. “I did not receive any such information and it's totally wrong," he said.Asking about implementing the new educational policy in 2023, the minister replied that the officials from the department were conducting meetings with the teachers, parents and educational experts and analysts across the state. “Decision will be made based on the suggestions given by them,” he replied.Minister of home affairs Amit Shah recently visited Chennai as part of his schedule and conducted talks with the ruling party heads including the CM Edappadi K Palaniswami and the deputy CM O Paneerselvam. He told the media persons that the alliance between BJP and AIADMK will continue in the upcoming Tamil Nadu Assembly elections too. Pointing out this announcement, the reporters questioned Sengottaiyan that the vote bank for AIADMK will be reduced or increased because of this alliance. Answering this, the minister replied that the vote bank will be decided by the people and it’s in their hand. “Everyone will know about it after the election,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/half-yearly-exams-wont-be-done-online-sengottaiyan-clarifies/articleshow/79469051.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Pune||Maha to send 26 NCC cadets for Republic Day parade||Pune: The Maharashtra NCC directorate has selected a contingent of 26 cadets to participate in the Republic Day parade in New Delhi next year. Only 56 cadets from seven directorates of the state participated in the selection camp held at the NCC Group Headquarters in Pune. Usually, 560 shortlisted cadets from the state’s directorate are selected for a screening camp each year. Brigadier Suneel Limaye, commandant of the Group Headquarters, Pune, said, “It was a big challenge for us to conduct the camp in the prevailing situation. The most important aspect this time was the high josh among the cadets. We shall train them here till the third week of December.” Brigadier Limaye said less crowding and maintaining social distance was the most crucial thing. This contingent will compete with 16 others from different states for the coveted Prime Minister Banner. In 2019, the Maharashtra contingent had ranked second in all India merit. “We will send our cadets by air to New Delhi in December in view of the Covid-19 threat. We have sent the proposal to the state government,” Brigadier Limaye added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/maha-to-send-26-ncc-cadets-for-republic-day-parade/articleshow/79469048.cms||Sandip Dighe
November 29, 2020||Mumbai||Indian co enters pact for anti-allergy brands in 4 nations||Mumbai: Dr Reddy’s Labs announced that it has entered into a definitive agreement with Glenmark Pharma to acquire it’s anti-allergy brands in Russia, Ukraine, Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan. MV Ramana, chief executive officer branded markets (India and Emerging Markets) of Dr Reddy’s, said, “The new brands are a great addition to our product portfolio in Russia, Ukraine, Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan which are important core markets for us. Momat Rino, the largest brand acquired, has recently received OTC registration in Russia and this will enable accelerated access of this product to patients. The acquired products will further add to Dr Reddy’s strong presence in the anti-allergy segment in these countries, and will also enable us to offer a more comprehensive solution to patients in this area.” The company will acquire brands Momat Rino (for Russia, Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan), Momat Rino Advance (for Russia), Momat A (for Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan), Glenspray and Glenspray Active (for Ukraine), along-with rights to the trademarks, dossiers and patents for the territories mentioned, subject to regulatory approvals, a statement said. The acquired brands represent two types of products, mometasone mono product and combination of mometasone with azelastine, and are indicated for the treatment of seasonal and perennial allergic rhinitis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/indian-co-enters-pact-for-anti-allergy-brands-in-4-nations/articleshow/79469757.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Vijayashanti to rejoin BJP today||Hyderabad: Ending months of speculation, Congress leader Vijayashanti is likely to rejoin the BJP on Sunday in the presence of Union home minister Amit Shah, who is visiting Hyderabad to campaign for the party in GHMC elections. Sources in the BJP said that several other leaders will join the saffron party in the presence of Amit Shah on Sunday. Vijayashanti started her political career with the BJP in 1998. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vijayashanti-to-rejoin-bjp-today/articleshow/79469049.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 29, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS govt will fall after polls: Telangana BJP president Bandi Sanjay||HYDERABAD: BJP state president Bandi Sanjay on Saturday sparked a controversy by claiming that the TRS government in Telangana will collapse any time after the GHMC elections. He also hinted at mid-term elections which his party will win. TRS reacted sharply saying the BJP was day-dreaming given that they had only two MLAs in the assembly of 119 seats. “We will sweep the GHMC elections on December 4 after which the TRS MLAs will revolt against chief minister KCR,” said Sanjay. Addressing roadshows in Ramnagar and other areas after paying tributes to Telangana martyrs, Sanjay said the corrupt TRS government would fall. “KCR will surely go to jail. Everyone knows that KCR is involved in the fake passport scam. The central government will resolve these issues soon,” he said. Reacting sharply, minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav said the BJP has just two MLAs in Telangana and is talking about toppling a democratically elected government. “Indiscriminate comments by a joker like Bandi Sanjay only reflect the poor selection by BJP to lead the party in Telangana. His comments would only result in further denting the popularity of PM Modi on whose charisma the BJP aims to win elections. Sanjay’s lack of knowledge on what to speak or not will harm the BJP more than benefit it,” the minister said. Earlier, Sanjay sought to caution police against backing an unstable government and said they should stop reading out the script of the CM on a conspiracy to create communal disturbance in the city. Referring to police case booked against him, Sanjay said he is not going to get intimidated. He reiterated that BJP will conduct a surgical strike to identify Rohingya and anti-social elements in the Old City and hand over them to police. “The BJP will definitely teach a lesson to those who are supporting Pakistan,” he warned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-govt-will-fall-after-polls-sanjay/articleshow/79469033.cms||Roushan Ali
November 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Agents need not be from polling station area, says HC||HYDERABAD: Stating that it is not fair to insist that a contesting candidate must nominate his or her polling agents who are voters of that particular polling station area alone, Justice A Abhishek Reddy of the high court on Saturday directed the State Election Commission and GHMC officials to allow those from within the ward. The judge gave this interim order after hearing a plea by Sunitha, an independent candidate from Ghansi Bazar ward. Her counsel Anjali Agarwal said the candidate has persons all over the ward and she should be able to deploy them as polling agents in her ward. On the other hand, GHMC and election commission officials had contended that it would become easy for the polling agents to identify voters in a polling station if they happen to be voters of that particular polling station. The judge said that if the candidate finds it difficult to find a person from the purview of a polling station, he or she should be able to deploy one from other polling stations located within the same ward. Another contesting candidate Charakula Sugandha Pushpa from Langar Houz too was given permission by the court to appoint persons from her ward as polling agents in various polling stations in the ward. They should be voters of that ward and they need not be voters from the polling station they were sent to work with. The judge, however, said the court orders were applicable to petitioners only.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-agents-need-not-be-from-polling-stn-area/articleshow/79469058.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
November 29, 2020||Mumbai||Due to Covid-19, Shimla geologist spends 8 months in Mumbai for kidney transplant||MUMBAI: Among many schedules upset due to Covid-19, a 46-year-old geologist from Shimla had to spend almost eight months in Mumbai for a kidney transplant. Vivek Shukla arrived here for the first consult in January and could undergo the transplant on August 13 as he fought a protracted battle with Covid-19. While Shukla’s blood group is O positive, the kidney donor his mother is B positive. ABO incompatible transplants need extra care. “This is perhaps the first ABO incompatible kidney transplant in a post-Covid patient,’’ said treating nephrologist Dr Madan Bahadur from Jaslok Hospital, Pedder Road. A research paper on Shukla’s case will be presented by the Jaslok team at Asian Transplant Week in Seoul next month. Kidney failure patients have emerged as one of the most vulnerable groups as they need to visit medical facilities to undergo twice- or thrice-a-week dialysis. “Between 2% and 6% of chronic kidney patients undergoing dialysis could get Covid-19. What is more worrisome is that mortality in this group has been high,’’ said Dr Bahadur. Shukla, a patient of diabetes for 12 years, was diagnosed with chronic kidney failure in September 2019. He and his 67-year-old mother came here in January and he was the transplant could be done on March 8. “But my mother fell ill and the operation had to be postponed,’’ said Shukla. The next date was April 14, but a surgeon had to be placed in quarantine and the transplant had be rescheduled again. Shukla, who was commuting to hospital for dialysis, was diagnosed with Covid in the first week of May. While his first hospitalization was for only 10 days, he had to be readmitted as his parameters were off the mark. ABO transplants are immunologically higher risk and need intensive immunosuppression therapy, according to consultant nephrologist Ashay Shingare. Shukla’s blood tests for inflammatory markers continued to be high for two months, so the transplant had to be put off further as risk of rejection is higher. In the second stint, he was in hospital from June first week to August 28. “While government guidelines state that a 14- to 28-day wait is needed after Covid-19 to undergo a transplant, we found the patient’s inflammatory and hyper-coagulation (blood clotting) state may take up to two months to settle,’’ said Dr Bahadur. Shukla, recuperating at his hometown in Rewa, MP, said he has been feeling better since the transplant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/due-to-covid-19-shimla-geologist-spends-8-months-in-mum-for-kidney-transplant/articleshow/79468399.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Jaipur||No. of daily new infections drops for fourth consecutive day in state||Jaipur: For the fourth consecutive day, the daily count of Covid cases has gone down in the state. After reaching a peak of 3,314 daily new infections on November 24, the state has witnessed a dip in cases in the four days between Wednesday and Saturday to 3,285, 3,180, 3,090 and 2,765 cases respectively. The cumulative cases rose to 2,62,805, while 19 people died of Covid taking state’s toll to 2,274. Though the state witnessed a drop in cases, active cases touched a new high of 28,751. Jaipur’s active cases climbed to 9,065, highest in the state, followed by Jodhpur (6,094), Kota (1,500), Alwar (1,173), Ajmer (1,133), Udaipur (872) and Bhilwara (800). “Though active cases are on the rise, there is no shortage of healthcare facilities for Covid patients’ treatment. We are adding 70 beds in ICUs of RUHS hospital in Jaipur. The existing number of ICU beds in RUHS is 135. With 70 new beds, the capacity will increase to 205 ICU beds,” said a senior health department official. Jaipur reported two deaths taking its tally to 428. Two persons died in Jodhpur taking its tally to 232. Bhilwara reported its 33rd virus death, Udaipur 92nd, Bikaner 161st, Kota 134th, Pali 86th, Nagaur 74th, Jhunjhunu 38th, Dungarpur 30th, Baran 28th, Banswara 27th, Karauli 18th, Hanumangarh 12th and Bundi its 10th Covid casualty. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (627), Jodhpur (449), Kota (219), Alwar (179), Ajmer (115), Udaipur (110), Bhilwara (108), Nagaur (92), Bharatpur (88), Sikar (75), Pali (71), Churu (64), Sriganganagar (62), Bikaner (59), Dungarpur (45), Bundi (42), Tonk (39), Baran (37), Sawai Madhopur (29), Rajsamand (28), Sirohi (26), Jaisalmer (25), Jalore (25), Hanumangarh (24), Jhunjhunu (24), Jhalawar (20), Chittorgarh (17), Banswara (14), Karauli (13), Dausa (13), Barmer (13), Pratapgarh (7) and Dholpur (6).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-of-daily-new-infections-drops-for-fourth-consecutive-day-in-state/articleshow/79469053.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Pune||Contractor found dead in Jambhe village||Pune: A labour contractor (24) was found murdered on Friday afternoon in a house in Jambhe village near Hinjewadi after the neighbours complained of a foul smell. The Hinjewali police suspect the contractor, Ganpat Sadashiv Sangle, was killed with a heavy and blunt object by his roommate, a construction worker, sometime on Tuesday. “The roommate fled with Sangle’s debit card and has withdrawn Rs1.2 lakh from different ATMs in the past three days. It seems like he knows the PIN. We suspect the roommate, who is a native of Uttar Pradesh and worked with Sangle, killed the latter over some money issue and fled,” senior police inspector Balkrishna Sawant of the Hinjewadi police station said. Inspector Sawant stated the roommate is on his way to Uttar Pradesh and continues to withdraw money using Sangle’s debit card. Police said Sangle had rented Suresh Nivrutti Mohite’s (55) house around 15 days back. “After neighbours complained of a smell coming from the house, Mohite unlocked it and found Sangle gagged and motionless. He called the police,” Sawant said, adding the post-mortem revealed the cause of death was an injury on the head due to assault with a heavy and blunt object.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/contractor-found-dead-in-jambhe-village/articleshow/79469052.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Goa||2 months after Reddy exit, GU yet to pick registrar||Panaji: Over two months after former Goa University registrar Y V Reddy stepped down from the post prematurely on health grounds, the varsity has not yet begun the process of appointing a full-time registrar, officials said. “When the office of the registrar is vacant, the duties of the office shall be performed by such person as the vice-chancellor may appoint for the purpose,” the Goa University statute states. Professor Radhika Nayak is currently serving as officiating registrar and the arrangement is till a time a full-time replacement for Reddy is finalised. The new registrar is to be chosen on recommendation of a selection panel, comprising four members, with the university’s vice-chancellor as the panel’s chairman. The other three members of the selection committee have to include an academician or an administrator who is the nominee of the chancellor or Goa governor. Part of the panel will be two nominees of the executive council from among its own members, who are not employees of the university or the affiliated colleges, the statutes of Goa University state. The registrar, as per the statutes, is to be appointed on the basis of deputation/direct recruitment for an initial tenure of two years, extendable to five years or till the age of retirement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/2-months-after-reddy-exit-gu-yet-to-pick-registrar/articleshow/79469071.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Delhi||Trailer park springs up on Delhi-Chandigarh highway||NEW DELHI: The police thought they were stopping the farmers from Punjab and Haryana at Singhu border from entering Delhi. Now the shoe is on the other foot. They are refusing to move, and it’s a veritable blockade on the Delhi-Chandigarh highway. There are few takers for the Burari grounds, about 20 km away. With each passing hour, more and more tractor-trolleys are arriving and the caravan is now stretching over a huge distance. As the numbers grow, the morale of the protesters remains high. At a marathon meeting of more than 30 farmer groups and unions on Saturday evening, it was decided that they will remain stationed at the border, at least for another night. Rakesh Bains, Bharatiya Kisan Union (H) spokesman, said that all unions have decided to spend the night at the same site and another meeting has been called for Sunday morning to decide the course of action. Harinder Singh, BKU general secretary, Punjab, said they were not going anywhere till their demands were met. “We will meet at 11 am every day to discuss our strategy,” he added. Meanwhile, the busy highway looks like a township which has sprung up at a parking lot, a big trailer park of sorts. Thousands of modified tractor-trolleys with all the basic living necessities are randomly stationed on the expressway, as far as the eye can see. Each tractor carries 15-20 people from a village in Punjab. These are loaded with hookahs, beddings, quilts, gas cylinders, stoves and utensils. There are water tankers and ration trucks too. The farmers say they have supplies to last them for several weeks. Jaswinder Singh, a 50-year-old farmer from Fatehgarh, said he has brought 13 people from his village on his tractor. “People ask don’t we fear corona? These farm laws are much worse than corona. They will finish our future generations. We have come prepared with food for months and we will not go back without securing our future,” he added. Teja Singh, 70, from Nabha said he has told his children that he will not turn back unless the demands of the farmers are met. “The government should give us the guaranty of MSP and the three anti-farmer laws should be withdrawn,” he remarked. On Saturday afternoon, several farmers could be seen preparing a langar, some were sleeping under the shadows cast by the tractor-trolleys or on beds made of stubble, some others were reading Punjabi newspapers while some chose to join a huddle to discuss the issues confronting them. A yellow-green John Deere tractor served as a stage from where speeches were being made all through the day. Meanwhile, many youngsters were busy making videos for social media and Punjabi channels. Several trucks of Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) have also started a langar service. Raminder Singh, a member of the committee, said that there will be food for 40,000 people if the need arose. Sanitation is, however, a different story. The waste from disposable plates has already started accumulating in piles, which are an eyesore and toilets are nowhere to be found. Surender Litani of BKU’s Hisar unit said the government should immediately provide mobile toilets and water. “If the administration can do it for political rallies, why not for farmers? He pointed out that all the shops along the road were closed. The day passed off peacefully and there was no confrontation with the police — in fact a group of young volunteers armed with sticks are keeping the farmers away from the buffer zone of barbed wire — but anger simmers below the surface. Karnail Singh, pradhan of Dadiana village in Fatehgarh, said that they had not braved all those obstacles on the way to get grounded at Burari. “Our mandis are being destroyed and the system that has secured our livelihood for decades is being changed without our consent. If we stay here, we will succeed in getting our demands met,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/trailer-park-springs-up-on-delhi-chd-highway/articleshow/79469100.cms||Paras Singh
November 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Three-member interstate gang held, spurious liquor seized||VISAKHAPATNAM: Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) sleuths of Vizag city, Visakhapatnam rural and Srikakulam officials busted an interstate gang involved in manufacturing spurious liquor and seized 250 bottles and labels of different brands. The accused were identified as Tirumala Nagireddy (48), Kankipadu Srinivas (47) and Sagar Kumar Sahu of Berhampur in Odisha. SEB city in-charge Ajita Vejendla said an operation was conducted on interstate spurious liquor transportation. While on patrol on the National Highway at Vadlapudi in Gajuwaka, SEB officials caught Nagireddy and Srinivas transporting liquor in a car. Officials noticed the bottles bore a sticker of sale in Odisha and sent them for an examination. The report of the examination revealed that the liquor was unfit for human consumption. Kumar Sahu was arrested at Berhampur. -- Siva G||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/3-member-interstate-gang-held-spurious-liquor-seized/articleshow/79467622.cms||Siva G
November 29, 2020||India||Journo, friend charred to death in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: A 37-year-old journalist Rakesh Singh died at KGMU’s Trauma Centre while undergoing treatment for severe burn injuries caused by a fire at his house in Balrampur district on Friday. Rakesh’s friend Pintu Sahu (35) who was with him at the house died on the spot. On the basis of Rakesh’s statement given before his death, police have detained former village head Ram Surat along with two others. SP Balrampur Dev Ranjan Verma said prima facie it seemed that the fire started from the bedroom. Police also found a wall broken. The SP said there were no signs of any blast. However, the victim’s father said some men with covered faces scaled the boundary of the house, hurled some explosives and ran away.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/journo-friend-charred-to-death-in-uttar-pradesh/articleshow/79470167.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Tope against lockdown, keen on RT-PCR test price review||PUNE: State health minister Rajesh Tope on Saturday said that he is against future Covid-19 lockdowns. The chief minister is yet to make an announcement on the matter, but Tope said with unlocks on, it is now up to citizens to ensure health precautions are maintained. The minister was responding to rumours of possible curbs such as night curfews in high-incidence districts such as Pune. “There has been no decision yet, but there should not be a lockdown. However, some restrictions — if required — may be introduced to check the increase in cases in some regions,” Tope said. He said he is also keen on capping the price of the Covid RT-PCR test. The Supreme Court on Tuesday had sought the Centre’s response on a plea which asked if the price of these tests could be limited to Rs 400 across the country. The health minister said the state has reviewed prices three times and was willing to review it further to increase testing levels. Last month, the state had revised the RT-PCR testing cost to a minimum of Rs 980, from Rs 1,200. “Cost should not be an issue. We will again carry out an audit and decide on a new rate. States are charging different prices, but Maharashtra took the lead on reducing the price,” he said. The petition on capping the price of RT-PCR tests at Rs 400 had said testing centres were charging citizens exorbitant sums for a vital service. Tope said, “This is not right. I agree that if there is a need to review and revise the price even more, we should do so immediately.” He added that he has directed all collectors and local officials to increase Covid testing in their districts to reach a target of 1.5 lakh daily tests in the state. Labs should increase capacity from the current 50% to 90%, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/tope-against-lockdown-keen-on-rt-pcr-test-price-review/articleshow/79469077.cms||Nisha Nambiar
November 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Rain-battered roads in Vij trouble commuters||Vijayawada: The continuous downpour in the wake of Cyclone Nivar has started to show an impact on the city’s roads. Sections of main roads in the city have sustained damages while road work at Nirmala Convent Road at Patamata centre has deteriorated, causing problems for motorists. Heavy rains this monsoon have washed away the upper layer of many arterial roads. The Inner Ring Road, Moghalrajapuram Road and Karl Marx Road have been particularly badly hit, with damages posing a daily inconvenience for commuters. Cyclone Nivar, which brought around 11 cm of rainfall to the city, has worsened the state of Nirmala Convent Road, which was in a state of neglect. Rain water has remained stagnant on the road over the last three days and large potholes are adding to commuters’ woes. Locals complained that the apathy of the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) is behind the poor condition of Nirmala Convent Road. “VMC authorities repaired the underground drain line on this road a couple of months ago but they ignored road repair works. As a result, huge potholes formed. Locals are at a liberty to dump construction waste to fill these potholes, which in turn poses a danger to the motorists,” said K Narendhra, a resident. The road, which is used as an alternative route to escape the traffic at Benz Circle, has a steady stream of vehicular traffic, he added. Meanwhile, following rains, locals have also raised complaints of mosquitoes breeding in stagnant water on the sides of the road. The engineering wing of the VMC said they will soon take up road repair works.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/rain-battered-roads-in-vij-trouble-commuters/articleshow/79467659.cms||Venu Lanka
November 29, 2020||Delhi||Girl’s wish key for wedding to be valid: Delhi HC||NEW DELHI: A Muslim girl, who had eloped while still a minor, converted to Hinduism to marry the man of her choice last year and spent months in government shelter homes in Nagpur and Delhi during peak Covid-19, is finally back with her husband, thanks to the intervention of Delhi High Court. While dealing with the tricky interfaith marriage matter, where one set of parents remain bitterly opposed to the union and police of two states are involved, the court went by the gold standard available in law for such cases — the wishes of the girl who turned 18 last month. Even though she got married while still a minor, Shabnoor alias Srishti stuck to her stand that she wanted to live with her husband Akash and got her statement recorded to that effect before a magistrate. A bench of justices J R Midha and Brijesh Sethi acted swiftly earlier this year when Akash filed a habeas corpus seeking production of her missing wife, who had been forcibly taken back to Nagpur by police on the basis of a case lodged by her parents. The Nagpur police in September booked Akash for kidnapping a minor and kept the girl in a shelter home for a few months, before handing her to the parents. In July, the couple had secretly travelled by train to Delhi, when Srishti realised her parents planned to get her married to someone else and made an SOS call to Akash. After interacting with the girl and her parents on videoconferencing, the court roped in senior advocate H S Phoolka as an amicus curiae, along with the NGO Bachpan Bachao Andolan (BBA). Phoolka urged the court to ensure the woman is brought to Delhi and her statement is recorded in court to ascertain her wishes, now that she is no longer a minor. The bench then ordered Nagpur and Delhi Police to ensure Srishti is brought to Delhi by flight. She was permitted to live with Akash after being kept at Nari Niketan for a few days as she underwent Covid protocol under the care of BBA. According to the plea, Shabnoor married Akash on July 23 when she was minor. She turned 18-years-old on October 8 and took a decision to stay with her husband. The court realised that though the marriage is “voidable” that is she can end it if she wants, it noted that Srishti has taken a decision to continue the marriage, making it legal and valid. However, the sword of arrest and criminal prosecution still hangs on Akash, since the Nagpur police registered an FIR against him where it intends to chargesheet him. Since the proceedings can only be quashed by the Bombay high court, the bench ordered that “in the interest of justice, Nagpur police should await the consideration of the petition under Section 482 CrPC being filed by the petitioner (for quashing).... the Nagpur Police is directed to withhold further action till the consideration of Section 482 petition being filed by the petitioner before the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court.” Watch Girl’s wish key for wedding to be valid: Delhi HC||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/girls-wish-key-for-wedding-to-be-valid-hc/articleshow/79469133.cms||Abhinav Garg
November 29, 2020||Nagpur||Solapur police’s ‘contact tracing’ has 250-300 businessmen running for cover||Nagpur: Around 300 businessmen from the city were left in lurch after their names were found in the contact list of the mobile phone book of alleged bookie Rinku Agarwal, who was arrested by Solapur police in mid-November. Fearing action as Solapur police were asking them to appear before them to clarify, a sizeable number preferred to leave the city overnight to avoid legal hassles.Agrawal was taken into custody along with two others after their names surfaced following the arrests of four bookies during a raid in Solapur. They were quizzed overnight before being placed under arrest at a Umrer farmhouse and taken to Solapur after the cops procured a transit remand from the local court.The drama kick-started after Solapur cops returned to the city with the contact list data of Agrawal’s seized mobile phone. Though Agrawal was in remand custody, he was not made to accompany the cops when they came for the second time to city. The Solapur police started making random calls to the people in the contact list of Agrawal and also a few bookies whom he had named. An automobile dealer, having nothing to do with betting, had his name in the contact list of Agrawal. He was rounded up and detained for several hours before being allowed to go after intense grilling. Learning about his hassles, several other panicked businessmen from Gandhibagh, Wardhaman Nagar and other places decided to flee the city assuming that their turns would also come even though they had no connection to betting but knew Agrawal in relation to his other legal businesses in the city and elsewhere. Senior counsel Prakash Jaiswal stated he had received several calls from many businessmen asking for advises as they were being contacted by Solapur police. “There was no prima facie relation of many businessmen with the betting case and hence I advised them not to panic. Still, many preferred to go undercover to avoid getting implicated,” said Jaiswal who also happened to represent Agrawal.“Since I am the defense counsel in the case, the matter was known to me which revolves around a handful few who were already in police custody. Someone’s name in the contact list of the mobile phone does not establish his link to the case as in the famous episode of Jain Hawala,” he said. Solapur police had also rounded up one bookie, identified as Haji, who was among the lot that had wrapped up the illegal betting activities following warning from city police chief Amitesh Kumar. The CP’s strict action on bookies had ensured the top names having already shifting their base or stopping their activities. Sources said Haji had developed health complications during the grilling of Solapur police and had to be admitted to a hospital. “Innocent businessmen from city were made to feel the heat due to an action in western Maharashtra but could not approach any authorities fearing police wrath,” said a source privy to the episode. “The misuse of mobile phone contact list is generally rampant after raids on bookies,” said the insider. Solapur police CP Ankush Shinde said his action on the bookies was one of the strictest in the state. “I have so far received no complaints either in written or verbally. If I receive any complaints, there would be action,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/solapur-polices-contact-tracing-has-250-300-businessmen-running-for-cover/articleshow/79467623.cms||Soumitra Bose
November 29, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: ‘Free inoculation is Centre’s call’||PUNE: State health minister Rajesh Tope said it was too premature to announce free Covid vaccination in the state. He added that it would be best if the Centre took a decision on the matter after a vaccine was approved. “The Union government should take a uniform decision on vaccine distribution. States will abide by that decision,” he said. The governments of Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Assam and Puduchchery have announced vaccines will be free of charge within their jurisdictions. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has demanded the shots be free across the country. Tope said such announcements should ideally come from the Centre, which is already monitoring vaccine manufacturing and distribution. “It should provide more clarity on pricing, instead of states releasing announcements on their own,” he said. The minister added that five vaccines were currently being discussed for India, but it still wasn’t clear which one would be approved first — a factor that will impact pricing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/free-inoculation-is-centres-call/articleshow/79469089.cms||Nisha Nambiar
November 29, 2020||Goa||With Nivar out of the way, Goa nights may be cooler||PANAJI: With very severe cyclonic storm Nivar weakening into a low pressure area and dissipating on Saturday, the chances of rainfall have receded and night temperatures may witness a slight fall to normal level and below. The storm did not have much impact on Goa, as only the sky was partly overcast over the past few days. Otherwise, the weather was pleasant as the maximum temperature hovered around 33-34C. During the nights, the mercury rose a wee bit to 23-24C, just a couple of degrees above normal but within average range. On Saturday, India meteorological department (IMD), Panaji, recorded a minimum temperature of 22.2C, just 0.6 degrees above normal. During November, the mercury has not dropped below 20 degrees, though it slid to that point once, some days back. The weather will be dry for at least the next five days. “The probability of rain during the next five days is very low,” IMD scientist Rahul M, said. With the sky clearing up, the nights are likely to be pleasant again. But around November 29, a fresh low pressure area is likely to form in southeast Bay of Bengal, which may intensify into a depression subsequently. It is likely to move towards Tamil Nadu and Puducherry cost. “But at most, there may be cloudy conditions but no impact on Goa,” Rahul said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-nivar-out-of-the-way-goa-nights-may-be-cooler/articleshow/79469783.cms||Paul Fernandes
November 29, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Borders shut, mandis see shortage in green supply||NEW DELHI: With Delhi’s borders choked by traffic jams due to the ongoing farmers’ protest, the supply of fruits and vegetables to the city has been affected. There is no shortage of fruits and vegetables yet, but prices are likely to increase if the situation does not change. Azadpur Mandi, Delhi’s largest wholesale fruit and vegetable market, where goods reach every day not only from the states but also abroad, has seen a dip in arrivals since Friday. The volume of daily arrivals is now just around 2,800 tonnes of the normal 5,500 tonnes of fruits and 5,600 tonnes of the regular supply of 6,500 tonnes of vegetables. Adil Ahmad Khan, chairman, Azadpur Agricultural Produce Market Committee, said the sealing of the borders had affected the supply of fruits and vegetables. “Azapur Mandi is the biggest in north India and it feeds not only Delhi-NCR, but also other parts of the country,” Khan said, adding that while trucks arrivals have dipped, trucks from the mandi are unable to leave the city either. Khan said, “Though there hasn’t been much problem on the Delhi-UP border till now and truck movement has been smooth, hurdles are starting to arise.” He said that the city wouldn’t face a shortage for at least two days even though arrivals had dipped by 50%, but a shortage would result if the protest continued. “The demands of the farmers are valid and the central government should talk to them and find a solution,” he said. Trucks bringing fruits and vegetables from Himachal, Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Jammu and Kashmir are stuck on NH-1 near Singhu border. Watch Delhi: Farmers' protest hampers green supply in mandis||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/borders-shut-mandis-see-shortage-in-green-supply/articleshow/79469123.cms||Sidharatha Roy
November 29, 2020||India||2 supporters of Bihar MLA shot dead, 2 detained||PATNA: Four bike-borne criminals shot dead two people and injured a passer-by in Gopalganj district on Saturday, reports Ramashankar. The deceased, identified as Devendra Pandey and Dhanshyam Pandey, were supporters of JD(U) MLA Amrendra Kumar Pandey alias Pappu Pandey. Two of the assailants were caught and thrashed by a mob before being handed over to police. They were identified as Imteyaz and Hasmuddin of Kubersthan from UP. The motive is not yet clear, though sources hinted at gang rivalry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/2-supporters-of-bihar-mla-shot-dead-2-detained/articleshow/79470168.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Nagpur||2 months on, pvt hosp yet to refund excess bill to patients||Nagpur: One of the private Covid-19 hospitals has not refunded excess amount to patients despite six notices issued by the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC). Many are forced to make rounds of the civic body for past two months.A woman, wife of a Covid-19 recovered patient, told TOI, “I have been making rounds of the NMC for the last two months to get excess amount refunded from a private hospital. My husband was the first positive patient to be admitted in the hospital on August 25. He was discharged on September 18. I happened to get a copy of notification issued by the state government on capping of the rates. I calculated the excess amount, which ran to Rs1.80 lakh, and lodged a complaint with the NMC seeking refund. We are yet to get single penny as on date,” she said.As per the receipts available with the patient, the private hospital had recovered Rs5.3 lakh from the patient.Apart from the recovery of package rate approved by the government, the private hospital had taken separate charges for visits of consultant, resident medical officer, nursing, dietitian, tests, nutritional screening, housekeeping, linen handling, sanitization, bactorub, face shield, Covid utility kit, gloves, biomedical waste bag etc despite all these being a part of the package.The NMC had calculated excess amount at Rs1.55 lakh and had directed the hospital to refund to the patient.The woman added that the NMC is time and again telling her that the letters have been issued to the hospital but the latter is not refunding the amount. “The NMC itself accepted that the hospital charged us more. As per the government’s order, it is the responsibility of the NMC to ensure refund,” she said.Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B, on October 26, had issued a notice to the same private hospital, directing it to reimburse Rs17,97,040 to 50 patients within two days. The civic chief had warned the hospital of an action in case of non-compliance in the prescribed time period. Before this notice, the NMC had issued five notices to the same hospital.Among 50 patients, 17 were discharge on September 20 and 21, which mean their cases are pending for over two months. The remaining 33 patients were discharged between October 1 and 19.Additional municipal commissioner Jalaj Sharma confirmed TOI that the hospital has not reimbursed the amount to these 50 patients as on date. “Our team came to know about the excess bills from pre-audit system. Our team also verified it and issued notices to the hospital on complaints within a week. But the hospital says it will refund amount only after orders of the high court. The hospital has filed a petition in the HC,” he said.Sharma also said that the HC has not given any stay in this case.Anusuya Kale-Chhabrani from NGO Together We Can said, “The NMC should take further action on the private hospital if it is not complying with the orders. The NMC has been given all the powers by the government under various Acts. The government had provided provision of registering offence against such hospitals and cancellation of registration to the NMC. The private hospital seems to be taking undue advantage of the situation.”WHAT’s THE CASEGovernment has issued a notification capping charges for Covid-19 positive patientsPackage rate was fixed for room rent, consultant, nursing, diagnosis and other chargesMajority of private hospitals recovered charges for consultant, nursing, RMO, dietitian from patientsNMC found out hospitals issuing excess bills in pre-audit system, received complaints from many patientsA woman lodged complaint with NMC against a private hospital for excess bill in SeptemberNMC found out the hospital gave excess bills of 50 patients Issued six notices to hospitals, directing it to refund excess amountHospital hasn’t refunded a single penny till now||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-months-on-pvt-hosp-yet-to-refund-excess-bill-to-patients/articleshow/79467657.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
November 29, 2020||Nagpur||2 flyers, 3 rail passengers found positive||Nagpur: Two flyers and three rail passengers were found positive following their Covid test on arrival at Nagpur airport and railway station respectively. The flyers had arrived on Friday and were asked to take RT-PCR test at the airport itself as per the state government’s SOP on incoming travellers from hotspots like Delhi, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Goa.On Saturday, it was the first time after implementation of the SOP that any rail passenger was found positive. They had arrived from Amritsar-Bilaspur Chhattisgarh Express. The civic and railway health teams had screened 1,717 passengers. Of these, 17 were asked to take rapid antigen test. The rest of the 14 passengers were found negative, the NMC press release stated.The three positive passengers have been permitted to stay in home isolation. The NMC has also kept the option of isolation at Pachpaoli police quarters open for passengers. It is running a Covid Care Centre and testing centre at the quarters.On Friday, three flights from Delhi and one from Ahmedabad had landed in the city. Fifty seven passengers from both destinations didn’t have a Covid report.The NMC press note mentioned that it was not aware where the two flyers were at the moment. Ideally, the NMC is supposed to trace close contacts of positive travellers and test them too.The district officials have started screening and testing of road passengers but no information was available if anyone tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-flyers-3-rail-passengers-found-positive/articleshow/79467642.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Pune||Pune: Medical experts seek more clarity in communication on vaccines||PUNE: Seeking better communication from the Covid-19 vaccine manufacturers to build the trust of public in the shots on the anvil, several health experts urged the firms to strike a balance between confidentiality and transparency. WHO chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan told TOI that they were waiting for the details of the two trials of the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine to understand the data and their implications on its efficacy and safety. “Further trials would be needed with half and full dose schedule to establish its efficacy in larger population,” she said. Vaccine expert Dr Gagandeep Kang, representing the coalition for epidemic preparedness, said a clear and transparent communication about planned studies and results were essential for building the public trust for drugs and vaccines. She said when the manufacturers claim a vaccine’s efficacy was greater than 90%, their trial protocols and analytic plans should also be in public domain. “Leapfrogging licensure and random analysis are not good for science or public health,” she wrote on social media. Kang said, “Peer review and scientific publications may have their faults. Expert scrutiny by scientists and regulators are necessary to inform and validate science, and ensure safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines.” Infectious disease epidemiologist Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the epidemiology section of the Indian Council of Medical Research, said the nature and the extent of vaccine hesitancy must be assessed timely. “An effective communication strategy is needed to address fears and uncertainties,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/medical-experts-seek-more-clarity-in-communication-on-vaccines/articleshow/79469107.cms||Nisha Nambiar
November 29, 2020||Delhi||Twist in the tail: Tiring of lockdown pals, owners abandon their pets in Delhi-NCR||NEW DELHI: Finding it hard to cope with the Covid-19 pandemic and bored of being confined to their home, a couple in Kalkaji purchased a puppy in September. The novelty wore off soon after, however, and when the Pomeranian turned 70 days old on Tuesday, they abandoned the poor creature. They aren’t the only ones. Pet owners backing out of their commitment to pets, mostly dogs, has been unusually high in the past six months, according to animal adoption agencies in Delhi-NCR. A 45-year-old man abandoned his pair of four-year-old Labrador retrievers after he lost his job during the pandemic. When they were brought to an animal centre, the male Labrador was doing poorly, his medical condition having been ignored all this while. A two-year-old Chow Chow was found abandoned at a parking lot in south Delhi. A woman called animal welfare NGO Posh Foundation and threatened to tie her eight-year-old pug to a street pole if it did not take the dog in. Animal adoption agencies said people were finding it difficult to take care of the canines either because their resources were stretched by pandemic-forced constraints or because their work schedules no longer allowed them to care for the creatures. Yatharth, founder, Furrytude, said, “We recently had two cases of families abandoning dogs they purchased during the lockdown. Within 3-4 months, they claimed their work and young kids required time that left them unable to take responsibility for the pets. Once the excitement of having a dog is gone, the pet becomes a burden. We have taken in 12 abandoned cats since the pandemic broke.” In a few cases, it became difficult to take care of the pets after a family member contracted Covid, explained Geeta Seshamani, vice-president, Friendicoes, while revealing that the NGO has adopted over 150 dogs in the pandemic months. She regretted, however, that only a few arrived to take back their pets after recovering from the disease. Ambika Shukla, director, Sanjay Gandhi Animal Care Centre, said, “There’s sadly an avalanche of people giving up their pets, and most give absurd reasons, like a shift to a smaller house, no one there to take care of the animals, pets biting and all family members preoccupied in their jobs. Of course, the loss of earnings and the resulting financial angle cannot be ruled out too.” She admitted that a couple of pet owners returned in a few days to take back the pets they had abandoned outside the animal care centre. Aditi Badam, who founded Posh Foundation, feels the situation is improving. “We saw an 80% rise in abandoning of pets between March and June,” she said. “We persuaded a quarter of the owners to retain their furry friends after counselling them. We also disabused them of their belief that they could get Covid from pets.” Happily, many people are also coming forward to give the canines a new home. Ghaziabad resident Samson Paul adopted an abandoned four-year-old German Shepherd last month. “My wife and I are fond of dogs. When we saw Rocky we liked him and immediately brought him home. He had an infection in his leg, but is now fully cured and is well adjusted in the house,” Paul smiled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/twist-in-the-tail-tiring-of-lockdown-pals-owners-abandon-their-pets/articleshow/79469157.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
November 29, 2020||Pune||Daily cases surge above 1,000 in Pune Metropolitan Region, 763 recover||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Saturday added 1,080 Covid-19 cases, its highest since October 16, pushing the total caseload above 3.41 lakh. As many as 18 patients succumbed to the infection in PMR in the last 24 hours, taking its toll to 8,380. Among the new cases, the Pune municipal limits added 528, followed by the rural areas (335) and the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits. In comparison to new infections, as many as 763 patients recovered in PMR on Saturday, taking its dischareg count above 3.21 lakh. The rise in daily cases has led to an increase in active patients in the region. On Saturday, the active caseload reached 11,469, including 7,125 patients were in home isolation and 4,344 admitted in various hospitals across PMR.  The PMC areas had more than 5,500 active cases on Saturday night, the highest in the region. At 3,154, the rural areas had highest number of patients admitted in hospitals, followed by the PCMC limits (965) and the PMC areas (225), a report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated. The testing in the region continued to remain above 10,000-mark on Saturday. The region conducted 10,622 tests, which included 4,535 in the PMC limits, 3,817 in the PCMC areas and 2,270 in the rural areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/daily-cases-surge-above-1000-in-pmr-763-recover/articleshow/79469125.cms||Sarang Dastane
November 29, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Man wanted for harassment found dead||Thiruvananthapuram: A middle-aged man who was wanted by police for physically harassing a woman was found on Saturday, albeit dead. Madhavan’s body was exhumed from under the floor of his friend’s residence at Memala near Pattankulichapara under Vithura police station limits. Police have registered a case on murder and launched a probe. Madhavan, aged around 50 years, was a resident of Thannikkulam near Vithura. Police have launched a search to track down his missing friend, Thajuddeen. The suspect is someone with a criminal past, having been arrested and jailed a year ago under Abkari Act for the offence of brewing illicit liquor. It is suspected that Madhavan was hiding in Thajuddeen’s house and they might have broken into a drunken brawl, which resulted in the murder. According to Vithura police, Madhavan’s body was around three days old and had already started putrefying when found. “We found the body after being informed by members of women’s self-help group who were engaged in works of clearing bushes from public road nearby. They called us and said that there was strong stench coming from the house,’’ said Vithura station-house officer S Sreejith. He said preliminary assumption of police is that the deceased was bludgeoned on head with some blunt object and then strangulated using cloth or rope. “There was a deep injury on the right side of head of the deceased, which could have caused by bludgeoning. Both eyes of the deceased were protruding out and the tongue was also out and bitten on hard, both of which are common in cases of suffocation,’’ the inspector said, adding that there were some marks around his neck suggesting strangulation. Both Madhavan and Thajuddeen were lone men. While Madhavan was not married, Thajuddeen was estranged from his wife. His mother died two months ago. It is suspected that Thajuddeen still used to brew illicit liquor and this might be the reason why Madhavan chose his home to hide. It was on Sunday, Vithura police registered a case against Madhavan under section 354 of IPC for physically harassing his neighbour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/man-wanted-for-harassment-found-dead/articleshow/79467687.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Nagpur||Backlog students oppose NU exam fee move||Nagpur: Backlog students are up in arms over the Nagpur University exam section’s move to charge winter exam fee. The winter exams are yet to be decided in view of Covid restrictions imposed by the state government.Students said it was unfair on the university’s part to seek more money when it actually saved substantial amounts in the summer exams, which were cancelled midway in March due to the lockdown.Many of these students are facing the brunt of financial crisis due to loss of job and businesses. Earlier too, the students and senate members had sought refund of fee for summer 2020 exam. The students had paid fee ranging between Rs200 to Rs2,000 in January while many had also paid late and super late fees up to Rs4,000 by Feb-March this year.As the regular exams were never conducted due to Covid-19 outbreak, they feel the university didn’t have to pay for invigilation, answer books, exam centre, photocopying of question mark and other facilities needed in offline mode.The NU has consistently ruled out refund or fee waiver even amid stiff opposition from different quarters.Pro-VC Sanjay Dudhe told TOI that the exam section incurs double the expenses on each student than what is actually charged. “For example, a student is charged Rs250 but university spends Rs450 on each paper. Exams are always in deficit,” he said.Chartered accountant Bhavesh Gehani, a law student who opposed the exam fee after NU failed him, alleged this is an indirect fraud. “They never held offline exam after March, still they are charging us. I paid Rs2,100 and now have been asked to pay Rs6,000 for backlog papers. Half of my previous exam was not held and winter exam too is undecided,” he said.Gehani added that some of his batchmates are unable to afford the fee and NU must be compassionate in such troubling times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/backlog-students-oppose-nu-exam-fee-move/articleshow/79467667.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
November 29, 2020||Jaipur||Allegations show Cong involved in horse-trading: BJP||Jaipur: State BJP president Satish Poonia has asked chief minister Ashok Gehlot to clarify on his party’s tribal leader Mahendrajeet Singh Malviya’s allegation that Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) MLAs had been paid Rs 5 crore each in lieu of their support to the Congress during the Rajya Sabha polls.Malviya, while addressing a gram panchayat election rally in Banswara on November 25, claimed that BTP MLAs supported the Congress during the Rajya Sabha polls and the political crisis as they were paid huge sums.“Malviya’s statement has made it clear that Congress was involved in the horse-trading. It has proved the BJP’s stand that Congress was involved in the horse-trading of MLAs to win Rajya Sabha polls and to save their government during the floor test. It is also interesting to note that Gehlot had told that MLAs are ready to change their loyalty for Rs 25-35 crore during the political crisis while blaming the BJP. However, it has turned out that his own party leaders were involved in the horse-trading,” said Poonia.Taking on the ruling party over the issue, Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat sought the resignation of Gehlot over the horse-trading charges levelled by his party leader.“Malviya is a former cabinet minister and his allegation should be taken seriously by the Congress high command and take appropriate action against the CM,” said Shekhawat. The minister demanded CBI inquiry into the case anticipating that it can unearth a scam of horse-trading by the ruling party.Calling the allegations baseless and a figment of imagination, Velaram Ghogra, president of Bharatiya Tribal Party, Rajasthan said that Malviya’s claim should be probed by the competent law enforcement agency. “His statement is a result of Congress’ frustration in the tribal region as they have been cornered by the people here. The BTP has challenged him to prove the allegations or tender a public apology else Congress leaders will face the opposition in the region,” said Ghogra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/allegations-show-cong-involved-in-horse-trading-bjp/articleshow/79468353.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Pune||Puneites find ways to let their hair down & have some unalloyed fun||PUNE: The numerous restrictions and consequent changes brought about by Covid-19 pandemic has failed to defeat the spirit of Puneites, who have been finding ways to have fun throughout the lockdown and after. From engaging in household chores to enjoying small intimate get-togethers or even exercising together, Puneites are finding ways to get back to normal routine while adhering to restrictions. The city-based Agarwal family, fond of watching new releases in multiplexes every week, has now made movie nights a ritual at home. “From ensuring complete darkness and loud volume, to popcorn, snacks and cold drinks, we do everything possible to get the theatre feel,” said Shanti Agarwal. For many others, the pandemic has provided an opportunity to bond with family and neighbours. “All these years, my family members had all been busy with their jobs and our timings rarely matched. It was due to the lockdown that we spent more time together,” said Sanjay Jadhav, a working professional. A group of friends from Nigdi enjoyed their time together exercising. “The lockdown led to closure of gyms, which have opened recently. During the lockdown, all my friends came together to cycle, something we had been planning to do for years,” said Lea Carvalho. The easing of restrictions has also brought out party heads in the city. NIBM Road resident Shaheen Ghasia said, “We decided to go out on weekdays to avoid the weekend crowd. We have been careful to check restaurants and bars for precautions being followed. It feels great to finally be able to go out or visit places or friends.” Several Puneites have stated that instead of doing anything extravagant, they have found happiness in food. “During the peak lockdown, we were experimenting with dishes at home. Now with restaurants open, we splurge on our favourites from time to time,” said Swapnil Shinde, a city-based working professional.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/puneites-find-ways-to-let-their-hair-down-have-some-unalloyed-fun/articleshow/79469153.cms||Rujuta Parekh
November 29, 2020||Nagpur||Colleges pass backlog students, NU fails them||Nagpur: The Nagpur University (NU) exam section appears to be confused over following its own directives regarding final year and preceding LLB batch students, many of whom have been failed despite their college submitting much more than the passing marks.The NU had assured students that only their post-lockdown exam marks submitted by colleges would be considered, which hasn’t turned out to be the case. Left with no options, the students have filled the winter exam forms for the backlog papers as well as applied for revaluation, in the hope that they would clear the final year.Vice chancellor SR Chaudhari, who doesn’t have much university experience, hasn’t responded to TOI’s any query on online exam and result since October. Director of Examinations and Evaluation Prafulla Sabale too didn’t respond to TOI queries.Chartered accountant Bhavesh Gehani is probably the only LLB student to confront the NU brass over the alleged flip-flop. In his letter to Chaudhari, Gehani has questioned the NU’s policy of passing or failing backlog students.Gehani, like several other LLB students, said he had appeared in half of his backlog exams before the lockdown was imposed. “I have been promoted in third year now. I had appeared for two out of five second year (2nd semester) backlog papers. Rest of the papers were never held. Then how and on what basis have I been failed is not clear,” he said.Vivek, now in final year LLB, said, he had appeared in the backlog exam conducted by the college. “But it seems the university took into consideration the performance of pre-lockdown exam when it actually had asked colleges to conduct that exam for backlog papers and submit marks,” he said.Another final year LLB student is facing similar situation. “Third-semester backlog exam was on and then lockdown came into effect. They told us exam would be held and no one would fail. But now the result have been declared and we have been failed,” he said.Many students were baffled when they found that their respective colleges has allotted them over 50 to 60 marks which makes it comfortable for them to clear the backlog papers. “For the same backlog papers, the NU has awarded 25 to 31 marks, only to fail us. The result mentions that the March exam marks were counted. This is deliberate. We have filled the forms too to ensure we do not to miss the deadline and revaluation,” a student said.Some teachers told TOI that the Mumbai University has passed students in backlog papers even if they didn’t appear in March exams.Other streams haven’t seen such disparity as far as final and preceding year students with backlog are concerned.A principal said that the NU has told them that offline exam for backlog students will be held whenever government allows it.Pro-VC Sanjay Dudhe told TOI that the NU is not keen on online exams now. “Students have been promoted but their backlog exams will be held at college or university level. A student is promoted based on performance of the previous year. But if there is any backlog, then she or he will have to appear now,” he said.PG admissions from December 6Pro-VC Sanjay Dudhe told TOI that the NU will initiate the online admission process for postgraduate courses from December 6. The centralized admission process will be held in a phase-wise manner like every year. Initially, admission for popular courses are opened followed by mainly humanities courses. Dudhe also said that the exam section was prepared to hold winter exams anytime if the government or local authorities permit them. “If exam are held at college level, it will be faster now. Consultation with colleges too is going on,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/colleges-pass-backlog-students-nu-fails-them/articleshow/79467680.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
November 29, 2020||Pune||Gathering of over 50 people barred||Pune: The Pune rural police on Friday issued a fresh order banning gathering of over 50 people in wedding or other ceremonies in the district. Aimed at arresting Covid-19 case surge in the district, the order was issued by Abhinav Deshmukh, the superintendent of police, Pune rural. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gathering-of-over-50-people-barred/articleshow/79469129.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Jaipur||Kisan Mahapanchayat supports farmers’ stir||Jaipur: Members of Kisan Mahapanchayat while extending support to the agitating farmers of Punjab and Haryana protesting against the recent Centre’s farm laws left for Delhi under the leadership of president Rampal Jat on Saturday.Jat in a statement said the central government which supported a private member’s bill for minimum support price guarantee on August 8, 2014, has brought in three bills which are anti-farmer.He said the central government instead of addressing the grievances of the farmers, resorted to high handed methods to suppress them.He said the Prime Minister on one hand says the minimum support price would continue, but on the other hand the farmers were forced to sell their produce of millet and maize at very low prices in the absence of MSP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/kisan-mahapanchayat-supports-farmers-stir/articleshow/79468356.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Pune||PM visits Serum’s Manjari plant, discusses vaccine logistics, distribution plan with team||Pune: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday visited the vaccine major Serum Institute of India’s new plant at Manjari and interacted with its team about the manufacturing, logistics and distribution of its Covid-19 vaccine — Covieshield. In a tweet, the Prime Minister said, “Had a good interaction with the team at Serum Institute of India. They shared details about their progress so far on how they plan to further ramp up vaccine manufacturing. Also, took a look at their manufacturing facility.” Serum Institute of India (SII) has partnered with the University of Oxford and AstraZeneca for the manufacture and distribution of the vaccine. Modi reached the plant of SII at 4.30pm and spent an hour there. Its owner and chief executive officer (CEO) Adar Poonawalla shared with the Prime Minister the details of how they plan to scale up the vaccine manufacturing by producing 100 million doses every month from January. Currently, it is producing 60 million doses every month. The company has so far stockpiled around four crore doses and would have around 10 crore doses ready by January. During an online interaction with the reporters in the evening, Poonawalla confirmed that SII would be applying for emergency regulatory approval in two weeks. The phase III clinical trials of Covieshield on 1,600 participants across India are expected to be completed soon. A total of 17 trial sites are studying the safety and immunogenicity of the Oxford University vaccine candidate in India. “The interim data of our trials so far has been promising,” Poonawalla said. “The Indian trials are running smoothly with strict adherence to all the necessary processes and protocols. So far, there are no concerns,” he added. On Saturday, Modi visited the units of three vaccine manufacturers in India to personally review the progress of vaccine development and manufacturing process. First, he went to the Zydus Biotech Park in Ahmedabad, followed by Bharat Biotech in Hyderabad, and then SII in Pune. The PMO had tweeted that as India entered a decisive phase of the fight against Covid-19, Modi’s visit to these facilities and discussions with scientists would help him get a first-hand perspective of the preparations, challenges and roadmap in India’s endeavour to vaccinate its citizens. Modi had earlier visited SII in November 2016 for its “Clean City” initiative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pm-visits-serums-manjari-plant-discusses-vaccine-logistics-distribution-plan-with-team/articleshow/79469180.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Jaipur||Rate of RT-PCR test in pvt labs to be slashed to Rs 800: CM||Jaipur: The state government will bring down the cost of the RT-PCR test in private labs to Rs 800 from Rs 1,200. The announcement was made by chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday while virtually inaugurating the 70-bed Covid ICU in RUHS hospital in Jaipur. At one time, the cost of the RT-PCR test was Rs 4,000 in state’s private labs which was brought down to Rs 2,200 before it was slashed to Rs 1,200.The chief minister also inaugurated the Covid testing labs in Hanumangarh, Pratapgarh, Jaisalmer, Tonk, Bundi and Rajsamand. A cancer ward was also inaugurated in SDM Hospital, Jodhpur. The chief minister said that to control the pandemic, it is necessary that the infection should not be hidden at any stage, because delay in treatment makes the disease fatal. Those who did not get timely screening and treatment, make recovery difficult and put their own life in jeopardy. The chief minister said the health infrastructure has been strengthened throughout Rajasthan for maximum screening and proper treatment of corona patients and now, RT-PCR testing facility is available in every district. While virtualising the test labs at Tonk, Pratapgarh, Nathdwara in Rajsamand, Jaisalmer, Hanumangarh and Bundi, he expressed happiness that the health department has made labs functional now in all districts for free testing of Covid. Gehlot said that Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu are the only two states where 100 per cent tests are being done through RT-PCR, which is the most trusted test for coronavirus in the world. He said that all parties should work together during the Covid crisis and that testing should be increased in the state without worrying about a rise in the number of patients. The recovery rate in the state is good and the death rate is below 1 per cent and therefore people are becoming careless. Masks and social distancing protocol should be followed strictly, he added. Medical and health minister Raghu Sharma said that after the new ICU ward at RUHS Hospital, a total of 205 ICU beds have been created. The state-of-the-art ICU ward with 70 beds with international level facilities has cost Rs 8 crore. He said now 1,000 oxygen beds are also available and CT-scan facility has been started. He said that Rajasthan has become the leading state in the availability of health facilities. BOXCM defends health minister Defending a Covid-postive health minister Raghu Sharma's visit to newly set up ICU in RUHS hospital, a dedicated Covid hospital, in Jaipur, the chief minister asked who else will conduct a visit if not the health minister.Gehlot said after testing positive, the minister was admitted in the RUHS hospital and he inspected the newly set up ICU there. What is wrong with that. BJP had raised objections after the Covid-positive minister visited the hospital. The BJP leaders had accused him of putting the lives of others including the hospital staff at risk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rate-of-rt-pcr-test-in-pvt-labs-to-be-slashed-to-rs-800-cm/articleshow/79468368.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Jaipur||Cong MLA’s bribery charge against BTP for backing govt sparks row||Jaipur: The ruling Congress which accused the BJP of horse trading of its MLAs were put in a spot by its own MLA Mahendra Jeet Singh Malviya who accused the Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) of accepting money for their support in the Rajya Sabha and later during the political crisis in the state. The video of the MLA is being now used by the BJP to target the Congress. Congress state president Govind Singh Dotasra however said, “I cannot comment on it as the videos and audios could not be verified.” He said the BJP can do any mischief while denying any truth in the allegation. BJP’s Rajasthan unit president Satish Poonia tweeted the video in which Congress MLA Malviya is purportedly heard accusing two MLAs of Bhartiya Tribal Party of taking Rs 10 crore each to support the Gehlot government. The video is of a public meeting addressed by Malviya alleging that each of the two MLAs took Rs 5 crore for supporting the government in Rajya Sabha elections and Rs 5 crore for supporting the government during the political crisis. Poonia, while posting the video, asked chief minister Ashok Gehlot to throw light on the “horse-trading”, saying the Congress leader has confirmed the questions raised by him when the party MLAs were confined to hotels. The Congress MLAs were confined to hotels during the Rajya Sabha elections in June and later in July during the political crisis after the rebellion by former deputy CM Sachin Pilot. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot had then accused the BJP of trying to topple his government by charging the BJP of buying out MLAs like cows and goats. Now the turn of the BJP to return the charges. The BTP MLAs had supported the Congress government on both occasions. The BTP, which made its debut in the state in the last assembly election, has two MLAs in the assembly. Malviya, who also belongs to the tribal region of south Rajasthan, is at loggerheads with the new tribal outfit. Malviya, who is MLA from Badidora (Banswara) while both the BTP MLAs Ramprasad Dindor (Sangwara) and Rajkumar Roat (Chorasi) in neighbouring Dungarpur) district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-mlas-bribery-charge-against-btp-for-backing-govt-sparks-row/articleshow/79468359.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Jaipur||Absconding accused involved in ‘sex determination’ activities arrested||Jaipur: Avdhesh Pandey, 51, absconding for a long time for his alleged involvement in sex determination, was arrested by pre-conception pre-natal diagnostic techniques (PCPNDT) cell on Saturday.The PCPNDT cell officials said that they had conducted a decoy operation on June 15 at Tateja village of Jhunjhunu district in which Pandey fled from the spot and escaped from the PCPNDT cell’s net.National Health Mission (NHM) director (state) Naresh Thakral said five cases had been registered against Pandey with PCPNDT bureau of investigation. Along with that a case has also been registered against him at Mahendragarh of Haryana.Thakral said they had received the information about the whereabouts through an informer about Pandey that he is in Jaipur. Acting on the input, the PCPNDT cell arrested the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/absconding-accused-involved-in-sex-determination-activities-arrested/articleshow/79468365.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Jaipur||Covid fatality rate rises in rural areas of Raj||Jaipur: As Covid-19 deaths in rural areas have increased alarmingly, the health department is taking measures to strengthen healthcare services in rural areas. The government is mulling measures like installation of oxygen concentrators at community health centres and primary health centers.Since a lot of Covid-19 patients die even after recovery due to fibrosis and other lung complications, the health department is planning to install oxygen concentrators in rural areas to give immediate relief to patients having difficulty in breathing. "We are taking measures like installing oxygen concentrator at CHCs and PHCs for providing immediate relief to patients with low oxygen saturation," said Dr K K Sharma, health director, health department. Over the past four months, the state has witnessed increase in the number of Covid-19 deaths in rural areas. In first four months of the pandemic, the rural areas had reported 78 deaths which accounted for 17% deaths in the state. While in the next four months, 495 deaths occured in rural areas, i.e., 30% of Covid deaths in state. Besides, the percentage of Covid-19 deaths in urban areas has gone down in the past four months. Till July 6, the state’s urban areas had reported 375 deaths which accounted for 83% of total deaths in the state. From July 6 to November 17, 1,636 Covid deaths were reported in urban areas, which accounted for 70% of total deaths in Rajasthan. Besides, the health department has decided to equip its staff in rural areas with pulse oximeter to keep monitoring the patients’ oxygen saturation for timely treatment, if the condition of the patients deterioriates due to fall in oxygen saturation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-fatality-rate-rises-in-rural-areas-of-raj/articleshow/79468377.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Nagpur||Before vaccine, don’t let confusion infect you||Even before the vaccine, anti-vaccine messages have started circulating on social media. The world health organization (WHO) has also stated that fake news, misinformation and social media forwards may threaten the Covid-19 vaccination plan. An important meeting regarding the vaccine distribution was held in Nagpur on Friday. Doctors who attended the meeting expressed concerns over the confusion about vaccine in common people as well as non-medico officials in the administration. TOI brings all the authentic information about Covid-19 vaccine...ALL ABOUT THE VACCINESWho is making itOver 100 potential vaccine candidates globally3 vaccines are in advance trials in India; 4 others are in preclinical stagesVACCINES IN INDIACovishield | Oxford vaccine, already in phase 3 trial in India; to be manufactured by Serum Institute, Pune, Efficacy | More than 70%Covaxin | Made in India vaccine by Bharat biotech, Hyderabad, phase 3 trials already under way. Efficacy | More than 60%ZyCOV-D | Made by Zydus Cadila research centre in Gujarat. Phase 2 trials under way. Efficacy | More than 70%Sputnik 5 | Russian vaccine but being tested in India through Dr Reddy’s laboratories; trials in phase 2. Efficacy | More than 90%When is it expected to comeFirst vaccine, most probably Covishield, in December-end, subsequent vaccines expected till February 2021Who will get the vaccine firstDedicated Covid-19 hospital staffResidents of government medical colleges and staffSenior citizens/geriatric populationThose judged clinically extremely vulnerable individualsThose aged 18 and over in an at risk groupCovid recovered patients with antibodies developed will be last on priorityWHAT DOCTORS SAY Don’t believe fake news, WhatsApp university forwards about upcoming vaccinesFollow only authentic source of information See WHO website, printed news in reputed publications and government publicationsRobust vaccine distribution system being developed in the country Citizens will received the vaccine as and when it gets technical approvalsTOI spoke to infectious disease specialist Dr Nitin Shinde answers the questions that are on most people’s mindQ: Recovery rate of Indians is more than 90%, so is there really a need of vaccine?A: Yes. Vaccine is there to reduce hospitalization rate in India. We have limited medical facilities and if more people get vaccinated, rate of hospitalization will go down.….Q: Is it true that the RNA vaccine will fundamentally change people’s DNA?A: No. RNA vaccines do not alter human DNA.….Q: Will community vaccination bring life to normal?A: Community vaccination can only bring herd immunity and economy to normalcy.….Q: Who must be given vaccines first in a family?A: Those at risk, such as elderly, health care workers and people with special conditions should be preferred. But, practically everybody should take vaccine, so that they can’t propagate the infection.….Q: Is Covid vaccine safe?A: Most of the modern vaccines are safe. We have enough data to back our claims.….Q. What is the efficacy of vaccine?A: Current vaccines are claiming efficacy from 70% to 90 %.….Q. Can vaccine end the pandemic?A: Yes, after sufficient people get immunized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/before-vaccine-dont-let-confusion-infect-you/articleshow/79467704.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 29, 2020||Pune||Maratha quota not at cost of OBCs: Bhujbal||Pune: State minister for food and civil supplies Chhagan Bhujbal on Saturday said he was all for giving reservation to the Marathas, but any move to carve it out from the Other Backward Class quota would be opposed. “The OBCs (Other Backward Classes) account for 54% of the population and their reservation should be left untouched. If needed, we shall come together and fight against any move to cut into the OBC quota,” said Bhujbal while presenting the Mahatma Phule award to ophthalmologist Tatyarao Lahane on the 130th death anniversary of Mahatma Phule in the city. Bhujbal said he backed the decisions taken by the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) and the previous BJP-led government pertaining to the Maratha reservation, but the OBC community should remain alert to ensure that the issue did not move in another direction. He said some people were demanding that Marathas be given reservation from the OBC quota. The minister said the Samata Sainiks (workers) should come forward to settle the increasing quarrels between communities over castes and religions. He said the demands raised by the OBCs were being followed-up at various levels. Some demands include establishment of “Mahajyoti” scheme for OBCs, hostel for OBC students in every district, a housing scheme for the community and a separate census of OBC, Bhujbal said. Addressing the gathering, Lahane said the use of face mask was essential in the current scenario to prevent the spread of Covid-19 as the Covid-19 vaccine was yet to be available. “There are talks of a second wave of Covid-19 outbreak. No one knows how strong it will be. The citizens should remain alert and follow all safety measures,” he said, adding that the state government had taken a slew of measures to prevent further spread of the virus and keep the situation under control.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/maratha-quota-not-at-cost-of-obcs-bhujbal/articleshow/79469182.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Pune||Registration of ambulances rises by over 100% this year||Pune: There has been a significant rise in the number of ambulances registered with the regional transport offices (RTO) in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad this year. While 30 ambulances registered with Pune RTO between April and October last year, the figure rose to 73 this year, a rise of over 100%. Similarly, 10 ambulances were registered between April and October last year at the Pimpri Chinchwad RTO office. This year, the number for the same period rose to 18 ambulances. While 11 ambulances were registered with the Pune RTO till November 18, the Pimpri Chinchwad RTO had two ambulances register in the same period. An RTO official said they expected a rise in view of the pandemic. Critical care expert Prasad Rajhans said, “Increased donation of ambulances by philanthropists can be cited as one of the reasons for the rise in registrations,” he said.(With inputs from Umesh Isalkar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/registration-of-ambulances-rises-by-over-100-this-year/articleshow/79469205.cms||Joy Sengupta
November 29, 2020||Jaipur||Patient dies due to ‘lack of oxygen cylinder’ in Ajmer||Ajmer: A patient who was being shifted to Covid ward of JLN Hospital here died as there was reportedly no oxygen cylinder in the ambulance.The relatives of the deceased lodged a complaint to the JLN Hospital authorities and also alleged that the hospital employees demanded money to shift the patient.According to the complaint, relatives of Bhanwari Devi, a resident of Parbatpur of the city went to the hospital on Friday where she was taken to the neuro surgery ward. She was admitted in suspect ward and samples were sent for Covid test. The second report of Bhanwari was positive and she was asked to be shifted to Covid ward. Her relatives alleged that the patient was on oxygen support and waited for long to get a 108 ambulance. They also alleged that when the ambulance arrived, the driver asked them to wait as he had to transfer one more patient to Covid ward. Later, as there was no oxygen cylinder in the ambulance, Bhanwari died on the ay to the facility, they alleged.The officials who received the complaint assured the patient’s relatives that they will look into the matter.Earlier, another patient allegedly died because of lack of oxygen when fire broke out in the ICU ward of JLN Hospital a month ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/patient-dies-due-to-lack-of-oxygen-cylinder-in-ajmer/articleshow/79468372.cms||---
November 29, 2020||India||Nagaland ban on dog-meat trade stayed by HC||GUWAHATI: The Kohima bench of the Gauhati HC has issued an interim stay on the Nagaland government’s ban on “commercial import, trade and sale of dog meat” in markets and restaurants, reports Rokibuz Zaman. The bench of Justice S Hukato Swu issued the interim stay on Wednesday after the state government failed to respond to a petition filed by licensed dog meat traders. “Under the facts and circumstances placed before this court, I am of the view that the impugned order dated 04.07.2020 may be stayed until the next returnable date,” the order states. Nagaland chief secretary Temjen Toy had issued a notification on July 4, banning commercial import and sale of dog meat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nagaland-ban-on-dog-meat-trade-stayed-by-hc/articleshow/79470170.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Flight waits for retrieved organs for 30 minutes||JAIPUR: Coordinated efforts of chief minister’s office, State Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation (SOTTO), Air India, Alliance Air, Central Industrial Security Force, Jaipur airport authorities made safe transportation of organs donated by a 48-year-old woman from Jaipur to Delhi even though the flight got delayed by 30 minutes. When the passengers on the flight came to know about the reason of the delay, they patiently waited for the organs to arrive at the airport. The organ harvesting surgery perfomed at a private hospital was quite complicated as it had to retrieve lungs along with kidneys and liver, which took more time. SOTTO officials involved in the entire process informed the chief minister’s office seeking help for stopping the flight from taking off at its scheduled time of 9pm. When the chief manging director, Air India, captain Pankul Mathur, and Alliance Air chief managing director were informed about it, they agreed to delay the flight until the organs arrived, said SOTTO officials. Once the organs were retrieved, the doctors rushed to the airport where CISF officials helped them in getting quick security check to board the flight. Around 9.30pm, the flight took off with the harvested organs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/flight-waits-for-retrieved-organs-for-30-minutes/articleshow/79468379.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Agra||ACS suspends BDO for accepting bribe||Pilibhit: For accepting an alleged bribe worth Rs 20,000 for allotment of a ration shop in Bilsanda block area, the additional chief secretary (ACS), department of rural development, Manoj Kumar Singh suspended block development officer (BDO) Pradyumn Narayan Dwivedi. A letter to this effect was received by the district magistrate Pulkit Khare on Friday who had recommended suspension of the BDO after a preliminary inquiry against him. Dwivedi has been attached to the headquarters of the rural development department at Lucknow. The departmental action in the matter came to the fore after a video of the BDO accepting bribe went viral on social media. In his letter, the ACS described that a man identified as Santosh Singh of village Pandari Marauri had visited the government quarter of the BDO in question and had kept the sum of Rs 20,000 in his personal drawer. Another man Deena Nath, a local resident of Bilsanda block headquarters present at BDO’s residence at that time, had given the information about the bribe being given by Santosh Singh. The ACS pointed out that the BDO, in an official clarification, said that he had returned the money to Santosh Singh. The BDO should have informed senior officials about the bribe but he did not. An FIR against Singh should also have been registered with the police, the ACS stated. Holding the BDO guilty of violating the provisions of the Uttar Pradesh Government Servants Conduct Rules, 1956, the ACS suspended him. According to district development officer Yogendra Pathak, the matter is one and a half months old. An inquiry committee constituted under the chairmanship of district magistrate Pulkit Khare had come to know that the amount of Rs 20K had been refunded by Dwivedi after his transfer from Bilsanda to Barkhera. His negligence in taking the matter to the police for an FIR against the man was an indication that he was willing to accept the bribe. The DM had recommended his suspension after going through the inquiry committee’s report, Pathak added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/acs-suspends-bdo-for-accepting-bribe/articleshow/79467746.cms||Keshav Agarwal
November 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Kakinada: Govt offers aid to family of five-year-old rape survivor||KAKINADA: Women and child welfare minister Taneti Vanitha said a fixed deposit of Rs 10 lakh will be given to help the five-year-old girl who was brutally raped in Kakinada recently and an assistance of Rs 1 lakh will be given to the girl and her family as per directions of chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy. Stating that the condition of the girl is critical, Vanitha said the government is committed to punishing the culprit in the strictest manner. The five year-old girl was allegedly raped by an unidentified person in the early hours of November 25 in Kakinada. She was brutally assaulted and sustained external wounds and heavy internal bleeding. Doctors at GGH, Kakinada have performed two surgeries and a third surgery will be carried out. Explaining the investigation, East Godavari district collector Adnan Nayeem Asmi said the police have formed teams to nab the culprit. Some suspects have been picked up and are being questioned, the collector said, adding that the culprit might be a person known to the family and familiar with the area. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/govt-offers-aid-to-family-of-5-yr-old-rape-survivor/articleshow/79467745.cms||Samson Raj
November 29, 2020||Madurai||‘All wards to have drinking water supply in next 2-3 years’||Madurai: All the 100 wards in the corporation would get drinking water supply in the next two to three years, when the scheme to bring water directly to the city from Mullaperiyar dam materialises, commissioner of Madurai Corporation, S Visakan, said on Saturday. He also said that the city is doing its best to revive the waterbodies in its limits. The collector was speaking after inaugurating the third edition of the ‘CII Madurai Water Conclave 2020’, held in coordination with the Thiagarajar College of Engineering and International Water Association. The theme of the conclave was ‘Smart Water and Waste Water Management’. Visakan said that the corporation was water starved as Vaigai river was its only drinking water source, apart from the 12 MLD water it was receiving as part of the Cauvery scheme. But, the corporation was taking many steps to ensure that it conserved as much water as possible, he said, adding that it was now in the process of rejuvenating 33 tanks in its limits.The corporation has also developed an app to track the establishment of rainwater harvesting structures in the city. Buildings, predominantly commercial ones like marriage halls and theatres, which did not have a proper structure in place for water harvesting are being identified and notices were being issued to them for revamping the structure, he said.The commissioner said that at present the civic body was in the process of addressing waterlogging within city limits. Regions with such problems were being identified and water from such places were being drained into the nearest tank. It was implemented near the Madurai Junction railway station with the water being directed towards Perumalkoil teppakulam.Past chairman of CII Madurai zone, Dr Rajamohan, said that with its seven crore population, Tamil Nadu required 7,000 million litres of water per day. It generated 6,000 million litres of water per day and by waste water management the rest of the required water could be harnessed. Chairman of CII, Tamil Nadu, Hari K Thiagarajan, chairman of International Water Association, Professor S Mohan and chairman, CII Madurai Zone, Dr Satish Devadoss, among others attended the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/all-wards-to-have-drinking-water-supply-in-next-2-3-years/articleshow/79469285.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Agra||Delhi woman, daughter killed in car crash on Yamuna e-way||AGRA: A Delhi based woman and her 25-year-old daughter were killed while her husband and two teenage sons were left injured when the Honda City in which they were travelling struck a divider and turned turtle on Yamuna Expressway on Saturday. The accident occurred around 4pm near milestone 88 in the Surir area of Mathura. Five members of the family were inside the car. They were heading towards Delhi after attending a wedding function in Agra. The family runs an electronic shop in Lajpat Nagar, police said. Surir SHO Maharaj Singh Bhati said that the car was speeding when one of its tyres burst and the driver lost control of the vehicle. The impact of the accident was such that the vehicle after crashing into the divider, turned turtle on the other side of the road. The car was badly damaged. Two members of the family, identified as Manisha Namdev, 50, and her daughter Mansi, died on the spot. The three injured, Manisha’s husband Harish Namdev, 50, and sons — Vaibhav, 17, and Vishesh, 15 — were rushed to the hospital for treatment. Harish’s condition is critical, while the health of the two boys is stable. The stretch of Yamuna Expressway in Mathura has witnessed four separate road accidents in the past one month which claimed at least nine lives. On October 27, three persons, including a mother and her teenage daughter, from Delhi and a UP cop were killed in an accident near milestone 126 in Baldeo area on Yamuna Expressway. The following day, on October 28, three members of a family — a production manager at Bharat Dairy Udyog in Haryana’s Ferozepur Jhirka, his wife and younger son, all residents of Gurugram — were killed when a speeding car with Punjab registration number rammed into their vehicle that was parked on the roadside near milestone 114 on Yamuna Expressway. On November 16, a sub-inspector was killed when his car turned turtle after being hit by another vehicle near milestone 66 on Yamuna Expressway in Mathura. Watch Agra: Mother-daughter killed in car crash on Yamuna e-way||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/delhi-woman-daughter-killed-in-car-crash-on-yamuna-e-way/articleshow/79467757.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
November 29, 2020||Madurai||Man booked for trying to kill wife, children||Madurai: The Madurai police have booked a man on charges of attempting to murder his wife and two children by feeding them with poison. The accused, identified as Sudalaimuthu from MMC Colony in Avaniyapuram is working in a grocery store. Police said that he got married to S Malathi, 31, nine years ago. The couple have two sons aged seven and eight. Sudalaimuthu used to go home under the influence of alcohol and used to fight with Malathi demanding her to get dowry from her parents. On Thursday, Sudalaimuthu mixed rat poison in a beverage and fed it to his children and wife. As the trio vomited continuously throughout the night, Malathi found out only in the morning that the drink was laced with poison. She immediately took her children and admitted themselves in a hospital. A police team from the Avaniyapuram police visited the woman in the hospital on Saturday and got a complaint. Based on her complaint, a case was registered under the IPC section – 307 (attempt to murder) and 498 A (dowry related harassment). Police said that Sudalaimuthu’s younger brother Iyyemperumal was also booked for abetment to the crime. Police are searching for Sudalaimuthu, who is absconding. The condition of Malathi and her children is stable, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-booked-for-trying-to-kill-wife-children/articleshow/79469317.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Tsunami hopes for a clean sweep at Moolabhagam||Thiruvananthapuram: Candidates with curious monikers are grabbing the attention of voters in local body polls in the district. When Putli Bhai, the UDF candidate at Kappil in Edava gram panchayat, suffered a mild injury in an accident, the nurse at a hospital in Paravoor noticed the name on the patient card and asked: “Are you the one contesting at Kappil? I saw your poster and of course your name.” Bhai says such reactions and comments make her feel so good these days. As a child, Bhai used to pick up fights with her father Suresh Babu for giving her such an uncharacteristic name for a Keralite. Babu was a fierce Congress man and named his daughter by the name of mother of Gandhi and he also named his son Pyarelal, after the secretary of Gandhi. “When we learnt about Gandhi, Putli Bhai would constantly pop up in class and soon my friends would start laughing. I would go home and pick a fight with my father. But now this name is giving me extra mileage,” says Putli Bhai, a BCom graduate and Haritha Karma sena worker who is making her debut in local body elections. M Tsunami, the CPM candidate at Moolabhagam in Pallickal gram panchayat, was working in Middle East when Tsunami struck. “Until that time, I didn’t know such a thing existed. My father was in Singapore and gave me this name. He died when I was 1 year old so I don’t know why he named me like this, but this name has inspired some of our relatives to give similar name to their kids,” says Tsunami. The party expects him to strike the ward, which has remained a Congress fort for decades, like a Tsunami. “I am hopeful of changing the history, people’s mandate here is going to hit them like a Tsunami,” the candidate says. A ‘Kapoor’ second name is not so common in a rural panchayat and Ramya Kapoor, the CPI candidate at Ilappil ward in Vettoor panchayat, is riding on her unique name. “It all began with my grandfather who named my father Raj Kapoor owing to his love for Hindi cinema. It has always remained a unique second name,” says Ramya. If uncommon names make candidates of major political parties immune to threat of namesakes, there are a few independent candidates who contest with names like engineer Gopi at Vankadavu ward in Manamboor panchayat or Placid Esakkiyas at Putheseri ward in Karode panchayat. Nahas, the Congress candidate at Navaikulam, got a brilliant idea to ward off the threat from a namesake candidate who contests with balloon symbol. His name on nomination is Brilliant Nahas and if anyone marvels at his confidence, there will be a correction. “He actually runs a light and sound business and the name is Brilliant, so he prefixed that in his name so that everyone would know,” says K Devadasan, former congress member in the panchayat. Gangadhara Tilakan, who is the Congress candidate at Pazhayakunnumel panchayat, and Udayasimhan, the BJP candidate at Anchuthengu panchayat wouldn’t have anything to worry about namesakes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/tsunami-hopes-for-a-clean-sweep-at-moolabhagam/articleshow/79467784.cms||Aswin J Kumar
November 29, 2020||India||Congress MLA says ally took bribe, sparks Rajasthan row||JAIPUR: Rajasthan’s Congress government, which accused BJP of horse-trading MLAs, was put in a spot by its own MLA, Mahendra Jeet Singh Malviya, who accused Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) of accepting money for their support in the Rajya Sabha elections and during the political crisis in the state. The video of the MLA is being now used by BJP to target Congress. Congress state president Govind Singh Dotasra, however, said that there was no truth to the allegation. In the video, MLA Malviya is purportedly heard accusing two BTP MLAs of taking Rs 10 crore each to support the Gehlot government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-mla-says-ally-took-bribe-sparks-rajasthan-row/articleshow/79470174.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Rajkot||Third arrest for gang rape of Rajkot woman made in Nainital||AHMEDABAD: A city crime branch team on Saturday held Maldev Bharwad of Isanpur after he was brought to Ahmedabad from Nainital. Bharwad is an accused in an alleged case of gang rape on a 23-year-old Rajkot-based woman. According to the complaint, the accused had lured the woman into their trap on the pretext of giving her a job in the corporate world. The woman had lodged a complaint against Pragnesh Patel alias Pragnesh Gota of Sola, Jeetendrapuri Goswami of Vasna, Maldev Bharwad of Isanpur, Jaymin Patel of Bopal and Pragnesh Patel’s wife Neelam for allegedly threatening her to keep her mouth shut and then snatching away her passport. Assistant commissioner of police, crime branch, D P Chudasama said two accused in the case, Pragnesh Patel and Jeetendrapuri Goswami had been arrested earlier and police are hunting for the rest of the accused. Inspector J N Chavda and his team were constantly tracking him. “Based on a tip-off, Bharwad was arrested from Nainital and brought to the city on Saturday,” Chudasama said. Inspector Chavda said Bharwad had fled in his SUV to Udaipur, Amritsar, Bhatinda, Ludhiana, Chandigarh, Gokul-Mathura, Banaras and Prayag, and then he had gone to Nainital from where he was nabbed. “We have seized the SUV and Rs 17.70 lakh from the accused and are interrogating him,” said Chavda. The FIR states the rape survivor was taken to Udaipur, Abu, Mandvi and different hotels in Gandhidham and gang-raped by the accused after sessions of liquor and MD drugs. “She was even allegedly raped in a moving SUV,” said a crime branch official. Chudasama said the accused had even filmed the crime, and Pragnesh’s wife Neelam had snatched away the rape survivor’s passport and threatened her not to open her mouth. The complaint was first lodged at women’s police station and then it was transferred to city crime branch for further investigation. Crime branch sources said that Bharwad has a criminal record and several cases of land grabbing and forgery have been registered against him at Aslali, Vatva, Gahtlodia, Sola, Sarkhej and Sabarmati police stations. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/third-arrest-for-gang-rape-of-rajkot-woman-made-in-nainital/articleshow/79473364.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Ranchi||Disaster mgmt body to take call on reopening schools for ICSE, ISC examinees||Ranchi: The decision on reopening schools for next year’s ICSE and ISC examinees is likely to be taken in the next meeting of state disaster management authority (SDMA), a senior official preferring anonymity said on Saturday. The official said that SDMA, which is headed by chief minister Hemant Soren and comprises chief secretary Sukhdev Singh among its members, would take into account the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs on reopening schools, the current Covid situation in Jharkhand and the proposal forwaded by the state education department before taking a call on the matter. “We have requested the disaster management department to allow students of Classes 10 and 12 to come to school for consultation with the teachers before they sit for their board exams,” state education department secretary Rahul Sharma said, adding, “Provided parents also give their consent.” The parents’ bodies had recently urged the state government to allow reopening of schools for the board examinees. Several principals had also pointed out that students need to have interactive sessions with the teachers for doubt clearance, take mock tests (for both practical and theoretical exams) before taking their board exams. MHA, in its guidelines issued on November 25, reiterated its September 30 order which says that states may take a decision on reopening of schools in consultation with their respective institutes. It also issued detailed guidelines for ensuring safety on the campus like avoiding events where social distancing is not possible, staggered attendance, ensuring proper sanitisation and laid more stress on e-books.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/disaster-mgmt-body-to-take-call-on-reopening-schools-for-icse-isc-examinees/articleshow/79467936.cms||Sanjay Sahay
November 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Third arrest for gang rape of Rajkot woman made in Nainital||AHMEDABAD: A city crime branch team on Saturday held Maldev Bharwad of Isanpur after he was brought to Ahmedabad from Nainital. Bharwad is an accused in an alleged case of gang rape on a 23-year-old Rajkot-based woman. According to the complaint, the accused had lured the woman into their trap on the pretext of giving her a job in the corporate world. The woman had lodged a complaint against Pragnesh Patel alias Pragnesh Gota of Sola, Jeetendrapuri Goswami of Vasna, Maldev Bharwad of Isanpur, Jaymin Patel of Bopal and Pragnesh Patel’s wife Neelam for allegedly threatening her to keep her mouth shut and then snatching away her passport. Assistant commissioner of police, crime branch, D P Chudasama said two accused in the case, Pragnesh Patel and Jeetendrapuri Goswami had been arrested earlier and police are hunting for the rest of the accused. Inspector J N Chavda and his team were constantly tracking him. “Based on a tip-off, Bharwad was arrested from Nainital and brought to the city on Saturday,” Chudasama said. Inspector Chavda said Bharwad had fled in his SUV to Udaipur, Amritsar, Bhatinda, Ludhiana, Chandigarh, Gokul-Mathura, Banaras and Prayag, and then he had gone to Nainital from where he was nabbed. “We have seized the SUV and Rs 17.70 lakh from the accused and are interrogating him,” said Chavda. The FIR states the rape survivor was taken to Udaipur, Abu, Mandvi and different hotels in Gandhidham and gang-raped by the accused after sessions of liquor and MD drugs. “She was even allegedly raped in a moving SUV,” said a crime branch official. Chudasama said the accused had even filmed the crime, and Pragnesh’s wife Neelam had snatched away the rape survivor’s passport and threatened her not to open her mouth. The complaint was first lodged at women’s police station and then it was transferred to city crime branch for further investigation. Crime branch sources said that Bharwad has a criminal record and several cases of land grabbing and forgery have been registered against him at Aslali, Vatva, Gahtlodia, Sola, Sarkhej and Sabarmati police stations. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/third-arrest-for-gang-rape-of-rajkot-woman-made-in-nainital/articleshow/79468127.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Ranchi||Traders and Municipal Corporation discuss ways to make people more cautious||Ranchi: The Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) will launch a seven-day intensive drive from Sunday across all leading commercial areas in the city to keep tabs on overcrowding and to enforce social distancing. The decision was taken after Ranchi mayor Asha Lakra and other senior RMC officials held a meeting with the Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce & Industries (FJCCI) and other trade bodies to discuss ways to enforce safety norms in commercial areas since shoppers are ignoring them, posing a risk to public health. Lakra said, “As wedding season approaches, shoppers are not maintaining social distancing and other norms at the markets and so it becomes important that we work in collaboration with the traders to enforce the safety measures that’ll keep the virus at bay.” She added, “We have requested the traders not to entertain those customers who turn at their shops without masks.” However, according to RMC sources, the traders weren’t happy when the civic body asked them to refuse customers. “We have suffered heavy losses since March and now if we start refusing customers, how are we going to survive,” said one of the businessmen who was present at the meeting. Upon contact, FJCCI representative Praveen Lohia, who attended the meeting, said, “Asking businessmen to reject customers isn’t a good idea and so we have decided that if any customer turns up at our shop without wearing a mask, we will provide them one free of cost and then allow them to shop.” He added, “We understand that the public should be made aware of the risks involved in not following the safety norms and we are ready to cooperate with civic body in this regard. We have already pasted more than 50,000 posters in several shops and commercial establishments highlighting the safety measures.” The drive will take place at Upper Bazar, Main road and other areas where the RMC teams will check arrangement of sanitizers and masks and encourage people to refrain from overcrowding at enclosed spaces.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/traders-and-municipal-corporation-discuss-ways-to-make-people-more-cautious/articleshow/79467953.cms||Gaurav Pandey
November 29, 2020||Ranchi||Centre to borrow money to pay GST shortfall to J’khand||Ranchi: Jharkhand government is learnt to have chosen the first of the two options presented by the Union ministry of finance to meet the shortfall of Goods and Services Taxes (GST). Those choosing the first option are getting a part of the amount of shortfall arising out of GST implementation through a special borrowing window put in place by the Centre. The window has been operationalised since October 23 and since then the Centre has already borrowed an amount of Rs 24,000 crore on behalf of the states in four instalments on October 23, November 2, 9 and on 23rd of this month to pass it on to the states and union territories, who chose this option. Punjab is the latest to officially choose the first option, making the total number of states to have done so to 26, informed an official communiqué from the Press Information Bureau on Saturday. Under the terms of Option-1, besides getting the facility of a special window for borrowings to meet the shortfall arising out of GST implementation, the states are also entitled to get unconditional permission to borrow the final instalment of 0.50% of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) out of the 2% additional borrowings permitted by the Centre under Atmanirbhar Abhiyaan. Talking to TOI on Saturday, state finance minister Rameshwar Oraon said the state government has sent a letter to the Centre about their plans to opt for Option-1, but with certain restrictions. However, the Centre is yet to officially acknowledge the request. He said, “One of the options initially given by the Union government to states to meet the GST shortfall was to borrow. It had asked the states to borrow while the Centre would have reimbursed later on. Our contention was that why should we borrow? The Centre must lend the money on its behalf, pay principal and interest to lenders and give the pending compensations to the states. Now that the Centre partially has agreed to borrowing on its own and give to the states, why should we have the problem?” He stressed that rather than a partial borrow in lieu of the pending compensation, the Centre should lend the entire money and give it to states. “Centre will give only a part of the compensation which should be around Rs 1,600 crore. I will still demand that they borrow the full money to clear our dues,” said Oraon, who is currently in home quarantine after getting discharged from the hospital following Covid infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/centre-to-borrow-money-to-pay-gst-shortfall-to-jkhand/articleshow/79467905.cms||ASRP Mukesh
November 29, 2020||Ranchi||2-day drive aims to test 1.4L across state||Ranchi: The state health department has set a target of testing 1.4 lakh people for Covid-19 in a two-day drive which commenced on Saturday in order to increase surveillance and detection of cases among people with travel history during the festive season. The move is also aimed at securing the vulnerable population from being infected. Talking to TOI, state health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said, “The idea behind the mass testing drive is to stop the infection from spreading.” On being asked about what will be their area of focus, Kulkarni said that not only do they want to detect infected persons, but also minimise the mortality rate among people who are most vulnerable to the virus. “We have seen that the maximum number of cases have been detected among people in the age group of 14 to 40 and that is because of our big population share in that age group. So this age group will be our priority during the tests. People above 60 years of age will also be given priority as the mortality rate is the highest among them. People suffering from co-morbidities will also be tested as they are more susceptible to become critical after developing the infection,” Kulkarni said. According to health department sources, all districts, especially the ones sharing borders with Bihar and has reported heavy migration during Chhath Puja and weddings, have been asked to make necessary arrangements for conducting tests. Each district has been given a target. On Saturday, a total of 31,500 tests were conducted across the state. On Sunday, all the 24 districts will be conducting the drive with targets set between 2,000 and 7,500 tests per district. As per official document of the state health department, Ranchi and East Singhbhum conducted 7,500 tests each on Saturday, followed by 5,000 each in Bokaro and Hazaribag. While Ramgarh conducted 2,500 tests, Khunti and Lohardaga tested 2,000 people each on Saturday. On Sunday, a total of over 1 lakh tests are set to be conducted with Ranchi, Dhanbad, East Singhbum and Giridih being asked to conduct 7,500 tests each. Palamu has been given a target of 6,000 tests while West Singhbhum, Koderma, Deoghar and Bokaro will be conducting 5,000 tests each. Sahibganj has been asked to conduct 4,500 tests while Chatra, Dumka, Garhwa, Godda, Gumla, Seraikela and Simdega have been given a target of 4,000 tests each. Jamtara, Latehar and Pakur have to conduct 3,500 tests each while Hazaribagh and Ramgarh will conduct 2,500 each followed by 2,000 each for Khunti and Lohardaga.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/2-day-drive-aims-to-test-1-4l-across-state/articleshow/79467982.cms||Gaurav Pandey
November 29, 2020||Ranchi||Luggu Buru Mahotsav cancelled in wake of outbreak||Bokaro: The 20th Luggu Buru Mahotsav, scheduled to take place on November 29 and 30, has been cancelled in the wake of the pandemic, Dhoramgaad Committee, which organises the religious festival of Santhals, chairman Babuli Soren said on Saturday. Every year on Kartik Purnima, Santhals from Nepal, Manipur, Odisha, Bihar and other states assemble at Luggu Buru Ghantavadi Dhoramgarh on Luggu Hill under Gomia block to offer their prayers at the Luggu Baba temple located there. There is a natural cave atop the hill where the devotees offer puja to Luggu Baba. The devotees cover a distance of nearly 6km for climbing the hill, which is located around 70km from the district headquarters. In the pre-Covid period, the administration used to make special arrangements for the devotees at the foothills. The event even draws government officials to the temple, including governor Droupadi Murmu. The committee has appealed to the devotees to offer their prayers from the confines of their respective homes this time. Besides attracting lakhs of Santhalis, non-tribals also visit the place to offer prayers to Luggu Baba, who is considered the face of Lord Shiva.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/luggu-buru-mahotsav-cancelled-in-wake-of-outbreak/articleshow/79467995.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 29, 2020||Surat||Terminal extension gets EAC nod for EC||Surat: The Expert Appraisal Committee (EAC) has recommended the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEF&CC) for grant of environment clearance (EC) to critical infrastructure project works including the expansion of the terminal building at Surat airport. Official sources said that the EC is likely to be granted within a fortnight after which that work of the terminal expansion will begin. The EAC under MoEF&CC had organised a meeting through video conference to decide on the EC for the airport terminal expansion project on October 21. In its last meeting held in New Delhi on February 25, EAC had recommended additional terms of reference (ToR) to the Airports Authority of India (AAI) for the EC approval. The EAC had observed about the non-compliance including the Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) provisions for the rainwater harvesting, setting up of the laboratory for environment management cell etc. The airport authorities had said that the expansion project does not require the wildlife clearance as there is no wildlife sanctuary within 10km radius of the project site. The terminal building of Surat Airport is being extended by the AAI at the cost of Rs 354 crore. The existing terminal building has an area of 8,474sq m that will be extended by additional 17,046 sq m (excluding City Side and airside kerb) to have a total area of 25,520 sq m. Due to non-approval of EC no major work could start except for the design, drawing and diversion of underground utility services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/terminal-extension-gets-eac-nod-for-ec/articleshow/79468024.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Nagpur||Centre has given ample funds to Maha: Ex-min||Nagpur: Former state finance minister Sudhir Mungantiwar rejected the allegations of Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) leaders that central government has not given any money to the state and said that so far Maharashtra has received over Rs68,200 crore from it. “Central government has also agreed to take loan for paying the hiked share of Maharashtra’s goods and services tax (GST). However, if the MVA leaders want central government to pay it money for waiving off power bills then it is wrong. Why is the MVA in power if everything has to be done by the Centre,” said Mungantiwar, while addressing a press conference on Saturday. The BJP leader alleged that the MVA had failed on all fronts and had not fulfilled even one promise in past one year. “Shiv Sena in its election manifesto had promised to reduce the power tariff of residential consumers using up to 300 units a month by 30%. However, the government increased the power tariff from April instead,” said Mungantiwar. The BJP leader further said, “This government has money to reduce stamp duty to help builders. The 3% reduction in stamp duty will cost the exchequer Rs10,000 crore. However, it has no money for reducing the power bills of common citizens.” Mungantiwar also said that the government had done injustice with Vidarbha by shifting the winter session from Nagpur to Mumbai. “Now I have heard that it does not plan to start the session from December 7. The government is afraid of getting exposed by opposition,” he added. He slammed the government for not renewing the tenure of Vidarbha Statutory Development Board (VSDB), which lapsed in March this year. “In absence of VSDB, the government can divert money meant for the region elsewhere. The Board is our security cover and it must be renewed,” he said.  Mungantiwar said in place of “Fadnavis government” (one led by BJP's Devendra Fadnavis), a “Fasawnuk (fraud) government” has come to power. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and his deputy Ajit Pawar did not visit Vidarbha even once, he said. Mungantiwar had earlier alleged that while the government claims to have no money to grant a power bill waiver, it has funds “to renovate bungalows of its ministers; to buy new vehicles, and to pay to contractors”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/centre-has-given-ample-funds-to-maha-ex-min/articleshow/79468418.cms||Ashish Roy
November 29, 2020||India||Coal scam: CBI raids 40 places across 3 states||DURGAPUR/KOLKATA: The CBI on Saturday raided 40 premises across three states, including 25 in West Bengal, in a coal scam case. The security incharge of a nationalised coal firm in West Burdwan district of Bengal suffered a heart attack during a raid. He died in hospital. The other two states where raids were conducted are Bihar and Jharkhand. The agency, which registered a case in connection with illegal coal mining and coal theft on Friday, searched offices and residences of the alleged kingpin of illegal coal operation. While the accused is a resident of Asansol, he has offices in Jharkhand and Bihar. In its FIR, the CBI alleged that coal mafia is active in coal mining areas like Kunustoria and Kajora in West Burdwan. It also alleged that they are operating in collusion with officials of a nationalised coal company. The agency claimed that apart from illegal coal mining, the illegal operation also involved coal theft from railway sidings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/coal-scam-cbi-raids-40-places-across-3-states/articleshow/79470176.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Nagpur||Collector asked to probe into Joshi’s affidavit||Nagpur: Divisional commissioner Sanjiv Kumar has asked district collector Ravindra Thakare to check BJP candidate Sandip Joshi’s election affidavit on the basis of complaint lodged by Satish Uke. In his complaint to the commissioner, Uke alleged that Joshi had concealed information in the election affidavit. According to the complaint, Joshi has mentioned his occupation as business and he has not mentioned that he is the mayor of Nagpur and also director of various companies. In the column of source of income, Joshi has not mentioned the remuneration he is getting as mayor of Nagpur and the meeting allowances that he is getting for attending meetings in the companies in which he is a director. The complaint alleges that Joshi has concealed that he is holding an office of profit as he is the director of Nagpur Smart and Sustainable City Development Corporation Limited (NSSDCL) and Nagpur Mahanagar Parivahan Limited. Election experts said that even if Uke’s complaint is found to be true it will have no bearing on the election. However, it can be a ground for an election petition if Joshi wins. In the past, Uke has lodged similar complaints against leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis and BJP MLC Pravin Datke.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/collector-asked-to-probe-into-joshis-affidavit/articleshow/79468428.cms||Ashish Roy
November 29, 2020||India||Karnataka terms for probe into BSY aide suicide bid||BENGALURU: A day after CM BS Yediyurappa’s political secretary and grandnephew NR Santosh attempted suicide, Karnataka home minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday said the government is ready to probe the incident if the opposition Congress furnishes evidence of its charges. “A detailed probe will be carried out only if (DK) Shivakumar (KPCC chief) hands over the video clip or CD he claims is behind Santosh’s attempt to end his life,’’ Bommai said. He said Santosh is recuperating in hospital and an FIR has been registered at Sadashivanagar police station against him. “Police are still figuring out why he attempted suicide,’’ he added. Shivakumar has demanded a high-level probe into the alleged suicide, claiming some confidential matters are linked to it. “I’ve heard that Santosh had a video and he had given it to a BJP MLC and a minister. The video may have been the trigger for the attempted suicide,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/karnataka-terms-for-probe-into-bsy-aide-suicide-bid/articleshow/79470179.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Nagpur||On Lit Fest Day 2, speakers lay out feast for intellect||Nagpur: Choc-a-bloc with sessions on underexplored, grey and socio-politically relevant issues, Day 2 of the 2nd Orange City Literature Festival laid out a feast for the intellect. Conversations were mounted on myriad intersectional themes, including crime, gastronomy, travel, sexuality, spirituality, mythology, wellness, nationalism, history, content consumption and authorship. Speakers mined their lived experiences and scholarship to provoke thought. Australian traveller and museum curator Jono Lineen unpacked his solo exploration of the Himalayas, saying it afforded him the flexibility that a group foray could not. Chef Soundararajan, in his session ‘Road to culinary mastery’, explained how cooking was only one of the many skills needed to become a chef par excellence. The morning sessions were replete with insights on education and anecdotes for school students. In her session on ‘Dashavatara’, author Piyusha Nair impressed upon children the importance of ancient literature, while engineer and TEDx speaker Chandan Deshmukh, in a session for students in the 12-20 age group, shared mantras for traversing student life and finding a fulfilling job. Writer Tanushree Podder relived her journey of becoming a crime drama writer, and author Kiran Manral, in her session ‘My experience of writing in different genres’ spoke about her routine and inspiration for writing. In his session ‘Does media trial play an important role in shaping public opinion?’ senior journalist Prabhu Chawla suggested that media houses must maintain serenity in the course of debate. Political analyst Sanjaya Baru, who served as the media adviser to former PM Manmohan Singh and wrote a book on another ex-PM PV Narasimha Rao, discussed similarities between the two while summarizing the latter’s journey. Enriching panel discussions punctuated the proceedings. A panel comprising senior academic Madhavi Menon, author and playwright Kishwar Desai, and author Paro Anand explored the unseen nuances of desire and sexuality. Policy specialists Sharmila Kantha, Ali Mehdi and Ajay Shah analysed the interconnections between India’s democracy and economy. Sessions dissecting two key aspects of Indian politics capped off the day. News anchor Rajdeep Sardesai, in his session on how elections are won and lost in India, said while TV journalism was about the “here and now” and “the noise of news”, books were a lot more helpful in comprehending what’s actually going on. In the closing session, politician Salman Khurshid delved into the strange correlation between political leaders’ literacy and voters’ attitudes towards them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/on-lit-fest-day-2-speakers-lay-out-feast-for-intellect/articleshow/79468447.cms||Bhuvan Gupta
November 29, 2020||Nagpur||Now, rly unions oppose inter-modal station, hub at Ajni||Nagpur: After green activists, members of railway unions have now come forward to oppose the proposed inter-model station and a transport hub at Ajni. TOI recently reported that thousands of age-old trees will be chopped off for the Rs 1,288.81 crore-project coming up at the land of Central Railway, which is a thriving biodiversity habitat of bird and animal species. Environment activists recently sought intervention from state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray to save ‘Nagpur’s own Aarey forest’. Extending their solidarity to the movement, railway unions have also raised their voice against the project which is being implemented by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). Stating that the area is green treasure of city, Virendra Singh, divisional chairman of Central Railway Mazdoor Sangh, said, “The area is nothing less than a heritage site. The trees are over 100 years old and so are the railway quarters, which is home to around 100 families. Such a site should not be disturbed at all. It has high ecological value.” Around one-and-a-half years back, Singh along with other union members had filed a complaint with Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) when they first learnt about the proposal. “The officials did not even consider an alternate site,” he said. Apart from this, few other unions have also joined hands to save the lush green area. TOI spoke to mayor Sandip Joshi who assured to look into the matter. “After the code of conduct, I will hold a meeting in the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and take a review of the project and assess the number of trees that will be felled. After that, we will take a decision,” said Joshi. Meanwhile, in a press release issued on Saturday, NHAI stated that the project was in resonance with Environment Impact Assessment. “As per detailed project study, around 1,940 trees are proposed to be felled. Maximum number of these trees will be transplanted as per the advice of forest department and experts. Compensatory afforestation of 25,000 trees will also be carried out on the available vacant land of NHAI in and around Nagpur,” it stated. On the lines of Bharat Van, environment organizations and activists are planning a public movement to create awareness about the issue and gather mass support. While social media campaigning has begun, activists have also started collecting online signatures of citizens. “Soon, we will start on-ground activities too in Ajni,” said environment activist Anasuya Kale Chhabrani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/now-rly-unions-oppose-inter-modal-station-hub-at-ajni/articleshow/79468457.cms||Manka Behl
November 29, 2020||Nagpur||‘Mood swings, emotional outbursts & exaggerated expressions new normal’||Jyotsna (Sana) Pandit is a toxic handler, speaker and poetess. A former lecturer at Dharampeth Science College, Pandit passionately deals with the eradication of discrimination in society through interactive sessions. She has delivered speeches on topics such as emotional health and gender equality. Pandit also helps entrepreneurs, industrialists and professionals to cleanse the system of negativity and heals emotional wounds as well. In an interview to TOI, Pandit talks about various issues post-Covid. Excerpts... Q. In what way did the Covid pandemic impact human psychology? A. Social degradation started from recession in mid-2000 followed by repeated natural calamities like the Kedarnath floods. Demonetization brought about a deluge of complex and chaotic emotions initially dominated by self-centered drives like greed to ensure one’s wealth was protected even if it was at the expense of someone else. Many suffered losses for jumping into the fray thoughtlessly. There were less beneficiaries and more victims. When the society was just about getting back on track, the pandemic struck. In individuals, it started with the deterioration of mental and physical health which affected families negatively. Later, the society, nation and then the global population started getting affected. Interestingly, materialism increased which created a bigger conflict in society. The imbalance and brazen individualism is evident everywhere. Q. How did families get affected at the micro-level? A. The society bled. Families suffered, but the agony of the individuals was different. Men faced stressful times as they were bread-earners. The very economy upon which their jobs thrived was topsy-turvy and hence they were the first victims of stress. Women had to cope with various indirect effects of the economy like violence and atrocities. Children became victims as their parents were badly hit. The chain reaction adversely affected families at the lowest strata and the nation’s mental health and wellness on the whole with society reeling under many ills. Q. How did the national upheaval affect the lives of individuals? A. Nowadays, everyone tends to behave as if ‘All is well’ but in reality, the social wellness is decimated. Mood swings, alterations in character, temperamental and emotional outbursts and exaggerated expressions started becoming the new normal. The journey between demonetization and the pandemic brought about a paralytic effect in which the mind was crippled. Individuals from various strata of society reacted differently. The upper class had resources and hence, their reaction was driven by frustration of losing hard earned wealth while the lower classes were compelled to become aggressive and desperate as they were propelled by insecurities and bare necessities. Q. Which segment of the society faced the maximum brunt of the crisis? A. The maximum shake-up was at the top and middle level where there was fear of losing the accumulated wealth and life’s savings. The ‘have all’ were having nightmares of slipping down from their social position and status which made them prone to nervous breakdowns, depression, suicidal tendencies, anxiousness and stress. The ‘have nots’ were driven by the anxiety of feeding their family every ‘tomorrow’ which made them violent and aggressive. Q. How did vulnerable segments of the society like senior citizens, children and women face the uncertainty? A. Senior citizens, children and women were at the receiving end. Elders were at the mercy of bread winners. Many did not seek help as they wanted to guard their self-respect. Women faced unprecedented loss and lifelong damages as they struggled to keep families together as their partners strove to earn bread. Many children lost three years of their childhood between demonitisation and the pandemic and still we are not out of the damaging phase. Nuclear families cannot absorbs such shocks. Joint families would have been a blessing for senior citizens, women and children in such a devastating time. Q. In what way will the national upheaval affect the present and future generations? A. The present generation is more mature to handle the stress and face the consequences of the crisis but the mettle of the future generation is yet to be tested. They are curious, wanting to explore and experiment but inexperienced. They are indirectly affected by the national crisis of demonitisation and the pandemic which is a baggage in excess to the already existing academic stress, peer pressure, social imbalance and parental disharmony. Social media is just adding to the mess. They are more gullible. They pick up wrong messages from the media like the suicide of Sushantsingh Rajput and so on. Many have lost motivation and are confused with weak parental bonds aggravating the situation. Q. What kind of challenges did professionals face? A. Demonitisation brought about uncertainty in the lives of professionals but the pandemic threw their careers out of gear or put a spanner in the wheels. Disturbances in their career percolated to their personal lives. The pandemic brought excess pressure as getting fired was the order of the day as companies could not sustain in the wobbling economy and had no choice but to lay off workers. The work-from-home may have saved one from corona but it increased work pressure as the ‘place of rest’ became the ‘place of work’ and one tended to toil more and longer hours. The metabolism and biological system cracked with lesser physical activities and a more lethargic lifestyle with a new pattern of work and rest emerging breaking the old pattern. Q. What kind of psychological help does an individual need to come out of the crisis? A. It’s really good to get ourselves positively charged but channelizing strengths is the basic principle of any success. Psychological help cannot guarantee success. It can assure you of some inner strength to fall back on and keep going. Spirituality can help too. But the survival skill is the best tool to come out of this turbulent time. One must remain rooted and also reach out for the best resources which can help one to revive, resume and resurface. Q. What is toxic handling? Can it help? A. The emotional abuses which become a baggage, a burden on the body, mind, heart and soul turn ‘toxic’. Still, one keeps smiling and remains calm as life has to go on. In the last few years, toxic erupted in the society and became a silent killer. Duties and responsibilities turn to slavery and a person is judged by the people around him. If one falls short of expectations, he or she is out of the list from almost everywhere. The person’s emotional health gets complicated as he starts fearing losing whatever is left. One goes into a shell or becomes vindictive which ultimately results in psychological hazards. Managing emotional abuse and its fallout is the soul of toxic handling. In today’s time, it is considered as one of the modern psychological tools to handle mental health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mood-swings-emotional-outbursts-exaggerated-expressions-new-normal/articleshow/79468468.cms||Soumitra Bose
November 29, 2020||India||Indian-led research team brings quantum internet closer to reality||It sounds like something straight out of spy fiction. When someone breaks into a transmission and tries to intercept it — the message is destroyed. That’s the quantum internet, which builds on the laws governing quantum mechanics, with the promise of “unhackable” transmissions. For four decades now, there has been continuous progress in the field, but what has remained elusive is scale — connecting more than two devices on a quantum network has been daunting. For the first time, a group of scientists has found a scalable process, connecting eight devices on a quantum network in Bristol. “This is the largest entanglement-based quantum communication network. Multinodal networks like this have not been built before,” said Siddarth Joshi from the University of Bristol’s Quantum Engineering Technology lab, who led the study with a team of 15 under the UK National Quantum Communications Hub project. “We have been able to show this on a city-wide scale. Think of how we can start connecting cities. Could we link this to a satellite? These are things we want to do.” Quantum networks use light particles, called photons, to communicate. It relies on a process called entanglement. “Say, I have a deck of cards and you have another. You choose a card at random, I do too. These are different decks. The card you choose has no correlation with the one I choose,” Joshi explained. “But if the decks are ‘entangled’, the card you choose would be identical to the one I do.” What has held back the creation of large-scale networks is the technology it has relied on so far. Trusted nodes. “It’s like having children’s walkietalkies. One set talks to another, and if you want to send a message to a third person, you have to listen to the message from one walkie-talkie and repeat it into the other,” Joshi explained. So, if eight people wanted to communicate, they’d need 56 walkie-talkies — one for each of the seven others in the network. “That’s not easy to build. It doesn’t scale well.” Joshi and his team figured there could be a workaround — wavelength multiplexing. “You take light, you split light based on its colour (i.e. wavelength) so you now have many entangled states. You distribute the various wavelengths to various users. You do this simultaneously and everyone can talk to everyone else,” he said. “To connect eight users then, you’d need only eight devices. In terms of scaling, it changes from walkie-talkies to phones.” Quantum internet is not being mapped as a substitute to classical internet, which we use now, but as a companion. The major end driving these projects is security. “There is no way that quantum internet can replace classical internet. It is a supporting technology to classical internet that will enable a lot of other features. It will enable really secure communication,” Joshi said. Present-day computers use the RSA protocol (Rivest-Shamir-Adleman, named after the developers) to encrypt and decrypt messages. RSA relies on prime numbers — divisible only by themselves and 1 — and complex mathematical equations to generate a key that secures communication. “If I give you something which is encoded, it is just a matter of time before you can decode it … It’s difficult but it’s not impossible. Which means that anybody with enough patience and a large enough supercomputer can crack it right now,” Joshi said. A few decades ago, messages were sent using 128-bit RSA. “Your laptop should be able to hack that in a matter of hours … You can store encrypted messages on a hard disk today, wait 10 years until you have a better computer and then hack it.” Quantum computers can already do that. “It’s a known solution on quantum computers, proven to be very easy. It’s called Shor’s Algorithm,” said Joshi. “So, you want something that is impossible to solve. It’s like if someone gives you a piece of paper with something written on it. If you read it and lock it up in a safe, it’s difficult to reverse but possible. If you burn the paper after reading it, it becomes impossible. These processes, governed by the unchangeable laws of physics, are what we rely on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indian-led-research-team-brings-quantum-internet-closer-to-reality/articleshow/79470191.cms||Chandrima Banerjee
November 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Nigerian cons woman looking for groom of Rs 25 lakh; arrested||BENGALURU: A 25-year-old Nigerian who allegedly cheated a Bengaluru woman of Rs 25 lakh after befriending her on a matrimonial site has been arrested from Delhi. Probe has revealed he and his associates siphoned off crores of rupees by creating fake accounts. The accused is Brieght, who lives in the national capital with his wife Devain. According to Whitefield CEN police, he met Whitefield resident Vidhushee, 34, on a matrimonial portal where he claimed to be Swain Rajkishore, a civil contractor and engineer. He expressed interest in marrying Vidhushee, who signed up with the website in September and had no clue she would fall prey to an online scam. Rajkishore told Vidhushee he had to visit Malaysia for a project. He sought financial help from her, claiming his money was stuck in a Scotland bank due to security reasons. Believing him, she transferred around Rs 25 lakh to him via multiple transactions between October 13 and October 16. Later, he stopped replying to her messages and attending her calls. Realising she had been duped, Vidhushee approached police. A police team from Bengaluru visited Delhi and raided Brieght’s flat. Subsequently, they found it was a bigger scam. Guruprasad G, inspector at Whitefield CEN police station, said: “It was a six-member gang which was operating by creating fake accounts on matrimonial websites and siphoning off money from victims. Brieght’s wife Devain had also created an account to cheat men. When we went to nab Brieght, we found all the other gang members had escaped.”  Brieght had at least 38 bank accounts in India and 28 abroad where the money were diverted. We suspect the gang members siphoned off Rs 10 crore from people they met on matrimonial sites, Guruprasad added. “On examining their laptops, we came across many photos of men and women on such websites,” he said. Police have taken Brieght into custody for five days. He and his associates didn’t have valid visas and passports. Cops have seized four laptops and 10 mobile phones from Brieght and Rs 8.5 lakh from various bank accounts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/nigerian-cons-woman-looking-for-groom-of-25l-arrested/articleshow/79468500.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Will probe NR Santosh suicide bid if opposition shares video: Karnataka home minister||BENGALURU: A day after chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s political secretary and grandnephew NR Santosh, 31, attempted suicide, Karnataka home minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday said the government is ready to probe the incident if the opposition Congress furnishes evidence of its charges. “A detailed probe will be carried out only if Shivakumar (KPCC chief) hands over the video clip or CD he claims is behind Santosh’s attempt to end his life,’’ Bommai told reporters in Raichur. He said Santosh is recuperating in hospital and an FIR has been registered at Sadashivanagar police station against him. “Police are still figuring out why he attempted suicide,’’ he added. Earlier in Karwar, DK Shivakumar demanded a high-level probe into the alleged suicide, claiming some confidential matters are linked to it. “I’ve heard that Santosh had a video and he had given it to a BJP MLC and a minister. The video is in the hands of the high command now which may have been the trigger for the attempted suicide. Only a high-level inquiry will reveal the truth. A probe by the state government will be of no use,” he said. CM, others blackmailed by MLC, minister: DKSShivakumar claimed he heard about the video, which is “personal” in nature, two or three months ago. “Some confidential matters are involved. The chief minister and others were blackmailed by that MLC and minister. This is what I was told by many people,’’ he added. Alleging the KPCC president’s statements were aimed at misleading people, rural development minister KS Eshwarappa asked Shivakumar to make the video public and reveal names of MLC and the minister. “Congress has lost track, they don’t know what to do, they are losing elections, there is groupism in the party. Unsure how to survive politically, they are creating such things,’’ Eshwarappa said, adding, “If he knew things earlier, why didn’t he (Shivakumar) act and prevent this suicide attempt? Was he waiting for death?” Revenue minister R Ashoka also rubbished Shivakumar’s statement and said the state Congress president keeps making such false allegations and these days he is making more such statements. Santosh’s attempt to end his life triggered speculation about what drove him to it. He had reportedly been asked to put in his papers, which upset him, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/will-probe-santosh-suicide-bid-if-oppn-shares-video-min/articleshow/79469896.cms||---
November 29, 2020||India||Yogi: TOI Water Positive drive a bid to conserve biodiversity||LUCKNOW: Calling Times Group’s Water Positive campaign an effort to conserve humanity and biodiversity, UP CM Yogi Adityanath said his government would extend all possible support to the drive. Speaking at the Times Water Summit, powered by Mantena Constructions in association with knowledge partner Xylem, he said conservation of water is must for the survival of all living beings. The state, he said, has abundance of both surface and ground water and what is needed is its proper management and recharge. “We have worked on the rejuvenation of 15 rivers in the last three and a half years and now the Ganga is so clean in Varanasi that one can spot a dolphin in the river,” Yogi said, adding that “the rejuvenation of the Ganga has reignited the “astha” (faith) of the people in the holy river which is worshipped by millions of Indians.” Six years ago, people refrained from taking a dip in the Ganga as its water threatened to inflict boils on their skin, the CM said. “That is no more the case now. There is a sense of realisation that the purity of Ganga has been restored. This was very much visible during last year’s Prayagraj Kumbh when crores took holy dip in the river,” he added. Yogi underlined how water was sacred to various rituals in Sanatan parampara (tradition) and formed an important part of river “sanskriti”(culture) which was intrinsic to the life of millions of people of the country. “Even our “shastras” have written mantras with the help of water,” he said. Highlighting the “Namami Gange” programme, Yogi said efforts of the government were essentially aimed at taking necessary steps towards purification of the Ganga and other rivers which are equally revered. “Water is a reflection of life,” Yogi said, pointing out the twin challenges of keeping the ground water as well as surface water clean and preserved. He stressed on the Varanasi model and Chitrakoot model for recharging the ground water. He said it was because of the efforts taken by the state government to purify the groundwater that the number of cases pertaining to Japanese encephalitis came down drastically in the past three years. UP Jal Shakti minister Mahendra Singh said the state government was determined not to let any struggle or war happen because of the water crisis. He said though UP occupied 16% of India’s population, it had only 4% of surface water. He said the state government was committed to take on challenges like fast depleting ground water. He said the state government overcame challenges and now seeks to take steps for irrigating an additional 20 lakh hectares of agricultural land in the time to come. UP chief secretary RK Tewari said the amount of rainfall has also decreased over a period of time, triggering acute water crisis in some places in UP. The event saw senior bureaucrats and technical experts highlighting various aspects pertaining to water conservation during a panel discussion. Additional chief secretary (agriculture) Devesh Chaturvedi said the state government was moving towards becoming water efficient by taking various steps which include maintaining water efficiency in crop management. Engineer-in-chief, irrigation department, VK Niranjan said the department was now working towards provisioning piped water irrigation techniques which further reduce water losses while increasing the efficiency of water carriage between the source of water to the agricultural field.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/yogi-toi-water-positive-drive-a-bid-to-conserve-biodiversity/articleshow/79470196.cms||---
November 29, 2020||India||Lawyers send sipper, straws for Swamy||MUMBAI: With support pouring in from several quarters, a group of lawyers, including senior advocates, sent a plastic sipper and a bunch of disposal straws for 83-year-old Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist Fr Stan Swamy, arrested in the Elgar Parishad case, reports Rebecca Samervel. Swamy petitioned the special NIA court twice for a straw and sipper. The requests were made as Parkinson’s disease has made his hands unsteady, so he is unable to drink water from a cup. Besides sending the articles, the group also urged Taloja jail authorities to make detention humane and make jail manual-approved arrangements for all inmates who have special medical needs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lawyers-send-sipper-straws-for-swamy/articleshow/79470204.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Amit Shah offers farmers early talks if they move to Burari ground||NEW DELHI: In an effort to reach out to protesting farmers who have reached Delhi borders, Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday said talks can be held before December 3 if they move to the site in Burari that has been prepared for them. “As soon as you reach the ground, the government will call you for talks the next day,” said Shah. Jagjit Singh, Punjab president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, said, “Amit Shahji has called for an early meeting on a condition. It’s not good. He should have offered talks with an open heart without any condition. We’ll hold a meeting tomorrow (Sunday) morning to decide our response.” Solve issues immediately, farmers’ bodies urge CentreIt remains to be seen whether discussions among farm leaders over the offer will result in a thaw. Shah, meanwhile, will be away most of Sunday in Hyderabad campaigning for the civic elections. The stalemate has created a siege-like situation at some of the entry points to Delhi as farmers are squatting along highways and more are expected to arrive from areas other than Punjab and Haryana. Officials said the government’s decision to offer lodging at Burari also encouraged more farmers to embark for Delhi. On the Centre's part, the Burari site was intended to be a conciliatory gesture even as agriculture minister Narendra Tomar has not ruled out discussing a key demand that the provision for minimum support prices be given legislative protection. After Delhi Police on Friday agreed to give protesting farmers passage into the capital, more and more farmers from Punjab and Haryana on Saturday continued their march and assembled at the Delhi-Haryana Singhu border. Protests against the new farm laws, which aim to allow trade areas to be expanded, contract farming and removal of stock limits, have been largely centred in Punjab and to a less extent in Haryana. Ahead of the “Delhi Chalo” protest, BKU leaders in western UP said they would not participate in the march but some of them have now said they would reach the capital. Farm representatives under the “Samyukt Kisan” movement of AIKSCC, Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Sangh, BKU (Rajewal), BKU (Chaduni) and other organisations urged the government “to immediately address the issues of the farmers and solve them rather than create subterfuges about talks with no solution in mind”. Since farmers of other states, including Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Telangana, have also joined protests against the farm laws, these groups wanted the government to make the talks more broad-based without limiting it to the farmers’ representatives from Punjab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-amit-shah-offers-farmers-early-talks-if-they-move-to-burari-ground/articleshow/79470195.cms||---
November 29, 2020||India||Jaishankar calls on Seychelles Prez Ramkalawan, reiterates India's resolve to enhance ties||VICTORIA: External affairs minister S Jaishankar, who concluded his visit to Seychelles on Saturday, called on President Wavel Ramkalawan where he reiterated India's resolve to further enhance the India-Seychelles strategic partnership in the post-Covid era. "During his (Jaishankar's) visit, he called on H.E. President Wavel Ramkalawan at State House on 27th November 2020. EAM also held talks with his counterpart H.E. Mr. Sylvestre Radegonde, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Tourism of Seychelles. He conveyed an invitation from the Indian leadership to President Ramkalawan to visit India in 2021, read a statement from the Ministry of External Affairs. "EAM reiterated India's resolve to further enhance the India-Seychelles strategic partnership in the post-Covid era. He spoke of the centrality of Seychelles to India's vision of SAGAR (Security And Growth for All in the Region) that characterized India's policy towards the Indian Ocean Region," the ministry added. The ministry further said that Ramkalwan appreciated the assistance provided by India during the pandemic in the form of medical supplies and critical drugs. It added that he "appreciated the assistance provided by India" during the pandemic in the form of medical supplies and critical drugs. "EAM, on his part, emphasized India's commitment to support the interests and aspirations of Seychelles and take this cooperation to a higher level," the ministry's statement read further. Jaishankar also held talks with Seychelles' Foreign Minister Radegonde as well where the two ministers discussed "various aspects of bilateral relations" that included: "including development partnership, capacity building, defence cooperation, people to people and cultural ties, trade, tourism & commerce, as well as health."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jaishankar-calls-on-seychelles-prez-ramkalawan-reiterates-indias-resolve-to-enhance-ties/articleshow/79470214.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Noida||Wrong-side driving kills 3 on 2 NCR highways||GHAZIABAD/NOIDA: Wrong-side driving, the epidemic that kills and maims but has no antidote in sight, claimed three lives on highways near Delhi in Saturday’s early hours – at a Ghaziabad underpass on the Delhi-Meerut expressway where a young manager with a private company was fatally injured, and on the Yamuna Expressway where a retired Armyman and the driver accompanying him died on the spot. The Ghaziabad accident happened at the mouth of an underpass between Kala Patthar and Shipra Sun City in Indirapuram when the truck exited the one-way lane from the wrong side and ploughed right into the Verna Punit Agarwal was driving. The scourge of wrong-side driving has spread like a contagion on the newly developed expressway. Hundreds of motorists driving into NH-9 put safety at risk to avoid the detours that have become necessary because of the access-controlled expressway. Underpasses have been built near all important junctions for traffic from Ghaziabad and Noida to cross over to either side – on the 5km stretch between UP Gate and CISF camp, where this accident happened, there are four underpasses. Read AlsoWrong-side driving 2nd biggest cause of deaths on NHs: ReportNEW DELHI: The menace of wrong-side driving on roads claimed 9,200 lives in 2019 with more than one-fourth of such fatalities (2,726) occurring on the National Highways (NHs), the second biggest reason for deaths on such high-speed roads. According to the “Road Accident in India 2019” report, aThe underpass where this accident happened, located in front of the electricity substation, is split into two unidirectional lanes that lead into the service lanes of the expressway on either side. The truck was on a lane meant for traffic to turn into, not exit. Consequently, the traffic turning in would have a very restricted view of the road ahead, making any vehicle coming from the opposite side a potential accident threat. Besides, Punit was driving at night-time and the underpass was not even illuminated since work on streetlights is still on. The high-speed collision, on the service lanes on the Ghaziabad side of the expressway, led to a fire breaking out immediately and charring both vehicles. Punit, who suffered serious head injuries and minor burn injuries, was rescued by a police mobile unit and taken to a private hospital in Indirapuram where he succumbed after half an hour. He is survived by his wife and a two-year-old son. “The truck, which was going towards Lal Kuan, was coming from wrong side and was reportedly being driven at high speed,” said Anshu Jain, circle officer, Indirapuram. “The underpass is also not illuminated as the agency is still in the process of installing streetlights in that section,” added Jain. Sanjay Garg, MD of Shanti Gopal Hospital, where Punit was taken, told TOI, “At 3.10am, the victim was brought to our hospital. He was bleeding from the head and had minor burn injuries. All his vital parameters had dropped and we could hardly feel his pulse. After about half an hour, he was declared dead.” Police said Punit lived with his family in Noida Sector 74. He is originally from Lucknow. “We informed his family members. His father reached the hospital,” said Sanjeev Sharma, SHO, Indirapuram police station. “The truck driver fled the spot after the accident, but we are trying to track him down through the vehicle’s registration plate. An FIR under sections of negligent driving and causing death has been filed against the driver,” added Sharma. Regular expressway users have been demanding strict policing and fines to discipline traffic on the service lanes of the expressway. For them, the underpass accident was their worst fears coming true. Ashish Kumar a resident of Indirapuram’s Amarpali Village, said, “At the underpasses, autos, two-wheelers and bigger vehicles regularly drive on the wrong side even though there are separate lanes for incoming and outgoing vehicles, just to avoid a small detour.” The problem, added Kumar, is right at the curves, which are blind spots. “This can be be checked only through police presence, which unfortunately is scarce,” Kumar said. Local residents also asked why work on illuminating the underpasses was not completed before opening them to traffic. SP (traffic) Ramanand Kushwaha said a constable is stationed at the underpasses, especially during peak hours. “We are aware of wrong-side driving through underpasses and also on the adjoining service lanes and to a large extent have managed to curb the practice with effective policing. Saturday’s accident took place when there were no cops at these underpasses,” he said. NHAI project director Mudit Garg said “traffic management on the expressway is the job of the traffic department”. “We have a pair of lanes at each spot (underpass) and they have been designed to ensure a dedicated lane each for incoming and outgoing traffic,” he said. Asked about the lights, Garg added, “As you know, work on the expressway is still on. We have installed streetlights all along DME but are yet to install them inside underpasses.” Barely 45 minutes after Punit’s accident, a double-decker bus driving on the wrong side of Yamuna Expressway crashed into a mini-truck, killing Dhananjay Kumar, a 50-year-old former lieutenant, and the truck’s driver Pappu. Kumar and Pappu had serious injuries, to the face, head and lower body. Kumar was travelling to Bihar’s Gaya. The driver of the bus fled the spot. The front of the mini-truck was mangled. The accident happened at 3.15am on the Greater Noida-Agra carriageway, about 32km from Agra zero point. Pappu’s relative Sandeep said the pickup truck was hired by Dhananjay, who had to drop some belongings at a place in Noida, from where they were returning. Dhananjay has three children – two daughters and a son. His daughter’s wedding is coming up and he had been shopping for it. “The bus has been seized but the driver fled. We are waiting for a complaint from the kin of the deceased,” Jewar SHO Umesh Bahadur said. Additional DCP (Greater Noida) Vishal Pandey said an FIR will be lodged once they receive a complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/wrong-side-driving-takes-3-lives-on-two-e-ways-in-one-night/articleshow/79469646.cms||Abhijay Jha
November 29, 2020||Ghaziabad||Wrong-side driving kills 3 on 2 NCR highways||GHAZIABAD/NOIDA: Wrong-side driving, the epidemic that kills and maims but has no antidote in sight, claimed three lives on highways near Delhi in Saturday’s early hours – at a Ghaziabad underpass on the Delhi-Meerut expressway where a young manager with a private company was fatally injured, and on the Yamuna Expressway where a retired Armyman and the driver accompanying him died on the spot. The Ghaziabad accident happened at the mouth of an underpass between Kala Patthar and Shipra Sun City in Indirapuram when the truck exited the one-way lane from the wrong side and ploughed right into the Verna Punit Agarwal was driving. The scourge of wrong-side driving has spread like a contagion on the newly developed expressway. Hundreds of motorists driving into NH-9 put safety at risk to avoid the detours that have become necessary because of the access-controlled expressway. Underpasses have been built near all important junctions for traffic from Ghaziabad and Noida to cross over to either side – on the 5km stretch between UP Gate and CISF camp, where this accident happened, there are four underpasses. Read AlsoWrong-side driving 2nd biggest cause of deaths on NHs: ReportNEW DELHI: The menace of wrong-side driving on roads claimed 9,200 lives in 2019 with more than one-fourth of such fatalities (2,726) occurring on the National Highways (NHs), the second biggest reason for deaths on such high-speed roads. According to the “Road Accident in India 2019” report, aThe underpass where this accident happened, located in front of the electricity substation, is split into two unidirectional lanes that lead into the service lanes of the expressway on either side. The truck was on a lane meant for traffic to turn into, not exit. Consequently, the traffic turning in would have a very restricted view of the road ahead, making any vehicle coming from the opposite side a potential accident threat. Besides, Punit was driving at night-time and the underpass was not even illuminated since work on streetlights is still on. The high-speed collision, on the service lanes on the Ghaziabad side of the expressway, led to a fire breaking out immediately and charring both vehicles. Punit, who suffered serious head injuries and minor burn injuries, was rescued by a police mobile unit and taken to a private hospital in Indirapuram where he succumbed after half an hour. He is survived by his wife and a two-year-old son. “The truck, which was going towards Lal Kuan, was coming from wrong side and was reportedly being driven at high speed,” said Anshu Jain, circle officer, Indirapuram. “The underpass is also not illuminated as the agency is still in the process of installing streetlights in that section,” added Jain. Sanjay Garg, MD of Shanti Gopal Hospital, where Punit was taken, told TOI, “At 3.10am, the victim was brought to our hospital. He was bleeding from the head and had minor burn injuries. All his vital parameters had dropped and we could hardly feel his pulse. After about half an hour, he was declared dead.” Police said Punit lived with his family in Noida Sector 74. He is originally from Lucknow. “We informed his family members. His father reached the hospital,” said Sanjeev Sharma, SHO, Indirapuram police station. “The truck driver fled the spot after the accident, but we are trying to track him down through the vehicle’s registration plate. An FIR under sections of negligent driving and causing death has been filed against the driver,” added Sharma. Regular expressway users have been demanding strict policing and fines to discipline traffic on the service lanes of the expressway. For them, the underpass accident was their worst fears coming true. Ashish Kumar a resident of Indirapuram’s Amarpali Village, said, “At the underpasses, autos, two-wheelers and bigger vehicles regularly drive on the wrong side even though there are separate lanes for incoming and outgoing vehicles, just to avoid a small detour.” The problem, added Kumar, is right at the curves, which are blind spots. “This can be be checked only through police presence, which unfortunately is scarce,” Kumar said. Local residents also asked why work on illuminating the underpasses was not completed before opening them to traffic. SP (traffic) Ramanand Kushwaha said a constable is stationed at the underpasses, especially during peak hours. “We are aware of wrong-side driving through underpasses and also on the adjoining service lanes and to a large extent have managed to curb the practice with effective policing. Saturday’s accident took place when there were no cops at these underpasses,” he said. NHAI project director Mudit Garg said “traffic management on the expressway is the job of the traffic department”. “We have a pair of lanes at each spot (underpass) and they have been designed to ensure a dedicated lane each for incoming and outgoing traffic,” he said. Asked about the lights, Garg added, “As you know, work on the expressway is still on. We have installed streetlights all along DME but are yet to install them inside underpasses.” Barely 45 minutes after Punit’s accident, a double-decker bus driving on the wrong side of Yamuna Expressway crashed into a mini-truck, killing Dhananjay Kumar, a 50-year-old former lieutenant, and the truck’s driver Pappu. Kumar and Pappu had serious injuries, to the face, head and lower body. Kumar was travelling to Bihar’s Gaya. The driver of the bus fled the spot. The front of the mini-truck was mangled. The accident happened at 3.15am on the Greater Noida-Agra carriageway, about 32km from Agra zero point. Pappu’s relative Sandeep said the pickup truck was hired by Dhananjay, who had to drop some belongings at a place in Noida, from where they were returning. Dhananjay has three children – two daughters and a son. His daughter’s wedding is coming up and he had been shopping for it. “The bus has been seized but the driver fled. We are waiting for a complaint from the kin of the deceased,” Jewar SHO Umesh Bahadur said. Additional DCP (Greater Noida) Vishal Pandey said an FIR will be lodged once they receive a complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/wrong-side-driving-takes-3-lives-on-two-e-ways-in-one-night/articleshow/79470292.cms||Abhijay Jha
November 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Return of single-use plastic sparks worry||Vijayawada: Single-use plastic bags seemed to have made a return to Vijayawada following the Covid-19 outbreak. The ban on single-use plastic, imposed by the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC), was one of the things that helped the city become India’s ‘cleanest big city’ in Swachh Survekshan-2020. But now, single-use plastic of less than 50 microns has become prevalent in an array of places, from street stalls to wholesale markets Out of the 126 tonnes of garbage generated in the city every day, nearly 17 tonnes comprises single-use plastic. In 2019, the VMC imposed a strict ban on single-use plastic. Fines were imposed on shops and establishments using the same. Simultaneously, VMC implemented an action plan to increase availability of bags made of cloth and jute. Consequently, the amount of plastic in generated reduced by 40 per cent in February 2020. However, following the Covid-19 outbreak, the VMC lost some of its momentum. And soon, single-use plastic made its way back into the city. Now, these plastic bags can be found with fruit vendors as well as restaurants. “VMC motivated us in a big way and implemented a ban on plastic in partnership with residents. But the ban has become namesake now. Vijayawada achieved a top rank in Swachh Survekshan-2020. We should focus on implementing the plastic ban strictly to continue top rank,” said K Ramya Latha, a homemaker. When contacted about the issue, health wing officials said that they haven’t been able to focus on single-use plastic as they have been busy with Covid-19 duties. Officials said that plastic recycling units and PET bottle crushers are working successfully across the city. They informed that the plastic ban will be implemented strictly from December 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/return-of-single-use-plastic-sparks-worry/articleshow/79468048.cms||Venu Lanka
November 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Five Maoist militia members surrender||Visakhapatnam: Five Maoist militia members surrendered before Chintapalli ASP Vidyasagar Naidu at GK Veedhi on Saturday. The ASP said that total of 13 Maoist militia members have surrendered over the last month. The five Maoists who surrendered on Saturday have been identified as: Korra Sanyasi Rao from Gurralagondi village, Mattam Bagaratham, Korra Purnachadar and Mattam Matsa Rau from Mynakota village and Korra Ori of Buggirai village of GK Veedhi mandal. The Chintapalli ASP said that community policing programmes such as Prerana, Sankalpam and the recently-held mega health camps have aided in surrenders. Further, the arrest of important militia members such as Gemmeli Kamesh (alias Kumkumpudi Kamesh) served as a warning to other Maoists and sympathisers, the ASP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/five-maoist-militia-members-surrender/articleshow/79468070.cms||Siva G
November 29, 2020||Vijayawada||New industrial policy seeks to uplift oppressed sections||Vijayawada: The AP government, on October 26, announced a new industrial policy in which special provisions were announced for people from SC and ST communities to encourage them to turn entrepreneurs. “With a vision to provide additional thrust to budding entrepreneurs from the underprivileged communities through our policy measures and institutional network, we are announcing this special policy for SCs and STs,” said chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy, when he declared the special scheme last month. He further said that the new industrial policy would “provide a conducive environment to attain equitable and inclusive development along with bringing real change at the grass-root level”. Industries and commerce minister Mekapati Gowtham Reddy too echoed similar views. “The policy has soft interventions in the form of skilling and training, entrepreneurship development programmes, improving credit access, creating market linkages, and creation of a dedicated investment facilitation cell,” he said. The government plans to provide 16.2 per cent quota for SCs and 6 per cent for STs in all industrial parks to be developed in the state. “Making the deprived communities and mould them from job-seekers to job-givers is a big task. It requires a lot of commitment from the implementing agencies and people at the helm,” said Mannem Madhusudhana Rao, a first generation Dalit entrepreneur and founder of MMR Group. Rao, who heads over 20 companies spread over infrastructure, construction, power and service sectors, is one of the handful of Dalits who have become entrepreneurs in the state. The polytechnic student from Prakasam district had moved to Hyderabad in the 1990s and started as a daily wage labour, accompanying his sister in road-cutting works for laying of telecom cables. After working for a few months under the contractor, he approached the telecom company directly which offered him his first contract. “We were paid Rs 40 for working during day and Rs 150 for working at night. I preferred the night shift and used to help the contractor in measurement and related work,” he recalled. When the contractor refused to take up a work to be completed at night, Rao volunteered to do it and with great difficulty got the contract. “The execution of the work was easy because the workers were known to me. But getting the contract was very difficult,” he said. The work was done as per schedule and thus started his entrepreneurial journey. With more and more private players in the telecom sector laying underground cables, Rao soon emerged as a reliable contractor for the task, and has never looked back since. There were some difficult phases in-between when he was betrayed by his partners, but he overcame those phases with determination and branched out to Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Odisha. s or direction,” Rao added. On the government’s new industrial policy, Rao said committed officers must be appointed to implement the scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/new-industrial-policy-seeks-to-uplift-oppressed-sections/articleshow/79468085.cms||Gopi Dara
November 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Three major temples to remain closed||Ahmedabad: Three major temples in north and central Gujarat have decided to close their doors on the important full moon night of Dev Diwali, which falls on Monday. The temple trusts at the Shamlaji temple, Bahucharaji temple and Dakor temple decided not to open the temples on Monday so that devotees do not throng the sites and the spread of Covid-19 can be curbed. Kanu Patel, manager at the Shree Vishnu Mandir Trust at Shamlaji, said for four days on Dev Diwali, there is a tradition that a huge fair is organised at a place called Nag Dhara near the temple. “People come from Rajasthan, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh. Devotees come to the temple for prayers after participating in the fair. There are normally 20,000 to 30,000 visitors at the temple every day for these days. We wanted to avoid such gatherings on account of Covid-19. The fair has been cancelled and the temple is also closed between November 27 and 30,” Patel said. Religious rituals will be performed in the temple on Dev Diwali without devotees. Similarly, the temple at Dakor will also stay closed on Dev Diwali. The trust’s manager, Ravendra Upadhyay, said, “The occasion of poknam attracts nearly 7 lakh devotees to this temple. During this pandemic, we cannot afford such a huge gathering and therefore the temple will stay closed.” Another big temple, at Bahucharaji in Mehsana district, will also remain closed for Dev Diwali, when more than 20,000 devotees normally throng the temple.s||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/three-major-temples-to-remain-closed/articleshow/79468146.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s jaundice cases fall 84%, gastro 68%, thanks to cleaner water & hands||MUMBAI: The city has registered an 84% plunge in jaundice cases and a 68% fall in cases of gastroenteritis in this Covid-hit year, the BMC’s public health department has said. While civic officials said ‘Covid etiquette’, which includes frequent washing of hands, was one of the reasons, they believe the improved quality of drinking water supplied by them is the major cause for the drastic fall in the numbers as both are water-borne diseases. “People have been washing hands regularly, not eating food in the open, and drinking clean water,’’ a civic press release said. Better waste mgmt helped curb diseases, says expertAdditional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said, “When we did a review of water-borne diseases last week, we realized there has been a drastic, but welcome, drop in incidence.’’ He said frequent washing of hands or use of sanitisers had cut down transmission of viruses/bacteria. The BMC provided monthwise data for six years to underline its “improved drinking water quality-lower diseases” theory. While April saw 100 gastro cases, they dropped to double digits between May and September. But there was an increase in October (102) and November (127). Gastro cases have been dropping steadily over the years—from 10,257 in 2015 to 2,316 in 2020 so far. In 2019, BMC recorded 7,247 cases. The incidence of jaundice, caused by viruses Hepatitis A and E, has been less than 20 since April. While 245 cases were reported between January and November this year, cases for the corresponding months in 2015 were 1,075; 1,425 in 2016; 1,105 in 2017; 1,074 in 2018; 1,494 in 2019. Infectious diseases specialist Dr Om Shrivastava, a member of the state Covid-19 taskforce, said the better waste management had prevented breeding of micro-organisms. “This led to a drop in cholera, diarrhoea and jaundice cases,’’ he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbais-jaundice-cases-fall-84-gastro-68-thanks-to-cleaner-water-hands/articleshow/79470260.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Mumbai||Boy falls to death in lift shaft in Mumbai's Dharavi||MUMBAI: A five-year-old boy stepping out of a lift on the fourth floor of a Dharavi building died when the lift moved up and he fell down the open shaft on Saturday. CCTV footage showed the door to the lift on that floor closed on Huzaifa Sarfaraz Shaikh and pushed him into the shaft after the lift had moved on. The camera in the lift showed the boy stuck for a while between the sliding shutter door of the lift, which he had closed shut moments before, and the wooden door to the lift on the floor. Shaikh died after sustaining severe head injuries in the fall. The accident took place in the seven-storey Kozi Shelter building in Palwadi, Dharavi Cross Road. Shaikh had got into the lift on the ground floor around 12.45 pm and was accompanied by his two sisters, one seven years old and the other three years old. When the lift arrived at the fourth floor, the two girls got out, but Shaikh could not. The father of the deceased boy works in a garments shop while his mother is a homemaker. The police urged residents to ensure that children do not travel alone in a lift. There were reports that Shaikh's mother discovered that there had been a mishap only after half an hour of the incident, when she went looking for him and spotted blood stains on the lift. In the CCTV footage, the button for the sixth floor shows red in the footage, indicating someone on that floor had called for the lift.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/boy-falls-to-death-in-lift-shaft-in-mumbais-dharavi/articleshow/79470272.cms||Mateen Hafeez
November 29, 2020||Mumbai||Devendra Fadnavis hits out at Maharashtra CM over ‘threats’, Sanjay Raut recalls his ‘horoscope’ warning||MUMBAI: The war of words between Shiv Sena and BJP over the MVA government’s first anniversary escalated on Saturday with former CM Devendra Fadnavis saying he has “never seen a CM who issues threats in the history of the state”, and Sena MP Sanjay Raut retorting that Fadnavis, too, had issued threats when he was at the helm. Fadnavis was referring to CM Uddhav Thackeray’s interview in Saamna on Friday in which he had said, “If you come after families and children, remember you, too, have families and children. You are not clean. We know how to set you straight, roast you.” Raut dares BJP to impose Prez rule, says it will be a precedentThe verbal duel between Shiv Sena and BJP intensified on Saturday. BJP's Devendra Fadnavis said, "The CM says 'we know how to cook your khichdi'. What kind of language is this? It doesn't suit the CM's post, which is a constitutional post." Raut's reply to that was, "Fadnavis had said as CM that he had 'horoscopes' (records) of all those opposing the state government. Was this not a threat?" Raut added, "If a central investigation agency goes after him (the CM) illegally, he will react according to his duty as CM. Apart from being a CM, he is also party president." Fadnavis accused the MVA government of having failed on all fronts, saying, "The current situation is enough to demand the enforcement of President's rule in the state, though we will not put forward such a demand." In the cases related to journalist Arnab Goswami and actor Kangana Ranaut, he said Supreme Court and Bombay high court, respectively, had slammed the three-party government. "The MVA government misused the system in both cases. This is enough to demand President's rule. Will the CM take action against the officers responsible? Will he take action against the home minister, or will he apologise to Maharashtra?" he asked. Raut said, "Everyone knows who is misusing power, where and how." He added, "If they want to make a demand for imposition of President's rule on the basis of a court order, let them go ahead. Such a step will set a new precedent. With due respect to the court, I would say if an illegal structure is demolished by the civic corporation or an arrest made by police of 'ABC' based on evidence for abetment to suicide of a Marathi architect, could it be criteria to enforce President's rule?" On Fadnavis's charge about the MVA's failures, Raut said, "The opposition should oppose, but they should use their strength in a constructive way for betterment of the state."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/devendra-fadnavis-hits-out-at-maharashtra-cm-over-threats-sanjay-raut-recalls-his-horoscope-warning/articleshow/79470285.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
November 29, 2020||World||Iran vows revenge for slain nuclear scientist||Iran’s supreme leader promised on Saturday to retaliate for the killing of the Islamic Republic’s top nuclear scientist, raising the threat of a new confrontation with the West and Israel in the remaining weeks of Donald Trump’s presidency. Ayatollah Ali Khamenei pledged to continue the work of Mohsen Fakhrizadeh, who Western and Israeli governments believe was the architect of a secret Iranian nuclear weapons programme. Friday’s killing, which Iranian President Hassan Rouhani was swift to blame on Israel, could complicate any efforts by US President-elect Joe Biden to revive a detente with Tehran that was forged when he was in former President Obama’s administration. Trump pulled Washington out of the 2015 international nuclear pact agreed between Tehran and major powers. Khamenei, who is Iran’s top authority and who says the country has never sought nuclear arms, said in a tweet that Iranian officials must take up the task of “pursuing this crime and punishing its perpetrators and those who commanded it”. Iran’s immediate priority, he said, was the “definitive punishment of the perpetrators and those who ordered it”. Fakhrizadeh, who had little public profile in Iran but who Israel named as a key player in what it says is Iran’s nuclear weapons quest, was killed on Friday when he was ambushed near Tehran and his car sprayed with bullets. He was rushed to hospital where he died. President Rouhani told a televised meeting on Saturday Iran would respond “at the proper time”. “Once again, the evil hands of Global Arrogance and the Zionist mercenaries were stained with the blood of an Iranian son,” he said, using terms officials employ to refer to Israel. Israel cabinet minister Tzachi Hanegbi, a confidant of PM Netanyahu, said he did not know who carried out the killing. “I have no clue who did it. It’s not that my lips are sealed because I’m being responsible, I simply really have no clue,” he told N12’s Meet the Press. Israel’s Army Radio said some Israeli embassies had been put on high alert after Iran’s threats of retaliation, though there were no reports of concrete threats. The radio’s military affairs correspondent said the army was on routine footing. Netanyahu’s office has declined to comment on the killing of Fakhrizadeh and an Israeli foreign ministry spokesman said the ministry did not comment on security regarding missions abroad. The White House, Pentagon, US state department and CIA have also declined to comment on the killing, as has Biden’s transition team. “Whether Iran is tempted to take revenge or whether it restrains itself, it will make it difficult for Biden to return to the nuclear agreement,” Amos Yadlin, a former Israeli military intelligence chief and director of Israel’s Institute for National Security Studies, tweeted. Under the 2015 nuclear deal, Iran agreed to curb its nuclear work in return for the lifting of sanctions. Once Trump withdrew in 2018, US curbs were ramped up, driving down Iran’s vital oil exports and crippling the economy. Tehran, meanwhile, sped up its nuclear work. Germany, a party to the nuclear pact, and UN secretary-general Antonio Guterres called for restraint from all sides. Iran’s foreign minister Mohammad Javad Zarif tweeted it was “shameful that some refuse to stand against terrorism and hide behind calls for restraint”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/middle-east/iran-vows-revenge-for-slain-nuclear-scientist/articleshow/79470289.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Mumbai||PM Modi's visit to Serum Institute: 'Maharashtra CM skipped Pune on PMO's instructions'||MUMBAI: Responding to an allegation purportedly made by a BJP MLA about CM Uddhav Thackeray not accompanying PM Modi during the latter's visit to the Pune-based Serum Institute of India, Sanjay Raut said the "CM skipped the welcome programme as per the PMO's instructions." The Chief Minister's Office said in a statement on Saturday, "The chief minister and governor will not be in Pune as the Prime Minister's Office has informed that their presence was not required since the prime Minister will be there for a brief visit." The CMs of Gujarat and Telangana too were not part of the PM's visit to Ahmedabad and Hyderabad on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-cm-skipped-pune-on-pmos-instructions/articleshow/79470300.cms||---
November 29, 2020||World||Report: Sunak did not declare wife’s wealth in ministerial register||UK chancellor Rishi Sunak, the son-in-law of Infosys founder N R Narayana Murthy, is facing questions over transparency of his wealth disclosures after the Guardian reported that the minister has not declared his wife Akshata Murthy’s and her family’s holdings in the IT firm and other ventures in the UK ministerial register. Murthy, who married Sunak in 2009, has shares worth £430 million in Infosys, the Guardian report said. The combined holding of her family is worth an estimated £1.7 billion. UK’s ministerial code requires him to declare any financial interests that are “relevant” to his responsibilities, and which could conflict with his duty to the public. Ministers must also declare those interests of their close family, including in-laws, which might give rise to a conflict, the report said. But Sunak’s entry mentions no family members other than his wife, and only refers to her ownership of a small, UK venture capital firm. The investigation by Guardian shows that Murthy and her family hold many other interests, including: a combined £1.7bn shareholding in Infosys, which employs thousands of staff in the UK and has held contracts with government ministries and public bodies; a £900m-ayear joint venture with Amazon in India, through an investment vehicle owned by Murthy’s father; a direct shareholding by Murthy in a UK firm which runs Jamie Oliver and Wendy’s burger restaurants in India; and five other UK firms where Murthy is a director or direct shareholder. Sunak and Murty did respond to requests for comment by Guardian. A treasury spokesperson said the PM’s independent adviser on ministerial interests “confirmed he is completely satisfied with the chancellor’s propriety of arrangements and that he has followed the ministerial code to the letter in declaration of interests”. The report said Murthy’s holding is not secret, but it is not clear why it was not declared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/report-sunak-did-not-declare-wifes-wealth-in-ministerial-register/articleshow/79470303.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Delhi||Delhi cases dip, Covid-19 positivity rate lowest since October 23||NEW DELHI: The Covid-19 positivity rate in Delhi dropped to 7.2% on Saturday, the lowest since October 23, even as a reduced number of fresh cases, 4,998, were detected from a record 69,051 tests. Eighty-nine more fatalities pushed the city’s death toll to 8,998. “Since Nov 7, cases and positivity in Delhi are going down... Hope this trend continues. Delhiites and Delhi government together will win over this third wave. Pl continue to observe all precautions,” the CM tweeted. 54% Covid beds availableOn October 23, Delhi recorded a positivity rate of almost 7%. It was 8.5% on Friday, 8.7% on Thursday and 8.5% per cent on Wednesday. Positivity rate is the percentage of infections detected out of the total number of tests conducted. A high positivity rate points to inadequate testing, implying that a large number of infections were going undetected. The seven-day rolling average of daily cases in the capital too had fallen to 5,518 on Saturday, down from 7,341 two weeks ago. Last Saturday, the average was 5,850. A record 69,051 tests, including 33,147 RT-PCR — the highest till date — and 35,904 rapid antigen tests, were conducted in the past 24 hours for the detection of Covid-19 infections, the state health department said. According to the bulletin, the total number of coronavirus cases climbed to 5,61,742 on Saturday, of which 5,16,166 had recovered. The tally of active cases in Delhi was 36,578 down from 38,181 on Friday. Delhi has recorded 6,746 cases last Sunday, 4,454 on Monday, 6,224 on Tuesday, 5,246 on Wednesday and 5,475 on Thursday and 5,482 on Friday. The reduction in new cases has also led to a fall in the occupancy rate of beds designated for Covid-19 treatment in hospitals. Of the total number of 18,397 beds in Covid-19 hospitals, 9,900 (54%) were vacant as of 10 pm on Saturday. The percentage of ICU beds with a ventilator and without a ventilator stood at 17% and 30% respectively. Health minister Satyendar Jain said Delhi had sufficient infrastructure and equipment to vaccinate its entire population in a few weeks once a Covid-19 vaccine is available.“There is no need to worry about storage of vaccines. We have a large number of healthcare facilities, such as mohalla clinics, poly clinics, and hospitals etc, where a Covid-19 vaccine can be administered to people,” Jain said. “Once a vaccine is available, we can vaccinate the entire population of Delhi in a few weeks,” he said. Jain added that Delhi should be given priority during the distribution of the vaccine as it is the capital. A three-storeyed building on the premises of Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital has also been identified for storage of Covid-19 vaccines. Watch Covid-19: 69 per cent of new cases from 8 states and UTs; tests per million cross 1 lakh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-cases-dip-covid-19-positivity-rate-lowest-since-october-23/articleshow/79470329.cms||---
November 29, 2020||World||Joe Biden announces 3 more members in Covid-19 task force||WASHINGTON: US President-elect Joe Biden on Saturday said that he is adding three new members in the Coronavirus task force as cases of the Wuhan-originated virus continue to surge in the US. According to The Hill, The transition said in a statement that Jane Hopkins, Jill Jim and David Michaels are joining the team, which is co-chaired by David Kessler, former Indian American Surgeon General Vivek Murthy and Marcella Nunez-Smith. The task force is charged with helping Biden, Vice President-elect Kamala Harris. "As COVID-19 surges across the country, I need a team advising me and a transition that offers diverse perspectives and viewpoints. Ms. Hopkins, Dr. Jim, and Dr. Michaels will strengthen the board's work and help ensure that our COVID-19 planning will address inequities in health outcomes and the workforce," said President-elect Biden in a statement. According to a statement released by the Biden-Harris Transition website, Hopkins, a Sierra Leonean immigrant, has worked for more than 20 years as a bedside nurse and has a long history in union work, a choice that appears to reflect Biden's emphasis on appealing to labor groups. She's also received the Black Lives Matter Award from the SEIU Washington State AFRAM Caucus. Whereas Jim is the executive director at the Navajo Nation Department of Health. " For 18 years, she has served urban and tribal communities in non-profit, state, federal agencies and most recently tribal government, serving as a cabinet member for the Navajo Nation Nez-Lizer Administration," the website read. The website stated that Michaels is an epidemiologist and Professor of Environmental and Occupational Health at the Milken Institute School of Public Health, George Washington University. "He served as Assistant Secretary of Labor for Occupational Safety and Health from 2009 to January 2017, the longest-serving administrator in OSHA's history. During the Clinton Administration, Dr. Michaels served as Assistant Secretary of Energy for Environment, Safety, and Health, charged with protecting the workers, community, and environment around the nation's nuclear weapons facilities," the website stated. These announcements of the three new members in the coronavirus task force comes after the US surpassed 13 million COVID-19 cases on Friday, according to Johns Hopkins University.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/joe-biden-announces-3-more-members-in-covid-19-task-force/articleshow/79470339.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Ranchi||Firearms, ammo seized from forest after encounter with Maoists in W S’bhum||Jamshedpur: After an overnight exchange of fire with PLFI activists from Friday night in West Singhbhum, security forces seized a cache of firearms from a forest in Bandgaon police station area on Saturday morning. While there were no injuries reported, there were no arrests made as the Maoists retreated deep into the forest. SP Ajay Linda said one 7.62 bore self-loading rifle (SLR), a .315 bore rifle, six 9mm country-made pistols, a double barrel gun, one magazine each of the 7.62 bore SLR and .315 bore rifle and 11 magazines of the 9mm country-made pistol were seized during the combing operation. As many as 169 live bullets of the SLR gun, a sharp knife, a walkie-talkie, a thermal scanner and PLFI literature were among the other items that were found. On Friday, personnel of the Jharkhand Jaguar and the district police were engaged in a search operation for Dinesh Gope and Jeevan Gudia of the People Liberation Front of India in Banda village when the cadres of the banned outfit opened fire at the security forces. In retaliation, the jawans fired back and around 100 rounds of fire exchange took place between the two sides.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/firearms-ammo-seized-from-forest-after-encounter-with-maoists-in-w-sbhum/articleshow/79468205.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 29, 2020||Surat||Riverside walkway at Athwalines in shambles for months cleaned||Surat: Dermatologist Dr Dipak Patel was more than surprised when he visited the riverside walkway at Athwalines on Saturday morning. The entire walkway was spick-and-span with no trace of waste piles or burnt leaves on the track. Following the report published in the TOI highlighting the poor condition of the riverside walkway on November 27, the Surat Municipal Corporation’s (SMC) Athwa zone swung into action and cleaned up the entire walkway. A team of safai workers was deployed to clear the garbage and dry burnt waste. About four tractors were pressed into service to remove the garbage and dry waste lying unattended on the walkway since months.The 4km riverside walkway connecting Navadi Ovara in Nanpura to Parle Point was constructed at the cost of Rs 3 crores. The forest area along the walkway is home to more than 40 different species of birds and reptiles.According to the residents and the environmental activists, they had complained to the civic body several times to clean the riverside walkway connecting Athwalines and Parle Point. However, no action was taken.The forest area on the walkway has number of herbs including Ashwagandha, Akdo, Nasotar, Pilu, Apamarg, Dhaturo, Kalar, Krishna Kamal, Bhoy Ringni, Bhoy amli. Due to the constant burning of the dry waste and chopping of the plants, some of the herbs have been lost. Dr Anand Vaidya, an ayurvedic practitioner and botanist who regularly visit the riverside walkway said, “There are some plant species that are difficult to grow in nursery which can be grown in the walkway forest area. The walkway also has moringa or saragwo trees, which have become popular for their amazing medicinal properties.”Ashish Vakil, member of Nature Club Surat (NCS) told TOI, “It’s good that the SMC has woken from the deep slumber. The provision for 24x7 security personnel is the need of the hour to protect the walkway from unscrupulous elements.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/riverside-walkway-at-athwalines-in-shambles-for-months-cleaned/articleshow/79468060.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Kolkata||Suvendu readies for show of strength at Mahishadal today||Nandigram/Mahishadal: Decorators were busy giving finishing touches to the 350 x 100 feet dais at Mahishadal from where rebel Trinamool leader Suvendu Adhikari will address the crowd on Sunday. While none of his loyalists was seen around the Mahishadal grounds, there was no message from the leader either to mobilize people. Yet, 20,000 chairs were being arranged in front of the dais. Yuva Trinamool has also planned a showdown in Haldia on the same day. Sources said Suvendu wouldn’t use the Mahishadal platform for political ends. But the elaborate arrangements bore out that the rebel leader was preparing for an impressive show of strength. Suvendu and his family kept themselves closeted at their Kanthi residence all through Saturday. An armed police officer posted there didn’t allow any visitor on the ground that Suvendu’s mother was not keeping well. On Friday, the rebel leader spent the evening at a Kolaghat guesthouse after sending his resignation and returned home after 11 pm. Kanthi Municipality employees said Suvendu’s family members, including chairman Soumendu, has been staying away from office for some time. Suvendu’s loyalists are divided over “Dada’s ways”. Some believe that the leader was waiting for a final tally of MLAs who would go along with him before going for a hard bargain with BJP. Another section believes that the rebel leader was warming up for a new political platform that would field candidates in Jangalmahal, East Midnapore and Murshidabad in the coming assembly polls. On ground zero, the twin sisters of the 2007 land stir — Khejuri and Nandigram — stood poles apart in response to Suvendu’s resignation. While a section of villagers in Khejuri Block I and II burst crackers till late night on Friday and hung BJP flags in the area, Nandigram maintained a stoic silence. Trouble broke out at Birbandarpatna when bike gangs led siege to as many as six TMC offices and ransacked them before taking control of the units. Trinamool supporters blocked the Miya More for hours in protest. Local TMC leaders put the blame on BJP. “This is a blatant effort by BJP to corner Trinamool,” said Birbandar anchal sabhapati Shiekh Noorshed Ali. BJP’s Kanthi organization secretary Tapas Doloi said: “We do not believe in the politics of hegemony. It could be the outcome of a feud within Trinamool.” Meanwhile, the dismissed member of Midnapore Municipality’s Board of Administrators and erstwhile Trinamool chairman of the civic body, Pranab Bose, has moved a writ petition in the Calcutta High Court challenging his dismissal. Bose, a Suvendu loyalist, was removed from the post on November 18. Bose’s counsel Billodal Bhattacharya said the petition, seeking a stay on the dismissal order, is likely to be heard next week||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/suvendu-readies-for-show-of-strength-at-mahishadal-today/articleshow/79469847.cms||Suman Mandal
November 29, 2020||Kolkata||GJM’s Giri shows up, announces Gurung’s Siliguri meet on Dec 6||Siliguri/Darjeeling: Gorkha Janamukti Morcha (Gurung faction) general secretary Roshan Giri appeared in public after three years and said party chief Bimal Gurung would address his first public meeting in Siliguri on December 6. In a significant departure from the past, the rival Binay Tamang faction of GJM said anyone could return in a democracy but peace, which has been restored in the Hills, must not be disrupted. There are indications that the Gurung faction, for now, will focus on the Terai-Dooars region. “The saffron brigade has betrayed us for 11 years. Therefore, we will support Trinamool Congress in the 2021 assembly elections and ensure a win for chief minister Mamata Banerjee. In the 2024 Lok Sabha, we will support the party that will back our demand. Gurung will arrive in Siliguri on December 6 and address a public meeting at Baghajatin Park,” Giri said after arriving at Bagdogra airport in the evening. The leader upped the ante on the Tamang faction and said: “Binay Tamang and Anit Thapa are responsible for disturbing peace in the Hills. They have ruined democracy here and fanned both corruption and nepotism. Gurung’s return will bring back normalcy in the Hills.” Thapa, the general secretary of the Tamang faction and GTA chairman, responded saying “everyone was welcome” in a democracy, but peace in the Hills “should not be disturbed”. “We see cadres of the rival faction working with the intention of revenge, which should not be the case. If peace is disturbed, we are ready to restore it as we did three years ago,” he added. Thapa, who hails from Kurseong where the first public meeting of the Gurung faction is taking place on Sunday, maintained that his party had no intention of hindering return of a rival leader. Giri, who is scheduled to address the meeting at Kurseong Motor Stand, will stay overnight in Sukna before heading for the venue. Bimal Gurung, along with Giri, had been on the run for three years and resurfaced in Kolkata on October 21. He wasted no time in announcing that he was quitting the NDA and allying with the Trinamool ahead of the assembly elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/gjms-giri-shows-up-announces-gurungs-siliguri-meet-on-dec-6/articleshow/79469827.cms||Roshan Gupta
November 29, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal govt’s ‘Duare Sarkar’ rolls out on Tue||Kolkata: The state government is all set to roll out a mega campaign — Duare Sarkar — from December 1 to ensure doorstep delivery of its welfare schemes. The outreach programme, spanning nearly two months, is designed to include more people in these projects and redress grievances, if any. ‘Duare Sarkar’ was announced by chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday, when she mentioned that the campaign would allow beneficiaries to enrol for the ‘Swasthya Sathi’ scheme that promises everyone in the state a health cover of up to Rs 5 lakh. To promote women empowerment, the Swasthya Sathi card will be issued to the female guardian of every family, she had said. The card can be used at both government and private hospitals for cashless treatment. In a notification on Friday, the government announced that ‘Duare Sarkar’ would not be restricted to ‘Swasthya Sathi’ alone and would encompass 10 major welfare schemes, including Kanyashree, Khadya Sathi, Sikshashree, Rupashree, Jai Johar, Taposili Bandhu, Aikyashree and MGNREGS. Most of these have been launched by Mamata in her tenure to benefit women, students, the minorities and the backward classes. The outreach programme commences on Tuesday and the first phase will be completed on December 11. The second phase will span from December 15 to 24; the third phase from January 2 to 12; and the fourth phase or “mop-up round” from January 18 to 28. According to a government notification, ‘Duare Sarkar’ will involve camps in all panchayat and municipality areas of that state. The camps will be hosted in schools, colleges, community halls and government offices or establishments where state representatives will be present. “There are many people who are not aware of our welfare schemes and on many occasions, people are unable to benefit from the schemes owing to external reasons. The campaign is an effort to deal with such problems and bring more people under government welfare projects. People can both enrol for the schemes and register their grievances at the camps. The state will take appropriate action,” a senior government official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-govts-duare-sarkar-rolls-out-on-tue/articleshow/79469845.cms||Saibal Gupta
November 29, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal sailor held in Yemen hotel since February||Behrampore: A shipping crew assistant from Murshidabad has been confined to a hotel, along with 19 others, in Yemen’s Sanaa since February this year. He was able to communicate with his family at Talgram in Bharatpur only three months later. Hiron Seikh Siddiki had joined a Bengaluru-based shipping company in December last year. In his call to his parents in May, Hiron said he and the other sailors — 13 other Indians, five Bangladeshis and an Egyptian — had set sail for Saudi Arabia from Oman on February 3 when they ran into bad weather. They were forced to anchor their ship at a port in Yemen, unaware that they had sailed into a war zone.  The Yemeni Coast Guard took the crew into custody soon after they docked on February 12. They were taken to Sanaa and have been confined to a hotel since. Their passports and the ship’s papers were taken from them. Hiron’s parents Seikh Abu Bakkar and Lovely Bibi had no idea where their son was for three months. Abu Bakkar runs a small grocery shop to earn a living for the family as well as meet his younger son’s education expenses. The family had paid a local agent Rs 4 lakh to get him the job, with the promise of a monthly salary of Rs 85,000. “Since the lockdown, sales have dropped in my store. It has become tough to run the household. My wife has hardly eaten for about six months. We do not know how to contact the right authorities to secure the release of my son. An NGO is trying to help us,” said Abu Bakkar. Lovely said: “How can we eat and sleep properly after hearing about the plight of my son? He was not even allowed to take clothes out of his bag.” An NGO, Karna Subarna Welfare Society, learnt of the situation and got in touch with the ministry of external affairs on November 16. NGO secretary Matiur Rahaman said: “We came to know of the sufferings of the crewmen from our patron and advocate in Dubai. We have contacted the MEA.” They were assured that all efforts would be made for the release of the crew.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-sailor-held-in-yemen-hotel-since-february/articleshow/79469763.cms||Sukumar Mahato
November 29, 2020||Kolkata||CPM’s Sushanta Ghosh returns to Midnapore on December 6||Midnapore: On a day Left parties in Kolkata rally for secularism, CPM supporters in West Midnapore’s Chandrakona will welcome home controversial party leader Sushanta Ghosh who was banished nine years ago in connection with a 2002 murder case in Keshpur in which seven people were killed and buried. Ghosh will return to Midnapore on December 6 as the Supreme Court has lifted the order of externment against him. Loyalists have already ordered billboards reading, ‘Gharer chhele ghare phirchhe’, but district CPM leaders remain tight-lipped because Ghosh is technically still under suspension. According to party insiders, Ghosh attracted disciplinary action after he recorded his differences with former CM Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee over the government’s stance on Jangalmahal in a book he wrote. The suspension ends on November 30, a week before Ghosh enters Midnapore. “I am going to my constituency on December 6. I will say whatever I have to say once I reach there,” the leader said. A six-time MLA from Garbeta and minister in the Bhattacharjee cabinet, Ghosh had become an icon for the CPM rank and file after facing a Maoist attack. While the CPM brass in Alimuddin Street didn’t always endorse his self-defence strategy, Ghosh’s popularity went beyond his district. Midnapore Trinamool chose to play down Ghosh’s proposed return. “People here are aware of the Benachapra case... Skeletons were dug out of Ghosh’s backyard. They know him,” Garbeta MLA Ashis Chakraborty said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cpms-sushanta-ghosh-returns-to-midnapore-on-december-6/articleshow/79469831.cms||Sujoy Khanra
November 29, 2020||Kolkata||TMC claims poll affidavit fraud, Arjun says prove it||Kolkata: Sharpening its attacks against Barrackpore MP Arjun Singh, Trinamool Congress on Saturday accused him of “suppressing facts” in his affidavits submitted to the Election Commission. State women and child development minister Shahsi Panja alleged that Singh has not disclosed his assets and personal details. Singh dared TMC to prove its charges before the EC instead of “playing to the gallery”. Panja said, “Every public representative has to declare assets and personal details to the EC. But in this case, we see a clear suppression of facts. Lying to the EC is unacceptable. In this case, from documents in public domain it is evident that his shareholding in a private firm is not disclosed. He has also not disclosed the details of his family. He has disrespected a woman. Is this acceptable?” Singh responded, “It is now an established fact that the Trinamool Congress is losing ground. They are doing a press conference on an issue with which they should have gone to the Election Commission. I do not have any trouble if they are lodging a complaint. But they should do that with necessary documents and should not only play to the gallery. I have submitted necessary documents with the Election Commission and I am ready to provide them with further clarification if they ask for it.” On the personal charges, Singh said if this was so, people would never have voted for him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tmc-claims-poll-affidavit-fraud-arjun-says-prove-it/articleshow/79469836.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Ranchi||2-day mass testing drive in East Singhbhum, admin sets target of 15,000 tests||Jamshedpur: The East Singhbhum administration has rolled out a two-day mass testing drive from Saturday and has set a target of conducting 15,000 antigen tests in 48 hours. DC Suraj Kumar said, “Anyone with symptoms of Covid-19, like fever, cough and cold, etc., should get themselves tested.” “People who have returned to the district from other cities and towns should also get themselves tested,” additional chief medical officer Sahir Pal, who is also the surveillance officer of the district, said. The administration has identified bus terminus, urban markets, railway stations, rural markets for conducting the tests. It has set up temporary testing centres at Thakkar Bapa School in Dhatkidih (Bistupur), Community centre in Kagalnagar (Sonari), M E School (Jugsalai), Kerala Samajam Model School (Golmuri), Kaushal Vikas Kendra in Paridih (Mango) and Town Hall in Bagunhatu (Sidhgora). “We have set a target of 5,000 tests on Saturday and 10,000 on Sunday,” Pal said. From May 12 (when the first case was reported in East Singhbhum) till Friday evening, the health department had collected 3,75,513 swab samples, of which 3,58,301 have been tested. Meanwhile, the state-run MGM hospital superintendent, Dr Sanjay Kumar, said every case of cold, cough and fever is being examined thoroughly at its outdoor patient ward and the Covid suspects are being referred to the doctors concerned. City-based Dr M K Singh said symptoms of common cold are similar to Covid-19 symptoms and people should not ignore them and must get themselves tested. As of Saturday morning, East Singhbhum recorded 17,107 cases, of which 313 were active. The district has witnessed a recovery rate of 96.12% while its death rate is 2.05%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/2-day-mass-testing-drive-in-east-singhbhum-admin-sets-target-of-15000-tests/articleshow/79468229.cms||B Sridhar
November 29, 2020||Kolkata||TMC minister of state’s brother takes BJP flag||Goalpokhar (Uttar Dinajpur): Trinamool minister of state Md Ghulam Rabbani’s brother Golam Haidar joined BJP on Saturday, giving the saffron party access to the minority community in Uttar Dinajpur. The district has a 49.92% Muslim population, according to the 2011 Census. Haidar, along with his followers, took the BJP flag in the presence of Union minister of state Debasree Chaudhuri and Balurghat MP Sukanta Majumdar. Haidar’s move is likely to have an impact on minorities, who had gone with Congress since the days of former Union minister Priya Ranjan Das Munshi and later cast votes for Trinamool. Haidar’s induction came a day after rebel Trinamool leader Suvendu Adhikari resigned from the Cabinet on Friday. Haidar’s brother is known to be close to Adhikari. Ghulam Rabbani was elected from the Goalpokhar assembly seat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tmc-minister-of-states-brother-takes-bjp-flag/articleshow/79469835.cms||Subhro Maitra
November 29, 2020||Kolkata||TMC prepares the ground for Mamata’s rally in Midnapore||Kolkata: Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee will reach out to East Midnapore to quarantine her party ranks from the “rebel” bug and take on opponents BJP and CPM in the battle for the Bengal assembly polls. Banerjee will hold a public rally at the Midnapore College Grounds on December 7. People from East Midnapore will participate, said Trinamool West Midnapore president Ajit Maity. There was a flurry of activity in the Trinamool camp on Saturday with party seniors meeting district organizers of West Midnapore, Malda and Murshidabad ahead of the CM’s meet with district heads on December 4. While TMC seniors described them as “routine organizational meetings”, the parleys assumed significance following Suvendu Adhikari’s resignation from the state Cabinet. All the three districts under TMC’s focus are those where the rebel leader and former minister had served as party observer. Trinamool state president and MP Subrata Bakshi was in Midnapore on Saturday to take stock of the ground situation and oversee arrangements for the CM’s rally. Bakshi and other Trinamool seniors Manas Bhunia, minister Soumen Mahapatra and district president Maity didn’t utter a word on Adhikari other than hitting out at BJP and CPM. Suvendu loyalist Midnapore Zilla Parishad karmadhyakshas Ramaprasad Giri and Amulya Maity, former Midnapore Municipality chairman Pranab Basu and TMC district general secretary Snehashis were among the prominent absentees at Saturday’s meeting. Bakshi, on his way back to Kolkata, spent some time with TMC leaders at a roadside dhaba in Kolaghat. Suvendu loyalist and Nandakumar MLA Sukumar De was present there. Trinamool’s Ramnagar MLA Akhil Giri, Chandipur MLA Amiya Kanti Bhattacharya, Panskura Municipality chairman Nanda Kumar Mishra and former Trinamool MLA from Purba Panskura Biplab Roy Chowdhury held talks with the Trinamool state president over ways to establish the party communication channel when Adhikari was not taking the initiative. Trinamool MP Abhishek Banerjee on Saturday held talks with the party’s Malda district leadership at his south Kolkata office. Even though district seniors, namely Mousam Noor and Sabitri Mitra, could not make it to the meeting, Krishnendu Narayan Chowdhury, Malda Zilla Parishad sabhadhipati Gour Mandal and others were present. Trinamool minister and Mahila Trinamool Congress president Chandrima Bhattacharya held a meeting of the women’s wing in Murshidabad on the same day to reassure the ranks that TMC will retain power in 2021. “Our CM has done a lot for women. She has been doing it throughout the year and not just ahead of polls,” she said. The minister’s visit came days after Murshidabad Zilla Parishad sabhadhipati Musharaf Hosain Mandal and Hariharpara MLA Niamot Shiekh had sympathized with Adhikari, who brought the Murshidabad Zilla Parishad under Trinamool’s control and expanded the party’s network on Adhir Chowdhury’s turf. (With inputs from Sujoy Khanra, Suman Mandal, Sukumar Mahato and Subhro Maitra)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tmc-prepares-the-ground-for-mamatas-rally-in-midnapore/articleshow/79469894.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Downsizing takes cheer out of weddings||KOLKATA: Covid has cut the big fat Indian wedding to size, literally, taking the cheer out of celebrations. Limited guests, smaller venues and sanitized rituals are leaving the bride, groom and their families craving for more and an army of service providers — wedding planners, event managers, caterers, banquet owners, photographers, DJs and choreographers — ruing the loss of business. However, some well-heeled families, still keen on making the wedding an affair to remember, are skirting pandemic restrictions by spreading out the celebrations over several days and inviting guests in batches while a few others are going for custom-made packages inside “bio bubbles” at star hotels and resorts. The ministry of home affairs guidelines, applicable from October 15, has capped the number of wedding guests at 200 and made wearing of masks mandatory. Besides, there should be strict adherence to social-distancing norms and provisions for thermal scanning, sanitizing and hand-washing at the wedding venue. “Business has taken a huge hit as weddings are being scaled down drastically. Earlier, we would have separate theme parties for mehendi, sangeet and other occasions apart from the main wedding and reception. But now, several of these events are being clubbed together,” said Preksha Chhajer Choudhary, a city-based wedding planner. Banquet owners are among the worst-hit with large-scale cancellations or re-scheduling of bookings, either due to an infection in the bride or groom’s family or because their wary relatives are not too keen on attending crowded events. “While cancellations and cutting down on function days mean loss of business, expenses have increased manifold due to sanitization drives,” said the banquet manager of a popular city hotel. School teacher Oiendrilla Sarkar, who is getting married on Monday, said they have now decided to hold a small wedding at home. “We had initially planned to invite 650 guests but this has now been slashed to only 20 family members besides the caterers, the priest and a photographer. We have cancelled the venue booking and will have the function on our terrace. We have also called off our honeymoon at Santorini in Greece,” she said. The most sought-after part of a good wedding — food — has seen the unkindest cut of all. Families are requesting caterers to trim their menu since guests are still wary of eating outside food. “Our business is less than 40% of last year’s. There has been a major slash in the number of plates because of Covid restrictions. Our staff members have to wear masks and maintain physical distancing. We have also stopped waiters from moving around with food and drinks,” said Balmukund Daga of Pugalia Caterer. Tollygunge resident Susnato Bhattacharjee, who got married earlier this week, said he trimmed his guest list from 750 to a modest 150. “Due to fewer guests, the food expense was drastically cut short,” said his brother Susanto. However, a section of event managers and planners said that while a majority of their clients were going for low-key weddings, those who can afford are going ahead with a grand wedding spread over several days. “Some of the star hotels and resorts are offering attractive discounts and custom-made packages. Some families availing of these are not slashing their guest list, but inviting their friends and relatives in batches to take part in the celebrations. Then, there are cases where the bride, groom and their extended families are camping at these hotels or resorts for 3-4 days. This way, they are adhering to Covid protocol and still celebrating the wedding as they had hoped for,” a wedding planner told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/downsizing-takes-cheer-out-of-weddings/articleshow/79469758.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
November 29, 2020||Ranchi||2 Maoist sympathisers arrested in Chatra||Chatra: Two Maoist sympathisers, including Moti Ganjhu, who was wanted in the murder case of Nageshwari Devi who was killed last month for being a police informer, were arrested on Friday late night, said police. Moti, police said, is close to Maoist area commander Karu Yadav who led the squad to kill Nageshwari on October 19 in Lalkimati village under Pathalgadda block. Police said Moti joined a liquor party with Yadav and his squad after the murder. The second arrested person was identified as Prayag Mahto, another close aide of Yadav. Mahto is known for carrying out liaison works for Yadav in that area, said police. Chatra SP Rishav Kumar Jha said the arrests were based on a tip-off about the duo. “Prayag was arrested from Sinduarikala village in Giddhore and Moti was held from Koranbe Mudhesa in Pathalgadda block,” he said. Pathalgadda police station’s officer in-charge Niranjan Kumar Mishra said Moti was an unnamed accused in the murder case. “With Moti’s arrest, we have arrested three so far in the case,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/2-maoist-sympathisers-arrested-in-chatra/articleshow/79468212.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 29, 2020||Ranchi||Salkhan asks ruling, oppn to unite for Dec 6 chakka jam to demand Adivasi religion code||Ranchi: The national president of Adivasi Senghal Abhiyan (ASA) and state chief of Janata Dal United (JDU) Salkhan Murmu on Saturday announced a nationwide chakka jam protest on December 6 to press the Centre for a separate religion code ahead of the 2021 census. Following a spate of protests, the Hemant Soren government on November 11 passed a resolution in favour of an Adivasi Sarna code at the assembly and forwarded a proposal to the Union government. “Although the assembly cleared the resolution, several tribal bodies have been congratulating only chief minister Hemant Soren and the ruling parties. We want both the grand alliance and opposition camps to apprise the people about the strategies to fulfil the long-pending demand for a separate religion code for tribals,” Murmu said at a news meet in Ranchi on Saturday. He said, “Two years back, the Karnataka government had passed a resolution in favour of Lingayats and had sent it to the Union government, but the latter denied to accept it. Hence, the state government and other political parties of Jharkhand must hit the roads until the Union government accepts the resolution.” He also appealed all the parties to join hands for the December 6 protest in the interest of tribal rights. “As far as JD(U) is concerned, it is strongly backing the demonstration,” he said. ASA has its base in five states — Jharkhand, Bihar, Assam, Orissa and West Bengal. Murmu said that the protest will be effective in all these five states. Various tribal bodies have also been asked to support the movement. Before the December 6 protest, a bike rally will be held in Ranchi on December 1 while similar rallies will be held between December 2 and 4 in other states as a prelude to the nationwide stir. The demand for a separate religion code, tribals say, is imperative to retain their distinctive cultural and religious identity. Without a separate code (column) during census, they are classified either as Hindus, Jains, Muslim and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/salkhan-asks-ruling-oppn-to-unite-for-dec-6-chakka-jam-to-demand-adivasi-religion-code/articleshow/79468215.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 29, 2020||Kolkata||TMC piles dues heat on Centre||Kolkata: The Trinamool government in Bengal on Saturday alleged that the Centre was denying the state its “legitimate dues” despite it spending Rs 4,000 crore on Covid-19 management and another Rs 6,500 crore on relief and rebuilding infrastructure in the aftermath of Cyclone Amphan. Speaking at a news conference at the TMC headquarters, minister of state for women and child development and social welfare Shashi Panja said the Centre did not offer Bengal any monetary assistance to deal with the pandemic. “The state nevertheless spent Rs 1,200 crore before June and another Rs 2,800 crore thereafter to combat the disease,” she said. According to the minister, the BJP-led government at the Centre was denying Bengal Rs 50,000 crore in “legitimate dues”. “Of this amount, Rs 36,000 crore involves co-funded schemes of the state and the Centre. Bengal is also yet to receive Rs 11,000 crore under devolution of funds as its share from various taxes raised from the state,” she said, adding that another Rs 3,000 crore was due under food subsidy and other heads. “Apart from the Rs 50,000 crore, the Bengal government is yet to receive Rs 7,750 crore on account of GST compensation and another Rs 6,787 crore through the Centre’s borrowing scheme,” she said. Panja said Amphan dealt a Rs 1.02 lakh crore blow to Bengal. “The state government has spent Rs 6,500 crore to provide victims some relief and rebuild infrastructure, and all of it with no central aid,” she reiterated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tmc-piles-dues-heat-on-centre/articleshow/79469833.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||When stopped, woman threatens to slap cops||Ahmedabad: Some Amdavadis unmask their grossly irresponsible behaviour when caught violating corona norms — on Friday, a retired sales tax inspector threatened to slap cops. She was in an SUV and was not wearing a mask. The incident occurred in the jurisdiction of Sola police station, near Nirma University Crossroads on SG Highway. Paritosh Patel, 43, his wife Vaibhavi, 32, and Patel’s mother Rita, 68, were travelling in an SUV from Chharodi village road towards Nirma Circle. They are residents of Panchamrut-2, on Science City Road. According to police, Patel and Vaibhavi were in the front of the vehicle, while Rita was sitting in the back seat. The inspector of the Sola police station, J P Jadeja, said cops on the ground noticed that Rita was not wearing a mask and stopped the car. The cops tried to levy the mandated fine. “However, Patel, who was driving the SUV, entered into an altercation with the cops,” said a Sola police official. Patel said he wouldn’t pay the fine and dared the cops to take action. At that moment, Rita proclaimed that she was a retired sales tax inspector and would slap the cops if they don’t let them go. “Our staff brought them to the police station and booked Patel and his mother,” inspector Jadeja said. “They have been charged with flouting corona norms and obstructing police in the discharge of their duties.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/when-stopped-woman-threatens-to-slap-cops/articleshow/79468182.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Nagpada tailor’s ‘dwarf’ daughters rise above obstacles, crack NEET||MUMBAI: For years, their diminutive stature made some wonder if they would do anything meaningful with their lives, but the Idrisi sisters—Zubaida (23), who is 3.5-foot tall, and Humaira (22), who is 3.9—have already become mini-celebrities in their Nagpada neighbourhood. They qualified in this year’s medical entrance exam (NEET) and recently secured their MBBS admission—Humaira has got into Topiwala Nair Medical College at Mumbai Central and Zubaida at Government Medical College in Jalgaon. The sisters who live with their three other siblings and parents—father Ahsanullah is a tailor and mother Rukhsar a homemaker—in the crowded Kazipura locality could not have made it to the MBBS course but for a chance meeting with Ashfaque Moosa of Khidmat Charitable Trust last year. Good Samaritan rekindled 'dwarf' sisters' MBBS dreamThe Idrisi sisters, Zubaida and Humaira could not have made it to the MBBS course if not for Ashfaque Moosa of Khidmat Charitable Trust last year. A local NGO runs a dispensary in a corner of P T Mane Garden at Nagpada, which Zubaida and Humaira visited to pick up medicine for their grandmother. Zubaida and Humaira IdrisiMoosa, who is called Ashfaque bhai, was at the dispensary then and asked the two about their education. On hearing that they had abandoned their dream to be doctors and subsequently graduated in science from the nearby Maharashtra College, Ashfaque bhai told them to not give up on it. "If a six-footer needs 600 marks in NEET to get into MBBS, you need less than half of that," he joked. On further enquiries, the sisters found their condition was covered in the reserved category of "differently disabled" and they could take a shot at NEET. "Ashfaque uncle hamari gudiyon ke liye farishta bankar aae (Ashfaque uncle came as an angel for my dolls)," says the sisters' burqa-clad mother Rukhsar. "He showed them the path and my beloved daughters never looked back since the day they met him." Ashfaque bhai says the girls had full support of their poor parents but were discouraged from even trying to clear NEET. "Someone told them to become lab technicians or join BUMS, a Unani medicine course. But I saw the burning desire in them and that desire only needed a proper direction," says Ashfaque bhai who helps arrange scholarships for needy and deserving students. Next, with a revived MBBS dream in their eyes, the sisters landed at a coaching institute in Ghatkopar and were almost turned away by a staffer citing their "inadequate" height when the director saw them and asked them to wait. Their photographs were sent to the institute's headquarters in Kota, which approved their admission with 60% concession in fees. Every day, the sisters would travel by crowded local trains from Byculla to Ghatkopar and back, till the lockdown began. They even took help of lectures on YouTube. "They got so involved in studies that I had to remind them about dinner and lunch," says their mother. "My dolls have made us proud." Rukhsar says she and her husband found out about the insufficient growth hormones in Zubaida and Humaira after they turned five and stopped growing. One doctor said their treatment would cost over Rs 11 lakh. "We had no money to go for costly treatment but I wanted my daughters to get educated and stand on their feet as I didn't want them to depend on anybody's mercy or charity," says Rukhsar. Career counsellor Kazim Malik, who knows the sisters well, says they will need to work hard to complete MBBS, which they have resolved to do to achieve great heights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-nagpada-tailors-dwarf-daughters-rise-above-obstacles-crack-neet/articleshow/79470350.cms||Mohammed Wajihudin
November 29, 2020||Delhi||Delhi govt allows 50% of staff to work from home||NEW DELHI: Even though the positivity rate of Covid-19 cases has slowly started declining, from next week, 50% of Delhi government employees will start working from home except for senior officials as a precautionary measure. A proposal sent by the revenue department was approved by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority, headed by LG Anil Baijal, and an order was issued on Saturday. In the order, private offices have also been advised to stagger office timings and follow work from home policy as much as possible. Delhi is witnessing its third and deadliest wave of Covid-19 cases but the positivity rate has been constantly dipping for the last few days and has remained below 9%. “Since November 7, cases and positivity rate in Delhi are going down. On Saturday, less than 5,000 cases, 89 deaths were recorded with a positivity rate of 7.24. Hope this trend continues. Delhiites and Delhi government together will win over this third wave also. Please continue to observe all precautions,” Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted on Saturday. The city’s revenue minister, Kailash Gahlot, said that 50% employees below Grade I officers — IAS, DANICS and those promoted to equivalent ranks — would work from home and the roster would be decided by the respective heads of departments. The DDMA order directs all offices of Delhi government, autonomous bodies, PSUs, corporations, local bodies with 50% staff below the level of Grade I officers to attend office and the other 50% to work from home till December 31. However, health and family welfare and related medical establishments, police, prisons, home guards, civil defence, fire and emergency services, district administration, pay and accounts office, electricity, water and sanitation, disaster management and related services, and all other essential services will function without any restrictions to ensure delivery of public services. Delhi government, which has approximate employee strength of 2.5 lakh across 150 departments, had implemented a similar policy during the national lockdown but the order was relaxed from July after the lockdown was eased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-govt-allows-50-of-staff-to-work-from-home/articleshow/79470345.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Bengaluru||BJP brass’ stony silence on Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa baffles functionaries||Bengaluru: Senior BJP MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal and opposition leader Siddaramaiah’s recent statements that chief minister BS Yediyurappa is on his way out evoked instant reactions from some ministers and party office-bearers in Karnataka, but the brass has maintained a studied silence on the controversy, indicating something is brewing. The central leadership’s silence over the past three months is significant as it backed Yediyurappa and even bent the rules to make him the chief minister for the fourth time. When it comes to polls and elected offices, the party has applied the 75-year age-limit rule to several senior functionaries. Yediyurappa is the only exception. The most recent high-profile ‘victim’ of this was former Lok Sabha speaker Sumitra Mahajan, who was denied a ticket from Indore as she had crossed 75. “They (brass) brought him into the party after he left and floated a new one (KJP). They have always given him a patient hearing even when many other CMs were unable to meet them. At the same time, Yediyurappa has also campaigned extensively for them and won election battles. Their mutual admiration is known but now they are keeping quiet. I think there may be a plan,” said a senior party functionary. BJP ministers, legislators and workers in Karnataka are anxiously waiting for newly appointed BJP national general secretary Arun Singh, who recently replaced Muralidhar Rao as Karnataka in-charge, to clear the air. Singh is expected to make his maiden visit as general secretary in-charge on December 5 and 6, when he will hold wide-ranging consultations on the issue, sources said. “Cabinet expansion may be put on hold till then,” they added. Several ministers loyal to Yediyurappa and BJP legislators, who were in Delhi to attend the opening ceremony of national general secretary CT Ravi’s office on Friday, met Singh and discussed several issues, including the necessity of taking up cabinet expansion and allowing Yediyurappa to continue in office, sources added. “As of now, Yediyurappa is the chief minister and our party boss. We want to know whether he will lead BJP in the coming assembly election,” said a senior minister who was part of the delegation which met Singh. He opined the uncertainty may prevent the party from taking on the opposition in the poll.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bjp-brass-stony-silence-on-bsy-baffles-functionaries/articleshow/79468437.cms||ManuAiyappa Kanathanda
November 29, 2020||India||Mumbai tailor’s ‘dwarf’ daughters rise above obstacles, crack NEET||MUMBAI: For years their diminutive stature made some wonder if they would do anything meaningful with their lives, but the Idrisi sisters — Zubaida (22) who is 3.5-foot tall and Humaira (22) who is 3.9 — have already become mini-celebrities in their Nagpada neighbourhood. They qualified in this year’s medical entrance exam (NEET) and recently secured their MBBS admission. The Idrisi sisters who live with three other siblings and parents — father Ahsanullah who is a tailor and mother Rukhsar a homemaker — could have not made it to the MBBS course but for a chance meeting with Ashfaque Moosa of Khidmat Charitable Trust last year. A local NGO runs a dispensary in a corner at Nagpada, which Zubaida and Humaira visited to pick up medicine. Moosa, also called Ashfaque bhai, was at the dispensary then. On hearing that they had abandoned their dream to be doctors, Ashfaque bhai said: “If a six-footer needs 600 marks in NEET to get into MBBS, you need less than half of that”. On further enquiries, the sisters found their condition was covered in the reserved category of “differently disabled” and they could take a shot at NEET. Next, the sisters landed up at a coaching instituteand were almost turned away by a staffer citing their “inadequate” height. Their photos were sent to the institute’s headquarters in Kota, which approved their admission with 60% concession in fees. “They got so involved in studies that I had to remind them about food,” says their mother. “They have made us proud.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mumbai-tailors-dwarf-daughters-rise-above-obstacles-crack-neet/articleshow/79470372.cms||Mohammed Wajihudin
November 29, 2020||Pune||Pune SII: Will apply for emergency licence for vaccine use within two weeks||PUNE: Serum Institute of India (SII) CEO Adar Poonawalla on Saturday said they were in the process of applying for an emergency use licence (for AstraZeneca-Oxford’s Covid vaccine in India) in the “next two weeks”. Poonawalla said he discussed the implementation plan with PM Narendra Modi during his visit to the facility. SII has partnered with the University of Oxford and AstraZeneca for the manufacture and distribution of the vaccine. Modi on Saturday visited SII’s new plant at Manjari and interacted with its team about the manufacturing, logistics and distribution of its Covid-19 vaccine — Covishield. In a tweet, the PM said, “Had a good interaction with the team at Serum Institute of India. They shared details about their progress so far on how they plan to further ramp up vaccine manufacturing. Also, took a look at their manufacturing facility.” SII: Will apply for emergency licence within two weeksModi reached the plant of SII at 4.30pm and spent an hour there. Poonawalla shared with the Prime Minister the details of how they plan to scale up the vaccine manufacturing by producing 100 million doses every month from January. Currently, it is producing 60 million doses every month. The company has so far stockpiled around four crore doses and would have around 10 crore doses ready by January. During an online interaction with the reporters in the evening, Poonawalla confirmed that SII would be applying for emergency regulatory approval in two weeks. The phase III clinical trials of Covishield on 1,600 participants across India are expected to be completed soon. A total of 17 trial sites are studying the safety and immunogenicity of the Oxford University vaccine candidate in India. “The interim data of our trials so far has been promising. The Indian trials are running smoothly with strict adherence to all the necessary processes and protocols,” Poonawalla said. On Saturday, Modi visited the units of three vaccine manufacturers in India. First, he went to the Zydus Biotech Park in Ahmedabad, followed by Bharat Biotech in Hyderabad, and then SII in Pune. The PMO had tweeted that as India entered a decisive phase of the fight against Covid-19, Modi’s visit to these facilities and discussions with scientists would help him get a first-hand perspective of the preparations, challenges and roadmap in India’s endeavour to vaccinate its citizens. Modi had earlier visited SII in November 2016 for its “Clean City” initiative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-sii-will-apply-for-emergency-licence-for-vaccine-use-within-two-weeks/articleshow/79470368.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Drugs, online crimes & traffic: Bengalureans pour out woes at meet||BENGALURU: The first Maasika Janasamparka Divasa (Monthly Public Contact Day) organised by the city police on Saturday received tremendous response with citizens overcoming pandemic fears and visiting police stations to highlight various problems faced by them. From drug menace to dangerous riding and increasing cyber crimes to lack of CCTV cameras at public places, citizens aired their complaints to police commissioner Kamal Pant and senior police officers at police stations between 11am and 1pm. Here’s an areawise list handed over to senior cops. Bengaluru East — Drug menaceThe major problem nagging the area is drug peddling. So much so that a few parents pleaded with police: Please end the drug menace and save the next generation. Several pockets in Hennur, Pulakeshinagar, Banasawadi and Outer Ring Road have become points of sale for drugs and students and foreigners were peddling thems to make quick money, they said. Citizens wanted increased patrolling and police visibility in these areas. Police were told to arrange counselling sessions for youngsters caught consuming drugs instead of booking cases and packing them off to jails. They also requested for intense crackdown on drug suppliers. West division — Wheeling issueResidents coming under different police stations in western part of the city complained about wheeling and dangerous bike stunts performed on the roads. A few residents from Nagarabavi and Vijayanagar said there some groups regularly performed such stunts on Outer Ring Road and roads connecting to the Jnanabharati campus from Kengeri. There are tea stalls that remain open through the night and are meeting points for biker groups, residents said. They urged cops to crack down on such groups which put other motorists at risk. Bengaluru South — Cops and trafficParticipants asked senior cops why some police officials were continuing in the same police station for many years. Some suggested that new police points (where Hoysala vehicles will be parked for some hours) should be set up. Also, traffic snarls on the Mysuru Road stretch between Chamarajpet and Kengeri were discussed. Senior cops said they’ll bring the matter to the notice of their traffic counterparts. Residents of South East division talked about vehicle parking on pavements and vendors encroaching pavements near Koramangala, BTM Layout and Madiwala. Bengaluru North — Abandoned vehiclesCity police commissioner Kamal Pant met people at Malleswaram police station and participants asked him who should clear abandoned vehicles in the area. Pant said: “We discussed it with BBMP commissioner on Thursday. The issue will be attended to soon,” he said. A few senior citizens sought an alternative for reaching police station while reporting cyber crimes. “We don’t have that much knowledge about yber crimes. When we approach local police, they direct us to contact the cyber crime station,” they said. Bengaluru Central — Construction chaosResidents from upscale areas in Ashoknagar, Cubbon Park, Lavelle Road and Richmond Town and adjoining localities told cops they are fed up with construction work that goes on till late in the night. “The work at night may not be major ones. But movement of earthmovers, cutting of materials, welding iron rods and loud talking by workers are enough to disturb us. The matter is worse when comes to high-rise constructions,” they said. Residents also complained about bikeborne youths roaming around at night in and around MG Road, Brigade Road, Race Course Road, Seshadripuram and nearby areas. “Police patrol at nights. But these youths vanish on seeing police vehicles and reappear later,” they said. First mooted in 2009Maasika Janasamparka Divasa was first mooted in 2009 when Ajai Kumar Singh was director general and inspector general of police in a bid to increase public confidence in police. He was roped in on Saturday to formally inaugurate the programme at Pulakeshinagar police station in the presence of police commissioner Kamal Pant. Singh told cops: “Policing is not an easy job. While 90 per cent cases are attended, remaining 10 per cent go unattended for many reasons. A policeman must bear in mind that he is a public servant and does his work.” Whitefield — CCTVs pleaseThe major issues pointed out by residents of Whitefield-KR Puram areas pertained to bike-related offences. While some complained that more bikes were stolen from their localities, others pointed out to the excess fare being charged by autorickshaw drivers. Residents of Whitefield urged police to install more CCTV cameras and increase surveillance. Representatives from Resident Welfare Associations sought police help in setting up high resolution cameras in and around their premises. “We’ll purchasing these cameras soon. We want to connect them to our jurisdictional police stations,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/drugs-online-crimes-traffic-bengalureans-pour-out-woes-at-meet/articleshow/79470388.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
November 29, 2020||India||NCP MLA dies of post-Covid complications||KOLHAPUR: Bharat Bhalke, Nationalist Congress Party MLA from Pandharpur-Mangalvedha constituency in Solapur district, passed away late Friday during treatment for post-Covid complications. He was 60. Bhalke, a three-term MLA from different political parties each time, was admitted to a Pune-based hospital. On Friday evening, NCP chief Sharad Pawar went to meet him at the hospital. A trained wrestler, Bhalke was among the few MLAs who had resigned over the Maratha reservation demand in 2018. At that time, he was a Congress MLA. He became an MLA for the first time in 2009 on a Left Front ticket for the first time, then on a Congress ticket in 2014 and finally on an NCP ticket in 2019. His last rites were performed at Sarkoli village in Pandharpur tehsil on Saturday. Deputy CM Ajit Pawar was among several politicians who attended the rituals. Bhalke is survived by his wife, four daughters and a son. NCP state chief Jayant Patil tweeted that he has lost a colleague and Pandharpur has lost a true and caring leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ncp-mla-dies-of-post-covid-complications/articleshow/79470396.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Surat||Man’s fun demo on hanging turns real||Surat: A fun demonstration turned horribly wrong when a 35-year-old man hanged himself to death in the presence of his family in Dindoli on Friday. Family members claimed that the deceased Pramod Kapde was giving a demonstration of suicide when the mishap occured. Registering a case of accidental death in Dindoli police station the police started an investigation into the complaint lodged by deceased’s wife Ragini. According to the complaint details, Kapde, a driver, was demonstrating to his family comprising his wife and two daughters, aged 10 and 12 years, on how suicides are committed by hanging. He tied a saree in a hook in the ceiling and stood on a table. After tying another end of the saree in his neck he jumped from the table and died. “The family claims that it was fun demo that turns wrong and the man died without any reason for committing suicide. However, things will get clear only after we register statements of the family members,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/mans-fun-demo-on-hanging-turns-real/articleshow/79468076.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Puducherry||Cyclone Nivar ravages 10,000 hectares of crop in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: The Union government has constituted an eight-member inter-ministerial team for on the spot assessment of the situation in the wake of Cyclone Nivar in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. The state government has estimated that around 9,687 hectares of agricultural and horticultural crop had been damaged by the storm, including 5,950 hectares of matured paddy crop in districts like Cuddalore, Kancheepuram, Chengalpet and Tiruvannamalai.  The team will be led by home ministry joint secretary Ashutosh Agnihotri. The disaster management division of the home ministry informed the ministries/departments, including agriculture and farmers welfare, road, transport and highways, finance, power, rural development, fisheries and water resources, to nominate an officer not below the rank of deputy secretary/director, familiar with the ongoing schemes/programmes to assist the team leader. "The team has been formed following the Prime Minister's announcement. The team will make a visit soon after the members are nominated by December 1. The visit may get delayed due to the formation of a new weather system in Bay of Bengal," said a ministry official.  The state government is getting ready to submit a memorandum to the team and show the Nivar-affected districts. Six persons died due to wall collapse, tree fall and heavy rains in Chennai, Tiruvallur , Kunnur in Villupuram, and another seven injured when the cyclone made a landfall on Wednesday night. Banana crop in Cuddalore, and pulses and oilseeds in districts like Cuddalore, Villupuram, Tiruvannamalai, Ranipet and Vellore suffered damage.  "Post disaster, we are looking at the damage assessment and release relief amount to the affected people," said revenue administration, disaster management and mitigation department commissioner, K Phanindra Reddy. The latest estimate is that 2,605 houses, including 2,313 huts, were damaged while 264 cattle and 5,107 poultry deaths were reported by the district administrators.  The loss of human lives was minimised this time. Constant updates on TN-SMART mobile app (2.47 lakh users) and state disaster management authority's Twitter handle came to the rescue. Reddy, who is also relief commissioner said, "We closely followed up with the collectors on evacuation and ensured the evacuation of 2.27 lakh people to government's relief camps. We told the collectors to avail the help of police to get the people, who refused to turn up to relief camps. Evacuation was of primary importance. The public holiday declared by the state government also helped." The administration closely liaised with the NDRF and deployed at vantage points, Army and Navy were in constant touch and positioned themselves accordingly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/cyclone-nivar-ravages-10000-hectares-of-crop-in-tamil-nadu/articleshow/79470445.cms||Julie Mariappan
November 29, 2020||Chennai||Cyclone Nivar ravages 10,000 hectares of crop in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: The Union government has constituted an eight-member inter-ministerial team for on the spot assessment of the situation in the wake of Cyclone Nivar in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. The state government has estimated that around 9,687 hectares of agricultural and horticultural crop had been damaged by the storm, including 5,950 hectares of matured paddy crop in districts like Cuddalore, Kancheepuram, Chengalpet and Tiruvannamalai.  The team will be led by home ministry joint secretary Ashutosh Agnihotri. The disaster management division of the home ministry informed the ministries/departments, including agriculture and farmers welfare, road, transport and highways, finance, power, rural development, fisheries and water resources, to nominate an officer not below the rank of deputy secretary/director, familiar with the ongoing schemes/programmes to assist the team leader. "The team has been formed following the Prime Minister's announcement. The team will make a visit soon after the members are nominated by December 1. The visit may get delayed due to the formation of a new weather system in Bay of Bengal," said a ministry official.  The state government is getting ready to submit a memorandum to the team and show the Nivar-affected districts. Six persons died due to wall collapse, tree fall and heavy rains in Chennai, Tiruvallur , Kunnur in Villupuram, and another seven injured when the cyclone made a landfall on Wednesday night. Banana crop in Cuddalore, and pulses and oilseeds in districts like Cuddalore, Villupuram, Tiruvannamalai, Ranipet and Vellore suffered damage.  "Post disaster, we are looking at the damage assessment and release relief amount to the affected people," said revenue administration, disaster management and mitigation department commissioner, K Phanindra Reddy. The latest estimate is that 2,605 houses, including 2,313 huts, were damaged while 264 cattle and 5,107 poultry deaths were reported by the district administrators.  The loss of human lives was minimised this time. Constant updates on TN-SMART mobile app (2.47 lakh users) and state disaster management authority's Twitter handle came to the rescue. Reddy, who is also relief commissioner said, "We closely followed up with the collectors on evacuation and ensured the evacuation of 2.27 lakh people to government's relief camps. We told the collectors to avail the help of police to get the people, who refused to turn up to relief camps. Evacuation was of primary importance. The public holiday declared by the state government also helped." The administration closely liaised with the NDRF and deployed at vantage points, Army and Navy were in constant touch and positioned themselves accordingly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cyclone-nivar-ravages-10000-hectares-of-crop-in-tamil-nadu/articleshow/79470425.cms||Julie Mariappan
November 29, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Nivar gouges out 'third eye', work to restore cameras on||CHENNAI: Water stagnation is not the only problem brought by Cyclone Nivar as it blew through close to the city. The strong wind generated also hit CCTV cameras in key locations, leaving some fully damaged and others left drooping. Police commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal has now asked his officers to undertake repairs of faulty cameras on a war footing. Of the 2.90 lakh CCTV cameras in the city, some were installed by the police department, while others were put up under private and public partnership. South zone additional commissioner R Dhinakaran said every inspector was tasked with fixing the problem in the area under his/her jurisdiction. "The cameras will be restored within a week." Deputy commissioners will conduct random checks of cameras in their jurisdiction. An inspector said the situation brought on by Cyclone Nivar had come as a blessing in disguise, with even cameras that were not affected being given a clean-up. "Technicians have already started repairing and relaying faulty cables attached to cameras," he said. More than 268 trees fell before and after the very severe cyclonic storm made landfall and impacted the functioning of many cameras that were either fixed on the trees or close to them. The police commissioner has asked all officers to use the latest gadgets and technology to solve cases of crime. A police officer said that CCTV camera footage provided the main assistance in almost 85% of cases that were cracked in the recent past.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-nivar-gouges-out-third-eye-work-to-restore-cameras-on/articleshow/79470454.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Surat||In a first in Surat, Tameta gang booked under GujCTOC||SURAT: In a first offence of its kind registered in the city, Surat police booked 14 members Asif Tameta and Ajju Tameta gang under the Gujarat Control of Terrorism and Organised Crime (GujCTOC) Act on Friday. Police investigation so far revealed that the gang members individually or jointly executed a total of 36 offences in 10 police stations of the city, and also in Dahej of Bharuch and Naka Hindola police station of Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh. The gang’s crimes include murder, attempt to murder, kidnapping, loot, house break-in, theft, forgery, threatening, harassment, offences under Arms Act, Atrocity Act and for operating organised crime syndicate. While six of the 14 accused are yet to get arrested, police believe that after the offence is registered more victims of their crime will come forward. “It is the first case of Surat city and many more involved in organised crime to be booked under this act in the near future. We are working on criminal activity of many notorious gangs and individuals,” city police commissioner Ajay Tomar told TOI. The 14 members of the Tameta gang booked include Muzaffarali alias Asif Tameta Saiyed, Ajgar alias Ajju Tamera Saiyed, Imran alias Chhotu Ishtiyaq Siddiqui, Mohommad Shoeb alias Shoeb Siti Maniyar, Shahrukh alias Umar Shah, Yusuf Pathan, Mohommad Aamir alias Chhota Tiger Hussain, Mohammadnur alias Raja Shaikh, Sarfaraz Sindha, Anurag Singh alias Ajay Rajput, Samir Shaikh, Moyuddin alias Moyo Batko Shaikh, Akbarkhan alias Langdo Pathan and Sandip Gupta. Of them Muzaffarali alias Asif, Moyuddin and Akbarkhan are accused in a murder case registered in Dindoli police station and lodged in Lajpore Central Jail (LCJ) currently. Ajgar alias Ajju is currently in Rajkot Central Jail under PASA. Yusuf is lodged in Lucknow Jail in the sensational murder of Kamlesh Tiwari. Police arrested Sarfaraz, Anurag Singh and Sandip on Saturday and produced them in a local court. Police requested 25 days custody to investigate what role they played in the gang, their income sources, assets earned through illegal sources and if they possess weapons. According to the provisions of the Act cops can keep custody of the accused for investigation up to 30 days after court’s approval. Police can extend the time limit to file charge-sheet up to 180 days if required which is 60 days in cases registered under IPC. A confession in the presence of an SP rank officer is admissible in court which is not valid in other laws. A criminal can face action under GujCTOC who has been booked within 10 years in minimum two offences which has provision of more than three years’ imprisonment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/in-a-first-in-surat-tameta-gang-booked-under-gujctoc/articleshow/79468095.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Nagpur||Arnab Goswami case: Maharashtra minister vows ‘strong chargesheet to ensure justice’||NAGPUR: State home minister Anil Deshmukh said on Saturday he wanted to give late architect Anvay Naik and his family justice by filing a "strong chargesheet" in the abetment to suicide case that was "wrongly closed by the previous government". TV anchor Arnab Goswami is one of the three persons named as accused in the case. NCP's Deshmukh said the case was reopened after a court order. "Our investigation into the roles of Goswami and the others is underway. The deceased had left behind a note saying the reason for taking the step was non-payment of Rs 80 lakh by Goswami towards the construction of a studio," Deshmukh said. HC remarks in Kangana case not aimed at state govt: MinDeshmukh said, “The reason behind our decison to take the case to its logical end and filing the chargesheet is that we are trying to help the Naik family get justice.” Goswami was recently arrested by the Raigad police and was released on interim bail on the Supreme Court’s orders. Deshmukh, who was in Nagpur on Saturday to campaign for Congress candidate Abhijeet Wanjari for the graduates constituency polls, also claimed that the Bombay high court’s observations regarding the action against actor Kangana Ranaut’s bungalow were aimed at the Mumbai civic body’s move against her and not the state government. “Many talented artistes come to Maharashtra to earn fame and money. They are welcome, but commenting in such derogatory manner regarding the government and police force is objectionable and not right,” he said. He accused the opposition of issuing “baseless” statements on the stability of the MVA government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/maharashtra-minister-vows-strong-chargesheet-to-ensure-justice-in-architect-suicide/articleshow/79470516.cms||Soumitra Bose
November 29, 2020||Gurgaon||Pop-up tracks to help GMDA clear hurdles city cyclists face||Gurgaon: The city will soon get temporary pop-up cycling tracks before the permanent ones come up. One such track, 1.8km long, was made on the road near Vyapar Kendra last week. GMDA is planning to conduct a feasibility study on the routes selected for development of cycling tracks in the city by setting up pop-up tracks there first. According to the GMDA officials, the temporary tracks will help them understand the issues being faced by cyclists on a given stretch. “We have made the pop-up track to understand the challenges of the route. Once the trial is successful, we will start the design work for the permanent tracks,” said Jitender Mittal, the chief engineer of GMDA. GMDA is considering setting up similar tracks on the stretch connecting Ardee City to IFFCO Chowk, Hamilton Court Road, and the road connecting Genpact to Kanhai Mor. “We will be setting up the pop-up cycling tracks on all these stretches before we begin developing dedicated cycling tracks,” said the chief engineer. TOI had earlier reported that GMDA will build over 700km of cycle tracks in the city by 2041 as part of its comprehensive mobility plan. Talking about the plan, GMDA chief VS Kundu had said the tracks would largely cover the entire city, making it possible for anyone to cycle across Gurgaon. In October, GMDA launched its first dedicated cycling track between GMDA office and Subhash Chowk. “For the next six months, we will be picking up six different stretches and developing cycle tracks on these stretches,” VS Kundu said. MDA is working with the Hero Foundation on the project and is working on finalising these six stretches.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/pop-up-tracks-to-help-gmda-clear-hurdles-city-cyclists-face/articleshow/79469410.cms||Shubhra Pant
November 29, 2020||Gurgaon||Relief gone with the wind, another bad air spell is here||Gurgaon: The air quality index (AQI) of the city is likely to deteriorate again, from Sunday, as the wind that had blown pollutants away slackens again. The AQI of Gurgaon was recorded at 107 on Friday, which climbed to 204 (poor) on Saturday. While two of the four monitoring stations — Vikas Sadan and Sector-51 — clocked AQI in the ‘moderate’ category on Saturday, the others — Teri Gram and Gwalpahari — recorded ‘poor’ air. The index of Gwalpahari was 201 and that of Teri Gram was 258. Also, the AQI of Sector 51 was 153 on Saturday, and that of Vikas Sadan was 197. A senior official of the Haryana State Pollution Control Board said, “The AQI is likely to remain in the poor category at least for next two days.” An India Meteorological Department (IMD) official said the city will get relief from the cold wave conditions from this week with the minimum temperature going up by 2°C on Sunday. The city’s minimum temperature was 10.5°C on Saturday, while the maximum was 25.1°C, one notch below normal. “As the western disturbance has cleared up now, the temperature will increase in the next 48 hours,” said an IMD official. In Delhi, the minimum temperature is likely to remain below the normal-mark till November 30. On Saturday, the minimum was recorded at 10.1° Celsius, almost the same as the normal temperature. The maximum temperature was 26.4° Celsius, one notch above normal. Meanwhile, the overall AQI reading on Saturday was 231, in poor category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/relief-gone-with-the-wind-another-bad-air-spell-is-here/articleshow/79469419.cms||Ipsita Pati
November 29, 2020||Gurgaon||Reopening date for schools pushed back to December 10||Gurgaon: The state government has decided to extend the closure of all government and private schools by another 10 days. Schools are now expected to reopen on December 10, depending on the guidelines issued by the director general (DG) of the health services. Health minister Anil Vij on Saturday said the move comes in view of a spike in Covid-19 cases. “Rising cases of Covid in the state had mandated the need to review the reopening of the schools. The health department is of the view that the school break should be extended by another 10 days. This has also been conveyed to the school education department,” said Vij. The announcement comes days after the education department wrote to the DG, urging him to review the status of school closure and issue the next set of directions. Earlier this week, the department had reviewed the status at its level, and noted the views of school managements, parents and students on resumption of physical classes. The reports had highlighted that the parents, students and teachers are not in favour of reopening of the schools any time soon. The department had also argued in its letter that several states have ordered the closure of schools till December 31. “When schools were opened and random sampling was being conducted as per the standard operating procedures that mandated medical supervision, some students had tested positive for the novel coronavirus. Schools were then closed till November 30. We wrote to the DG of health services as we wanted the government to direct us whether or not we should open schools, and in case physical classes are to resume, then what the guidelines should be,” said a senior education department official. “Now, as per the new orders, we’ll keep the campuses closed till further notice. Online classes will continue as it is and any further change will only come after a review of the Covid situation,” the official added. About two weeks ago, the state government had decided to close all the government and private schools in the state till November 30 after a spurt in Covid-19 cases among the students of class 9 to 12 and teachers who were visiting the schools. Haryana was among the first few states to have resumed physical classroom sessions from November 2. Less than a fortnight later, over 170 students and 107 teachers tested positive. According to the department, over 1.5 lakh students in classes 9 to 12, out of six lakh, were attending schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/reopening-date-for-schools-pushed-back-to-december-10/articleshow/79469424.cms||Siddharth Tiwari
November 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Cops’ transfers: HC notice to Haryana||CHANDIGARH: The issue whether the cops on the rank from constable to sub-inspector (SI) in Haryana police can be shifted out of their parent district or police range allotted to them at the time of recruitment, would now be decided by the Punjab and Haryana high court. The matter has reached before the HC in the wake of a petition filed by Naresh Kumar and several other cops challenging the decision of state police to transfer them to other districts and range. The petitioners are serving at their respective posts belonging to the cadre of south district range and posted at different police stations, posts, CIA staff and Police Line in Palwal district. According to the petitioners, they have their constabulary number and seniority in the district cadre at district Palwal, which is in the cadre of south district Range. They are aggrieved from the orders dated November 19 through which they have been transferred out of their parent cadre to different cadre, whereas, as per the Punjab Police Rules, seniority of the constables for their promotions to the post of head constable is determined at district level whereas, the seniority of ASI/SI for a promotion is determined at range level. During the hearing of the case, counsel for the petitioner sought immediate stay of the transfer orders submitting that the transfer orders are punitive in nature in view of the clauses incorporated under the transfer orders. It was also further submitted that sending these cops out of the range is a violation of the Punjab Police Rules. Strongly objecting the plea, Haryana advocate general Baldev Raj Mahajan contended that the Supreme Court in state of Haryana versus Kashmir Singh case in 2010 has already settled about state government’s power to transfer throughout the state while setting aside all other judgements on the issue. After hearing both the parties, Justice G S Sandhawalia refused to grant stay on the transfer orders but issued notice to the state for December 10 to address the court on the issue of punitive transfers as raised by the petitioners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-notice-to-haryana-on-cops-transfers-outside-district/articleshow/79469491.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Be wary of divisive forces, says Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao||HYDERABAD: Being the one who fought for the creation of Telangana, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Saturday appealed to people to rise to the occasion and save Hyderabad. “If peace is disturbed, real estate and property prices will fall and businesses will be affected. We will not get investments and youth will not get employment opportunities,” he said, at a well-attended public meeting at LB Stadium. The TRS president went on to read his message ‘Save Our Hyderabad’ in Telugu, English and Hindi, drawing loud cheers. In his 55-minute speech, the CM spoke on the law and order in Hyderabad and listed various welfare measures implemented by his government. He said: “For KCR, big leaders are coming from various states like a flood. I am wondering are we fighting a municipal election or a national election?” Taking potshots at his Uttar Pradesh counterpart Yogi Adityanath, KCR said Telangana today is in fifth position per capita income in the country while UP stands 28th. “He (Adityanath) who could not set his house in order has come here to teach us on administration. Similarly, former Maharashtra CM (Devendra Fadnavis) campaigned here. His state occupies 10th place,” he said. KCR said Hyderabad is a cosmopolitan city where people from different religions, communities and castes live together for centuries like a ‘guldasta’. Urging people to vote for the TRS, he promised to take the responsibility of developing Hyderabad into a world-class city. BJP chief spokesperson K Krishna Saagar Rao said the CM’s speech exposed his fear of losing the GHMC elections. “The voters will reject his weak and hapless talk of communal disturbances,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/be-wary-of-divisive-forces-says-telangana-cm-k-chandrasekhar-rao/articleshow/79470599.cms||Koride Mahesh
November 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Man, friend held for murdering father with hammer||Yamunanagar: The crime investigation agency (CIA)-II of Yamunanagar police on Friday arrested two youths, including the son of a man who they allegedly murdered with a hammer, said police public relations officer (PRO) Chamkaur Singh. He said the arrested accused include Shunty (23) a resident of Kansali and son of the deceased, Arjun (in his early 50s) of Kansali village in Yamunanagar district as well as his friend Ravi Kumar (24) of Sasoli Majri village in Yamunanagar. Both the accused were produced in court on Saturday, which granted their one-day police remand to CIA-II for recovery of the weapon used in the crime, said CIA-II in-charge Mehroof Ali. Sources said Arjun’s body was found with the throat slit from near Ratouli village in Yamunanagar district on the morning of November 20. Shunty lodged a complaint with the police and a case was registered against unknown persons under Section 302 (punishment for murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) on Friday. Shunty stated to the police, “My father Arjun Singh, who worked as mason, left home for work on his cycle on November 19 morning, but did not return at night. Our neighbour told me that my father’s body has been found on a road near Ratauli village. For the past few weeks, he used to come home at Kansali village after three to four days. He also used to stay at his second house in Gulab Nagar, Jagadhri with another woman, who he married in a court nearly 17 years ago. He lived at both the places and I do not know who murdered him.” PRO Chamkaur said a team constituted to investigate the case arrested Shunty along with his friend Sonu for the murder. “Shunty told the police that his father had an extra-marital affair and often used to fight at home. His father had also beaten him and asked him to leave the house. He said about two months ago, he met Ravi Kumar and started living in a rented room in Sasoli Majri. Shunty told Ravi about his father’s behaviour and both planned to murder him. Shunty disclosed that on November 19, he went to his home at Kansali with his friend Ravi on a motorcycle and picked up a hammer and knife. Shunty attacked him with a hammer near Ratouli village road and later slit his neck with a knife. Ravi helped him in committing the crime and fled from the spot”, added PRO Chamkaur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/man-friend-held-for-murdering-father-with-hammer/articleshow/79469516.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Gurgaon||1-day record: Gurgaon crosses 25,000 mark in Covid tests||Gurgaon: Amid the Covid surge in Haryana, the state government is taking all efforts to ramp up testing. On Saturday, the tests conducted in the city breached the 25,000-mark for the first time. This is the highest number of samples collected in a single day in the city so far. On November 21, around 10,200 tests were conducted in Gurgaon. The city also crossed 5,50,000-mark of total tests on Saturday. It has conducted the highest number of tests in Haryana so far. Of the 25,101 tests conducted on Saturday, 20,112 were RT-PCR, while the remaining 4,989 were rapid antigen tests. Haryana, meanwhile, conducted the highest single-day tests at over 1.2 lakh on Saturday. “We conducted a record Covid testing in a single day in the state at 1,21,227 to track and isolate Covid cases and bring down the positivity rate,” said additional chief secretary (health) Rajeev Arora. The state government had a target of 50,000 tests in a day. The government is planning to continue doing more than 50,000 tests every Saturday to break transmission of the disease. “We organised 63 camps across Gurgaon to conduct tests on Saturday. We had a target of 10,000 initially. However, many people turned up for testing. We focused on high-risk groups. We maintained 80:20 ratio of RTP-CR to antigen tests while carrying out the mass drive,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. On Saturday, 668 new Covid cases were recorded in the city. The tally stands at 48,619 now. The health department said 759 people recovered on Saturday, taking the total number of recoveries to 41,969. An official said five people succumbed to the infection on Saturday. Till date, 283 people have died of Covid-19, of whom 218 had comorbidities. The city has been witnessing a rise in Covid-19 cases since October 21. The daily positivity rate is around 9.8% as the number has been rising daily. On Saturday, 65 people were sent to institutional quarantine facilities. The city has a total of 6,367 active cases, of which 5,922 are in home isolation. So far, 5,08,630 people have been put under surveillance. The health department has sent 5,05,314 samples for testing, of which 4,31,594 have turned out to be negative, while the results of 15,287 are still awaited. Meanwhile, the number of recoveries in Haryana exceeded new cases for the second day as the state detected 1,967 new cases and declared 2,421 recovered on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/1-day-record-gurgaon-crosses-25000-mark-in-covid-tests/articleshow/79469636.cms||Ipsita Pati
November 29, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana BJP likely to announce new office bearers in one week||Gurgaon: Haryana BJP is likely to announce its new team of office-bearers in the next few days. Workers from various groups in the party are expected to get important posts in the organisation and also get caste and region-based representation. The announcement will likely be made after three days of a training session involving BJP workers. Vinod Tawde, the newly appointed Haryana BJP affairs in-charge, along with the co-in charge Annapurna Devi, has been on a maiden five-day tour of the state since Wednesday. He has been addressing at the training camps at different three cities. The training camps were held in Hisar on Saturday and will be conducted in Gurugram on November 29. According to party sources, Tawde and Devi held meetings with the state BJP chief OP Dhankar in Delhi and Chandigarh before the training sessions. They also interacted with BJP MLAs, cabinet ministers and chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar. A senior party leader said consultation over new appointments on 25 important positions has been nearly finalised and the announcement could be made in the coming week. Names of three general secretaries, one general secretary (organisation), five vice presidents, six secretaries, president of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha, BJP OBC Morcha, Kisan Morcha, BJP SC Morcha and BJP Mahila Morcha will be announced as well. “Manish Yadav, a BJP candidate from Badshahpur, may get a place in the organisation and Jawahar Yadav, a close aide of the CM, is likely to get the post of general secretary. Besides, the names of former minister Vipul Goyal, Manish Grover, Kavita Jain and Rao Narbir are also in the queue,” a senior leader said. “One of the three general secretaries may be from the Punjabi community and another one would be from the OBC community,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/haryana-bjp-likely-to-announce-new-office-bearers-in-one-week/articleshow/79469638.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Gurgaon||Fire safety system defunct at Sare Homes, CM asks DTCP to fix it||Gurgaon: Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday directed the department of town and country planning (DTCP) to immediately operationalise the firefighting system in Sare Homes, a housing society in Sector 92, and recover the cost of the same from the assets of the builder. The direction came during the grievance committee meeting chaired by the CM in Gurgaon. Khattar also assured the residents that the issue of disconnection of power supply to the society would be resolved by providing a separate connection. In March this year, the residents of Sare Homes Phase 3 had lodged a complaint with the grievance committee against the builder for the non-operational firefighting system in the society and also highlighted the civic body’s failure in enforcing the fire safety norms as per the national building code. Aditya Jakhar, president of Sare Homes Phase 3 RWA said, “We are living in a society without any functional firefighting system in the society. For more than two years, we have been facing the issue and in March we filed the complaint. During the meeting, the CM directed the district town planner (enforcement) to make a plan with the fire department to put into operation the firefighting system in the society.” At the meeting, DTP RS Batth informed the CM that the department was already working on the problems faced by the residents and also deliberated on detailed measures that can be taken under provisions of the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act, 1975.  Praveen Malik, president of Sare Homes RWA phases 1 and 2, said, “We have requested the district authority to take over the complete project as there are several discrepancies.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/fire-safety-system-defunct-at-sare-homes-cm-asks-dtcp-to-fix-it/articleshow/79469654.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Noida||Four die as Innova crashes into parked roadways bus on Yamuna Expressway||GREATER NOIDA: Four men died and another sustained severe injuries after their Innova crashed into a parked UP Roadways bus on the Agra-Noida carriageway of Yamuna Expressway in the early hours of Saturday. The accident occurred around one and a half kilometres before the zero point around 6.45am when Ashish Chauhan, Alok Kumar, Maninandan Maiken and Prince Pal — all bartenders employed with an event management company — were returning from a programme in Azamgarh in the hired SUV. Police suspect the driver, Feroz, dozed off and failed to spot the bus that was parked on one side of the speedway. While Ashish, Alok and Maninandan, all aged between 25 and 30 years, as well as Feroz died on the spot, 22-year-old Prince is battling for his life at a private hospital in Greater Noida. Ashish was from Ghaziabad, while Alok hailed from Faridabad and Maninandan Maharashtra’s Thane. Feroz belonged to Agra, while Prince is from Faridabad. Aditya Kumar, a relative of Alok, told TOI that they came to know about the accident from the police and onlookers. “The driver might have dozed off due to the long journey and lost control of the Innova as it diverged towards the left side, crashing into the parked bus. Now only Prince can tell what exactly happened as the driver is no more. But Prince is currently in ICU.” Police said the three deceased were taken to Yatharth hospital in Greater Noida, where they were declared brought dead, while Prince was taken to Kailash hospital, where he continues to be in serious condition. “No complaint has been lodged as we have not yet received any complaint against anyone in the case,” additional DCP (Greater Noida) Vishal Pandey said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/four-die-as-innova-crashes-into-parked-roadways-bus/articleshow/79469660.cms||Shikha Salaria
November 29, 2020||Noida||Jewar airport in mind, YEIDA readies 20-year master plan||GREATER NOIDA: How much population will settle down along the Yamuna Expressway in the coming years? For the first time, the Yamuna Expressway Authority will have a realistic population estimate as it is getting its master plan ready to meet the region’s future demands, keeping in mind the Jewar airport project. YEIDA’s present master plan is drawing to a close since it had been prepared to handle the needs of the city up to 2021. Preparing for the next two decades, the Authority will shortlist a town planner and an architectural consultancy firm next month to prepare Master Plan 2041. Established in 2001, YEIDA launched its first plotting scheme in 2009. Sitting over the largest land bank spanning across six districts at that time, the then town planner had estimated that by the end of 2021, about 21 lakh people would settle down in the colonies and apartments being developed along the expressway. However, only a handful of apartments remain inhabited and a residential colony is yet to be developed. The present urban population staying under YEIDA’s jurisdiction is estimated to be under 25,000. Officials said the failure of the Jaypee Sports City and delayed payment by the group took a toll on the long-term planning of the area. However, the buzz around the Jewar international airport has reignited the hopes of the Authority. YEIDA’s CEO Arun Vir Singh said, “Developers who had been allocated land along Yamuna Expressway to develop apartments did not pay up their dues. Without money, development work came to a halt and projects floated by the Authority had to suffer.” “Since land had been allocated, the population estimates for 2021 were based on the timeline of such projects. But things have been moving at a fast pace due to the Jewar airport. Our residential and industrial schemes floated in the past are nearing completion,” he added. Singh said that the planning division of the Authority has been asked to sit together with the consultancy firm for a detailed discussion before finalising the population estimates for 2041. According to officials, the focus will be on developing the land between Chola railway station to focus on promoting logistics and warehousing activity. YEIDA will also ask the consultant to make transport nodes and roads to boost the connectivity of Jewar airport to neighbouring districts as well as Haryana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/jewar-airport-in-mind-yeida-readies-20-year-master-plan/articleshow/79469927.cms||Shalabh
November 29, 2020||Noida||Dog menace: Noida urges RWAs to fix feeding spot||NOIDA: The issue of dog menace across residential societies of Noida has again come to the fore with at least five incidents of stray dogs attacking residents and biting them. At least four people, including a senior citizen, were attacked by stray canines in the Sai Apartment of Sector 71 on Friday evening and Saturday morning resulting in outrage among residents against authorities responsible for sterilisation of the dogs. Two days ago, a resident of a Greater Noida society was allegedly attacked by two stray dogs and wounded badly. In the first incident, 25-year-old Kajal Gupta was bitten on her right thigh. Soon after she was taken to a hospital, RD Garg (57), a resident, was bitten by the same dog. The elderly man suffered injuries on his right knee. His daughter Shivani Garg told TOI that her father survived an attack on the face due to the cap he was wearing but was badly wounded in the leg. “He was bleeding till late night and doctors asked to keep an eye out for the dog. Such incidents are a regular affair here,” she alleged. Another resident got bitten by a dog in the society on Friday evening, while a plumber was attacked by some strays on Saturday. RWA president Sushil Yadav alleged that a junior engineer employed with Noida Authority feeds the dogs. “We have requested him not to feed the dogs but he takes offence,” he alleged. “Multiple complaints have been given to the DM and Noida Authority but nothing happened, so we stopped complaining,” he said. Meanwhile, the Noida Authority officials have said that since they can’t displace the dogs from one point to another, they have to rely on sterilisation. “It is the internal problems of the RWAs which is leading to all the dogs not being able to be sterilised. When the dog catcher van goes to the spot, the RWAs and locals don’t aid them to catch the animals. Then there are dog lovers. I urge RWAs and dog lovers to fix a feeding spot,” OSD Indu Prakash said. OSD Avinash Tripathi said they have hired two agencies for sterilisation and the residents can contact senior project engineer SC Mishra (9205691008) if they want a dog catcher van in their area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/dog-menace-noida-urges-rwas-to-fix-feeding-spot/articleshow/79469931.cms||Shikha Salaria
November 29, 2020||Gurgaon||Driver forges toll receipt, held||Gurgaon: A cab driver has been arrested for allegedly forging a receipt to evade payment for entering Delhi at Sirhaul toll plaza. Cabs have to pay Rs 100 as toll. The fraud came to light after Amol Surya Rao, an official of contractor MEP Infrastructure Developers Ltd, filed a complaint at Udyog Vihar police station on Friday. “On Thursday, a Toyota Innova with Haryana registration plates stopped at the toll plaza around 9.30pm. When a toll employee asked him to pay the fee, the driver produced a toll receipt claiming to have made the payment. The employee had some doubt, and he brought the receipt to me. After verification, we found it was fake,” Rao said. On the basis of the complaint, a case was registered under sections 406 (fraud), 420 (cheating) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of IPC at Udyog Vihar police station. Police arrested the driver, Punjab resident Tajender Singh (31), in Udyog Vihar on Friday. During interrogation, Singh revealed that he forged the receipt with the help of a friend. “They had crossed Sirhaul toll several times with the receipt,” said police spokesperson Subhash Boken, adding that police are trying to trace Singh’s friend.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/driver-forges-toll-receipt-held/articleshow/79469665.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana, Punjab CMs again battle over farmers’ protest||CHANDIGARH: The relationship between Punjab and Haryana has touched new lows over the ongoing farmers’ protest against the Union government’s three contentious agri-marketing laws. The already tense ties worsened on Saturday when Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar claimed in Gurgaon that the farmer protests were sponsored by political parties in Punjab and also that they were led by office-bearers of the Punjab chief minister’s office. Khattar also alleged that pro-Khalistan slogans had been raised in the farmer protests. “The state has inputs of some unwanted elements raising pro-Khalistan slogans in the ongoing farmers’ protests in and around the national capital,” he said. Khattar claims presence of state farmers in protest almost negligibleThe Haryana CM again criticised his Punjab counterpart Amarinder Singh for his alleged failure to respond to his phone calls for the last three days. “My office told me that they tried to contact him over telephone on six to seven occasions and every time his staff used to say we will soon get back and then they used to give the plea that the CM was busy in a meeting and so on,” Khattar said. “But it was a very strange situation that the chief minister of a state wants to talk to his counterpart of another state but is unable to get through after so many attempts. For six years, I have been a CM. Never before such a thing has happened. We even talk to opposition leaders.” In a bid to prove its point, Haryana CMO on Saturday night released details of 11calls made from CM Khattar’s residence to Captain Amarinder Singh on November 23 and 24. Two calls were made on November 23 the remaining on November 24. Khattar also claimed that presence of farmers from Haryana was almost negligible as the entire agitation is dominated by farmers from Punjab. “Now, this is clear that this agitation was created by farmers of Punjab not by the farmers of Haryana. Rest opposition parties of the state have sponsored it,” said Khattar, who also thanked the Haryana police for its patience and restraint while facing farmers. His remarks come just two days after the chief ministers of both the states had battled acrimoniously on Twitter over the farmers’ protest. Captain Amarinder Singh, in turn, demanded an unequivocal apology from his Haryana counterpart for inflicting brutality on farmers. He also accused Khattar of spreading lies and sticking his nose into a matter in which his state had no role to play. “Khattar is lying that he tried calling me earlier and I did not respond. But now, after what he has done to my farmers, I will not speak to him even if he calls me 10 times. Unless he apologises and admits that he did wrong with Punjab’s farmers, I will not forgive him,” said Amarinder. Criticising Khattar for making allegations that he was instigating the farmers, Capt said: “I am a nationalist to the core, I run a border state and will never do anything to create law and order problem of any kind.” He added that for 60 days the farmers were blocking Punjab’s railway tracks, causing more than Rs 43,000 crore in losses to the state, without any problem. “I will not take this nonsense from Khattar. Don’t I have better things to do than to incite farmers?” he said, adding that “sometimes they say it’s Khalistanis who’re managing the protests and sometimes they accuse me of doing it…let them make up their minds.” Amarinder declared that no political party was involved in the farm protests, which were a spontaneous reaction of the farmers who were fighting for their future. Terming as ludicrous Khattar’s claim that Haryana farmers were not part of the ‘Dilli Chalo’ agitation, he said Punjab’s intelligence had shown that as many as 40,000-50,000 farmers from Haryana had joined the march, which even the Centre’s intelligence reports would have borne out. “He (Khattar) doesn’t know what’s happening in his own state and he’s telling me what to do in my state!” said Amarinder. Amarinder said the Government of India has to talk to the farmers and find a solution. “If the GoI asks Punjab to be part of the efforts to resolve the issue, we will definitely go,” he said, adding that “my aim is peace and prosperity for Punjab.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-punjab-cms-again-battle-over-farmers-protest/articleshow/79470695.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Gurgaon||CM Khattar oblivious to reality, say Haryana farmer leaders||Gurgaon: As chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and his cabinet colleagues claimed on Saturday the presence of farmers from Haryana was almost negligible in the Delhi agitation, farmers’ groups in the state said they would intensify their protest and highlight the “ground reality” for the CM. “CM Khattar is oblivious to the ground reality. By making these statements, he is only distancing farmers further from the government. There have been months of protests and tens of thousands of farmers from the state have actively led the kisan andolan,” said Avik Saha, secretary of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee. Citing the CM’s statement, farmers’ bodies have asked Khattar to explain the midnight arrests of farmer leaders, police action against farmers over the past few months, and sit-in protests of thousands of farmers at various border points like Kundli. They claimed units 500 to 1,000 farmers each from districts like Hisar, Sirsa, Karnal, Yamunanagar, Ambala, Bhiwani, Jind, Jhajjar, Rewari and Fatehabad, among others, had marched towards Delhi in the past two days and more are joining. “There’s nothing that we expect from the CM. First, he directs police to raid houses of farmers and pick them two days ahead of the Dilli Chalo agitation. Then he deploys force and asks them to use water cannons and tear gas shelling and dig trenches to stop us from marching,” said Rattan Mann, state president of the Bhartiya Kisan Union.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/cm-khattar-oblivious-to-reality-say-haryana-farmer-leaders/articleshow/79469673.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Containment zone list puts focus back on Ballygunge, Garia||KOLKATA: Close to two weeks after the last containment list was updated, two new south Kolkata apartment complexes found mention on the fresh list. The fresh entries are from Ballygunge Circular Road and Garia. The total number of containment zones, though, remained unchanged - two zones in Thakurpukur were removed from the list. Two floors of a residential complex - in the heart of south Kolkata and close to the Lake Market at one end and Mudiali at the other and located on Raja Basanta Roy Road - continue to remain in the city's containment zone, the latest list on Egiye Bangla website has revealed. The fresh list has brought the focus back on two areas - Ballygunge Circular Road and Garia - in south Kolkata. Both zones had been on and off the containment zone list in the past eight months. KMC sources said it was not merely the numbers - active cases are less than a dozen at one particular zone - that compelled them to declare the fresh containment zones. "At least two zones are located in populated areas with markets nearby. In addition, all three are located in posh areas with multiple dwelling units being affected by Covid. It was important to contain the spread even within the apartments, particularly in Ballygunge. However, we are hoping that this block will come out of the list at the earliest as they are following all Covid protocols strictly," said a KMC coordinator from Borough 8 that now has two of the city's three containment zones. The police said following the present containment policy, the area has not been barricaded. "The residents are cooperating. We are ensuring that our officers are on rounds and that we help out the residents as and when required," said an officer. "A large section of residents go out on work from here. But it is also a place where several outsiders come for work. It is ironic that it was Raja Basanta Roy Road and Mudiali that, almost six months ago, showed the way to rest of south Kolkata by following all physical distancing," said Pallabi Chatterjee, a data analyst. Deep Majumdar, a trader, wondered if the movement of maid servants and vendors, whom several complexes have allowed in the recent past with local trains resuming services, was a reason why Ballygunge Circular Road is back on the containment zone list. "In the initial days, everyone was careful. But as time passed, people forgot about the threats. People came to the market without even wearing masks," said a resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkata-containment-zone-list-puts-focus-back-on-ballygunge-garia/articleshow/79470768.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 29, 2020||Kolkata||Woman dies as dupatta gets stuck in e-rickshaw wheel in Kolkata||KOLKATA: In a tragic incident, a 51-year-old woman was strangled and dragged to death after her silk dupatta got stuck in the wheels of a battery-operated rickshaw while she was travelling with her husband and sister. The incident was reported around 3.05pm on Saturday from the busy Brahmapur Crossing in Bansdroni area. "The woman, Sabita Mistri, was wearing a silk apparel and the e-rickshaw was at a considerable speed. The woman's brother had passed away a few days ago and her sister had come to stay with her so that they could offer their prayers at a local ashram. They were on their way when the incident took place," said a senior police officer. The victim is a resident of Brahmapur's Badamtala area. Her husband owns a paints shop and is a painter by profession. According to DC (south suburban) Rashid Munir Khan, such was the impact of the accident that the dupatta got wrapped around her neck tightly like a noose and she fell and got dragged for a good distance before the rickshaw puller, a youth with limited experience, could bring it to a complete halt. "She was rushed to the Baghajatin State General Hospital where she was declared dead. We are recreating the accident scene. We will speak to her husband once he is in a better condition," said an officer. The Saturday evening accident sent shock waves in the area. "I suddenly noticed a man and a woman howling. I saw a woman hanging out of the rickshaw. She was bleeding profusely from her neck and face. It was a very ghastly and unfortunate incident," said a shopkeeper in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/woman-dies-as-dupatta-gets-stuck-in-e-rickshaw-wheel-in-kolkata/articleshow/79470801.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 29, 2020||Gurgaon||Leadership & women: Importance of being ‘authentic’ yet unique||By Chandana Agarwal Leadership and women. There is a lot of action and churn of ideas in this sphere. In recent times, I have been fortunate enough to participate in training programmes that revolved around this broad subject (including some where I was a trainer). It’s a very interesting subject, full of dichotomies. Being a career woman in a leadership position, I can relate to most issues that are cited in this journey. This is my effort to take a step back and examine my experiences, my learnings and some musings. We all know that leadership is a constructed role. In that, it is not a trait, it is a learned behaviour. Further, the examination of leadership theory and practice has consistently revealed that the phenomenon is popularly understood through “male” norms and yardsticks. Therefore, gender neutral leadership is a concept that exists in theory and there alone. In fact, it is to give meaning to this concept that “Authentic Leadership” (AL) came into being. This was a brilliant move to counter the male characteristics through which leadership continues to be defined and evaluated. However, it is important to take cognisance of the fact that AL is not about a coherence between your inner self and its expression, it needs to be verified by the followers as authentic. And this verification is done on the basis of the currently held expectations about how a person of a gender, in a social class, performing a certain role “should” look and behave. Men are associated with aggressive, driven and an ambitious behaviour while women are considered to be supportive, empathetic and kind. It is expected for men and women to be aware of the social expectations from their roles and adapt their behaviours accordingly to be considered competent. So, when a woman performs a “leadership role” as it is popularly understood (through characteristics like dominance, aggression etc), she is not being her authentic self but adopting the behaviours expected from that role. This is neither accepted nor desirable and she is called out for not being authentic. This essentially puts her in a double bind. Being an advertising professional, I can’t help but connect this to the world of brands — we treat brands as living entities, they have a voice and a personality. A large part of our job then is to define the above and create communication that is in keeping with the brand core. Core is where most of us begin. So, a Dove can be about breaking beauty stereotypes and a Lux can be about playing to the beauty stereotypes. Both very strong brands, but different from each other. They are not evaluated through a generic lens of how a soap should be evaluated. We give that space to brands — to be unique, to be true to what they can offer to maximise their potential. Shouldn’t we allow that space to people? Do all women leaders have to have the same style? Can I be a woman and be aggressive and ambitious in my leadership style or do I necessarily need to be supportive and empathetic to be considered fit to be a leader? Are we expecting Sheryl Sandberg , Indra Nooyi and Kamala Harris to all have similar styles and yet be authentic? Do each of the woman leaders have to take on the burden of acting on behalf of all others? Is the perception of authenticity, therefore, only the responsibility of the woman leader or do the followers need to adjust their lenses too? An unrelated issue that comes in the way of being authentic is the conditioning. In my childhood, for instance, I was given different clothes for different occasions. This is more rampant for women. Men, after all, have to just wear jeans and a shirt and are done for most occasions. With different clothes, we take on different personas and are initiated into role-playing early on, such that we eventually lose contact with who we are. What we don’t realise is that we lose a lot more, we lose our confidence, we lose our uniqueness, we lose our desires and dreams, we lose our madness, we lose what we could be. It is time to reclaim who we are and who we can be. If we learn to be uniquely ourselves, we can be a unique and authentic leader too. (The author is President, 82.5 Communications, North, The Ogilvy Group)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/leadership-women-importance-of-being-authentic-yet-unique/articleshow/79469016.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Indore||Three die in blaze after head-on crash in Madhya Pradesh's Dewas||INDORE: Three persons were burnt to death after a head-on collision between a dumper truck and a Tempo Traveller triggered a blaze in Dewas district on Saturday. Three persons in the Tempo — Shyam Mali, 40, Shivnarayan Namdeo, 50, and Devendra Singh Thakur, 38 — couldn’t get out of the mangled wreckage and were killed by the fire. They were residents of Piplinaka area of Ujjain, and were on their way back from Bhopal, a 200km drive. Police said the dumper was speeding in the wrong direction when it plowed into the 12-seater in Bhorasa area of Dewas. Accused driver yet to be arrestedSI C S Barte, who is investigating the case, said they alerted the fire brigade as soon as they heard of the accident. “Three fire tenders arrived and doused the flames. We searched the vehicle and found three charred bodies,” he said. The dumper driver fled the scene and is yet to be arrested. The victims’ friend Sandeep Solanki said they had gone to Bhopal from Ujjain to drop some people and were returning when the accident took place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/three-die-in-blaze-after-head-on-crash-in-madhya-pradeshs-dewas/articleshow/79470865.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Indore||Hiring surge in Madhya Pradesh's Pithampur as firms rev up production||INDORE: As industries pick up pace to reach normal capacity utilization, several units in Pithampur, the state’s largest industrial belt, have resumed hiring to fill the void generated by migrant workers’ exodus during the lockdown. Automobile, engineering, pharmaceutical and IT firms are leading the way in fresh hiring with as many as 3,000 manpower requests landing with Industrial Training Institutes (ITI). Umesh Dwivedi, an HR executive at a manufacturing unit in Pithampur and general secretary of Pithampur Audyogik Sangathan said, “Industries have started hiring as most have upscaled production and need manpower to support the pace of work. Many workers who left in the lockdown have not returned to work.” A few new companies have begun production in recent months, adding to the rise in hiring. Placement drive to meet industry demandI TI has sourced around 200 technical students in different companies in the Indore division in November, said Meena Lohiya, ITI training and placement officer, Indore division. “Requirement of manpower from industries is so high that we are not able to meet the demand. Multiple placement drives are scheduled in the coming weeks,” Lohiya said. Pithampur Audyogik Sangathan said the industries require around 4,000 skilled employees in technical roles since the pandemic broke. Pawan Nagar, HR manager at a PVC pipes manufacturing unit at Pithampur, said, “We need manpower but the waiting period is very high. It has become difficult to get manpower immediately as many people who have returned to their hometowns have still not come back.” Amid lack of skilled manpower, industries are hiring fresh talent and skilling them in-house to suit the job role. The job market in IT sector has also grown and firms hiring fresh amid increasing significance for artificial intelligence, machine learning and cloud computing post Covid-19. IT professional Amit Agrawal said, “We have started hiring talents and have already appointed 50 people for new projects. There has been an uptick in fintech and cyber security projects as everyone is exploring the virtual platforms post pandemic and many are doing extremely well.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/hiring-surge-in-madhya-pradeshs-pithampur-as-firms-rev-up-production/articleshow/79470848.cms||Meenakshi Sharma
November 29, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: VACB raids expose KSFE corruption, Thomas Isaac sees red||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Of 40 Kerala State Financial Enterprises (KSFE) branches they raided in the course of two days, officials of Vigilance and Anti Corruption Bureau (VACB) found evidence of illegalities and corrupt practices in at least 35 centres. Adding to the LDF government's embarrassment, finance minister Thomas Isaac, without apparent logic, condemned the Vigilance raids, saying they had no right to examine KSFE's affairs. The raids were launched on Friday under the label of Operation Bachat. The inspections continued overnight to Saturday. One of the major findings of the VACB officials was the practice called ‘Kolla Chitty’ followed by managers of most KSFE branches. This entails using the credentials of defaulters of an existing chitty to a new chitty in a bid to falsely project the business done at each branch. Another illegality found was taking money from KSFE funds to deposit in the treasury when a chitty begins in KSFE. As per law, the money deposited in the treasury in this regard should be those collected as the first instalment from the depositors. By siphoning money from the KSFE fund for this purpose, the branches stood a chance to incur losses in case the cheques submitted by depositors bounced. Speaking to media persons on Saturday, Isaac lashed out at the findings by VACB, saying that there is a law department in the state to interpret laws and that VACB needn't do it. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala criticized the minister’s reaction, saying that Isaac was outraged at the VACB raids because he as well as the government does not want truths to be revealed. He also said that it seems the minister has made it his mission to save officials involved in corruption.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kerala-vacb-raids-expose-ksfe-corruption-thomas-isaac-sees-red/articleshow/79470843.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Med tourism industry bid to protect Bangladeshi||KOLKATA: Representatives of hotels, restaurants and other businesses operating in the New Market-Sudder Street-Marquis Street-Free School Street belt have tied up with a diagnostic centre to facilitate same-day Covid tests for Bangladeshi citizens. Businesses in the vicinity depend on Bangladeshis — family members of patients who visit the city for treatment, and businessmen. With Bangladesh Covid SOP requiring citizens to get a Covid test done 24 hours before returning to the country, the facility will not only help put them at ease but also prevent them being fleeced by unscrupulous touts who charge a premium for the test. A swab collection centre on Marquis Street set up by a functionary of the Calcutta Hotel, Guest House & Restaurant Owners’ Association (CHGHROA) will start functioning from Monday. “Many Bangladeshi traders and businessmen who are keen to visit Kolkata and start business again are wary of the difficulties in getting Covid tests done. We have therefore tied up with Repro Med Diagnostics for same-day test reports at Rs 1,700 per head, inclusive of Rs 200 fee for PPE,” said CHGHROA executive member Monotosh Saha. At present, touts in the belt charge Rs 2,200-2,500 per test from Bangladeshi nationals. According to Tapan Ray of ATN Medicare, reports of swab samples collected between 8am and noon will be provided the same evening between 8.30 and 10.30. Reports of samples collected in the second half will be available in the morning. The diagnostic centre has a daily capacity of 200 tests. Of the 4,000 rooms in the area that depend on Bangladeshi tourists and visitors, only 50-odd are occupied at present. Hotel and restaurant owners as well as markets in the neighbourhood, including New Market, are looking forward to a meeting between Indian PM Narendra Modi and his Bangladeshi counterpart Sk Hasina scheduled on December 17 for resumption of tourist visas between the two countries. With only patients and businessmen allowed to travel right now, hotels in this belt get only 50-60 guests a day against 6,000 earlier. Travel Agents Federation of India chairman (east) Anil Punjabi hailed the initiative and said it would go a long way in boosting the confidence of Bangladeshi travellers. “Let’s hope travel visas resume at the earliest so that businesses that have hit a rock bottom can revive,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/med-tourism-industry-bid-to-protect-bdeshis/articleshow/79468367.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: New Town officials bolster health infra in Covid times||KOLKATA: New Town will finally get a primary healthcare centre and a polyclinic where residents can visit a doctor for check-up and get basic diagnostic tests done. This has been a long-standing demand of residents of the township where there are plenty of super-speciality hospitals but scant facilities for diagnosis and treatment of common ailments. Though a land has been earmarked for a government medical college and hospital, work is yet to begin. The healthcare centre that New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) has planned will include out-patient department, diagnostic clinic, pharmacy and tele-medicine facility. The polyclinic will be set up by Hidco. To be initially operated as a healthcare centre, it has plans to upgrade it into a full-fledged hospital later. Tenders have recently been floated for both the facilities. The Rs 5.5-crore NKDA project will have a three-storied building with floor plate of around 3,200 sq ft each. It will be located near City Centre II mall that has several residential projects in the neighbourhood. The projected timeline for completing it is 18 months. The project cost of Hidco’s polyclinic-cum-healthcare centre hasn’t been decided yet. “The location has been earmarked near New Town Business Club. The plan will be to start with a polyclinic and healthcare centre and gradually develop the facility into a multi speciality hospital by sprucing up the infrastructure,” said a Hidco official. “A full-fledged government-run hospital with emergency and in-patient care facilities is the need of the hour at New Town. The NKDA and Hidco’s initiatives are very much welcome,” said resident Subho Dasgupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-town-officials-bolster-health-infra-in-cov-times/articleshow/79468376.cms||Suman Chakraborti
November 29, 2020||Gurgaon||Soon, a policy on division of plots of over 200sq yards||Gurgaon: The Haryana government is preparing a policy for division of plots measuring more than 200 sq yards, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said on Saturday. The policy, he said, would be tabled in the next cabinet meeting. Khattar said it had been decided that the sizes of plots to be divided should be more than 200 sq yards so that each party could get at least 100 sq yards. Currently, the Haryana government does not allow division of plots. The civic bodies also do not approve layouts of houses on divided plots. Khattar, who was chairing a grievances committee meeting in Gurgaon on Saturday, made the reference to the policy when a complaint related to land cropped up. “The policy would be beneficial for Huda sectors and private land owners because these are the areas that have big plot sizes. Land division is currently not allowed in the state. So, even if you have an independent house on 500 sq yards, you cannot divide the land and construct two houses. Currently, building plans of such houses don’t get an approval,” said Ramesh Singla, president of the Gurugram Home Developers and Plot Holders’ Association. While making the announcement, Khattar was discussing a complaint by two persons in Shivaji Nagar. They contended that their grandfather had built a house on 153 sq yards in 1971, which was later transferred to them. When they sought to divide the house into two parts, MCG rejected their building plan because of the current restriction on division. However, the policy, when approved and implemented, may be of little help for people living in old Gurgaon and areas such as Chakkarpur and Sadar Bazar since these areas have mostly smaller plot sizes. But these are also the areas where the need for dividing plots crops up more. Apart from the proposed land policy, nine other agendas were tabled at the meeting on Saturday. Among them was an issue of ille-gal construction in New Colony. Here, the owner of a building continued with the construction even after the municipal corporation had sealed it. The chief minister ordered the filing of an FIR against the owner and also ordered the demolition of the building for flouting construction norms. While addressing the media after the meeting, Khattar said those constructing illegal structures even after they are sealed “will meet the same fate”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/soon-a-policy-on-division-of-plots-of-over-200sq-yards/articleshow/79469344.cms||Vishakha Chaman
November 29, 2020||Kolkata||Private hospitals in Kolkata inch towards Covid bed reduction||KOLKATA: At least three private hospitals in Kolkata are preparing to reduce the number of their non-critical Covid beds that had remained fully occupied till October but now have vacancies. With a sharp rise in the number of non-Covid patients, it has become necessary to ‘rationalize’ bed distribution so that emergency patients don’t have to be refused, they say. Over the last one month, hospitals have seen occupancy of non-Covid beds rise from 60% to capacity on an average. Peerless Hospital will soon write to the health department seeking a clearance to reduce its Covid beds. As many as 25 out of the hospital’s 150 Covid beds remained vacant on Saturday, while all the 166 non-Covid beds were occupied. The non-Covid unit could see an expansion soon, said CEO Sudipta Mitra. “There has been a proliferation of non-Covid admissions and planned surgeries, too, are happening more regularly now. The only way we can serve these patients is by raising the number of beds which is possible only if the Covid unit is squeezed,” said Mitra. He added that the hospital is planning to convert a 30-bed non-critical Covid unit to a non-Covid one. “Preparations are on and once we get the clearance, the transfer will happen,” said Mitra. Across its three units, AMRI Hospitals are planning to shift 15-20 Covid beds to its non-Covid sections. Around 95% of its 350 non-Covid beds – across three units — are now occupied. “We have had to refuse numerous non-Covid patients due to lack of beds over the last two weeks. There has been a sharp spurt in the number of lung, cardiac, kidney and cerebral ailments for which many are seeking hospitalization. A majority of these are emergency cases. That apart, planned surgeries that had been deferred have now turned emergency. All these have added up to push up the demand for non-Covid beds,” said AMRI CEO Rupak Barua. He added that since the hospital infrastructure can’t be expanded any further, non-Covid beds can only be increased by sacrificing Covid beds. “Non-critical Covid beds have been remaining vacant since mild and asymptomatic patients are no longer seeking admission. It’s logical to use them for other patients. But space and safety norms are a constraint and we are now working out ways to add beds to non-Covid units,” added Barua. With the queue of patients waiting for admission getting longer, a reduction in the number of Covid beds could just be a matter of time, felt the authorities of Medica Superspecialty Hospital. “While all our critical care Covid beds remain occupied, vacancies are happening more frequently at the general ward. Non-Covid beds, on the other hand, have seen a doubling in demand and these patients can’t be refused. We have reached the capacity at both sections and now we can have more beds only by squeezing one unit. We will soon have to take a call,” said chairperson Alok Roy. Another private hospital is getting ready to alter its bed distribution. It could join Peerless Hospital in its appeal for a clearance. “Since non-critical Covid patients are fewer now, we should be using that space for non-Covid patients who can’t be neglected now,” said an official of the hospital. Others like RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences and Fortis Hospital, however, said they will wait and watch. “We have just started having a few vacancies at Covid unit. So, it’s too early to think of a bed reduction,” said Fortis pulmonologist Raja Dhar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/private-hospitals-in-city-inch-towards-covid-bed-reduction/articleshow/79468355.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
November 29, 2020||Bhopal||EOW arrests Gwalior official on bribe charge||BHOPAL: A city planner with Gwalior Municipal Corporation was arrested by EOW while allegedly accepting Rs 5 lakh from a builder on Saturday. Officials said it was the first instalment of a Rs 25-lakh bribe allegedly demanded by the officer, Pradeep Verma. It’s alleged that he wanted Rs 50 lakh from builder Dharmendra Bharadwaj to approve a construction project, and settled for Rs 25 lakh on the condition that the first ‘instalment’ of Rs 5 lakh would be handed over to him on Saturday, EOW officials said. A case under Prevention of Corruption Act has been registered against him at University police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/eow-arrests-gwalior-official-on-bribe-charge/articleshow/79470879.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: KB Ganesh Kumar forced Saritha Nair to name Oommen Chandy, says former aide||KOLLAM: It was at the behest of Pathanapuram MLA KB Ganesh Kumar that solar scam accused Saritha Nair mentioned the names of several UDF leaders, including that of former chief minister Oommen Chandy, accusing them of sexually exploiting her, said a former close associate. Speaking at a UDF election meet at Thalavoor division on Saturday, former Kerala Congress (B) general secretary and a relative of Ganesh, C Manoj Kumar alleged that Ganesh was the mastermind who, along with his personal staff member Pradeep Kottathala, forced Saritha to add the names of Chandy and other UDF leaders in the list of those who sexually abused her when she approached them seeking support for her business venture Team Solar. Manoj who defected recently to the Congress, said he could not but reveal these facts as he was ‘fearful of God’s wrath’. Manoj said Chandy, who was pelted with stones by DYFI protesters at Kannur after his name cropped up among those accused by Saritha, did not reveal Ganesh’s involvement in the move to malign him but remained silent. Manoj claimed that Ganesh, who is with LDF now, wanted to save his own skin and cover up his role in the scandal. Chengannur MLA Saji Cherian who was also named by Manoj, issued a statement explaining that though Saritha had met him while he was the CPM district secretary in Alappuzha, no conspiracies were hatched to name the UDF leaders in the list of accused. Cherian said he would file a defamation complaint against Manoj. Responding to the allegations, Saritha accused Manoj of lying and reiterated that there had been no addition to her letter she had prepared while she was lodged in the jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-kb-ganesh-kumar-forced-saritha-nair-to-name-oommen-chandy-says-former-aide/articleshow/79470928.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||6,250 new Covid-19 positive cases, test positivity rate in Kerala at 9.8%||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Covid-19 was detected in 6,250 persons on Saturday. At least 5,474 of them, including 56 healthcare workers, were infected through contacts while the sources of infection were unknown in 628 others. The recovery-count on that day stood at 5,275. Meanwhile, with the addition of 25 deaths to the Covid-19-related tally, the toll in the state has reached 2,196. In 24 hours, 63,983 samples were tested, and the test positivity rate is 9.8%. The district-wise numbers for those who tested positive on Saturday are Ernakulam, 812, Kozhikode, 714, Malappuram, 680, Thrissur, 647, Kottayam, 629, Palakkad, 491, Thiruvananthapuram, 488, Kollam, 458, Kannur, 315, Alappuzha, 309, Wayanad, 251, Idukki, 178, Pathanamthitta, 141 and Kasaragod, 137. The figures for the locally transmitted cases are Ernakulam, 602, Kozhikode, 665, Malappuram, 653, Thrissur, 636, Kottayam, 623, Palakkad, 293, Thiruvananthapuram, 375, Kollam, 454, Kannur, 268, Alappuzha, 303, Wayanad, 237, Idukki, 144, Pathanamthitta, 100 and Kasaragod, 121. To date, 5,26,797 people have recovered from Covid-19 in the state while 64,834 are still undergoing treatment. There are 3,12,251 people under observation in the state, including 2,96,223 in isolation at home or institutional quarantine centres and 16,028 in hospitals. On Saturday, 1,701 persons were hospitalized. With the addition of six places and the exclusion of two places, the number of hotspots in the state is 530.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/6250-new-covid-19-positive-cases-test-positivity-rate-in-kerala-at-9-8/articleshow/79470994.cms||---
November 29, 2020||India||China scientists claim virus born in India; West experts refute||Chinese scientists are now arguing that the coronavirus originated in India in July-August 2019 when an unbearable heatwave in May-June that year forced animals and humans to share the same water sources. The theory is seen by many experts as Beijing’s latest effort to apportion blame outside their borders. A Glasgow University expert, David Robertson found the argument by the Chinese Academy of Sciences team “flawed”, according to Daily Mail newspaper. He said it “added nothing” to their understanding of Covid and that the Chinese approach was “inherently biased”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/china-scientists-claim-virus-born-in-india-west-experts-refute/articleshow/79471004.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Vadodara couple murdered in Dubai; victims’ kids, parents get golden visas for 10 yrs||AHMEDABAD: In a rare instance, two sisters – aged 18 and 13 – with their grandparents have got the golden visa of UAE with validity of 10 years. Their parents, Vadodara-natives Hiren and Vidhi Adhia, were killed by a burglar at their villa in Dubai on June 18. The visa was granted on humanitarian grounds and a possible first for Indians, said Indian community members. Hiren Adhia and his wife Vidhi, both in their 40s, were asleep at their villa in Arabian Ranches when a burglar entered and stole valuables worth 2,000 dirham. Hiren spotted and confronted the burgler and was stabbed . When Vidhi came to rescue him she was also stabbed and both died on the spot. On November 23 their daughters and parents were granted ‘golden visa’. The sisters also got the full scholarship for their studies in Dubai. Scholarships also announcedIn a statement issued by the Dubai Police, visas were handed over by Lieutenant General Abdullah Khalifa Al Mari, commander-in-chief of Dubai Police, and Major General Mohammed Ahmed Al Marri, DG, General Directorate of Residency and Foreigners Affairs (GDRFA) office in Dubai. The press statement issued by the Dubai Police said it collaborated with GDRFA to issue the golden visas following efforts by CID’s Victim Support Programme. Dubai police has withheld the name of the sisters to protect their identity as they are part of the victim support programme. ‘Granting the golden visas to the sisters is in line with the humanitarian approach embraced by the UAE’s wise leadership to ensure the happiness of all community segments in the UAE,’ said Lt Gen Al Marri in the statement. Dubai Police also announced full scholarships for the sisters at Canadian University and Repton School in Dubai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vadodara-couple-murdered-in-dubai-victims-kids-parents-get-golden-visas-for-10-yrs/articleshow/79471001.cms||Parth Shastri
November 29, 2020||Delhi||Borders still first choice, only a few move to Delhi's Burari||NEW DELHI: Though the farmers of Punjab on a march to Delhi have been asked to stage their protest at the Nirkankari Samagam ground, most of them opted to stay put at the Singhu and Tikri borders. On Saturday, there were only a few hundred protesters at the ground in north Delhi’s Burari, despite Delhi government’s elaborate arrangements there for the demonstrating farmers. Jagdish Jagga of Faridkot, who reached the Singhu border with others in a tractortrolley around 2am on Saturday was clear. “If we sit at the Burari ground for even four years, it will make no impact on the central government,” he declared. “Our demands for the rollback of the three new farm laws will be heard only if we hit the streets.” His fellow protester, Gurmeet Singh, added, “We will take a call on Sunday on whether to shift from here to Burari.” At the ground itself, farmers from Punjab and Haryana, equipped with rations, utensils, blankets and mattresses, claimed they were prepared to sit in protest for the next four to six months. Though Delhi government and some voluntary groups made arrangements for food at Burari, the farmers cooked their own meals and shunned the tents provided there, preferring instead their tractors. Busy chopping vegetables, Harvinder Singh of Bhaini village in Punjab’s Mansa district, said they were ready to protest for whatever time it took to get the government to repeal the new laws that left them vulnerable to private companies. Some farmers claimed to be at the grounds only to inspect the arrangements. Yashpal Chowdhury of Baghpat, UP, said, “We left our friends at the UP border and came here to check things out. We will now drive back to the border.” Amit Kumar, squatting alongside 20 others, said, “All of us, farmers from Haryana’s Fatehabad district, arrived in Delhi in 27 tractor-trolleys. Most have stayed at the border, but some of us decided to stage a protest at Jantar Mantar and went there in an auto-rickshaw only to have the cops stopping us. So we came to Burari, but will go back in the evening to join the rest at the border.” Social activist Medha Patkar was at Burari on Saturday. After meeting the protesters, she told TOI, “The farmers have not come to Burari ground in large numbers as their associations feel that this will become a camping site, instead of a struggle site. Discussions are under way to use Burari site for a protest because the farmers want a place where dialogues can take place in their favour.” AAP leader Sanjay Singh too visited the farmers. “We are satisfied with the arrangements here,” said farmer Hakam Singh. North Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Jai Prakash said efforts had been made to ensure the protesters did not face any inconvenience. He said 25 mobile toilets, three auto tippers, five waste bins and a JCB to manage the garbage had been placed and three generator sets provided illumination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/borders-still-first-choice-only-a-few-move-to-delhis-burari/articleshow/79471040.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
November 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Yediyurappa’s political secretary NR Santosh is no stranger to controversies||BENGALURU: Chief minister BS Yediyurappa's political secretary and grandnephew NR Santosh has repeatedly found himself embroiled in controversies. Santosh has been Yediyurappa's shadow for many years and had served as his personal secretary as well. He was spotted organising logistics for then rebel Congress and JD(S) MLAs ahead of their resignations, which eventually led to fall of the previous JD(S)-Congress government. Santosh is said to have attempted suicide at his Dollars Colony residence in Bengaluru on Friday. He was found unconscious by his family members in the evening in his reading room and was rushed to MS Ramaiah hospital nearby. In 2017, Santosh was arrested on charges of kidnapping Vinay NS, the former private assistant of rural development and panchayat raj minister KS Eshwarappa. He also faced charges of dowry harassment and attempt to murder. Though Santosh played a key role in toppling the JD(S)-Congress regime and bringing Yediyurappa to power, he had reportedly fallen out with the CM's son BY Vijayendra and was kept out of the house. However, he made a comeback and was appointed the chief minister's political secretary in May this year. Sources close to the CM claim a few RSS functionaries with whom he had developed proximity when he was with Yediyurappa and Santosh's maternal family played a pivotal role in his return. There are also reports of him having used some "personal issues" as tools for arm-twisting Yediyurappa into giving him an influential position in his government. But they claimed Yediyurappa's family members had ensured he was kept away from the CM and he again fell out with them as they got to know he allegedly identified with the anti-Yediyurappa camp. He was reportedly asked to put in his papers by Yediyurappa's family to make way for partymen. When he was appointed the CM's political secretary, some BJP legislators, who were sulking on being left out of the cabinet, raised questions at another blood relative being awarded a position by the chief minister since the role of his sons in governance has been a sore point from the beginning of the term.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/yediyurappas-political-secretary-nr-santosh-is-no-stranger-to-controversies/articleshow/79471079.cms||---
November 29, 2020||World||Over 150 arrested in anti-lockdown protests in London||LONDON: Scotland Yard has said its officers policing anti-lockdown protests in central London have made 155 arrests as part of early interventions to prevent people from gathering amid the coronavirus pandemic. The Metropolitan Police made arrests for offences including breaching coronavirus regulations, assaulting a police officer and possession of drugs. Save Our Rights UK, a group holding demonstrations against the stay-at-home rules, said it held protests on Saturday against the government's COVID-19 lockdown. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson had on October 31 announced a second lockdown in England as the country crossed the grim milestone of 1 million coronavirus cases. The lockdown took effect on November 5 and will last until December 2. Large gatherings are banned under the coronavirus lockdown restrictions. The Metropolitan Police on Saturday said its officers made a number of early interventions to prevent people from gathering and urge them to go home. As part of this, coaches transporting protesters into the UK capital were intercepted and those who did not turn back were either arrested or issued fines or fixed penalty notices under the coronavirus legislation, it said. "This was a challenging day for Met, City of London and British Transport Police officers," Chief Superintendent Stuart Bell, policing commander on the protests, said on Saturday. "On Friday, we made it very clear how we would police this event, warning those looking to attend that they risked facing enforcement action if they attended a gathering in London," he said. "The enforcement action is a direct result of those individuals deliberately breaking the law and at times, targeting our officers with aggression and causing disruption to the road network," he added. Bell urged people to follow the rules to avoid "enforcement action" and help protect everyone during the "health crisis". Some of the protesters were dressed up as elves and waved placards reading "All I want for Christmas is my freedom back", "Ditch the face masks" and "Stop controlling us". UK Home Secretary Priti Patel lauded the Met Police action and emphasised that the aim behind the regulations was to save lives. "We've seen our police officers yet again do incredible work to ensure that they help to stop the spread of this awful virus," she said. "The people that are protesting today have been protesting for many months, and we've seen this over successive weekends. We ask everybody to be conscientious, we all know the regulations and the guidance. We have brought these measures in to save lives and to prevent preventable deaths," she said. After the four-week national lockdown in England ends on Wednesday, it will be replaced by a three-tiered system of regional measures that restrict business activity, travel and socialising. The vast majority of the country is being put into the upper two tiers. Some rights groups have called for the right to safely protest to be explicitly outlined as an exemption in regulations covering England's tiered restrictions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/over-150-arrested-in-anti-lockdown-protests-in-london/articleshow/79471020.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Delhi||Turning barren plot into wetland: How Ambedkar University Delhi gave back its lush look||NEW DELHI: Four years ago, Ambedkar University Delhi took possession of a barren plot used by people of Gopalpur village in northeast Delhi to learn driving or for religious gatherings. Today, it is a wetland with over 90 species of trees and 108 species of migratory birds, the miracle wrought on the 15 hectares by the students and teachers of AUD’s Centre for Urban Ecology and Sustainability (CUES). Believing as the CUES vision statement says, that “wetlands are essential for maintaining ecosystem balance and performing various ecosystem functions such as moderating micro-climate, providing habitat for aquatic and avian life, recharging aquifers and groundwater, and maintaining soil moisture” AUD collaborated with Delhi Development Authority to restore the Dheerpur wetland in Gopalpur village. TimesViewDelhi’s water heritage, such as ponds, lakes and wetlands, has suffered over the decades. Wetlands are vital to the ecosystem. Among other things, they lower pollution levels and raise groundwater tables. The creation of a new wetland, with ample flora and fauna, is great news; more since it is the outcome of a project helmed by students and teachers. Such public-spirited endeavours that benefit the city's ecosystem should be encouraged.Suresh Babu, director, CUES, said, “The project envisages ecological restoration of 25.8 hectares earmarked for wetlands over a period of five years. The wetland park will provide hydrological, regulatory, cultural and aesthetic benefits to the local communities of Mukherjee Nagar, Nirankari Colony, Gandhi Vihar and the AUD campus coming up at the site.” At the wetland, Babu recalled how the foundation plaque was put up by AUD in 2015 in an almost barren land. “The place looks absolutely different now, and the whole area is green with vegetation and waterbodies. Even the road has narrowed down with saplings growing well on the sides,” he said. At the CUES field station, university staffers, gardeners, students and researchers are carrying out some work. “We have skeletal staffing and much work is voluntary by students and teachers,” Babu said. “There are over 90 tree species like jamun, bamboo, willow and mulberry. The banyan tree planted by the Dalai Lama in 2017 is also growing well.” When the project began, the soil had been compacted by cars and religious gathering, squeezing out whatever water there was. “For water storage, we created ponds. Consequently, three big wetland expanses and four smaller ones, all interconnected, form during the rainy season. “These together have a surface storage area of 50,000 cubic litres and aid in groundwater recharge,” said Babu. The wetland is also home to over 108 bird species, monitored twice a month by AUD researchers. “These are mostly wetland birds like the red naped ibis, the greater coucal and the long-tailed shrike. Dheerpur has become a favourite with birders,” smiled Babu. Joggers and visitors from the nearby villages also gather in the luxuriant wetland. “Villagers have been able to collect over 7,000kg of fodder for their livestock in the past year. This contribution to the community makes the wetland all the more important,” Babu added. Anu Singh Lather, AUD vice-chancellor, described the wetland restoration project as a “prestigious outreach project of the university”. She was happy that the “dedicated effort of our team of researchers” has yielded excellent results in a short time. She noted, “While the project is still in the development phase and there still is some distance to cover, the wetland already serves as a unique model of participatory urban restoration involving volunteers, students, researchers and local community members.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/turning-barren-plot-into-wetland-how-ambedkar-university-delhi-gave-back-its-lush-look/articleshow/79471085.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
November 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: 400 leopard and 6 tiger nails seized; 4 arrested||Bengaluru: Chennammanakere Achukattu police on Saturday arrested four persons, including a woman, and recovered 400 leopard nails, six tiger nails, a blackbuck and jackal skin each, seven pangolin nails, two jungle cat paws and three sloth bear claws from them. The accused are Prashant Kumar and Karthik from Mysuru and Pramila Reddy and Sai Kumar from Andhra Pradesh. The suspects were taken into custody near Kathriguppe Main Road in Banashankari III Stage on Saturday morning when they were waiting for potential buyers, said DCP (south) Harish Pandey. According to Pandey, initial investigation revealed that most of the seized items were brought from Bandipur and Nagarahole. “But blackbucks are not present in these regions. They are found between forests of Tumakuru and Ballari. This indicates that the accused procured blackbuck skin either from these places or from areas bordering Andhra Pradesh. There are other suspects who are elusive,” he said. Caught red-handed“Two months ago, we had arrested a person and seized deer horns and ivory from him. During probe he had revealed that more such items would be reaching Bengaluru in October or November. We had kept an eye on the movement of the suspects and caught them red-handed on Saturday,” said an investigating official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/400-leopard-and-6-tiger-nails-seized-4-arrested/articleshow/79468280.cms||---
November 29, 2020||World||Drive-ins, scattered huts: German Xmas markets find ways around virus||LANDSHUT: Chestnuts roasting, mulled wine steaming and music blaring from wooden chalets lined with artificial snow -- the Landshut Christmas market in southern Germany has all the usual trimmings. But this year, visitors must enjoy the sights and smells of the traditional Christmas market from inside their cars due to precautions to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Every night after dark, several dozen vehicles roll into the Christmas market drive-in, their occupants cosy and socially distanced inside. Once through the gates, they must wait for an employee wearing a mask and a Christmas hat to knock on their window and offer them a menu of savoury treats to choose from, such as crepes, sausages and roasted chestnuts. Orders placed, they can then drive on to the next hut offering sweets such as candy floss or gingerbread hearts. "We take our inspiration from fast-food chains," smiles Patrick Schmidt, 31, market organiser and owner of the Zollhaus Landshut restaurant. "We wanted to recreate a bit of the Christmas atmosphere, even if it's more complicated this year." The market is a way of helping his business get through "a difficult time", he said. As Germany battles a second wave of coronavirus infections, leisure and sporting facilities have been ordered to close while restaurants and bars can only offer takeaways. The restrictions also include limits on social gatherings and have been a huge blow to Germany's 3,000 or so annual Christmas markets. The markets have been an annual fixture in Germany since the 15th century, when craftsmen and bakers were given special permission to ply their wares in town squares in the run-up to Christmas. But many German cities have cancelled their Christmas markets entirely this year, despite the huge financial losses -- the markets draw about 160 million visitors annually and bring in revenues of three to five billion euros ($3.6 billion and $5.9 billion), according to the BSM stallkeepers' industry association. To keep the spirit -- and the economic benefits -- of Christmas alive, cities across the country have come up with creative initiatives. In Berlin's Charlottenburg-Wilmersdorf district, small clusters of huts have been spread across several streets, though food and drink cannot be consumed on site. The world-famous Nuremberg Christmas market has been cancelled this year but managed to hold an online version of its traditional opening ceremony. And in north-western Germany, the town of Kalkar is also offering a drive-in Christmas market. The market in Landshut has been open since mid-November and is proving popular with locals, according to Schmidt. "Last Saturday we had 500 cars," he said. And they're not just here for the mulled wine, served in thermos flasks to keep it warm -- many are coming with the whole family in tow. "I'm here to support the restaurants, because I miss them," said Markus Renneke, 55, visiting the market with his wife. "And I think it's a great idea." Sandra, joined by her teenage daughter Laura, is here to enjoy that special Christmas market "atmosphere". "You have to put a bit of time aside and there are no stands selling anything but food, but that's OK," she said as a waitress arrived with two grilled sausages. Her daughter, "starving", cannot resist starting to tuck into her sausage before the final stop: the checkout. Once they've settled up, customers are free to return home basking in the glow of mulled wine -- apart from the designated drivers, of course.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/europe/drive-ins-scattered-huts-german-xmas-markets-find-ways-around-virus/articleshow/79471206.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai reports a little over 1,000 cases for fourth day running||MUMBAI: After three days of recording 6,000-plus new Covid-19 positive cases, the state witnessed a marginal dip - 5,965 cases -- on Saturday. Mumbai, however, continued with its seemingly new stable number of a little over 1,000 cases (1,063) for the fourth consecutive day. While state officials added 75 deaths to the overall state toll, which is now 46,986, BMC officials said 17 deaths were reported in the city in a 24-hour period. The toll in Mumbai since March is 10,847 deaths so far. The post-Diwali impact due to intermingling was also apparent in the rising number of active cases, both in the state and the city. The active cases in the state increased by 10,000 plus from 79,873 (November 21) to 89,905 on Saturday. In Mumbai, the corresponding rise has been 2,500 - from 12,397 on November 21 to 14,979 now. BMC additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said, "The 14-day crucial period post-Diwali is over, and our positivity has been low and steady." However, the BMC has decided to continue with its intensified testing and infrastructure measures for another month. "Due to reverse migration taking place in Mumbai right now, we will keep testing and not reduce our beds till December 31 at least," said Kakani. Starting Sunday, the BMC will start distributing face masks for those who are caught without masks. "After charging a fine for not wearing a mask, we will provide offenders with a mask," added Kakani. Roughly 15,000 people are caught without a mask every day in Mumbai. Infectious diseases specialist Dr Om Shrivastav, a member of the state task force, said the number of hospitalisations in Mumbai had increased in the last three days. He said a family of three who were affected with Covid-19 had to seek admission in three different hospitals as they couldn't find three vacant beds in a single hospital. "While the situation may improve in a few days, Mumbaikars should be aware it won't take much to tip the situation. It is best to wear a mask," said Dr Shrivastav. In fact, the daily Covid statistics too show that the number of recovered patients has been steadily reducing even as active cases are increasing. On Saturday, 3,937 persons in the state and 805 in the city recovered, taking the total recoveries to 16.7 lakh and 2.5 lakh respectively. State minister for public health Rajesh Tope, however, said that the recovery rate in the state is still high at 92.4%. In Thane city, 196 fresh Covid-19 cases and three deaths were reported on Saturday. Since the outbreak of the virus, Thane city has reported 50,979 positive patients, and the death toll there is 1,167. In Navi Mumbai, 143 fresh cases were reported, taking the total count to 47,990. The NMMC also reported four deaths, taking the toll to 979. (Inputs by Shrutika Sukhi and Vijay Singh)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-reports-a-little-over-1000-cases-for-fourth-day-running/articleshow/79471286.cms||Malathy Iyer
November 29, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Navi Mumbai: NMMC chief suspends medical officer over fake Covid-negative reports||NAVI MUMBAI: The NMMC commissioner suspended medical officer Sachin Nemane on Saturday after it came to light that fake Covid negative reports have been recently issued in names of people who have never got themselves tested. Nemane was NMMC's Covid testing in-charge. Meanwhile, a three-member committee has been appointed under deputy municipal commissioner Yogesh Kaduskar to conduct a thorough probe into the matter and submit a detailed report within a fortnight. All the tests carried out by NMMC so far will now be scrutinised individually to find the exact number of fake negative reports issued by the civic body, said NMMC officials. Ankush Kadam, coordinator of Maratha Kranti Morcha's Navi Mumbai unit, had alleged that Covid reports of a number of people, some of whom were dead, figure in the NMMC records. Kadam took up the matter with NMMC commissioner Abhijit Bangar and demanded an investigation. Kadam also alleged manipulation and corruption in Covid-19 tests conducted by the civic body. "As part of contact tracing, if anyone is suspected to have come in contact with someone who has tested Covid positive, they need to be tested too. However, the labs are testing only one person, but preparing fake negative reports in the names of the contacts or family members of Covid patients, after gathering details from them," Kadam said, adding he and his associates are ready to cooperate with the probe committee. Kadam said, "After collecting the names from the ICMR database on Covid-19 reports, we started cross-checking cases to find whether they have undergone such tests in any of the NMMC testing centres across the city. Our team members called up hundreds of people and visited their homes and we found that they have never visited the testing centres." NMMC chief Bangar said, "Based on prima facie evidence, action was taken against Sachin Nemane and nobody will be spared. There is no mala fide intention in the whole case as it happened due to a data entry problem. More such cases cannot be ruled out, for which I have ordered a probe. Each and every test will be scrutinised and I will personally monitor it." Pravin Darekar, opposition leader in the state legislative council, too, had demanded an inquiry into the matter after meeting the NMMC commissioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/navi-mumbai-nmmc-chief-suspends-medical-officer-over-fake-covid-negative-reports/articleshow/79471298.cms||B B Nayak
November 29, 2020||Bengaluru||GST fraud: Kingpin who created fake invoices worth Rs 100 crore lands in net in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: A tax fraudster, who had created fake invoices for business deals worth over Rs 100 crore in the last three years, has landed in the net of the Directorate General of GST (Intelligence), Bengaluru unit. After a six-month-long hunt, the team nabbed Piyush Kumar Kothari aka Piyush Jain, 33, from a house in Binnypet on Saturday. Officials said he was a seasonal fraudster living the high life in Bengaluru, spending money on expensive cars and fancy homes. He is in judicial custody now. “Piyush’s name came up when we were probing the Rs 230-crore tax fraud case. Scrap dealer Haneef Mohammed of Khwaja Enterprises was nabbed for accepting fake invoices to evade GST. Probe revealed that Piyush was the kingpin in getting fake invoices mainly for scrap dealers and accepting kickbacks worth crores from Bengaluru businessmen,” said an officer. While the associated fraudsters were nabbed by the team, Piyush managed to give investigators the slip by frequently changing homes. “He used PAN and Aadhaar details of poor individuals from his village in Rajasthan and created fake companies in their names. He produced invoices through them for bogus services to the tune of Rs 100 crore for businessmen and managed to evade Rs 20.6 crore in taxes,” another officer said. On Friday, the team got input that Piyush was at Binnypet and reached there in the early hours of Saturday. “He had hidden 223 grams of ganja and an iPhone inside a false ceiling of the bathroom. We found several evidence connected to the tax credit fraud and hawala dealings for which he used his driver. He refused to open the iPhone,” he added. A Mini Cooper and a top-end Jaguar were also found in his possession.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/gst-fraud-kingpin-who-created-fake-invoices-worth-100cr-lands-in-net/articleshow/79468475.cms||Petlee Peter
November 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Flyer hiding gold paste worth Rs 87 lakh in jeans, underwear held in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: A passenger, who landed at Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) from Dubai with gold worth Rs 87.6 lakh hidden in his jeans and double underwear, has been arrested. Sources with the Air Intelligence Unit (AIU) of customs said the 36-year-old man had arrived in an Emirates airline flight on Friday evening. Following passenger profiling, the man, whose identity hasn’t been revealed, was intercepted by the sleuths over suspicion of smuggling. As the passenger gave evasive answers, the officers frisked him again and searched his baggage. His jeans had custom-stitched portions where pouches were hidden. More such pouches were spotted inside two pairs of briefs he was wearing. Crude gold weighing over 1.7kg in the form of paste was concealed inside them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/flyer-hiding-gold-paste-worth-87l-in-jeans-underwear-held/articleshow/79468476.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Don’t push complainants to use e-lost app, Bengaluru police chief tells staff||BENGALURU: Police commissioner Kamal Pant has directed his staff to stop advising the public to file complaints through the e-Lost Report portal for cases like theft, robbery and attention diversion. He instead wants them to register FIRs in such cases and investigate them. In July 2016, then police commissioner NS Megharikh had introduced e-Lost Report portal, with an intention to help people who face hardships in visiting police stations to file complaints. The portal generates an acknowledgement, which can be used by the complainants for various purposes. The app came as a blessing, especially in cases such as mobile phone thefts, where recovery is near impossible. These are cases where people are required to file a complaint as a legal formality to procure a replacement si . The first two weeks of the app’s inception saw around 1,400 complaints pouring in. Between July 2016 and November 27 this year, the portal received 9,01,969 complaints. Of them, 4,89,001 complaints were made using the mobile app, while 4,12,968 were filed through the website. A circular issued by Pant to additional commissioners of police, deputy commissioners of police and others in the city reads: “It is to clarify that with respect to all cases of theft, robbery, attention diversion, etc., proper FIRs should be registered and regular investigation should be taken up. Under no circumstances, complainants should be advised to register such cases under the e-Lost Report portal.” Many senior IPS officers welcomed the decision, saying that in several cases, lower-rung police officials at stations were taking advantage of the portal. “The main purpose of the portal was to help those who, for some reason, are not in a position to visit police stations, but want to file a complaint immediately and is in need of an acknowledgement. The portal was helpful in such cases. But the concept became an excuse for some police personnel at stations. Senior police officials regularly received complaints about cops at stations not accepting plaints. The aggrieved were being directed to file complaints on the e-Lost Report portal. So much so that people injured in mugging cases too were being directed to file complaints online. Such acts will tarnish police image. How will the public have confidence in police? Still, the portal is useful for those wanting a quick acknowledgement for replacement of sim card or for applying insurance,” a veteran IPS officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/dont-push-complainants-to-use-e-lost-app-police-chief-tells-staff/articleshow/79468489.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
November 29, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Gurdwaras to avoid langar on Gurupurab||MUMBAI: Gurupurab, the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak, founder of the Sikh faith, will be limited in celebration on Monday. Despite the fact that religious places have been allowed to reopen after the Covid-19 lockdown, community leaders have called upon people to pray at home. "By its very nature, the langar or community meal draws thousands of people, who will have to remove their masks as they eat in large groups. The kirtankars and granthis who sing hymns or read from the holy book Guru Granth Sahib cannot wear masks as they do so," said Andheri realtor Swaran Singh. The Dadar gurdwara of Sri Guru Singh Sabha released a video urging people to pray at home. Senior vice president Kulwant Singh said, "We usually receive 40,000-50,000 people this day with 7,000 inside the pandal at a time. This year, we curtailed langar and will distribute 'karanh prasad' to the few visitors who arrive." Dhan Pothohar Gurdwara in Santacruz has cancelled its langar at Sports Ground. "The sangat (community) can come for darshan from 4am to 10pm, and leave quickly. Most people are advised to stay at home and take darshan on YouTube," said joint secretary Bhupinder Singh Bunty. "We have curtailed our prabhat pheri and langar but will celebrate the Guru's 551st birthday by decorating the premises and inviting kirtankars to perform," said Nirmal Bhambhani, managing trustee of Gursangat Darbar, Sion Koliwada. The birth of Guru Nanak occurred on Kartik Purnima which is also celebrated as Dev Diwali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-gurdwaras-to-avoid-langar-on-gurupurab/articleshow/79471330.cms||Bella Jaisinghani
November 29, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Actor Asit Patra shoots first Odia cineplay||Renowned theatre and film actor Asit Patra is currently working on an innovative project. He is shooting what is claimed to be the first Odia cineplay. The actor, who basically works in Mumbai, said that he has adapted renowned playwright Vijay Tendulkar’s Marathi play Sakharam Binder. The Odia cineplay has the same title. “It’s like a play that’s performed and shot simultaneously. We used three cameras for the shoot. We also needed a lot of rehearsal prior to the shoot,” said Asit, who is also directing the project along with Sunil Pattnaik. Several well-known faces of Ollywood like Pintu Nanda, Shweta Acharya and Sujit Paikray along with newcomer Rashmanjali are part of the project. Asit plays the titular role. Talking about the technical aspects of the shoot, he said it’s different from basic videography of a play being performed on stage. “We had a stage setup and cameras were fixed in a way that allowed them to capture various shots of different characters. We shot the scenes like a movie with the three cameras working simultaneously. But it’s different from a normal film shoot,” he said, adding the project is under post-production currently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/actor-asit-patra-shoots-first-odia-cineplay/articleshow/79471490.cms||Sandip Bal
November 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh CM YS Jagan Mohan Reddy conducts aerial survey to assess cyclone damage||TIRUPATI: Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Saturday conducted an aerial survey to assess the damage caused by cyclonic storm Nivar in Chittoor, Kadapa and Nellore districts, even as the toll has increased to eight. Jagan, who arrived at Renigunta airport, was received by deputy chief minister K Narayana Swamy and minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy. After a brief interaction with official, Jagan conducted the aerial survey of the flood hit areas. Eight persons - six from Chittoor district and two from Kadapa district - died in the cyclonic rains. Jagan directed officials to submit their detailed reports before December 15. The officials were also instructed to speed up the process of handing over compensation to farmers and others affected before December 30. Jagan announced an ex-gratia of Rs 5 lakh each to the kin of eight persons, who died due to the heavy rains triggered by cyclone Nivar. He directed officials to make sure that power supply is restored as early as possible. He said the crop loss enumeration should be taken on a war footing basis and compensation should be paid by December-end. Jagan said people in the relief camps should be given Rs 500 each while returning home. on Saturday conducted an aerial survey to assess the damage caused by cyclonic storm Nivar in Chittoor, Kadapa and Nellore districts, even as the toll has increased to eight. Jagan, who arrived at Renigunta airport, was received by deputy chief minister K Narayana Swamy and minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy. After a brief interaction with official, Jagan conducted the aerial survey of the flood hit areas. Eight persons - six from Chittoor district and two from Kadapa district - died in the cyclonic rains. Jagan directed officials to submit their detailed reports before December 15. The officials were also instructed to speed up the process of handing over compensation to farmers and others affected before December 30. Jagan announced an ex-gratia of Rs 5 lakh each to the kin of eight persons, who died due to the heavy rains triggered by cyclone Nivar. He directed officials to make sure that power supply is restored as early as possible. He said the crop loss enumeration should be taken on a war footing basis and compensation should be paid by December-end. Jagan said people in the relief camps should be given Rs 500 each while returning home. CM directs officials to act on humanitarian groundsServices of volunteers should be utilized to hand over the amount if they have already left rief camps. He instructed the officials to give seeds on 80 percent subsidy to the farmers in the affected areas. A decision to this effect was taken in the cabinet meeting on Friday. The chief minister directed the officials to act on humanitarian grounds in dealing with the people in affected areas and to compensate other damages like houses and livestock as per SDRF norms. He told the officials to complete the temporary restoration works of Pincha and Annamaya projects immediately. Later, speaking to reporters deputy chief minister SB Amzath Basha said that the chief minister directed the officials to reach out to the farmers and the general public who lost their crops and personal property and belongings during the devastating cyclone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/andhra-pradesh-cm-ys-jagan-mohan-reddy-conducts-aerial-survey-to-assess-cyclone-damage/articleshow/79471477.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
November 29, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Seven die cleaning sewers in a year as housing societies refuse to come on board||Just days ago, 64-year-old Dalpat Solanki and 35-year-old Balan climbed down into the sewer chambers of a housing complex in Vile Parle. They wore no protective gear and had no cleaning equipment other than an iron wire, a hoe, and a bucket. For doing this unpleasant, risky job - 110 people died cleaning sewers in India last year - they asked for a payment of Rs 1,000. The building's owner talked them down to Rs 750. "It was quick money," shrugs Solanki. Times ViewManual scavenging persists in modern Mumbai for three reasons: there is demand for the service; there is a supply of poor people who need the work; and there is inadequate enforcement of the law. BMC is not legally bound to help private premises clean their sewers and septic tanks. But to truly eliminate this practice, authorities must ensure everyone — from landlords to societies to commercial buildings — follows the rules. That means mandating proper equipment and protective gear, cracking down on employers, and facilitating access to mechanised tools. Authorities only apply the law when someone dies. That is not enough.In a bid to end manual scavenging, the central government plans to increase penalties on employers and make machine cleaning of sewers mandatory. But to do that, cities like Mumbai will have to address infrastructural gaps, including the lack of small-scale mechanised services for private residential and commercial buildings. Five of the seven men who died this past year were working in private buildings. Officially, BMC has largely transitioned to mechanised cleaning of the city's 1,600-km-long sewer system. But, municipal officials say, they are not legally responsible for sewers inside private premises, and their machines are too large to deploy in smaller buildings anyway. But smaller old buildings can't afford -- or don't want to spend on -- professional cleaning services. Solanki is called in by older housing societies, not new complexes with modern systems. "Housing societies know it is illegal, but smaller machines are either not available for housing societies, or are expensive," says Ramesh Prabhu, chairman of the Maharashtra Societies Welfare Association. This is a critical gap, say activists. "If BMC refuses to help, buildings will turn to labourers," says Vishwajeet Yadav of Safai Karmachari Andolan. The solution, says Yadav, is to create a system to provide subsidised equipment and trained workers with protective gear to private buildings. "BMC is a big authority. It should not run away from the responsibility," he says. Such a system would require data about informal sewer workers -- another gap. A 2018 national government survey of manual scavengers was conducted only in the island city, says Tanu Lohat, Andolan's Maharashtra organiser. On top of that, officials accepted registration forms only from those who were able to provide certificates from a contractor -- something few would do given that the practice is illegal. The result: "We submitted over a thousand forms, but they accepted only seven," says Lohat. Suburban workers like Solanki and Balan say they did not know about the survey. Solanki and his wife used to work with BMC as a garbage collector and sweeper, respectively, but took voluntary retirement so that their two sons could take their jobs (permitted in the category in BMC). Dalpat now gets Rs 10,000 a month as pension, which he supplements by working as a sweeper and toilet cleaner. When he gets a call to clean out sewer chambers or, more infrequently, septic tanks, he brings along others like Balan. They are not given protective gear. Instead, they leave the sewer cover open for half an hour before they enter -- most deaths are due to suffocation from gases that build up in the chambers. Balan, a father of two, says he knows the risks. But he gets more money cleaning sewers than digging roads. "We have to meet our basic needs," he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-seven-die-cleaning-sewers-in-a-year-as-housing-societies-refuse-to-come-on-board/articleshow/79471494.cms||Vijay V Singh
November 29, 2020||Mumbai||Attack on cop: Police to move Bombay HC against bail||MUMBAI: L T Marg police who had arrested Sadvika Tiwari (30) and her friend Mohsin Khan (32) last month for assaulting a traffic constable are preparing to approach Bombay high court for cancellation of bail granted to the two. A video that showed Tiwari attacking the constable last month had gone viral on social media. The police move comes after a sessions court had, on November 10, rejected the investigators' plea seeking cancellation of bail granted to Tiwari and Khan. The prosecution had urged the court to cancel the bail on the grounds that it was granted without considering the gravity of the offence and that a wrong signal would be sent to society at large if they are released. Police have now knocked on the door of the state's law and judiciary department seeking legal opinion and permission to move high court. "We want to interrogate the accused in custody. She assaulted a policeman on a road for no fault of his and took law into her own hands. She was granted bail within three days by a magistrate court," said an officer. Traffic constable Eknath Porte was on duty at Kalbadevi on October 24 when he asked Khan, who was riding a bike, to stop for not wearing a helmet. Tiwari, who was the pillion rider, got furious, caught Porte's shirt collar and started assaulting him. While Tiwari had alleged Porte had abused her during the argument over the helmet, traffic police said that was not true and the cop had referred to the two accused as "madam" and "sir". Khan was seen shooting a video of the assault. Following the incident, the police arrested Tiwari and Khan. Police said there were 34 previous offences of traffic rules violation against Tiwari till the day of her arrest and she had not paid fines to the traffic department in several cases as well. In the Kalbadevi case, Tiwari and Khan were booked under Indian Penal Code sections 353, 332, 504 and 506 for preventing a government servant from discharging his duties, voluntarily causing hurt, intentional insult with the intent to provoke breach of peace, and criminal intimidation. Sections of Motor Vehicle Act and Criminal Amendment Act were invoked too. The duo was granted bail of Rs 50,000 each by the court on October 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/attack-on-cop-police-to-move-bombay-hc-against-bail/articleshow/79471519.cms||Mateen Hafeez
November 29, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Anubhav Mohanty pledges to donate his organs||Actor-turned-politician Anubhav Mohanty pledged to donate his organs at an event organised to celebrate the 11th National Organ Donation Day at Gopabandhu Bhavan in Cuttack yesterday. Anubhav, who is an MP from Kendrapara, was the chief guest at the event and he signed the organ donation pledge. He also urged youths of the state to come and join the drive. “A good human being is one who can bring a smile on another human’s face. I took the pledge today so that I can convince others to donate their organs for a good cause. If one can give life to a person by donating his organs, it will be a great service to mankind,” he said. Along with him, 78 other people pledged to donate their organs. He also urged the government to discuss with experts and consult with organisations working in this sector to take the campaign forward. “The message should reach out to every household and people should be aware of the need to donate their organs to help someone live,” said the actor. According to experts present at the event, one person can help as many as eight people survive by donating his/her organs. Nephrologist Dr Nishith Mohanty highlighted the need of organ donation in India. “Since families are becoming increasingly small, it’s not possible for organ transplantation from family members. So, organs from deceased people are used. That’s why organ donation is very much necessary,” said the doctor. Pravas Acharya, organiser of the event, said the actor’s involvement would encourage more people to join this noble campaign.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/anubhav-mohanty-pledges-to-donate-his-organs/articleshow/79471554.cms||Sandip Bal
November 29, 2020||India||PM Modi to address nation through 'Mann ki Baat' today||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation through his monthly radio programme 'Mann Ki Baat' later today. Earlier on November 17, PM Modi had invited suggestions from the people, for the 71st edition of the programme. "Every #MannKiBaat we celebrate the accomplishments of outstanding people, working for societal good. But, for every one example shared, there are many I am unable to share due to paucity of time. But, I do read many of the inputs and they are truly valuable," the PM tweeted. He further added, "This month's #MannKiBaat is on the 29th. I have already received many interesting inputs and anecdotes about inspiring life journeys. Keep sharing your thoughts on NaMo App, MyGov or record your message on 1800-11-7800." "Mann ki Baat" is the Prime Minister's monthly radio programme addressed to the nation, which is broadcasted on the last Sunday of every month. Watch PM Narendra Modi addresses nation through Mann Ki Baat||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-modi-to-address-nation-through-mann-ki-baat-today/articleshow/79471297.cms||---
November 29, 2020||World||UK secures 2 million more doses of Moderna's Covid-19 vaccine||Britain has secured two million doses of Moderna Inc's Covid-19 vaccine candidate, to be available in Europe as early as the spring, the government said on Sunday, in addition to the 5 million doses it secured from the U.S. company two weeks ago. The new deal came a day after Prime Minister Boris Johnson named Nadhim Zahawi, a junior business minister, to be minister responsible for the deployment of Covid-19 vaccines. Britain now has access to enough doses of Moderna's vaccine candidate for around 3.5 million people. Overall, it has access to 357 million doses of vaccines from seven developers, according to government statement. "With a wide range of vaccine candidates in our portfolio, we stand ready to deploy a vaccine should they receive approval from our medicines regulator, starting with those who will benefit most," health minister Matt Hancock said in the statement. Moderna's experimental vaccine is 94.5% effective in preventing Covid-19 based on interim data from a late-stage trial. Deliveries to Britain could begin as early as the spring, if the vaccine meets the standards of the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency. Britain has also ordered 40 million doses of a vaccine developed by Germany's BioNTech SE and Pfizer Inc of the United States, which has been found to be 95% effective in preventing the spread of the new coronavirus. The UK regulator is set to approve the BioNTech-Pfizer vaccine this week, and deliveries will begin within hours of the authorisation, the Financial Times said on Saturday. Britain has also secured 100 million doses of the vaccine developed by AstraZeneca PLC and Oxford University and has targeted a rollout to begin before Christmas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/uk-secures-2-million-more-doses-of-modernas-covid-19-vaccine/articleshow/79471652.cms||---
November 29, 2020||India||Covid-19 caseload in India climbs to 93,92,919||NEW DELHI: India's Covid-19 caseload inched closer to the 94-lakh mark, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease crossed 88 lakh pushing the national recovery rate to 93.71 per cent, according to the Union health ministry data updated on Sunday. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 93,92,919 with 41,810 new infections being reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to 1,36,696 with 496 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The active Covid-19 caseload remained below 5 lakh for the 19th consecutive day.There are 4,53,956 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 4.83 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 88,02,267 pushing the national recovery rate to 93.71 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.46 per cent. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, and surpassed 90 lakh on November 20. According to the ICMR, over 13.95 crore samples have been tested up to November 28 with 12,83,449 samples being tested on Saturday. The 496 new fatalities include 89 from Delhi, 88 from Maharashtra 52 from West Bengal, 30 from Haryana, 28 from Punjab, 25 from Kerala and 21 from Uttar Pradesh. A total of 1,36,696 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 46,986 from Maharashtra followed by 11,750 from Karnataka, 11,694 from Tamil Nadu, 8,998 from Delhi, 8,322 from West Bengal, 7,718 from Uttar Pradesh, 6,981 from Andhra Pradesh, 4,765 from Punjab, 3,953 from Gujarat and 3,237 from Madhya Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-caseload-in-india-climbs-to-9392919/articleshow/79471619.cms||---
November 29, 2020||India||Amit Shah offers farmers early talks if they move to Burari ground||NEW DELHI: In an effort to reach out to protesting farmers who have reached Delhi borders, Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday said talks can be held before the scheduled date of December 3 if the agitating agriculturists move to the site in Burari that has been prepared for them where provisions and medical facilities have been arranged. "As soon as you reach the ground in Burari, the government will call you for talks the next day," said Shah. Responding to the offer, Jagjit Singh, Punjab president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), said, "Amit Shahji has called for an early meeting on a condition. It’s not good. He should have offered talks with an open heart without any condition. We’ll hold a meeting tomorrow (Sunday) morning to decide our response." It remains to be seen whether discussions among farm leaders over the offer will result in a thaw. Shah, meanwhile, will be away most of Sunday in Hyderabad campaigning for the civic elections. The stalemate has created a siege-like situation at some of the entry points to Delhi as farmers are squatting along the highways and more are expected to arrive from areas other than Punjab and Haryana. Officials said the government's decision to offer lodging at Burari also encouraged more farmers to embark for Delhi. On the Centre's part, the Burari site was intended to be a conciliatory gesture even as agriculture minister Narendra Tomar has not ruled out discussing a key demand that the provision for minimum support prices be given legislative protection. After Delhi Police on Friday agreed to give protesting farmers passage into the capital, more and more farmers from Punjab and Haryana on Saturday continued their onward march and assembled at the Delhi-Haryana Singhu border. Protests against the new farm laws, which aim to allow trade areas to be expanded, contract farming and removal of stock limits, have been largely centred in Punjab and to a less extent in Haryana. Ahead of the "Delhi Chalo" protest, BKU leaders in western UP said they would not participate in the march but some of them have now said they will reach the capital. Farm representatives under the "Samyukt Kisan" movement of AIKSCC, Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Sangh, BKU (Rajewal), BKU (Chaduni) and other organisations urged the government "to immediately address the issues of the farmers and solve them rather than create subterfuges about talks with no solution in mind". Since farmers of other states, including Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Telangana, have also joined protests against the farm laws, these groups wanted the government to make the talks more broad-based without limiting it to the farmers’ representatives from Punjab. Watch Will hold talks with farmers as soon as they move to designated spot: Amit Shah||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/amit-shah-offers-farmers-early-talks-if-they-move-to-burari-ground/articleshow/79468894.cms||---
November 29, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Get ready for after-effects if board exams are rescheduled||KOLKATA: Principals of city schools have suggested six days a week school in the 2021-22 academic session if the ICSE and ISC examinations scheduled next year are deferred from February to June. A couple of days ago, CISCE chief executive Gerry Arathoon had spoken about such a possibility given the current Covid situation and no end to the pandemic in sight in the near future. Pointing out that while students who are currently in classes IX and XI may take the online examinations in April, the principals said it was students who appear for ICSE and then get admitted to Plus-2 who are going to feel the crunch the hardest as they will have barely eight months to complete the syllabus and appear for the Class XI examination in 2022. The scenario is similar to a change in session calendar 33 years ago when the academic session was changed from January-December to April-March. Even then, those appearing for board exams in 1998 had to make do with three months less. Several principals feel their schools would have to reduce the weekly holidays by half and hold regular classes on Saturday to complete the syllabus. School heads said there are three likely solutions to the new academic year: first, instead of an April to March session, it will begin from May 2021 and end in April 2022; second, the syllabus will be reduced by 10% to 15%; and third, curtail vacations and find more working days. Many feel the last one is a more practical solution in the current scenario. Bobby Baxter, principal of Julien Day School, Ganganagar, felt the outgoing Class X students who will be appearing in ICSE will have to shoulder more load of the syllabus in Class XII. “These students will have only eight months to finish their curriculum and appear for the annual Class XI examinations,” he said, pointing out that studies for Class XI cannot begin for ICSE candidates before they clear the board exams which are likely to be held next June. “Thus, for those students who will be promoted to Class XI in 2021, the only option is to reduce the burden of the curriculum,” Baxter said. For classes I and VIII, most schools are planning to hold back the annual examinations by three weeks to a month. “Usually, we conduct the exams in March which is likely to be held in April this year,” said the principal of a south Kolkata school, adding that since students and teachers require time to adjust to the virtual platform, the delay to hold the annual examinations is necessary for clearing doubts. T H Ireland, principal of St James School, has already decided to delay annual examinations for all classes by a month. “We officially do not plan to begin 2021-2022 the academic session before June next year. It will be difficult to complete the mandated 200 days’ classes as directed by the Council. So, I would request CISCE to re-adjust next session,” Ireland said. Fr Thamacin Arulappan, principal of St Xavier’s Collegiate School, said the school planned to hold the test for both ICSE and ISC in such a way that they get minimum one month before board examinations. “We will thereafter accordingly make adjustments to new session.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/get-ready-for-after-effects-if-board-exams-are-rescheduled/articleshow/79468382.cms||Somdatta Basu
November 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Those injured in accidents are entitled to aid for loss of future prospects, says HC||BENGALURU: In accident cases, injured persons can also be awarded compensation for future prospects. The high court made this observation while coming to the rescue of Hussain Basha, a mechanic from Bagalavada village in Manvi taluk of Raichur. Basha, whose right arm up to shoulder was amputated following a road accident on April 2, 2016, had approached the high court for enhanced compensation. The court has now ordered for payment of Rs 24.1 lakh as total compensation, including Rs 22.5 lakh towards future prospects to Basha, higher than Rs 16.6 lakh fixed by the tribunal. Relying on a couple of Supreme Court judgments, a division bench comprising Justices G Narendar and MI Arun noted that a victim who suffers a permanent or temporary disability in an accident is entitled to compensation that covers aspects like pain, suffering and trauma, loss of income, including future earning, medical expenses and loss of expectations of life. Observing that when the prevailing norm fixed by Karnataka State Legal Services Authority was Rs 8,750 per month, the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal had erred in considering Basha’s monthly notional income as Rs 7,500 despite recording 90 per cent disability, the bench said.  Basha, driving an MUV, was hit by a tractor near Srigeri Cross on SH-19 Road in Siruguppa taluk. He filed a petition before a tribunal at Ballari claiming that he was only 29 years and was earning Rs 15,000 per month. However, the tribunal awarded him Rs 6.6 lakh, holding that no proof is adduced with regard to his income.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/those-injured-in-accidents-are-entitled-to-aid-for-loss-of-future-prospects-says-hc/articleshow/79468508.cms||---
